January 18, 2021||India||Border talks only after Nepal map issue sorted, hints India||NEW DELHI: India is unlikely to hold boundary talks with Nepal until Nepal amends the unilateral step by the Oli government of changing its map to include areas which India claims as its own. This was a message given to Nepalese foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali during his meetings with the Indian government this week. "Nepal wants the bilateral relationship to go on as if nothing has happened. That cannot happen," said government sources. India would engage Nepal on development, connectivity, trade and other issues, but it would not be business as usual, they said. However, Gyawali’s visit was an indication that the bilateral relationship was back on track after last year’s turmoil. India took a much more accommodative stance on Covid vaccines, promising to send the first lot in a matter of weeks. Unusually, Gyawali left without a call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, though defence minister Rajnath Singh met him on Saturday. While the official reason given was PM Modi’s preoccupation with the vaccine rollout, the Indian leadership did not want to be seen taking sides at a time of political uncertainty and internal dissensions in Nepal, which could have the unfortunate effect of drawing India into their domestic situation. The Indian snub is important because Nepalese Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli had made the boundary talks the prime reason for the Gyawali visit. Gyawali stressed the importance of resolving the boundary issue twice — in a public address and in a breakfast interaction with journalists. Refuting the charge of unilateralism, he said the Nepal action came after India issued its political map in November 2019. The Indian side has also steered clear of the ongoing political crisis in Nepal. "The Chinese are doing what India used to do in earlier years," said sources here. Despite Gyawali’s assertion about not allowing foreign interference, there is no explanation for the fact that a high level Chinese political delegation had been in Kathmandu for over three days last month to persuade the feuding Communist leadership to come back together. Sources here said India would let the political crisis play itself out in Nepal, without expressing preferences for how it turns out. "We don’t want to be a factor in the domestic politics," sources said, despite Prachanda’s latest outburst blaming an Oli-India nexus for the current political problems. Sources in Kathmandu said the protests against the dissolution could increase as the winter eases. The Prachanda faction, as well as opposition parties like Nepali Congress, continue to insist on a rollback of the dissolution decision, as well as insisting that the party would not be able to get back together.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-unlikely-to-hold-boundary-talks-with-nepal-until-map-issue-resolved/articleshow/80317960.cms||Indrani Bagchi
January 18, 2021||India||India to ship vaccines to neighbours in few weeks||NEW DELHI: India plans to ship off doses of Covid vaccine to its neighbours as part of its vaccine diplomacy in a couple of weeks. The first destinations would be in India’s immediate neighbourhood, like Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Maldives and Mauritius to help them kickstart their own vaccination processes against the coronavirus. The first shipments would be a goodwill gesture, while subsequently, the countries concerned would get on a payment basis from either the Serum Institute or Bharat Biotech. India started its own Covid vaccination drive on Saturday, with almost 1.9 lakh people getting inoculated on the first day. Read AlsoCo-WIN app snag pricks states, forces vaccine drive to go offlineNEW DELHI: A day after India rolled out what aims to be the world’s largest mass Covid-19 vaccination programme, random glitches in the Co-WIN app on Sunday forced several states to either reschedule their sessions or temporarily take the process offline at the cost of operational efficiency.Nepal is the latest to ask for Covid vaccines from the government. Myanmar government declared they had signed up with Serum Institute for vaccines as has Bangladesh. Foreign minister S Jaishankar promised the Sri Lankan leadership India would make vaccines available to them too. Government sources said, countries would not be charged much more than Indians are paying for the vaccines even when they do have to pay for the doses. The key is to ensure that India has enough for its own needs before allowing exports of these vaccines. Read Also64% vaccine turnout after 2 days, government expects footfall to riseAround 64% of 3,16,375 planned beneficiaries were vaccinated on the first two days of the immunisation drive against Covid-19 that was rolled out on Saturday. Four states — Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Tripura and Puducherry — recorded low turnout of beneficiaries in the range of 22-34%, whereas other statesForeign countries can draw up purchase deals with the two companies concerned, but officials said these are generally being done between government health entities and the companies. So Brazil’s Fiocruz Institute has signed a deal with Serum Institute. So have other countries — UAE, Saudi Arabia, Morocco, South Africa among others. The only catch is, they need export clearance from the Indian government first. The decision is being undertaken by the inter-ministerial body, National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), which includes the foreign secretary, and headed by VK Paul of Niti Aayog. There has been some confusion on that front, particularly with Brazil, which was prepared to send an aircraft to pick up 2 million vaccine doses. The government had to put the brakes on that since vaccines had not been rolled out for Indians yet. So Brazil will get its first lot of vaccines from India, but possibly after the neighbours, a miscommunication that could have been avoided if, sources said, there was clarity in communications between the government and Serum Institute. Brazil has also ordered vaccines from Bharat Biotech, which is yet to come out with its efficacy data after the phase 3 trials, but the purchase has been cleared by the Brazilian government. This comes after the Brazilian regulating agency, ANVISA said the Chinese vaccine, Sinovac, had demonstrated only a 50 per cent efficacy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-to-ship-covid-vaccine-to-neighbours/articleshow/80318074.cms||Indrani Bagchi
January 18, 2021||India||‘Bureaucracy’ failed to deliver good governance in J&K: JKAP chief||JAMMU: Pointing out that developmental activities are going on at a snail’s pace, Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) president Syed Mohammed Altaf Bukhari on Sunday said the “bureaucracy” has failed good governance in J&K. Virtually addressing party functionaries and workers at JKAP office in Jammu from Jammu East constituency, Bukhari said: “We founded Apni Party to bring both regions (Jammu and Kashmir) together after politics came to a standstill and statehood of J&K was snatched… The two regions have the same demands — restoration of statehood, protection to land and jobs, and development.” He further said, “In the absence of an elected government, public issues remain unheard. The administration has miserably failed to perform on the ground and the failure of bureaucracy in the delivery system has crumbled the entire system of good governance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bureaucracy-failed-to-deliver-good-governance-in-jk-jkap-chief/articleshow/80318220.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
January 18, 2021||India||PM Modi to attend G7 Summit in UK as guest||LONDON: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will attend the 47th G7 summit hosted by the UK in June as a guest. The summit, to be held in the popular seaside region of Cornwall during June 11-13, will also be the stage where several world leaders will meet incoming US president Joe Biden face-to-face for the first time. The G7 — made up of the UK, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the USA and the EU — is the forum where the world’s most advanced economies are brought together for close-knit discussions. This year, G7 prime ministers and presidents will come together to address shared challenges, from beating coronavirus and strengthening resilience against future pandemics to leading a green recovery from Covid-19, tackling climate change, and championing free trade and democracy. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson has invited Australia, India and South Korea as guest countries to this year’s summit to deepen the “expertise and experience” around the table. Modi’s presence, alongside India holding the G20 presidency in 2023, demonstrates how India is playing a key role in driving reformed multilateral cooperation around the world. The expansion of the informal bloc, under the UK’s presidency, to the D10 or Democratic 10, will serve as a prelude to Biden’s ambitious plans for a global democracy summit and gives Johnson a golden opportunity to showcase UK global leadership post-Brexit. Johnson will also use the summit to intensify cooperation between the world’s democratic and technologically advanced nations. Between them, the 10 leaders represent over 60% of the people living in democracies around the world. These nations, combined with those in the G7, represent 2.2 billion people. This will be the first time the summit has met in person in nearly two years, after the US moved the summit online last year because of the pandemic. Johnson said, “As the most prominent grouping of democratic countries, the G7 has long been the catalyst for decisive international action to tackle the greatest challenges we face. Coronavirus is doubtless the most destructive force we have seen for generations and the greatest test of the modern world order we have experienced. It is only right that we approach the challenge of building back better by uniting with a spirit of openness to create a better future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-to-attend-g7-summit-in-uk-as-guest/articleshow/80318276.cms||NAOMI CANTON
January 18, 2021||World||Russian police detain Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny on arrival in Moscow||MOSCOW: Police detained prominent Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny on arrival at a Moscow airport on Sunday after he flew home to Russia from Germany for the first time since he was poisoned last summer. The move, which could see Navalny jailed for 3.5 years for allegedly flouting the terms of a suspended prison sentence, is likely to spark a wave of Western criticism of President Vladimir Putin. In a case that drew wide international attention, Navalny was poisoned last summer by what German military tests showed was a Novichok nerve agent, a version of events the Kremlin rejects. Navalny's plane from Berlin was diverted to another Moscow airport at the last minute in an apparent effort by authorities to thwart journalists and supporters greeting him. After Navalny said last week he planned to return home, the Moscow prison service (FSIN) said it would do everything to arrest him once he returned, accusing him of flouting the terms of a suspended prison sentence for embezzlement, a 2014 case he says was trumped up. But the 44-year-old opposition politician laughed and joked with journalists on his plane, saying he was not afraid and did not believe he would be arrested. In the event, he was swiftly detained when he showed his passport to border guards before formally entering Russia, Reuters witnesses said. His wife, Yulia, his spokeswoman, and his lawyer were allowed to enter Russia. FSIN said in a statement Navalny had been detained due to the alleged violations of his suspended prison sentence and would be held in custody until a court hearing later this month that will rule whether to convert his suspended sentence into a real 3.5 jail term. Navalny, one of Putin's most prominent domestic critics, faces potential trouble in three other criminal cases too, all of which he says are politically motivated. Navalny says Putin was behind his poisoning. The Kremlin denies involvement, says it has seen no evidence that he was poisoned, and that he was free to return to Russia. Navalny says the Kremlin is afraid of him. The Kremlin, which only refers to him as the "Berlin patient," laughs that off. Putin allies point to opinion polls that show the Russian leader is far more popular than Navalny, whom they call a blogger rather than a politician. Thwarted supportersEuropean Union members Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia called for the "imposition of restrictive measures" against Russia following Navalny's arrest. Navalny took a flight operated by Russian airline Pobeda, owned by state-controlled Aeroflot. His supporters gathered at Moscow's Vnukovo airport despite a forecast of bitterly cold minus 22 celsius weather and over 4,500 new coronavirus cases a day in the Russian capital. The authorities' decision to switch airports to Sheremetyevo airport, ostensibly for technical reasons, thwarted them. OVD-Info, a monitoring group, said police had detained 53 people in Moscow and five in St Petersburg. The Moscow prosecutor's office, which had officially warned 15 pro-Navalny organisers, had said meeting him en masse was illegal because it was not sanctioned by the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/russian-police-detain-kremlin-critic-alexei-navalny-on-arrival-in-moscow/articleshow/80318633.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Mangaluru||Karnataka: 21 doses of Covishield wasted in Dakshina Kannada district||MANGALURU: A total 21 vaccine doses were wasted across Dakshina Kannada district on Saturday, the first day of the vaccination programme. Officials said 25 vials of Covishield were used, but only 229 people were vaccinated, although a total 250 could have received the vaccine with that many vials. A total 20 health workers received the vaccine at Wenlock district hospital in Mangaluru, 45 at Surathkal urban health centre, 40 in Bantwal taluk hospital (TH), 35 in Belthangady TH, 45 in Sullia TH and 44 received shots in Puttur TH. Dr BV Rajesh, reproductive and child health officer and official in-charge of the drive in Dakshina Kannada district, admitted “a small quantity of vaccine” was wasted on the first day. He said while a vial contains 10 doses of 0.5ml each, it also contains an extra dose. “Only two vials were used at Wenlock hospital,” he said. Dr Ramachandra Bairy, district health officer, said, “None of the 229 who received shots had any side effects. We have received good feedback from all session sites. We expect more people to receive the vaccine from Monday.” Suchithra Hosabettu, an Asha worker who was vaccinated on Saturday, said she was fine after 24 hours later. “Many were afraid of receiving the vaccine,” she said. “All members in our Asha WhatsApp group were asked to report health issues immediately. None have reported any issues.” The drive will continue on Monday at all four taluk hospitals, six community health centres and eight private medical colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/21-doses-wasted-in-dk-district/articleshow/80318460.cms||Vinobha K T
January 18, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: CoWIN tech glitches force officials to take drive offline||BENGALURU: Vaccine Intelligence Network (CoWIN) glitches haunted vaccinators across the state on Saturday, resulting in the inoculation programme being largely conducted offline. None of the 13,408 people vaccinated on Saturday received a digital certificate which the app is designed to send. Also, several healthcare workers, who were scheduled to receive the vaccine on Saturday, did not get a text on Friday confirming their place in the queue. As a result, they didn’t turn up. “This glitch was a major reason – besides hesitancy among healthcare workers – for the low numbers on Saturday,” health officials said. The vaccination process entails creating vaccination sites and uploading details of beneficiaries on the app. Registered healthcare workers get a message a day prior to vaccination. Those who submit Aadhaar number also get a beneficiary reference number. Identity verification teams at sites must cross-check ID cards and authenticate it on the portal. After vaccination, CoWIN sends another message indicating successful vaccination, followed by a certificate. “We had a tough time when the session began on Saturday,” said a health department official managing a site in Bengaluru. “Of the 243 sites in Karnataka, only 200 were created. Only a few received messages regarding the schedule. Because the portal was hanging, the vaccination process continued offline.” Some received messages of successful vaccination after a couple of hours and others as late as on Sunday. A 41-year-old healthcare worker from a primary health centre in Ramanagar, one of the few who received a certificate, said it includes beneficiary and vaccination details. It specifies ID card details, beneficiary reference ID, address, name of the vaccine, date when the first dose was given, name of the vaccinator, date for the next dose and the name of the vaccination session site. The certificate also includes a QR code and a photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “In most places, vaccination was done offline and details were later uploaded,” said a district health officer. Dr BV Rajesh, official in charge of the drive in Dakshina Kannada, said the district also faced glitches with the CoWIN app and that messages were not reaching beneficiaries. “Many other districts reported the same problem, so it wasn’t confined to our district alsone. The glitches need to be rectified, but the process is slow,” he said. Health minister K Sudhakar brushed aside the glitches saying, “This is a humongous exercise and teething problems are expected. All issues will be sorted out by Monday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/13k-in-state-yet-to-get-digital-certs/articleshow/80318468.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 18, 2021||Goa||Former Goa junior football team captain Salim dies of Covid-19||Panaji: Former Goa junior captain Shaikh Salim lost a three-week battle against Covid-19 and passed away at a hospital in Muscat on Sunday. Salim, captain of the Goa junior football team in 1975 at Coimbatore, was in the Oman capital on a business trip. Hailing from Caranzalem, he started his career with Don Bosco Oratory before moving to Panvel SC in 1974. He was handpicked by Salgaocar SC and even made it to the probables for the Santosh Trophy that year. Salim, however, left midway into the season to take up a job in Dubai. “Salim never looked back, going on to build a business empire. Yet, he would always return to Goa lately before the pandemic started, almost on a monthly basis,” said Antonio Botelho, former secretary of the Goa Football Association and Panvel SC. Salim had attended the Panvel reunion at Agasaim in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/former-goa-junior-football-team-captain-salim-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/80319421.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Goa||ISL: Pandita steals a point for FC Goa||Ishan Pandita rose from the bench once again to score a crucial goal that helped FC Goa secure a 1-1 draw against ATK Mohun Bagan at the Nehru Stadium, Fatorda, on Sunday. It was Edu Garcia’s 75th minute free-kick that broke the deadlock and, like in previous games, it looked like they would hold on to their lead. But Goa head coach Juan Ferrando introduced Pandita in the 80th minute and the forward scored five minutes later to earn his team a crucial point. The same Pandita, who plied his trade in Spain before returning to India, had struck the equaliser in the 87th minute against Hyderabad and then Igor Angulo scored the winner. This time though, the Spanish striker could only watch from the bench as Ferrando didn’t risk him late in the game. The draw meant Goa squandered the chance to leapfrog their opponents and move to the second spot. They remain third with 19 points from 12 games, while ATKMB have played a game less and are on 21 points, five short of league leaders Mumbai City FC. Understandably, Ferrando didn’t want to change his winning combination and started with Jorge Ortiz upfront for the second consecutive match as Angulo had to patiently wait on the bench. It was an unchanged starting 11 that defeated Jamshedpur FC 3-0. ATKMB had more time to recover after their 0-1 defeat against Mumbai on Monday and it showed with their fast pace. Antonio Habas’ side are known for their defensive prowess, but at Fatorda, they pressed hard right from the start. Their tactics did not allow Goa to take control as they usually do. Goa were struggling to break through ATKMB’s strong centre-back pairing of Sandesh Jhingan and Tiri. Alberto Noguera and Ortiz were forced to try from outside the box, but neither attempts troubled keeper Arindam Bhattacharya. At the other end, ATKMB came inches close from a Garcia corner but Subhasish Bose’s header hit the ground and came off the horizontal bar before the cooling break. Goa were unlucky as well. Noguera found Seriton Fernandes with a delightful through ball but the right-back’s cross took a deflection and hit the crossbar. Minutes after the restart, another attempted cross from Seriton beat Bhattacharya but hit the post. ATKMB kept pressing. David Williams dispossessed Ivan Gonzalez and Krishna was moving dangerously before the Goa defender brought him down for a booking. Goa were feeling the pressure and soon James Donachie fouled Krishna in the 74th minute to concede a free-kick just outside the box. It proved costly as Garcia’s powerful right-footer found the top corner. Goa made a couple of changes and it worked when Donachie’s header off a corner was cleared on the goalline and the rebound fell to substitute Pandita who blasted it past Bhattacharya. There was still more action in the dying minutes as former Goa forward Manvir Singh saw his header hit the post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/isl-pandita-steals-a-point-for-fc-goa/articleshow/80319482.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
January 18, 2021||Goa||Goa bowlers set up impressive win over Rajasthan in Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy||Goa may have been ruled out of qualifying for the knockout phase but the darkhorse spoiled Rajasthan's party with a 37-run victory in a Group D match of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 tournament in Indore on Sunday. Batting first, Goa scored only 154-7. However, it were the bowlers who earned a well-deserved victory for Goa as Rajasthan were bundled out for 117 in 19.3 overs. With this victory, Goa are fourth with eight points in their kitty. They have won two and lost two. Saurashtra, Rajasthan and hosts Madhya Pradesh have won three matches from four with 12 points each, which ruled Goa out, even if they win their last match against bottom-placed Vidarbha on 19. Right-arm-medium pacer Vijesh Prabhudesai took three wickets for 28 runs in his 3.3 overs, while Lakshay Garg and Maliksab Sirur returned with two wickets each. With not many runs to defend, pacer Lakshay castled opener Bharat Sharma, while hard-working Felix Alemao accounted for Rajesh Bishnoi. Vijesh joined the party when he trapped Ankit Lamba (21) in front of the wicket to leave Rajasthan reeling at 44-3 in the powerplay. Right-arm off-spinner Maliksab, who has been one of the most economical bowlers for Goa, quickly got rid of Arjit Gupta and Tanveer Ul-Haq, while left-arm orthodox Darshan Misal grabbed Rahul Chahar's wicket. Vijesh quickly dismissed Ravi Bishnoi and Aniket Choudhary to register an unlikely win for Goa. Earlier, Goa changed their opening batting combination and asked wicketkeeper-batsman Eknath Kerkar and Aditya Kaushik to start. The ploy worked as they put up 39 runs in 4.5 overs before Aditya fell to Aniket Choudhary. Snehal Kauthankar failed to make the most of his promotion before captain Amit Verma's 22 provided some stability to the Goa innings. With many allrounders in their ranks, Goa went for the runs. It was Suyash Prabhudesai who chipped in with 35 off 23 and a run-a-ball 15 from Darshan took Goa past 150. Goa will now hope to finish their campaign with a win against Vidarbha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-bowlers-set-up-impressive-win-over-rajasthan-in-syed-mushtaq-ali-trophy/articleshow/80319529.cms||---
January 18, 2021||India||64% vaccine turnout after 2 days, government expects footfall to rise||NEW DELHI: Around 64% of 3,16,375 planned beneficiaries were vaccinated on the first two days of the immunisation drive against Covid-19 that was rolled out on Saturday, preliminary data from states, subject to further correction, compiled by the Centre till Sunday evening showed. Four states — Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Tripura and Puducherry — recorded low turnout of beneficiaries in the range of 22-34%, whereas other states reported more than 50% attendance of those who were scheduled for vaccination on January 16 and 17. Assam, Delhi and J&K reported 54% footfall. TOI has exclusively reviewed the data. Experts said the numbers will pick up gradually as is common with any public health programme, especially of the scale of the anti-Covid vaccinations. The all-India number added up to 2,03,800 beneficiaries. The data officially shared by the health ministry on Sunday showed 2,24,301 beneficiaries were vaccinated during the first two days. If this number is seen in context of 3.16 lakh planned beneficiaries, the coverage comes to nearly 71%. The state-wise data accessed by TOI does not fully reflect these numbers though the percentage of attendance tallies. “India has registered the highest day one vaccination number in the world — higher than the US, UK and France on day one,” additional health secretary Manohar Agnani said. The data is provisional as inoculation was on in many session sites till late evening and some sites were also uploading beneficiary details manually, officials said. They said some recipients reported late on Saturday, perhaps after earlier recipients reported few ill effects. “The first day of the vaccination drive was well organised and eventful. Now, I foresee two challenges: first, the hesitancy and fear that still exist among many people and second, the logistical difficulties that may be encountered once the vaccination numbers are ramped up five to 20 fold of the numbers on Saturday, which was only up to 100 a day,” said Dr A S Soin, chairman, Medanta Liver Institute. “People were not well prepared and there are apprehensions, so they will take time to gain confidence before they come out for vaccination. This needs intense positive communication and universal acceptance of the vaccine by health workers so that the general public is ready,” said Dr Suneela Garg, director professor at the department of community medicine in Maulana Azad Medical College. Among the better performing states were small ones like Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh with less than 10% absentees, whereas Telangana, Sikkim, Ladakh, Odisha, Lakshadweep and Haryana delivered shots to over 80% registered beneficiaries. Uttar Pradesh vaccinated the highest number of beneficiaries at 22,644, followed by Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Bihar. While UP registered 71% attendance, the other three were in the range of 60-65%. On Sunday, 17,072 beneficiaries were inoculated in 553 sessions across six states, the health ministry said. The six states were Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Manipur and Tamil Nadu. The government said states have been advised to plan Covid-19 vaccination sessions four days a week to minimise disruption of routine health services. The government plans to initially vaccinate 3 crore health and frontline workers and then move on to 27 crore “priority” population groups including those above 50 years age and those younger but with severe co-morbidities. Watch Covid-19 vaccination drive: 64% of planned beneficiaries get the jab in first 2 days||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/64-vaccine-turnout-after-2-days-government-expects-footfall-to-rise/articleshow/80319724.cms||Sushmi Dey
January 18, 2021||India||Government hardens stand, asks unions for law repeal ‘alternative’||NEW DELHI: Hardening the government’s stance ahead of the next round of talks scheduled for Tuesday, agriculture minister N S Tomar on Sunday called on farm unions to come up with an “alternative” to their demand for repeal of the new agri laws, saying most farmers, experts, scientists and other stakeholders are in favour of the legislations. “There’s no point in being adamant (on demanding repeal of laws) when the Supreme Court has already stayed their implementation. We expect farmers to discuss the laws clause-by-clause on January 19 and give us other options. If the unions’ objections are found to be valid, the government may consider them and go ahead with amendments,” Tomar said. Read AlsoSC hearing today, but no plans to junk paradeBATHINDA: A day ahead of the Supreme Court taking up the pleas of the Central government and Delhi Police to restrain farm organisations from taking out a tractor march in Delhi on Republic Day, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, on Sunday, announced that it is determined to proceed with the tractor paradeFarm representatives, however, said Singh’s comment indicated the Centre was not willing to talk on their core demands. They also condemned the National Investigation Agency (NIA) serving notices to people who they said were supporting the protests. The unions said the umbrella body Samyukta Kisan Morcha would legally challenge the NIA actions. Maintaining that the Centre had suggested amendments, Tomar said, “The farmer unions are not willing to move even a bit and are constantly asking to repeal the laws. When the government enacts any law, it is meant for the whole country. Most farmers, scientists, experts and other stakeholders working in the farm sector agree with these laws. Read AlsoCentre insists on clause by clause talks with unionsAgriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar told the unions it was incorrect to say the Centre had not budged on the demands put forward by them, pointing to the proposed amendments that had been sent to them. On the other hand, the unions kept insisting on repeal of all the three laws withoutYudhvir Singh, general secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union, while addressing a joint press conference at Singhu border, said, “It seems the minister, by deliberately making such remarks, wants to convey that the government does not want to talk on our core demands. The government thinks that we won’t take part in talks after hearing his remarks. But we will definitely go for talks to get the reply on our demands.” Read AlsoReady to protest till May 2024, assert farmers; give up stubborn stand, says govtNEW DELHI: Ahead of the tenth round of talks scheduled on January 19, both the Centre and farmers remained firm on their position regarding the three new agriculture laws. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday again urged the protesting farm leaders to give up their "stubborn"In the previous meeting on Friday, Tomar had strongly emphasised the need for a clause-by-clause discussion and also suggested a smaller group of negotiators. Though the government had called for this earlier too, the minister's insistence on a focussed discussion of provisions of the three laws indicated that the Centre wanted to force the pace of talks. Though the unions have said they will continue their protests, their options might be limited with both the SC and the Centre unlikely to repeal the laws. Questioning Tomar’s remarks, the farmers’ unions asked what was the point of such a statement when they had already told the government during the previous round of talks that they would come for discussion only on their core demands — repeal of three laws and legal guarantee to minimum support price (MSP) — on January 19. The Centre's remarks come at a time when the SC has set up a committee to examine and suggest changes to the laws that seek to encourage private trade and contract farming and do away with stock limits. Reiterating the government’s stand, Tomar in a statement explained how the government identified some key concerns of the farmers’ unions on its own when the farm leaders were not able to talk on specific clauses during the initial rounds of talks and even sent a proposal to them on the possibility of amendments. His remarks come on a day when the unions criticised the government for harassing those supporting the protests. They said though they had nothing to do with the US-based banned secessionist group Sikhs for Justice, NIA notices to protesters showed the government’s insensitivity. Condemning the NIA’s move, Darshan Pal of Krantikari Kisan Union said, “We will fight this in every possible way. This is happening despite the ministers during the previous round of talks assuring us to look into the issue when we flagged it to them right at the beginning of the meeting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-hardens-stand-asks-unions-for-law-repeal-alternative/articleshow/80319843.cms||Vishwa Mohan
January 18, 2021||India||17% dip in weekly Covid-19 cases, 2nd sharpest so far||NEW DELHI: India recorded the second sharpest week-on-week fall in fresh Covid-19 cases so far, with the current week’s numbers showing a 16.6% decline over the previous seven days. This was the tenth consecutive week of decline in Covid-19 cases in the country and 17th week of falling numbers out of the 18 weeks since the pandemic peaked in the country. During the current week (January 11-17), a little more than 1,05,000 new coronavirus cases were detected, the lowest weekly count since June 15-21. The tally was a drop of close to 21,000 from the previous week’s count of nearly 1,26,043. In percentage terms, only once has the weekly tally shown a sharper drop than this — 17.3% in December 14-20. The seven-day average of daily cases now stands at 15,020, down to just 16% of the peak in mid-September. Incidentally, the pandemic touched its peak in India on September 17, exactly four months ago. The weekly death toll too dropped sharply by an identical 16.6%. There were 1,259 fatalities in the current week, as opposed to 1,509 in the previous one. The average daily toll is now under 200 for the first time since mid-May last year. As with the case count, the weekly number of fatalities has been falling for the past six weeks running. On Sunday, India reported 13,970 fresh cases, a drop of over 1,000 from the previous day’s tally. The day’s death toll dropped to 145. This was the first time since May 22 that less than 150 deaths from Covid-19 were recorded in a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/17-dip-in-weekly-covid-19-cases-2nd-sharpest-so-far/articleshow/80319930.cms||---
January 18, 2021||India||After Tejas, India moves ahead to procure more MiG-29s & Sukhois||NEW DELHI: India is now formally moving ahead to procure 21 MiG-29 and 12 Sukhoi-30MKI fighters from Russia, along with upgrades of their existing fleets, after the Cabinet Committee on Security approved the production of 83 indigenous Tejas jets last week. For starters, the RFP (request for proposal) for the 21 MiG-29 fighters, whose bare airframes are lying in a mothballed condition in Russia since the later-1980s, will soon be issued to Russian state-run defence export arm Rosoboronexport, said defence sources on Sunday. Read AlsoCCS clears Rs 47,000 crore deal for 83 indigenous Tejas fightersThe govt has cleared the IAF’s acquisition of 83 Mark-1A Tejas fighters from defence PSU Hindustan Aeronautics for around Rs 48,000 crore, in the biggest-ever deal in the indigenous military aviation sector.These 83 fighters will have 43 “improvements” over the 40 Tejas Mark-1 already ordered by theThe acquisition of these MiG-29s at “relatively lower prices” will add to 59 such jets already with IAF. The 12 Sukhoi-30MKIs, in turn, will add to the 272 such jets already contracted from Russia for about $15 billion, with the bulk of them being licensed produced by Hindustan Aeronautics. IAF has so far inducted 268 of the original 272 Sukhois, with at least nine of them being lost in crashes over the years. Along with the 83 new Tejas, which will be inducted in the January 2024-December 2028 timeframe under the Rs 46,898 crore deal cleared by the CCS, the additional MiG-29s and Sukhois are meant to stem the freefall in the number of IAF fighter squadrons. Read AlsoIndia draws up nations’ list for Akash, BrahMos exportNEW DELHI: In its quest to emerge as a major arms exporter and bolster strategic ties with “friendly” countries, India has drawn up a list of nations to whom the Akash surface-to-air missile systems, BrahMos supersonic cruise missiles and other weapons can be sold in the years ahead. The case forWith the progressive phasing out of the obsolete MiG-21s, MiG-23s and MiG-27s, the force is down to just about 30 squadrons (each has 16-18 jets) when at least 42 are required to tackle the “collusive” threat from China and Pakistan. The remaining four MiG-21 “Bisons” squadrons are also slated to retire by 2024. The defence ministry in July last year gave the initial nod for the acquisition of the 21 MiG-29s with the latest avionics and electronic warfare suites, and further upgrade of the 59 existing jets to “ensure commonality across the fleet”, at a cost of Rs 7,418 crore. The cost of 12 new twin-seat Sukhois, along with advanced electronic warfare capabilities as well as additional supplies and spares, in turn, was estimated to be Rs 10,730 crore. While 42 Sukhois are now being modified to carry the precision-strike BrahMos supersonic cruise missiles, the entire fleet will also subsequently be “fully enhanced” with more advanced avionics, radars and weapons to further bolster their combat capabilities. IAF also plans to get the “acceptance of necessity” by this April-May for its long-term mega “Make in India” project for 114 new fighters for over $20 billion under the “strategic partnership” policy. The French Rafale fighter will obviously be the frontrunner if India goes ahead with this project, having already bought 36 of them under the Rs 59,000 crore deal inked in September 2016. The other six contenders are F/A-18 and F-21 (US), Gripen-E (Sweden), Sukhoi-35 and MiG-35 (Russia) and the Eurofighter Typhoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-tejas-india-moves-ahead-to-procure-more-mig-29s-sukhois/articleshow/80320199.cms||Rajat Pandit
January 18, 2021||India||Congress leaders demand JPC probe into Arnab Goswami’s WhatsApp chats||NEW DELHI: Congress leaders have asked the government to institute a JPC inquiry into the ‘Chatgate’ involving Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami and former BARC head Partho Dasgupta, contending that there was evidence that he was privy to the Balakot air strikes that were “planned” by the BJP regime purely with Lok Sabha elections in mind. Amid growing drama, Congress witnessed a strong push to take up the issue and the party plans to hold a “big press conference” in the coming hours to corner the government and demand a serious probe. Read AlsoCongress youth wing files complaint against Arnab GoswamiThe National Student's Union of India (NSUI) has filed a complaint against Republic TV's Arnab Goswami accusing him of treachery against the country. The complaint was filed by NSUI national secretary Roshan Lal Bittu in Chandrapur district of Maharashtra.Former I&B minister and Lok Sabha MP Manish Tewari, referring to the leaked WhatsApp chats, tweeted, “If what sections of media is reporting is correct, then it points towards a direct linkage between Balakot air strikes and 2019 general elections. Was national security milked for electoral purposes? Needs a JPC investigation.” Though part of the TRP manipulation scam, the Goswami chats now have the political class focussing on what he purportedly knew in advance about the air strikes. Arnab Goswami, Partho Dasgupta nexus exposed in whatsapp chat:Full detailsTagging defence minister Rajnath Singh, Congress veteran and former home minister P Chidambaram tweeted, “Did a journalist (and his friend) know about the retaliatory strike on Balakot camp three days before the actual strike? If yes, what is the guarantee that their ‘source’ did not share the information with others as well, including spies or informers working for Pakistan? How did a ‘For Your Eyes Only’ decision find its way to the government-supporting journalist?” Diplomat-turned-MP Shashi Tharoor, in a scathing tweet, said, “The leaked chats reveal three reprehensible things requiring serious inquiry: leaking of military secrets to a TV channel for its commercial purposes, a ‘nationalist’ gloating over the death of 40 jawans as an ‘attack we have won like crazy’, and fraudulent manipulation of TRPs. But if the government won’t conduct such an inquiry (and we all expect it won’t, given the evidence of its complicity in the betrayals revealed), who will? Is this one more thing we will have to take a PIL to the Supreme Court for?” Jairam Ramesh added, “Since 1967, BARC has stood for Bhabha Atomic Research Centre. Thanks to Arnab Goswami, another self-styled BARC — Broadcast Audience Research Council — is in the news now. The first BARC built a strong and scientific India. The other BARC is aiding and abetting weapons of mass disinformation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-leaders-demand-jpc-probe-into-arnab-goswamis-whatsapp-chats/articleshow/80320221.cms||---
January 18, 2021||India||TMC appeases Satabdi with post of Bengal unit vice-president||KOLKATA: Actor-turned-TMC MP Satabdi Roy was on Sunday given a greater say in the party’s affairs after she was made its Bengal unit vice-president. The appointment was made within 48 hours of Roy’s meeting with party MP Abhishek Banerjee on Friday when she alleged that she was being “left out of party programmes” and “finding it difficult to work”. Two other TMC members — Moazeem Hossain and Shankar Chakraborty — were also appointed vice-presidents. Hossain was recently removed from the post of Malda Trinamool district chairman. Chakraborty from South Dinajpur is a former PWD minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tmc-appeases-satabdi-with-post-of-bengal-unit-vice-president/articleshow/80320227.cms||Debashish Konar
January 18, 2021||India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi flags off 8 trains to boost connectivity to Statue of Unity||NEW DELHI: Indian Railways made history on Sunday when seven express trains from different parts of the country and a local train, all headed to Kevadia, site of the Statue of Unity, after being flagged off by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The PM said the world’s tallest statue is attracting more tourists than even the Statue of Liberty at New York Harbor in the US. “More than 50 lakh visitor have come to see the Statue of Unity after it was dedicated to the nation and it is catching on after staying closed during the corona months. It is estimated, as connectivity improves, about one lakh visitors per day will visit Kevadia. Kevadia is a good example of planned development of economy and ecology while protecting the environment,” Modi said. The PM said it was the first time in the history of Indian Railways so many trains from different corners of the country were flagged off from one place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-flags-off-8-trains-to-boost-connectivity-to-statue-of-unity/articleshow/80320244.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Patna||Patna HC revises rules for fresh recruitments||PATNA: The Patna high court has revised its rules to pave way for making fresh recruitments and promotion of officers and staff in its administration. With the newly formed The Patna High Court Officers and Staff (recruitment, appointment, promotion and other conditions of service and conduct) Rules, 2021, coming into effect on January 12, the high court administration could now start the process filling up 1469 posts sanctioned by the state government last year. It replaced the Patna High Court Officers and Staff (conditions of service and conduct) Rules, 1997. According to sources, the new rules have removed the issue of intermixing of people from different cadres reaching higher ranks after promotion. Now, all cadres have been bifurcated properly so that one remains in his own even after promotion. Besides the existing cadres of assistant, personal assistant and translator, three more cadres have been formed, which include library and miscellaneous cadre. The sources further said Chief Justice Sanjay Karol worked extensively on getting rid of the anomalies caused by the old rules to fulfil the long-pending demand of serving officers and staff and introduce staffing pattern. It was only on the Chief Justice’s persuasion that the state government sanctioned such a large number of posts in one go for the first time. However, recruitment and promotion could not be made as new rules were yet to be formed. Out of the newly sanctioned posts, around 400 would be filled from fresh recruitments while rest by internal promotions. The sanctioned strength of high court has gone up to 3700 officers and staff. The previous sanctioned strength of the high court was only around 2300 officers and staff of which more than 500 posts are lying vacant. Besides the sanctioned posts, there are 14 posts in high court administration which are filled up by posting judicial officers on deputation from Bihar Judicial Service. Majority of the remaining posts would be filled up through promotion or direct recruitment process where candidates will have to qualify the required tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-revises-rules-for-fresh-recruitments-promotions/articleshow/80317078.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 18, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Queue broken to make up shortfall||KOLKATA: With only 19 of the 100 beneficiaries confirming their presence — and only two turning up in the first hour of the vaccination drive — at the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation-run primary health centre (PHC) in Duttabad on Saturday, a desperate civic body let three of its board of administration (BOA) members and six civic body drivers get Covishield jabs instead. These nine were enlisted for vaccination in the second phase, scheduled on Monday. Fifty-four people, including 20 doctors and nurses, were vaccinated at this PHC on Saturday. The rest were civic health workers. Denying allegations of any queue-jumping, Bidhannagar BOA chairperson Krishna Chakraborty said everything was done according to the rules of the health department. The BOA members who stepped in to take the shot were Pranay Roy, Sudhir Saha and Rajesh Chirimar. “We did not deprive those on the list. We just filled up the space since many did not turn up,” Saha said. According to sources, none of the enlisted beneficiaries at this PHC received any SMS from the Co-WIN application till Friday evening. Sources said the civic body, too, did not receive any list of beneficiaries from the state health department for Day 1 till late on Friday. They were later told that the servers had been down and no e-mail on the beneficiary list would be sent. They were asked to go ahead with the list the civic body had submitted and call the beneficiaries for confirmation over phone. “We called up all our frontline health workers and doctors, but many were reluctant,” the source said. The state later informed that members of the BOA and hospital management panel could also take the shots on Saturday. “We were apprehensive whether even 20 people would turn up for the vaccine. The BOA members and other workers were called in since we were running out of time,” said a civic official. North 24 Parganas CMOH Tapas Roy confirmed that the civic authorities did not get the first list of 100 people as the Covid server was down. “They had the total list with them and called in beneficiaries from that,” he said. “Our names were not on the first list. Only two persons had come in the first hour so we consulted with the health department officials and we were permitted to get vaccinated. It was a spontaneous decision,” said Roy, who was earlier the civic body’s MMIC (health).  Chirimar, said, “When I asked the health department officials if I could take the vaccine, they said yes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/queue-broken-to-make-up-shortfall/articleshow/80317777.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 18, 2021||Patna||Install 40 CCTVs along GT Road, says Gaya DM||GAYA: As part of its road safety measures, the Gaya district administration has decided to install closed-circuit television cameras (CCTVs) along the Grand Trunk (GT) Road. District magistrate Abhishek Singh issued an order in this regard to the excise department assistant commissioner at the meeting of road safety committee on Saturday. The DM asked the officials to install at least 40 CCTVs at different places along the GT Road. He asked the district transport officer (DTO) to place hoarding about road safety at public places and petrol pumps for public awareness. The DM also asked the officials concerned to make cranes and the ambulances available on the GT Road so that immediate relief and rescue could be provided in case any accident. He asked civil surgeon Kamal Kishore Rai to ensure primary treatment arrangements at Amas, Barachatti and the Sherghati government health centres with deputation of doctors. Gaya MP Vijay Kumar, who also attended the meeting, said, “Most accidents take place due to illegal parking of vehicles along the road and rash driving by youths. The motor vehicle inspector should ensure proper check of driving licences. Eye test of drivers should also be conducted,” the MP said. The DM was told at the meeting that 16 CCTVs have already been installed along the GT Road. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Aditya Kumar, city SP Rakesh Kumar and other officials of the district administration attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/install-40-cctvs-along-gt-road-says-gaya-dm/articleshow/80317239.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Patna||Tejas backs demand for CBI probe into Rupesh murder case||PATNA: The leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Sunday met the bereaved family members of slain IndiGo’s station manager Rupesh Kumar Singh in Saran district and endorsed their demand for a CBI probe into the case. Rupesh was gunned down by unidentified assailants in his car at Punaichak in Patna on January 12. The police have, however, failed to make any significant breakthrough in the case even after five days of the incident, which took the state by storm with the opposition parties voicing their concern over the deteriorating law and order situation in the state in recent months. Tejashwi turned emotional for a while when Rupesh’s father Shivaji Singh started crying for justice. “Babua ke kahen maar dehlak? Kehu ke kuchh na bigarle halen (why was my son killed? He had not harmed anybody),” Singh told Tejashwi, who assured the family to fight for justice. “We will leave no stone unturned to ensure justice to you. I too had cordial relations with him,” the former deputy CM told the hapless father. “We endorse the family's demand for a CBI investigation into the case,” Tejashwi added. Rupesh's elder brother Nageshwar Singh had earlier told some mediapersons in Saran that the case should be handed over to the CBI. “Five days have already lapsed since Rupesh was killed in Patna. But there is no breakthrough in the case. The DGP blames his predecessor for the rise in crime,” Tejashwi told the family. Before leaving for Saran, the RJD leader told the media in Patna that he would request CM Nitish Kumar with folded hands to check crime as innocent people were being butchered. “We know you are a weak CM. But for the sake of your position, please don’t let human lives be sacrificed. It’s your responsibility to check crime in the state,” he added. On Saturday, he alleged, “Rumours are circulating that many ministers were involved in Rupesh’s killing.” An SIT has been constituted to crack the blind case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejas-backs-demand-for-cbi-probe-into-rupesh-murder-case/articleshow/80316950.cms||Ramashankar
January 18, 2021||Patna||Prakashotsava to begin with ‘prabhat pheri’ today||PATNA: Takht Sri Harmandir Sahib in Patna City, the holy shrine of Sikhs, is all set to celebrate the 354th birth anniversary of the tenth Sikh Guru Gobind Singh from Monday. Shobha yatra, nagar kirtan and prabhat pheri are parts of the three-day celebration at the gurdwara. Unlike the past years, pilgrims are not expected to visit here in large number this time due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “However, the Gurdwara Prabhandak Committee has made all arrangements for the pilgrims and other devotees visiting the gurdwara on the occasion,” said general secretary of the Mahendra Pal Singh Dhillon. Dhillon said about 5,000 people are likely to participate in the celebrations from different places across the country. The ‘prabhat pheri’ will be held on Monday morning. “The committee has decided to maintain safety protocols and provide free langar (meal) to devotees round the clock,” he said. According to Takht committee superintendent Daljeet Singh, the Harmandir Sahib Gurdwara has a sprawling campus with 400 rooms for the visitors to stay comfortably. On usual day, about 5,000 to 6,000 people participate in the ‘langar’. Though the committee expects rush of visitors this time too, the number of visitors from abroad will be less,” he said, adding railways has extended all possible cooperation to make ‘Prakashotsava’ a success. Danapur divisional railway manager Sunil Kumar said five well-furnished rooms have been made ready, including tourism office at Patna Sahib, for interim stay of pilgrims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/prakashotsava-to-begin-with-prabhat-pheri-today/articleshow/80316943.cms||Kumod Verma
January 18, 2021||Patna||Experts: Vaccine helps fight virus, but doesn’t make people immune||PATNA: As the mega inoculation of Covid-19 vaccine began on January 16, health experts have cautioned that the need to continue wearing face-masks, washing your hands, sanitisation and maintaining social distancing remains important in protecting lives and containment of the virus. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) nodal officer for Covid, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, told this newspaper that the vaccine is only to create antibodies against the coronavirus, it’s not to prevent virus entry into the human body. “The purpose of the vaccine is that if a person is infected with Covid-19, the antibody will be sufficient enough to fight against the disease and that person will not get any complications. However, the local sites where the virus can enter like upper respiratory tract and trachea (windpipe), because the antibody does not develop here. So, even the immunized people could be infected and they could be contagious even for others,” Dr Sanjeev said. He further said, “People need to follow safety protocols like regularly washing hands, using face-mask, hand-sanitiser and maintaining social distance. Herd immunity occurs when enough of the population is exposed to the virus, typically through vaccination, and limits the ability of the virus to spread. Currently, only 20% of people got infected with the virus, herd immunity can be achieved when more than 70% population will be vaccinated.” Dr Santosh Kumar, deputy superintendent of Nalanda Medical College and Hospital-Patna said even if people become immune, they need to follow the Covid-19 safety protocols so that they should not infect others. “Secondly, the vaccine will take time— four to six weeks to develop antibodies in the human system after taking the dose. During this time it is still possible that the person may contract an infection or fall ill,” he said. He added, “People have to take precaution for a little longer because we do not how it is going to take shape. Most of the experts say that we need to follow the Covid precautions for a few years depending on the situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/experts-vaccine-helps-fight-virus-but-doesnt-make-people-immune/articleshow/80317057.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 18, 2021||Patna||Life-size statues of CM’s dad, 4 more freedom fighters unveiled||PATNA: Governor Phagu Chauhan on Sunday unveiled life-size statues of five prominent freedom fighters of Patna district’s Bakhtiyarpur block, including CM Nitish Kumar’s father Kaviraj Ramlakhan Singh, through videoconferencing from Raj Bhavan. CM Nitish Kumar and state’s building construction minister Ashok Choudhary were also present at the Raj Bhavan when the statues were unveiled. The five statues have been installed at different locations in Bakhtiyarpur, the birthplace of the CM. The other four freedom fighters whose statues were unveiled are Sheel Bhadra Yajee (primary health centre premises), martyr Mogal Singh (block office premises), martyr Nathun Singh Yadav (new bypass road, Raghopur village) and Doomar Singh (higher secondary school premises). Late Kaviraj Ramlakhan Singh’s statue, on the other hand, has been installed on Dak Bungalow premises. All the five statues were built by the state’s building construction department. CM’s father Kaviraj Ramlakhan had gone to jail at the age of 19 years while participating in the nationwide protest against the arrival of Simon Commission to India in 1929. He had spent three-and-a-half months at Patna camp jail. Born at Kalyan Bigaha village in Nalanda district, Kaviraj Ramlakhan was arrested for the second time in 1930 while participating in the Salt Satyagrah Andolan. He was put up in the Patna City camp for four months. Speaking on the occasion, the CM thanked the governor for accepting his request to unveil the statues of five freedom fighters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/life-size-statues-of-cms-dad-4-more-freedom-fighters-unveiled/articleshow/80317138.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Kanpur||Eight cows mowed down by Rajdhani Express, six injured||Kanpur: In a tragic incident, eight cows were killed and six were injured after speeding Rajdhani Express mowed them down near Tamera Ki Madaiya village on Delhi-Howrah route in Jaswantnagar area of Etawah district on Sunday. The incident took place in between Jaswantnagar and Balrai railway stations. “As per the villagers, a herd of cattle was grazing near the tracks when 14 of them were mowed down by the Rajdhani Express. Eight cows died on the spot, while six suffered critical injuries,” said the police. The gateman and villagers alerted the district officials including SDM Jaswantnagar Jyotsana Bandhu, who rushed to the spot to take note of the situation. SDM supervised the rescue operation and shifted the six injured animals to a nearby gaushala for treatment, said the police. According to the locals said that many families hailing from Tamera Ki Madaiya village were dependent on the cows for their livelihood and urged the authorities to provide them compensation. “We have shifted the injured cows to a nearby ‘gaushala’ for treatment. Preliminary it appears that the incident occurred due to heavy fog. Further investigations are underway in this regard,” said the SDM further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/eight-cows-mowed-down-by-rajdhani-express-six-injured/articleshow/80318584.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Patna||Bihar: JD(U) youth wing functionary shot at||PATNA: A JD(U) youth wing functionary, Alok Tejashwi (25), was shot at in front of his house at Kewal Bigha village under the Bakhtiyarpur police station area in rural Patna around 11pm Saturday, police said on Sunday. SHO of Bakhtiyarpur police station Kamlesh Sharma said Alok was rushed to a private hospital after the incident. “Alok’s family members have accused one Santu Kumar (22) of committing the crime. “Santu opened few rounds of fire, injuring Alok. In his statement to police, Alok said he had asked Santu not to fire bullets. This infuriated Santu and he fired at him,” the SHO added. SP (rural) Kantesh Kumar Mishra said Alok has named three people, including Santu and his mother. “The woman was arrested on Sunday. Santu and the third accused are evading arrest,” he said, adding Alok is a local panchayat level functionary of the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-youth-wing-functionary-shot-at/articleshow/80317161.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 18, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal: ‘Extra doses’ prompt private hospitals to cross 100 limit||KOLKATA: Several private hospitals vaccinated more than 100 recipients with their allotted quota of 10 vials on Saturday, which, they claimed, had some additional volume. Private hospitals have lined up more than 100 recipients to ensure that they exhaust their entire quota on Monday. “It was observed that in several vaccination session sites, more than 10 doses could be administered from one vial of Covishield vaccine. In some cases, the remaining quantum after vaccination of 10 beneficiaries was discarded. You are requested to ensure that the entire volume of vaccine from the Covishield vial is utilized even if it is more than 10 doses,” said the health department notice issued on Saturday. While AMRI and RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) inoculated 110 recipients each on Saturday, Peerless Hospital and Apollo Gleneagles Hospital administered the vaccine to 101 and 118 beneficiaries respectively. Peerless claimed it had received 11 vials and returned one to the storage centre on Saturday after exhausting 10. “We could vaccinate one additional recipient and returned the extra vial which had not been touched. For Monday, we have lined up 120 beneficiaries and will ensure that every drop is used,” said CEO Sudipta Mitra. AMRI Hospitals had received 10 vials on Saturday, which proved enough to vaccinate 10 additional recipients. “There seemed to be some additional volume in each vial which added up to a substantial excess. We used up the extra. On Monday, we have got 120 lined up as per the direction,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. The AMRI list includes 50 nurses, more than 25 residential medical officers (RMO) and 25 from other departments, including the front desk, administration and housekeeping. RTIICS, too, have got 120 people lined up for Monday. “As a practice from the first day, we have been opening a vial only after complete utilization of the existing one and will continue to do so to comply with the directives of the authorities. Around 55 doctors, 35 nurses, 11 paramedics, 10 administrative front office staffers and nine housekeeping and security staffers have been lined up for Monday’s vaccination,” said zonal director R Venkatesh. Tata Medical Centre at New Town is the fifth private facility which is carrying out the exercise. While each vial is supposed to contain 5ml of the vaccine (each shot is 0.5ml), most were found to have a dose extra. Once opened, a vial has to be used up within four hours. “So, we have been ensuring that 10 beneficiaries are ready to take the shot before opening a vial. We will continue to do that,” said Barua. “It’s good in a way since some additional shots can be given every day,” said oncologist Subir Ganguly, who received the vaccine on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/extra-doses-prompt-pvt-hosps-to-cross-100-limit/articleshow/80317767.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
January 18, 2021||Business||Ford shuts plant on chip shortage||CHENNAI: Hobbled by the supply disruption of a critical part, Ford India’s factory in Maraimalai Nagar near Chennai is taking an extended shutdown of a week after Pongal. The plant, which closed on January 14 for a three-day Pongal shutdown, has extended it up to January 24. When contacted, a Ford India spokesperson said, “The Chennai plant was supposed to open on January 18, Monday after the Pongal break, which has been extended for a week. Semiconductor (chip) shortage is a serious issue and the team is trying to address the supplies.” The semiconductor shortage, he added, “will impact Ford operations in India. Production will be impacted across Chennai and Sanand plants this entire quarter”. According to industry sources, the semiconductor shortage and the resultant impact will hit production of Ford vehicles for both domestic and export market by 50%. Ford made just under 7,000 vehicles in December. Its cumulative April-December production was just under 65,000 units. A global shortage of semiconductor chips has started disrupting automobile factories worldwide. These chips are used in infotainment systems and other electrical components in a vehicle. Ford has already shut down one of its US plants because of this disruption. Toyota’s Chinese plant, Audi and Volkswagen’s factories in Germany and Honda’s UK plant have all seen production shutdowns because of this supply disruption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ford-shuts-plant-on-chip-shortage/articleshow/80317762.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
January 18, 2021||Patna||Vaccination: Health facilities in Bihar to rectify problems faced on Day 1||PATNA: Several health facilities have decided to modify the process for the second round so that to avoid the problems they encountered during the first phase of the vaccination drive against Covid-19 on Saturday. Only 62% of the healthcare workers registered in the first phase in the state could get the shots due to problems like poor internet connectivity, time management, sequencing, miscommunication and mismatch in identification proof of the beneficiaries among others. The AIIMS-Patna nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said they encountered three problems — beneficiaries failed to see the SMS sent to their cellphone numbers, some beneficiaries were lactating mothers or pregnant and some had contracted the virus. “When the turn-up was only 52% by 4pm, we sought special permission from the Centre to vaccinate all those healthcare workers, who were willing to take the dose to complete the target of 100,” Dr Sanjeev told this newspaper on Sunday. Some other hospitals like Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) also faced a similar situation. “Only 30% of the beneficiaries got vaccinated. Many were willing to take the dose, but due to age restrictions they could not,” NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh said. Dr SS Ray, medical officer incharge (MOIC) of primary health centre (PHC) at Fatuha said all arrangements had been done as per the protocol. “However, due to communication gap, only 29 beneficiaries turned up at the centre against 100 selected for the purpose. When nobody came for the inoculation programme till 2pm, I asked the CDPO whether the beneficiaries had been informed about it. They said the messages were sent to all the selected people by the district health authorities. However, when no one came till 2pm, I started calling each person as per the list provided by the district health office. It was really shocking to know that these people had got no information on their registered cellphone numbers,” Dr Ray said. To ensure that people get the message on time, the head of Fatuha PHC has decided to send the messages himself and call the beneficiaries in advance. Dr Vinay Kumar, MOIC of community health centre (CHC) at Dhanarua, said due to poor internet connectivity, they faced hurdles in uploading the list of people who had been given the first dose of the vaccine. “We have to upload the list of vaccinated people to the district website as well as CoWIN portal. Because of poor internet connectivity, the entire process was delayed and we completed it only by 9pm. Besides, people had got the messages at the eleventh hour, because of which 30% of the beneficiaries failed to take the vaccine on the first day,” he said. Dr Vinay said he was working on all the glitches and time management after discussion with the district civil surgeon. At Maner PHC, vaccine doses could not be given in sequence manner as the Aadhaar number of the beneficiaries did not match with the information given in the list. Its MOIC Dr Gyan Ratan said he had asked the data entry operator to accept other identification cards of the people as well, if there were some issues, to carry out the vaccine drive in proper sequence the way it was in the line list provided by the district health authorities. The PHC also witnessed low turnout because of delay in getting the list of beneficiaries, he added. Dr RK Choudhary, MOIC of Phulwarisharif PHC, said the vaccination process was flawless, but the low turnout was mainly because the beneficiaries got the messages late on Friday evening and many of them could not turn up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vaccination-health-facilities-to-rectify-problems-faced-on-day-1/articleshow/80317043.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 18, 2021||Business||Microfinance lenders see rise in missed instalments||CHENNAI: Microfinance institutions (MFIs) are witnessing a rise in short-term delinquency rate, which refers to loans less than 30 days past due (DPD). The delinquency rate has shot up to 15.3% in the quarter-ended September from 1.2% in the year-ago period. While a rise in loans being due for 30 days does not make them non-performing assets (NPAs), it is a sign of stress in the system. “We have seen the rate of delinquency for the short- term period spike from less than 3% to 10% in the last few months. This is on the back of a growing number of borrowers using the money for non-business generation purposes — like household expenses — and default on repayment,” said Satya MicroCapital MD Vivek Tiwari. While the overall repayment of loans stands at 93-95%, the delinquency rate for 31-180 DPD has risen from 1% to 2.6%. However, it remained at the same levels for loans of over 180 DPD, a report from Kotak Institutional Equities said. Manoj Kumar, chairman of trade body Microfinance Institutions Network (MFIN), said, “No new loans were given during the lockdown, except to eligible existing customers. Depleted household savings during the lockdown enhanced credit demand.” Increased borrowing resulted in the average loan outstanding rise from Rs 35,000-40,000 before the pandemic to Rs 50,000 after June. Microfinance lenders have also witnessed borrowing costs rise from 18.2% to 22%. “Our profit margin has reduced to 8.5-9% from 10% earlier. However, lending rates have decreased according to regulatory norms. This has placed us in a difficult position,” said Tiwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/microfinance-lenders-see-rise-in-missed-instalments/articleshow/80317802.cms||Mamtha Asokan
January 18, 2021||Nashik||30-year-old biker collides with tractor, dies||Nashik: A 30-year-old man died after ramming his motorcycle into the trolley of a tractor coming from the opposite side. The incident took place along the Nanegaon Road, under Deolali Camp police station, on Saturday evening. The Deolali Camp police have registered a case of causing death by negligence against the deceased biker, who has been identified as Navnath Bansi Pawar, a resident of Varhe Darna in Niphad taluka. Pawar was riding his bike on the Nanegaon Road on Saturday. While he was speeding his vehicle from near the Wange Wadi area at 6.30 pm, the biker rammed the bike into the trolley of the tractor proceeding towards Nanegaon from a sugar factory there. Pawar suffered serious injuries and succumbed to the same. API R T More, of the Deolali Camp police station, said that after visiting the incident spot, the police found that the tractor was climbing a slope. It is not possible that the tractor was speeding. However, the biker collided against the tractor trolley and the impact was so great that his head almost separated from the body. In view of all these things and the panchanama conducted, the police deduced that Pawar was responsible for his own death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/30-year-old-biker-collides-with-tractor-dies/articleshow/80317878.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Business||IRFC IPO opens on Monday, Centre eyes Rs 1,544 crore||MUMBAI: The maiden public offering for Indian Railway Finance Corporation (IRFC), the dedicated market borrowing arm of Indian Railways, will open on Monday, The government is expected to garner about Rs 1,544 crore by diluting part of its stake in the NBFC. The company is also raising fresh capital of Rs 3,089 crore through this offer, which, together with the government’s stake sale, could take the size of the IPO to Rs 4,633 crore. The price band for the IPO is Rs 25-26 per share. On Friday, the company placed nearly 53.5 crore shares to 31 anchor investors to raise Rs 1,399 crore. These investors included the investment arm of the Singapore government, Monetary Authority of Singapore, and also HDFC, Nippon Life and Invesco mutual funds. IRFC is a government-owned NBFC, which just caters to Indian Railways. According to IRFC officials, most of the locomotives, the passenger coaches, freight wagons that the railways uses, are owned by IRFC and leased to the railways for a fee. It also finances several railway projects in the country. IRFC is the first PSU NBFC to go public. DAM Capital Advisors (formerly IDFC Securities), HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India), ICICI Securities and SBI Capital Markets are managing the IPO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/irfc-ipo-opens-on-monday-govt-eyes-rs-1544cr/articleshow/80319042.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Patna||‘Teachers & pupils should be vaccinated on priority’||PATNA: Even as the academics in general have welcomed the vaccination drive against Covid-19, some do have apprehensions about its side effects, especially on senior citizens. The report of deaths of some senior citizens after getting vaccinated in some countries has made them all the more apprehensive.Patna University (PU) English department’s former head Shiva Jatan Thakur welcomed the vaccination drive but said proper post-vaccination care must be observed effectively so that any case of emergency can be handled with efficacy. He opined that people in the age-group of 50-65 should get preference in getting vaccinated. People above 65 should be vaccinated only when the efficacy of all Covid-19 vaccines is well established. State’s former higher education director Nageshwar Prasad Sharma, who is above 90, however, ruled out the apprehensions and observed that no medicine is equally effective for all the people. “Both the vaccines launched in our country have been produced by reputed institutions after clinical trials and, hence, there should not be any doubt about their efficacy. Whenever I get the opportunity, I shall get myself vaccinated,” Sharma said.PU botany department’s head Mahesh Prasad Trivedi observed that teachers as well as students are at greater risk of getting infected as the educational institutions in the state have already reopened. He said some separate medical teams should be constituted for vaccinating the students and teachers on priority basis. B N College principal Raj Kishore Prasad welcomed the grand launch of the Corona vaccine, but regretted that teachers, who interact with hundreds of pupils of all sorts every day, are not considered as frontline warriors. He demanded that all teachers, right from primary school to university level, should be vaccinated as early as possible. Some academics would, however, prefer to wait for their turn silently as they wanted to be sure about the usefulness of the vaccine. “ Will the vaccines offer meaningful protection to seniors who are frail or have multiple chronic illnesses? What side effects can older adults anticipate and how often will these occur,” asked Patna College’s former principal Nawal Kishore Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/teachers-pupils-should-be-vaccinated-on-priority/articleshow/80317011.cms||B K Mishra
January 18, 2021||Patna||Bihar’s Covid recovery rate touches 98%||PATNA: The state’s Covid caseload increased to 2,58,739 on Sunday with 211 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. Four more Covid deaths, on the other hand, took the state’s toll to 1,457. Begusarai, Buxar, Jehanabad and Saran districts recorded one death each on Sunday. At 383, the number of recovered cases surpassed the fresh cases on Sunday. At least 3,713 people are still battling the virus across the state. As per health department’s data, as many as 2,53,569 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Bihar so far, taking the state’s recovery rate to 98%.A 67-year-old man from Professor Colony in Darbhanga has died at AIIMS-Patna. Hospital’s nodal officer for Covid Dr Sanjeev Kumar said eight patients were admitted and five discharged on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/states-covid-recovery-rate-touches-98/articleshow/80317020.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Patna||Bihar: RJD, Congress remind BJP of free vaccine promise||PATNA: A political debate has started in the state over providing free vaccines to the people. The main opposition parties in the state have reminded BJP of its poll promise of free vaccine for all. While RJD has demanded free vaccines for the people across the country, especially in a poor state like Bihar, Congress has threatened to hit the streets if the ruling BJP failed to fulfil its poll promise. While releasing the BJP’s election manifesto for the Bihar assembly polls on October 22 last year, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that free vaccines would be provided to the people of the state. “People of poor states like Bihar should be provided free vaccines. In fact, it would be ideal if the Centre makes vaccination free across the country. If 83% of population can be covered under Food Security Act and given rations at subsidized rates, why not Covid-19 vaccines? After all, it’s a pandemic,” RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari said. The Congress, a constituent of the RJD-led Grand Alliance, went a step further and threatened to launch an agitation if the BJP failed to keep its poll promise. “We will take up the matter to the people’s court and expose the hollow promises of the BJP,” Congress legislature party leader Ajit Sharma said, adding around 30-40% people in Bihar were not in a condition to bear the cost of the vaccines even if they are sold at subsidised rates. BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand, on the other hand, said the state government had no reservation in providing free vaccines to people. “As of now, our main concern is smooth conduct of the vaccination drive,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-cong-remind-bjp-of-free-vaccine-promise/articleshow/80316966.cms||Ramashankar
January 18, 2021||Vadodara||First train to world’s tallest statue chugs on high note||VADODARA/ KEVADIYA: The scenes at Pratapnagar railway station on Sunday resembed high-spirited mela (fair) as the first train to Kevadiya was flagged off. The memu train started moving on the tracks as Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually flagged as many as eight trains connecting Kevadiya, the home to Statue of Unity (SoU) in Narmada district. Garbas, folk dances, tricolor balloons and tunes of police band welcomed around 600 specially invited guests enroute all the railway stations that were decorated with marigold flowers and bouquets like the newly started train that had December 2020 made brightly illuminated coaches from Integral Coach Factory, Chennai. It was a completely different experience for train guard SN Dabhi who has taken part in inaugural runs of five trains in his career. Pratapnagar station itself witnessed the arrival of politicians, MP, MLAs, educationists, members of Baroda's royal family, sports personalities, artists and members of different communities among others. Most of them spent time clicking selfies and photos with the train in the backdrop. The speed of the train which was tested at 120 km per hour during speed trials was a pleasant surprise. "You cannot think of reaching Dabhoi within 10 minutes from Vadodara," said businessman Naresh Sindhi. At the newly constructed railway stations of Dabhoi, Chandod and Kevadiya too, passengers received a warm welcome of drum beats and dholaks. 'Narmade, Har, Har' chanted the saints as the train reached Chandod, famous for being home to triveni sangam of the revered Narmada, Gupt Saraswati and Orsang. "The new trains will also improve connectivity to Chandod where thousands gather on ghats to perform post death rituals of the dead at the sangam," said Anil Bhatt, a priest in Chandod. From Chandod to Kevadiya, the section which has witnessed construction of new railway line, the open coaches got filled with dust that is yet to settle from the terrain where railways had carried out work in war foot to meet the deadline. Onlookers settled on the sides of the tracks too waived to the passengers who finally reached Kevadiya which by then had already witnessed tourists flocking to enjoy their weekend getting a glimpse of the SoU nestled in the picturesque backdrop of Vindhyas and Satpuras mountain ranges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/first-train-to-worlds-tallest-statue-chugs-on-high-note/articleshow/80316804.cms||Prashant Rupera
January 18, 2021||Business||Startups on new-age tech surge in India||CHENNAI: A maturing ecosystem and tailwinds on the digital front due to Covid have expanded the ‘deep technology’ component of the Indian startup ecosystem. Deep tech includes the use of emerging and new-age tech such as AI, machine learning (ML), augmented & virtual reality, blockchain, robotics and 3D printing. At 19%, now nearly one in five tech startups are leveraging deep-tech solutions for their businesses. The pool of deep-tech ventures is expanding at a five-year compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of 41% — faster than the overall ecosystem, a study said. Over 2,100 startups adopted deep technologies in their ventures as of 2020, up from the over 1,600 in 2019. Further, 14% of the total startup investments in 2020 were in deep-tech ventures, higher than the 11% in 2019. Up to 87% of these investments were in AI/ML startups in 2020. The Nasscom and Zinnov study further notes that deep tech will continue to grow at a CAGR of 40-45% in 2021. Tech startups not just stayed afloat amid uncertainties but also converted the crisis into an opportunity, the report said. It noted that ‘digital maturity’ in the ecosystem jumped to 55% in 2020 from 34% in 2018. The acceleration in digital adoption brought about by Covid has resulted in “deep tech getting deep rooted into startups’ DNA”, the report added. Jatin Desai, managing partner at Inflexor Ventures, a deep tech-focused VC firm, says they have observed a steady growth of such startups pitching to them for investments over three-four years, and anticipates this to continue into 2021. “We are one of the early, domestic VC funds that invested in deep tech across both our funds — Parampara and Inflexor. Over 50% of our current portfolio companies are deep-tech startups. In Inflexor, which is our Fund II, we anticipate most of our portfolio companies to have aspects of deep tech like AI-ML, AR/VR, IoT, blockchain, big data and other emerging technologies,” he said. Despite the pandemic, 2020 saw a record number of 12 new unicorns added to India’s startup world — the highest ever in a single calendar year. The country’s tech startup base is estimated to be growing at a scale of 8-10% year-on-year. Nasscom defines tech startups as active technology product or platform companies incepted in the last five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/startups-on-new-age-tech-surge-in-india/articleshow/80317739.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
January 18, 2021||Lucknow||Fit & fine: Business as usual fordocs, health staff after vaccine shot||LUCKNOW: Director of a private hospital, Dr Rakesh Kapoor, performed three surgeries after taking Covid-19 vaccine shot at 11am on Saturday. There was no change in his routine on Sunday either when he went for his morning exercise and shopping with his family in the afternoon. “I am fit and fine as usual. We can trust this vaccine as it has gone through several checks. In fact, it’s our only weapon till an antiviral drug for Covid-19 is discovered,” said Dr Kapoor. TOI spoke to dozens of health workers who received vaccine shots about how their day was after getting the jab on Saturday. No one reported any adverse reaction till Sunday afternoon. Only a few complained of slight pain in the arm where the vaccine was injected. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar said no adverse report had been recieved so far. SGPGIMS director Prof RK Dhiman also remained busy with his hectic administrative work after taking the jab on Saturday. “Since (Sunday) morning, I have been busy with interior decoration of my house, shifting heavy objects from one place to another to make space,” he said. Similarly, RMLIMS director Dr AK Singh also carried out administrative work after vaccination on Saturday and took extra classes for students on Sunday. “Though I am a diabetic, I haven’t experienced any fatigue or fever,” he said. Dr Amitav Srivastava, a paediatrician at Avanti Bai Hospital, said: “There was no side-effect. I have slight pain in my left arm where I was injected because I lifted weights during my morning exercise today.” Head, pulmonary medicine, KGMU, Prof Surya Kant remained busy with a national conference on Saturday where PG students from across India discussed medical issues. “I am working as usual. There is a little hardness on the injection site which is normal in any vaccination,” he said. Principal of Era’s Medical College and Hospital Dr MM Faridi supervised vaccination process at his centre till 4.30 pm on Saturday. Later, he reviewed research papers of students before leaving for home at 9.30 pm. “My Sunday morning started with a newspaper followed by sun bath and then routine work. No side-effects so far,” he said. Director, Avanti Bai Hospital, Dr Sudha Verma examined patients and completed administrative work on Saturday without feeling any side-effects. “I even brought some office work home and completed it on Sunday,” she said. ENT specialist at Balrampur Hospital, Dr SC Srivastava, oversaw the immunization programme after vaccination. “After taking the jab, I can say that there is no adverse impact,” said Dr Srivastava, who is a heart patient. Reena Nargis, a staff nurse at KGMU, performed her duty as usual after vaccination. “My family members were earlier saying they would wait and watch for vaccination, but now all are ready for it,” she laughed. Innis Charles and Gladis, both staff nurses at Balrampur hospital, too said they were fit and active despite being hypertensive and diabetic. Finance officer, RMLIMS, Mukesh Jain said, “Apart from my official work, I went for yoga and followed my schedule.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fit-fine-business-as-usual-fordocs-health-staff-after-vax-shot/articleshow/80319667.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
January 18, 2021||Allahabad||Student succeeds in growing banana of south in local climate||Prayagraj: An M.Sc. student of SHUATS, Naini, Sanjay Suchiang has successfully developed a variety of banana which is grown only in Trichy, Tamil Nadu. Cultivated under the guidance of his guide and faculty member of the department of horticulture, SS Saravanan, Suchiang has grown Udhayam variety of banana under the climatic conditions of Prayagraj. This variety was highly recommended by the board members at the National Research Council for Banana (NRCB), Trichy, due to its processing nature and high demand in the industrial sector. “National Research Council for Banana (NRCB), Trichy, Tamil Nadu, provided me with the variety of this plant but the real challenge for me was to grow this variety under the climatic conditions that prevails at Prayagraj, wherein mercury dips to three to four degrees in winter chill and shoots up to 47 degrees in summers. As compared to this, the temperature at Trichy is tropical”, says Suchiang, who hails from a small village of Thadmuthlong Phramer, West Jaintia hills, Meghalaya. Growing this variety here at Prayagraj bears significance as the consumption pattern of banana is increasing day by day due to its nutritional value and high economic return. It is the most consumed fruit crop in India with a production share of 32.6 per cent in cultivation in India (2018-2019). “Banana farming is a great advantage to small and marginal farmers of the region as the plants require only one-time planting after which farmers can easily multiply their plants by detaching suckers, a lateral shoot that develops from the rhizome and emerges from the soil usually near the parent plant. My guide as well as the head of the department, Vijay Bahadur, told me that the Udhayam variety is a recently released variety by the NRCB, Trichy and that if I try growing it in the climatic conditions of Prayagraj, it has great promise for the farmers as its processing nature is in high demand in the industrial sector,” said Suchiang. He also stated that Udhayam variety is highly suitable for making fig, sweet chutney, jam, bar, ready to serve beverages and wine, which makes it a much sought after variety. “Over months of hard work and perseverance and especially during the Covid-19 pandemic, I succeeded in growing Udhayam variety and over the course of 12-13 months, I am able to harvest my first few Udhayam variety bunches,” he added. Prior to release, this variety was evaluated under varied agro-climatic conditions and the results revealed that it performed well not only in Tamil Nadu but also in Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tripura. It produced a sustained yield even under salinesodic soils. Though it produced an average yield of 37 kgs, it has the potential to yield upto 45 kgs, which is 15-30 per cent higher than local Karpuravalli. It exhibited field tolerance to nematodes and other leaf spot diseases. The cylindrical shape of the bunch makes this variety amenable for long distance transport with enhanced shelf life. Hence, to maintain the quantity of the produce and uphold the “nutritional quality” and “soil fertility”, the experiment was conducted and the same was successful, said a happy and proud Suchiang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/student-succeeds-in-growing-banana-of-south-in-local-climate/articleshow/80316991.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Allahabad||Volunteers turn tech-savvy toreunite lost ones with their kin||Prayagraj: Sitting in a corner of the ‘Bhoole Bhatke Shivir’, the eyes of the family members of 62-year-old Mangal Patel are constantly glued towards the entrance and scan the people every few minutes. Patel, a resident of Madhya Pradesh had arrived in Prayagraj on January 2 to attend a ‘mundan’ ceremony at Sangam and is missing. His family members and the volunteers of Bhoole Bhatke Shivir have been looking for him since last few days. The volunteers, this time, have also shared Patel’s details on the WhatsApp group, Bharat Sewa Dal, connecting the volunteers of Bhoole Bhatke Shivir across the country and are eagerly awaiting any leads. Umesh Tiwari, organiser of Bhoole Bhatke Shivir and head of Bharat Seva Dal, told TOI “We have reunited 85 people, including 75 adults and 10 children, in the past four days since the beginning of Magh Mela.” The family members of Mangal Patel are also staying at Bhoole Bhatke camp in the Mela area, resting their hopes on the volunteers and hoping some of them might bring him along to the shivir someday. Tiwari, meanwhile, said that the volunteers manning the Bhoole Bhatke Shivir are now using technology re-unite the lost ones with their families. He said, “Many active volunteers from other states like MP, Bihar, Haryana, West Bengal and Delhi, who could not come this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, are connected with us in a group formed on popular messaging app to find the missing persons. Our volunteers keep sharing and updating the details of missing persons on the group on frequent intervals.” Devotees and pilgrims from across the country come to the Magh Mela and camp here on the banks of the Ganga. We have been able to reunite missing people from Sasaram, Pratapgarh, Jaunpur, Satna, Sidhi, Reewa, Katiyar with their families, Tiwari added. Volunteers also maintain manual records, and share the details of missing persons on social media sites and popular messaging app to find and reunited them with their families. IG (Prayagraj zone) KP Singh told TOI the volunteers of Bhoole Bhatke Shivir are offering a helping hand to police authorities to reunite missing people with their families. As the 57-day annual religious event gets started on the banks of the Ganga, the volunteers of Bhoole Bhatke Shivir have been serving the mankind with the help of Mela police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/volunteers-turn-tech-savvy-toreunite-lost-ones-with-their-kin/articleshow/80317046.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Business||GM union moves HC over ‘closure’||Mumbai: The General Motors Employees Union has filed a petition before the Bombay high court seeking directions to ensure that the Maharashtra government passes an order by January 19 (to avoid deemed approval) to either clear or reject the closure application filed by General Motors (GM) India. The union challenged the closure application in meetings with the Maharashtra labour minister Dilip Walse-Patil. GM representatives were also present at the time. The union through advocate Rahul Kamerkar is seeking an urgent hearing on Tuesday before the HC. The petition said the main ground for challenging the closure is that GM’s application states it was made because an MoU was signed to sell its business to China’s Great Wall Motors — thus it is not a closure but rather a transfer of undertaking under the Industrial Disputes Act. The other ground is that the closure application says certain manufacturing would be continued past the date of closure. Under Section 25 O (3) of the Industrial Disputes Act if no order is passed on the closure application within 60 days, it is deemed to be Approved. Since GM’s application was filed on November 20, 2020, the last day for government to pass an order rejecting it is January 19, 2021, says the union. The petition says that despite several meetings and correspondence exchanges including written submissions being filed by the company, General Motors India, and the employees union, the state has not yet passed an order on the closure plea. The petition claims that the state is dragging its feet to ensure a deemed approval. The petition also seeks that if no order is passed on or before the January 19, 2021, the state be directed to file a detailed affidavit giving reasons as to why no order was passed and for an enquiry depending on the reply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gm-union-moves-hc-over-closure/articleshow/80319073.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Kolkata||The day after: Many return to work in Bengal, eager for second jab||KOLKATA: Most people who received the Covid vaccine on Saturday said they experienced no adverse effect till Sunday evening and were either back at work or set to resume duties from Monday. And they are all geared up for the second dose four weeks later. Although a few reported minor side effects, like body ache, low fever or slight pain with swelling at the injection site, experts said these are commonly triggered by most vaccines and were not any cause for worry. In Kolkata, 1,656 healthcare workers, including doctors, nurses, group D staffers and hospital officials were vaccinated on the first day. Only one nurse with a history of allergic reactions had to be hospitalized with certain complications and 14 others complained of minor adverse effects. But everyone was stable till late on Sunday. “Returning home after the vaccination, I had mild fever and body ache, which are common after even a shot of tetanus. I popped a paracetamol tablet and was fit by Sunday morning. I will be back at work at the hospital on Monday. I am also waiting for the second dose four weeks later,” said Mridul Janweja, a senior resident doctor at the department of ENT at SSKM Hospital. Senior nurse Mousumi Ghosh had minor pain and swelling at the injection site. “After my turn on Saturday, I had gone back to work and I will be working on Monday as well,” she said. There were several others who said they didn’t even have the common complications associated with vaccines. “I felt nothing during the shot and there has been no pain or swelling afterwards. I was on duty on Saturday as well as on Sunday,” said Prabir Roy, a group D staffer at SSKM Hospital. All the beneficiaries TOI spoke to said they had received multiple calls from hospital authorities enquiring about their health and advising them medication in case they had any complications. “Whenever a person is administered any injectable vaccine, symptoms like that of viral fever, including rise in body temperature, headache, body ache and vomiting, can happen. But these are not serious and will go away on their own,” said Dipika Sur, former scientist at ICMR-NICED. According to doctors, some of the common side effects associated with Covishield include pain at the injection site, fever, body ache, muscle pain, joint pain, dizziness and nausea in some people. “Some cases of demyelination have been reported following this vaccine, however, casual relationship has not been proved. The vaccine can cause anaphylaxis in rare cases, hence, any history of drug allergy or vaccine history should be revealed before fresh vaccination,” said Subhrojyoti Bhowmick, clinical trial expert at Peerless Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/the-day-after-many-return-to-work-eager-for-second-jab/articleshow/80317750.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 18, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Nurse stable, but to be kept under observation||KOLKATA: The 36-year-old nurse who fell sick after taking the Covishield shot is doing well at NRS Medical College and Hospital. Health department officials said the nurse, Pinki Sur, is now free of breathing trouble. However, the patient has some weakness in her limbs. Sur will be in hospital observation for at least another day. An experts’ committee of AEFI (adverse event following immunization) is monitoring her. “The patient is under close observation and further investigations are being conducted. It is premature to comment on the possible association, if any, with the vaccination or the vaccine,” said Santanu Tripathi, clinical trial specialist, former head of clinical and experimental pharmacology at STM Kolkata. The nurse attached to BC Roy Memorial Hospital for Children had complained of breathlessness and started shivering in the observation room after getting the shot at the Phoolbagan hospital. She was admitted in the NRS Medical College critical care unit as a precautionary measure. “This kind of reaction can occur after vaccination. This is rare, but nothing to be worried about. Whether this was vaccine-related is being investigated. The fact that the AEFI team identified it on time and took all precautions is commendable,” said clinical trial specialist Santanu Tripathi. The former head of clinical and experimental pharmacology at School of Tropical Medicine, Kolkata, was asked for his input by the health department in this case. Health department sources said the nurse suffers from chronic asthma and is sensitive to certain drugs. “The sizeable strength of the phase-III data Chadox available from other countries is reassuring as they indicate absence of AEFI/serious adverse events. But even WHO has asked for active post-immunization surveillance by the manufacturer. The data of Chadox’s Indian avatar, Covishield, is yet to reach such numbers in their trial at the time of approval. But as the technology is largely replicated, we should not be apprehensive,” said immunologist Dipyaman Ganguly, scientist at Indian Institute of Chemical Biology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nurse-stable-but-to-be-kept-under-observation/articleshow/80317754.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 18, 2021||Chennai||Will the posturing of PMK help seal deal?||Chennai: The Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) is at a crossroads. Having made a strong surge for power in the 2016 Tamil Nadu assembly elections and projected its youth wing president Dr Anbumani Ramadoss as its chief ministerial candidate, it is now faced with a dilemma —whether to continue on its path and forge a front to take on the AIADMK and DMK or abandon its power bid and settle for breadcrumbs in the form of MLA seats. An emotional Dr S Ramadoss, the party founder and father of Anbumani, asked party cadres in a recent virtual meet whether their dream of coming to power in the state, of seeing Anbumani as chief minister, would not be realised. An equally emotional Anbumani responded by stating the founder need not worry and that 2021 will mark the party’s victory.What are the options for the PMK in the run-up to the assembly election? Is it better to get a few seats, say, in an alliance with the AIADMK, or will it gain in the longer run by fielding its own front even if it comes a cropper? These are the questions being examined by party insiders.Over the past few months, the party is proving to be a tough ally for the AIADMK, pushing the 20% quota as a precondition to alliance talks, making it seem like a gambit for power sharing, which after being rejected, could be now about getting as many MLA seats as possible.The party has returned to its roots — an agitation mode to try and secure benefits on the reservation front. A natural extension of this approach is to come to a position of eminence in the state government, as part of its front or in a post-poll coalition arrangement. The PMK is also keeping the AIADMK on tenterhooks with its googly of a demand for a separate sub-quota for the vanniyars (and deputy chief ministership for the party). The PMK knows that the AIADMK is desperately looking for allies to stitch a formidable front against the DMK-led combine especially after the debacle in the LS polls. It also knows that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami would be willing to go that extra mile to satisfy allies.But it is not as if the alliance route had provided the party success. The DMK-PMK-Congress could not triumph in 2011 nor could it win any Lok Sabha seat in the company of the AIADMK, BJP and DMDK in 2019. The AIADMK did not allow the PMK to contest a few seats out of the 22 by-elections to the state assembly in 2019. Since there are no guarantees of success even in a strong alliance, several party insiders are of the view that it is better off leading its own front rather than supporting another party for government formation.Much also depends on the strategy of the BJP. At the moment, the BJP is keeping its cards close to its chest, keeping both the AIADMK and potential allies guessing. If the BJP and DMDK go along with the PMK and a few other parties as in 2014 and 2019, the PMK would be more than willing to be a major player here. Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam, AMMK, PT, MJK, RPI and a few others are the other parties that the PMK is looking at favourably. The PMK, according to political observers, is merely resorting to posturing in a Shylockian bid to extract its pound of flesh from the AIADMK, and that it will have no option but to fall in line and accept the AIADMK’s offer of a few seats.In the past, the PMK had been charged with political opportunism by changing partners frequently. Even in 2019, the DMK hit out at the PMK for opting for a tie-up with the AIADMK after holding several rounds of discussions with the DMK. Dr S Ramadoss has been accused by his critics of playing one side against the other in a bid to increase seat allotment for the PMK. On the other hand, he has hit out at the critics for singling out his party for opportunism and pointed out that all parties had changed bedfellows too, and that none of them had been consistent. Having polled 10% to 20% votes in 40 constituencies in 2016, including 10 seats in the 20%-30% range, on its own, despite the PMK chief ministerial candidate Anbumani Ramadoss being squeezed out by two giants in the form of M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa, the PMK could feel that it could have another crack at power in the absence of the two heavyweights. In fact, one of PMK’s best performances came in the constituency of EPS at Edappadi, coming second, ahead of the DMK. While EPS secured 43.7% of the votes, PMK got 25.1% and the DMK 24.4%.In 64 of the 119 constituencies in the western and northern districts (barring Chennai), the PMK secured more votes than the margin of victory in 2016. It is possible that in many of these constituencies, the DMK would have won but for the performance of the PMK. However, the party would like to be seen as a gainer and not a spoiler.If the PMK manages to cobble together a front of several parties, the combined vote share could pose a serious challenge to the mainstream parties in the 40 constituencies, and a victory chance in at least 10 of them. This can be a crucial number if there is a hung assembly in the state. The PMK could then play kingmaker if not the king.(The writer is a veteran journalist)Email feedback with name and address tosouthpole.toi@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/will-the-posturing-of-pmk-help-seal-deal/articleshow/80319011.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Dehradun||Dissent against cabinet’s decision regarding transferring colleges affiliated with central university to state varsity||Dehradun: The state government order — directing the degree colleges affiliated with Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University (HNBGU) to shift their affiliation to Sri Dev Suman Uttarakhand University — is drawing criticism from several corners. The decision was given a go-ahead in a cabinet meeting on January 15, 2021. The critics of the order believe that shifting the affiliation of the degree colleges from a central university to a state university is not in the interest of the students and the state’s higher education sector. Notably, the order specifies that the colleges that do not seek affiliation from Sri Dev Suman Uttarakhand University would not be provided with the annual grant given by the state government. In a media interaction, several former student leaders asked the state government to repeal the order. “The students have taken admission in various degree colleges, including Dehradun’s famous DAV College, in order to avail a central university degree. Such decisions are unfair to the people,” said activist Ravinder Jugran. “Section 4 (f) of the Central University Act, 2009, gives protection to the affiliated colleges and the state government doesn’t have the right of taking such decisions before any amendment made by the central government. The HNBGCU claims that they are unable to administratively control the affiliated colleges but that doesn’t mean they can play with the future of the students. The discontinuation of the grant and shifting of affiliation to a state university will hamper the renowned affiliated degree colleges who have a rich history behind them,” said Vivekanand Khanduri, former president of Dehradun-based DAV College. Notably, the HNBGCU has 17 degree colleges in the state affiliated to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dissent-against-cabinets-decision-regarding-transferring-colleges-affiliated-with-central-university-to-state-varsity/articleshow/80317058.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 18, 2021||Nashik||Sena corporators meet CM, seeks nod for pending civic issues||Nashik: City-based Shiv Sena corporators on Saturday met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and urged him to settle the pending issues of the civic body along with planning tourism and other projects for boosting the growth of the city. All the 35 corporators, including leader of the opposition Ajay Boraste, senior coporator and city’s party chief Sudhakar Badgujar and group leader in the civic body Vilas Shinde, urged the chief minister for an overall development of the city even though the party is in the opposition in the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). “He (Thackeray) has assured to provide us all the help we need for the growth of the city and will also look into the pending issues of the civic body. The BJP has been in power in the civic body for the past four years and they were also in power in the state, but they could not take up the development projects in the city. Hence, we took an initiative and met the chief minister to boost the growth of the city and sort out all the pending issues related to the civic body,” Boraste said. “The NMC had prepared a plan with new additional posts and submitted it to the state government in January 2017, but the proposal is still pending. Moreover, 2,370 of the total 7,082 approved posts are lying vacant and these posts are expected to be filled for the development of the city,” he added. Boraste went on to say that the civic body had also proposed upgrading of the old sewage treatment plants (STP). “The proposal has already been sent under the Centre’s national river conservation programme in a bid to reduce the Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) level of the old STPs as per the new norms of the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB),” he said. “The detailed project reports of two STPS at Tapovan and Agartakli have already been prepared, while it is still under process for the other two STPs. These DPRs are to be sent to the environment department of the state which will be sent it to the Centre. We urged the CM for the cooperation of the state government in this regard,” Boraste added. The corporators also sought the chief minister’s help for constructing an outer ring road that will connect all the highways so that heavy traffic can be diverted from outside the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sena-corporators-meet-cm-seeks-nod-for-pending-civic-issues/articleshow/80317895.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Patna||KSDSU senate approves Rs 327.17 crore deficit budget||DARBHANGA: The Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University (KSDSU) senate in its 44th meeting held on Sunday under the chairmanship of vice-chancellor, Prof Shasinath Jha, passed a deficit budget of Rs 327.17 crore for the fiscal 2021-22. The budgetary provision entails a proposed expenditure of Rs 329.02 crore and an income of only Rs 1.84 crore. Delivering his presidential address, the VC said that KSDSU is the second ancient university in the country imparting Sanskrit education, but all are acquainted with the deteriorating status of this language during the last several years. Delayed academic session, admission process, irregular holding of Madhyma examinations and several other reasons led to the deterioration of the varsity also. “The need of the hour is to introduce Sanskrit as a language right from the primary education level. There is a misconception that Sanskrit language is used only for reading religious texts and performing rituals and it cannot help an individual in earning his or her livelihood. The dwindling number of students in Sanskrit colleges throughout the state has thus become a matter of concern,” added the VC. As most of the colleges under the university lie in remote villages where there is no computer nor internet connectivity, students have to go to cyber cafés in urban areas for filling up online admission and examination forms. Many poor students do not opt for admission due to this procedure. The VC also requested the senate to accord approval for teaching vocational courses like skill development; remedial coaching, tension management and Ayurveda, as earlier, the academic council had approved the introduction of these courses. Most of the senate members were present in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ksdsu-senate-approves-rs-327-17cr-deficit-budget/articleshow/80317226.cms||Binay Kumar Jha
January 18, 2021||Lucknow||Covid survivors also need to be inoculated: PGI doctor||Do you have to get vaccinated against Covid-19 if you have once recovered from the infection? When does immunity via vaccine kick in? Will social distancing and Covid-19 norms have to be followed after immunisation? Yusra Husain speaks to head of microbiology department, SGPGI, Prof Ujjala Ghoshal, to get answers to some of these important questions. What is new variant of SARS-COV2 or novel coronavirus?This variant is known as ‘SARS-CoV-2 VOC 202012/01’ which stands for “the first variant of concern” from December 2020. It is responsible for about 60% of recent infections in London. The new variant has mutation in spike protein of the virus. It is thought that it has enhanced ability to spread more quickly. How does emergence of this new variant impact lab diagnosis?The available laboratory tests use multiple targets to detect the virus. Even if a mutation changes one target, the virus can be detected by using other targets. Will it respond to available vaccines?After vaccination, antibodies are developed against different regions of the viral spike protein, hence it is unlikely that the virus will evade vaccine-induced immunity. How long does vaccine-induced immunity last? Literature suggests that natural infections provide immunity for around three months and antibodies are present for around eight months. Covid-19 vaccines which induce a strong antibody response should at least provide this much protection. What is authorized age group for immunisation?Vaccine is for persons aged 18 years and above. Who are ineligible for jab?*If a person has a history of anaphylactic/ allergic reactions to a previous dose of Covid-19 vaccine, injectable therapies, pharmaceutical products or particular food items. * Pregnant and lactating women * Vaccine is to be deferred for 4 to 8 weeks after recovery in patients with active symptoms of the infection, those who received plasma therapy or antibodies and those who are acutely unwell or hospitalised. * Precautions must be taken while vaccinating persons with a history of any bleeding or coagulation disorders. Do Covid survivors need to be inoculated?Yes, it is advisable to complete the course irrespective of the previous Covid-19 status. How many doses will be administered? When do we potentially develop immunity? According to the health ministry, two doses of vaccine, 28 days apart, need to be taken to complete the course. Protective levels of antibodies are generally developed two weeks after receiving the second dose. Do we need to follow Covid norms even after vaccination?It is not possible to firmly say that vaccines will result in protective immunity in every individual. So, one should continue to wear masks and follow social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/to-be-vaccinated-or-not-to-be-virology-expert-has-the-answer/articleshow/80319662.cms||Yusra Husain
January 18, 2021||Patna||Commission to buy multi-post EVMs for Bihar panchayat elections||PATNA: Decks have been cleared for the use of EVMs in the upcoming panchayat polls due to be held in April-May this year. The state panchayati raj department issued an order to the state election commission (SEC) in this regard on Saturday. Secretary (SEC) Yogendra Ram said the commission has received the state government’s approval for conducting the three-tier panchayat elections by using EVMs, which will be used for the first time in the panchayat polls to elect 2.58 lakh representatives. The nod gives the state poll panel the go-ahead to purchase the advanced multi-post electronic voting machines (EVMs) from Electronic Corporation of India Limited (ECIL). The government has also sanctioned Rs300 crore for purchase and management of the multi-post EVMs. Authoritative sources said the poll panel will purchase 15,000 multi-post EVMs for use during the panchayat polls likely to be held in nine phases. These EVMs have six ballot units for the six posts of ward member, panch, sarpanch, mukhiya, panchayat samiti member and district board member. The authorities have identified 1.19 lakh polling stations. The draft of the revised electoral roll will be published on January 19. A senior SEC officer said the poll panel will soon send the election schedule to the state government for its approval. “The election may be held in eight to nine phases, depending on the availability of the security forces,” he told this newspaper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/commission-to-buy-multi-post-evms-for-panchayat-elections/articleshow/80317191.cms||Ramashankar
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||Pvt entities need CCTVs to pan area around premises||Mumbai: The Mumbai police led by Parambir Singh has invoked provisions of section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code to make it mandatory for all private establishments to install CCTV on their premises in such a manner that the entire area from the boundary of the premises is recorded. Parambir Singh said that while 6,000 cameras have been installed and another 5,000 are in the process of being installed by the state home department, following promulgation of the notification, he expects that more than 1 lakh CCTVs will be put up by private establishments in the metropolis. “We have already issued the notification. We expect that private establishments will install CCTVs in a time-bound period,” Singh told TOI. It was found that several private establishments did install CCTVs, but they were inside the premises, as a result, activities on the road were not visible. “It is observed that in cases where private establishments have CCTV systems set up, the direction and field of view of cameras are such that the area outside the establishment is not covered, quality of camera is inadequate, recording capacity is poor or non-existent, resulting in incidents of crime not being captured and recorded,” DCP Chaitanya S said in a notification issued under section 144 of the CrPC. The Mumbai Police has directed private establishments to install CCTV systems on their premises, with cameras of such number, direction and field of view that an area of 50 metres from the boundary of the premises is recorded, ensure that the system is in working condition at all times, install CCTV system of good quality with recording capacity of at least 15 days, with features of playback of the recording and also to take copy of the same, provide footage to the police and inform their nearest police station in case any suspicious movement or activity is observed on the CCTV system. “If there is contravention of the order, it shall invite legal action...,’’ Chaitanya S said. Private establishments includes banks, ATMs, financial institutions, jeweller shops, hotels, guest houses, restaurants, bars, wine shops, residential towers, office buildings, petrol pumps, shopping complexes, malls, places of worship among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pvt-entities-need-cctvs-to-pan-area-around-premises/articleshow/80306192.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||Missing IIT boy’s kin pin hopes on Kumbh Mela||MUMBAI: After 421 days of desolation, the family of 23-year-old Harsh Sharma, who went missing from IIT-Bombay in 2019, are planning to visit the upcoming Kumbh Mela in Haridwar for a glimmer of hope. “Our son may have gone to some place in search of peace, like an ashram or a place for meditation,” said Dinesh Sharma, his father. “We are hoping against hope to find some clue in Kumbh Mela,” he added. Harsh walked out of the Powai campus on November 22, 2019, and since then, there has been no news about him. He was unable to cope with studies, and was undergoing treatment for clinical depression. His family tried every possible course of action to find him. Traced all his contacts, checked CCTV camera footage from various stations after he was spotted at Kanjurmarg and Vikhroli, and even visited mortuaries in all city hospitals. They even sought help from an astrologer. Post the Covid-19 outbreak and the lockdown, with no means left, the family thought he would come home at some point. Now, they are convinced that he is alive and may have gone to a place that is peaceful, and where his basic needs of food and shelter are taken care of. “Since he was under pressure on campus, he may have gone looking for peace in a place where no one would judge him,” said his mother Kanchan. After intensive search for four months from November 2019, the pandemic may have forced them to go home to Rajasthan in March, but they continued to search online and via regular phone calls to Powai police and possible locations. PSI Pravin Mahamuni from Powai police said there is no clue in the case. “If he was using a gadget it could have been traced. We informed police in other states too,” he said. “I want to request everyone from police, NGOs, ashrams, to any shelter, to reach out to us if they have seen him anywhere,” said Harsh’s father. The family requested they be contacted on 9829013477 or 9863893770.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/missing-iit-boys-kin-pin-hopes-on-kumbh-mela/articleshow/80319885.cms||Yogita Rao
January 18, 2021||Dehradun||Dense fog to engulf plain districts for next two days: Met office||Dehradun: Moderate-to-dense fog is likely to occur in some parts of the plains, especially in Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar districts of Uttarakhand, during the next two days, according to the regional meteorological office. On Sunday, several places in Udham Singh Nagar, Haridwar, Dehradun, and plain regions of Pauri witnessed foggy conditions during morning and night hours. “Foggy conditions will stay put in the plains of Uttarakhand at least till January 20. However, dry weather will be witnessed across the state throughout the week,” said Bikram Singh, director of regional meteorological centre. As a consequence of foggy conditions, temperatures will settle below the average level, according to the meteorological office. In Dehradun, for instance, the maximum temperature settled at 19.7 degree Celsius and while the minimum remained at 6.6 degree Celsius. In Mukteshwar, the maximum temperature settled at 15.6 degree Celsius and the minimum hovered at 3.5 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dense-fog-to-engulf-plain-districts-for-next-two-days-met-office/articleshow/80317070.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 18, 2021||Nashik||10 civic school students to participate in space challenge||Nashik: A team of 10 students studying in civic-run schools have been selected for the APJ Abdul Kalam Payload Cube challenge. The event involves around 100 teams, comprising school students from across the country, in making small satellites. This programme has been jointly organized by APJ Kalam International Foundation and Chennai-based institute: Space Zone India. “The objective of the challenge is to enhance the knowledge of the students in the field of space research and develop future scientists. 10 civic school students, who have interest in space research, have been selected by the APJ Kalam International Foundation. The selection of our students is a matter of pride for us,” Sangita Gaikwad, chairperson of the education committee of the Nashik Municipal Corporation, said. “These students have been given training by the foundation about the making of satellite and its functioning. Our students will make a small satellite that will weigh up to 80 gram during the workshop in Nagpur and Pune on January 19,” Deepak Pagar, a school teacher from NMC and the district co-ordinator of the foundation, said. “The satellites made by these students would be sent into the space by using high altitude scientific balloons at Rameshwaram in Tamil Nadu,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/10-civic-school-students-to-participate-in-space-challenge/articleshow/80317956.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur slips to no. 44 in Smart City rankings||Nagpur: From no. 1 position in March and no. 28 in May last year, Nagpur has slipped to no. 44 in smart city rankings released by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs on January 15. Under the ‘execution of smart city projects’, the city scored 53.71 marks. The rankings were based on various parameters like expenditure, project implementation and performance of civic bodies etc. When municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe was hold the additional charge of CEO of Smart City, the performance of Nagpur city in the ranking index was 28. Later, it had improved to 23 when the deputy CEO was holding the additional charge of CEO. Now it is 44. The markings were done through 10 different parameters including tenders floated, work orders issued, convergence of projects, progress of works, funds transfer to special purpose vehicle, fund spent on projects and regular meetings of citizens advisory committee. No city from Maharashtra selected in the 100 Smart Cities programme figure in the top 10 rankings. Varanasi, the constituency of PM Narendra Modi, Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh and Surat in Gujarat were the top three cities. Pune (18) and Nashik (20) are the only cities in Maharashtra that figure in the top 20. Pune ranked 18 while Nashik 20. Thane (23) and Pimpri Chinchwad (41) too have scored more marks than Nagpur. Sources from Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation (NSSDCL) said that it is implementing several projects under Smart City mission. It is working on Rs650 crore tenderSURE and Rs220 crore Home Sweet Home projects. The Nagpur Smart City had proposed development of a modern market in area-based development areas (ABD) on 1,730 acres land in Pardi, Bharatwada and Punapur in East Nagpur. “Recently, the plan for Home Sweet Home project got sanctioned and work will commence soon,” said the source. The sources said of the 52km of roads to be developed in ABD area under tenderSURE project, work is going on at snail’s pace though the job started around three years ago. “The new evaluation criteria focus on actual work done pushed Nagpur down the rankings,” they said. Earlier, the ranking was based on 80% finance and 20% work on ground in ADB area. Now, the criteria of ranking has been changed. Chief executive officer of Smart City Nagpur Buvneshwari S said some of the parameters was shown as zero in Nagpur’s performance. “So we are asking for a clarification,” she said refusing to comment further. PAST PERFORMANCE March 2020 | 1 May 2020 | 28 January 2021 | 44 ABD * Modern market in area-based development areas on 1,730 acres land in Pardi, Bharatwada and Punapur in East Nagpur WORK IN PROGRESS * NSSCDCL carrying out tenderSURE project worth Rs650 crore; works include construction of new roads, developing civic amenities * Rs220 crore Home Sweet Home project RANKING PARAMETERS * Earlier | 80% finance and 20% work on ground in ADB area *Now | More weight to ground work||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-slips-to-no-44-in-smart-city-rankings/articleshow/80319072.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 18, 2021||Bareilly||Budaun locals want temple where woman was gangraped opened||BAREILLY: It's been a fortnight since no ritual has been performed in the temple in Mevli village in Budaun district, where a 50-year-old woman was allegedly gangraped and murdered by the temple priest and two of his aides. Police have sealed the temple to preserve evidence and carry out investigation, but locals now want the place of worship opened so that the daily rituals can be performed. They say prayers will bring positive energy and drive out the negative energy that has flowed in after the crime. Nearly 500 people used to visit the temple every day before the incident, said locals. Meanwhile, to verify whether the woman had fallen into the well or not -- as claimed by the accused -- forensic experts have sent the pump set that was fitted inside the well for lab tests. Police will also record the statements of the doctors in Chandausi who were reportedly approached by the accused for the woman's treatment. The temple premises will remain sealed until forensic reports are available and a clearance from the investigation agency, said sources Village head’s husband Suresh Shakya told TOI, “At present, the entire temple premises is sealed by police using yellow tape, and there is a sign asking people not to 'cross' the marked areas. We had contacted the in-charge of Ughaiti police station to give us permission to start the daily rituals as we feel that there is negative energy after the incident. Once people start visiting the temple and pray, positive energy would flow again and people would feel secure.” Sharing the details about the temple, Shakya said, “The temple was constructed on land donated by our beloved ‘Thakur saab’ and the temple is named after them as ‘Thakurdwara’. People of all communities were allowed to visit the temple without any discrimination.” Circle Officer Anirudha Singh told TOI, “After the forensic experts recreated the crime scene and investigation of the spot was done, the normal activities in the temple may start soon. We have restricted entry to the room and ‘the well’ where the incident took place. People may soon start visiting the temple, and I will ask the Ugahiti SHO to share this information with the local people.” The woman was allegedly gang-raped and brutalised by the three men inside the temple. Later, they dumped her outside her house where she died a few minutes later due to excessive bleeding on January 3 night. For the next over 20 hours, the woman's body lay in her house while policemen were busy trying to pass off the incident as a case of accident. The SHO and another policeman were later suspended and booked for delay in filing a rape-murder case. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/budaun-horror-locals-want-temple-where-woman-was-gangraped-murdered-opened/articleshow/80317069.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 18, 2021||Surat||National conference on noise, air pollution on Jan 29-30||Surat: The department of civil engineering at the Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT) Surat is organizing a national conference on “Noise and Air Pollution 2021” on January 29 and 30. SVNIT officials said that the conference aims at providing a forum for academicians, scientists, researchers, practitioners and consultants for intellectual discussion and dissemination of information derived from their research contributions in the fields on air and noise pollution monitoring, assessment, impact prediction, health issues, mathematical modeling and soft computing. “Research papers will be presented and discussed on air and noise pollutions which include monitoring and modeling, stack monitoring and emission characterisation, automobile exhaust monitoring and modeling, particulate matter emission monitoring and air quality monitoring and index, noise mitigation measures for industries, traffic noise monitoring, traffic noise mitigation management, noise mapping in urban areas among other subjects,” said the official.“In an attempt to slow the spread of Covid-19, the organizing committee has decided to organize the conference NAP-2021 by virtual (online) mode. The session will be held online and a link for the same will be shared with the paper presenter and listener, a day before the national conference,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/national-conference-on-noise-air-pollution-on-jan-29-30/articleshow/80318038.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Dehradun||Cold wave grips Terai region, dense fog likely||Rudrapur: As a cold wave continues to sweep parts of the Terai region in Uttarakhand, bonfires were lit up in several localities of Rudrapur on Sunday morning when the city recorded a minimum temperature of 6 degree Celsius. “We are witnessing this level of cold after many years. Every day, the temperatures are going further down,” said Harish Munjal, a local. Due to the biting cold conditions, sales have also gone down in the city, say traders. Another local said, “It has become difficult for us to leave our houses and go to work. Sitting around bonfires keeps us warm,” another local said. According to RK Singh, meteorologist at Govind Ballabh Pant University in Pantnagar, the region is likely to witness fog (or mist) and cloudy sky during morning hours for another week. “The cold wave conditions, assisted by winds, would continue over the region for the next two-three days. Isolated pockets in Terai are likely to witness severe cold days ahead,” he added. Meanwhile, city-based traders have alleged that the Rudrapur Municipal Corporation (RMC) is not reaching out to the people in need. Sanjay Juneja, president of the city’s traders’ union, said, “The people are forced to buy wood from their own pockets. The locals are helping the needy who need assistance. On the other hand, the RMC only showed concern when TOI (on December 19, 2020) published a report on the lack of night shelters and bonfire arrangements in the city. However, that also lasted for barely a week.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cold-wave-grips-terai-region-dense-fog-likely/articleshow/80317075.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 18, 2021||Allahabad||Illegal house, farmhouse of Atiq’s three henchmen razed||Prayagraj: A joint team of Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), police and district administration on Sunday demolished two houses belonging to jailed don and former MP Atiq Ahmed’s key aides at Mariydeeh and Begum Sarai (Dhoomanganj, GT road) area in the city. The joint team first razed the house of Abid Pradhan, a key member of Atiq Ahmad’s gang, at Mariydeeh in the afternoon. The two-storey house was constructed illegally by Abid Pradhan on 600 square yards without getting the map sanctioned from the agency concerned. The huge house was estimated to be worth Rs 4 crore. The joint team reached Mariydeeh and started the demolition work while heavy deployment of police was made to tackle any untoward incident. Dhoomanganj police, said more than two dozen criminal cases were registered against Abid Pradhan in different police stations of the city and this was his second house that has been bulldozed by the development authority. PDA (Zonal Officer) Sat Shukla told TOI that apart from Abid Pradhan’s illegal house, the joint team of PDA, police and district administration also bulldozed the farmhouse jointly belonging to one Mohd Muslim and Akbar at Begum Sarai, Bamrauli (GT road) in Dhoomganj area. The farmhouse was constructed on 2,500 square yards without its map being sanctioned. The property’s value is estimated to be around Rs 20 crore. Shukla said a probe has been ordered to verify the nature of land on which the house and farmhouse had been constructed by the key aides of the jailed ex-MP. Shukla said the joint team started demolishing the house and farmhouse of the key and trusted henchmen of the former MP amid tight security. Forces of four police stations was deployed to tackle any untoward incident. Police, meanwhile, said that many criminal cases were also registered against Mohd Muslim and Akbar at Dhoomanganj and other police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/illegal-house-farmhouse-of-atiqs-three-henchmen-razed/articleshow/80316964.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath a better Uttar Pradesh CM than I was: Rajnath Singh||LUCKNOW: Defence minister Rajnath Singh has praised UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s performance as ‘A-1’ declaring him a better CM than he himself was. Rajnath was UP CM between October 2000 and March 2002. In an interview to a private news channel broadcast on Saturday, Rajnath said that Yogi was a leader who performed his duties with full `nishtha’ (dedication) and without any prejudice. “All I can say that his (Yogi’s) performance is A-1,” Rajnath said, insisting that he did not want Yogi to be compared with other CMs, except him. “As far as I am concerned…yes he is better than I,” he said. The defence minister was responding to a question on various state government including UP bringing a law to check forced religious conversions. “Yogi ji is working for development of all section of society. His entire life has been dedicated to social welfare,” Rajnath said, terming BJP’s saffron poster boy as an able administrator who tries to delve deepest possible level on every issue. Rajnath’s endorsement of Yogi as one of the best CMs comes at a time when an aggressive opposition, essentially, the Samajwadi Party, has been raising issues like law and order and anti-conversion law. Yogi had been ranked as the best performing chief minister in India in a survey conducted by a private rating agency in August last year. He managed to secure 24 per cent of the total votes (6 percentage points up from the last survey), becoming “the best CM” for the third time in a row. In January, he was ranked as the most efficient CM of 2020 who turned challenges into opportunity during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-a-better-cm-than-i-was-rajnath/articleshow/80319708.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Lucknow||La Martiniere College gets 2 majestic polo horses||LUCKNOW: La Martinière College has received two majestic horses. Sports enthusiast Anurag Bhadauria recently donated two pristine Argentinian thoroughbred horses to the college to revive the polo game and churn out national and international level players from Lucknow. “Rangeela and Feregil are a rare breed of the Argentinian lineage. I’m happy that the students of the La Martiniere College will get an opportunity to learn a remarkable sport that I’ve grown up around,” said Bhadauria. Bhadauria is currently serving as the chairperson of the Indian Gramin Cricket League (IGCL) and has been working to aid and encourage sports enthusiasts across villages and remote interiors of the state. Bhadauria, who is also a Samajwadi Party spokesperson, said he was also striving to build a polo arena within the confines of the school because there were hardly any grounds in the city suited to the sport. Bhadauria shared his childhood anecdotes about how an early rough encounter with a wild horse helped him overcome the fear of horses. “One must focus on the psychology of the horse while riding it. I want students to learn the spirit of sportsmanship and resilience, and hope that we have some national and international level polo players from Lucknow,” Bhadauria said. He told TOI that he was willing to guide students and expressed his desire to consolidate the city’s polo team soon. Students are looking forward to horse riding and polo as weekly activities. These horses have been trained for two years and are completely safe for the students. “La Martiniere College has always had a legacy of diverse sports and the addition of these elegant horses is an exciting one and we aspire to train students in a disciplined way,” said a senior sports teacher of the college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/la-martiniere-college-gets-2-majestic-polo-horses/articleshow/80319683.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Varanasi||Gita Press books fly off shelvesat Gorakhpur Mahotsav 2021||Gorakhpur: Gita Press, the iconic publishing house of Gorakhpur, registered a spike in sales at the five-day book fair under Gorakhpur Mahotsav-2021 this year, registering more than double revenue. Gita, Ramcharitmanas and Durgasaptashati were the top selling books. Dr Lalmani Tiwari, production manager of Gita Press, said, “In comparison to last year, the sale was double. Last year, books of Rs 40,000 were sold, and this year it crossed Rs 90,000.” Most people, including adults and children, were attracted towards Gita and the small size Gita of Rs 10 was a hot seller with more than 500 copies getting sold. The other publications were not able to cross the sale of 1,000 books. There were more than 8 book stalls in the book fair. Many religious books were distributed free and the sale of Ahmadiya Muslim community books was also good. ‘Vishwa Sankat Tatha Shantipath’ by Hazrat Mirza Masroor Ahmad in Hindi, English and Urdu were distributed free. The Guidance International in India organization distributed books free for propagation of Christianity. The demand for books of Rajprakashan was also good and copies of book ‘Nath Sampraday’ written by Hazari Prasad Dwivedi were sold within two days. Ram Singh of Rajkamal Publication said Rag Darbari by Srilal Shukla, Rashmirathi by Ramdhari Singh Dinkar, Kashmir and Kashmiri Pandit by Ashok Pandey, Chitralekha by Bhagwati Chandra Verma were high on demand. Vani Publication books like ‘Bharatiya Aandolan and Rashtrawad’ by Irfan Habib, ‘Hindi Bhasha aur Sahitya ka Itihas’ by Sanjay Singh Baghel and ‘Kaar-e-Jahan Daraz Hai’ by Qurratulain Hyder were the best sellers from the stall. Dinesh Kumar of Vani Prakashan said ‘Lajja’ of Taslima Nasreen and ‘Hindu Ekta Banam Gyan ki Rajniti’ by Abhai Kumar Dubey also sold well. Ruby Srivastav of Janchetna Publication said many people liked ‘Jail Notebook’ and ‘Main Nastik Kyun Hoon’ by Bhagat Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gita-press-books-fly-off-shelvesat-gorakhpur-mahotsav-2021/articleshow/80318393.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Kanpur||Five ducks found dead in Unnao amid bird flu scare||Kanpur: Five ducks were found dead in a pond of Hadha Bazar area in Unnao district on Sunday, triggering panic among locals in the wake of many birds in the region testing positive for bird flu after death recently. Teams from the district veterinary department and health department reached the spot and picked up the dead birds from the pond and sent them for postmortem. After conducting their postmortem, the vets buried the five ducks and sent samples of 12 ill ducks to Lucknow for further testing. Veterinary officer Dr Sharad Shakya said, “Five ducks were found dead in the pond in Hadha Bazar, while samples of 12 other ill ducks have been collected and sent to Lucknow for laboratory test.” “The reason behind their death can only be ascertained after we get the postmortem report. It is necessary to conduct a test on the dead and ill birds in view of the current spread of bird flu,” he added. A medical store owner Lallan Yadav, who lives in the locality, said, “The pond has a good number of ducks. We saw dead birds in the pond on Sunday morning and alerted the veterinary department.” “We have asked locals to keep themselves away from ducks and ponds till we get the reports from the lab,” said a health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/five-ducks-found-dead-in-unnao-amid-bird-flu-scare/articleshow/80318431.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
January 18, 2021||Lucknow||LU students depict stress, struggle of farmers via art||LUCKNOW: Crops are ready to be harvested but farmers are on the roads protesting. The stress, struggle and disappointment of protesting farmers against new farm laws have been depicted by students of the College of Fine Arts and Crafts, Lucknow University, through artwork. To express their solidarity, a team of four students has put up an art installation using bamboo, earthen pots, straws, and clothes to depict a scene of the stressed mental and physical state of the protesting farmers. “The hanging scarecrow-like structures from a tree made from bamboo and earthen pots depict farmers committing suicide as they are sad,” said Suneel Kumar, a student of master’s of visual arts and one of the team members. BFA student Niharika Singh said, “We have also made cruel ravens which symbolise corporates eyeing to make profit from farmers’ hard work.” MFA student Vishal Gupta said, “The seeds sown are symbolic of the hardships faced by a farmer who grows a crop with sweat and toil.” “The installation is a voice in support of the farmers and how we should honour them as they provide food to us and are the basic unit of agricultural development,” said Jay Narayan, another student. Faculty in Kanpur University Ajay Kumar, who guided the students, said, “We had sown wheat and have used the live plants as crops.” The installation was made under the guidance of assistant professor Dharmendra Kumar. The artwork will remain installed till the protest continues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-students-depict-stress-struggle-of-farmers-via-art/articleshow/80319801.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Varanasi||VDA to replicate Ahmedabad’s town planning in DDU Nagar||Varanasi: With the completion of digital mapping of Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Nagar (Mughalsarai) of Chandauli district, the Varanasi Development Authority (VDA) is gearing up to mobilise land owners and farmers to join hands for the implementation of Ahmedabad town planning pattern. Pt DDU Nagar is a part of Chandauli but falls under the limits of the VDA. Talking to TOI, VDA vice-chairman Rahul Pandey said, “The agency involved in preparing Town Planning Scheme (TPS), as sanctioned under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT), has finalised the map of DDU Nagar by conducting aerial survey and matching it with revenue records. The initial exercise of starting consultation with farmers and land owners is being started to ensure well-planned urban development by overcoming hurdles in the existing land acquisition system.” “VDA is set to replicate the Ahmedabad pattern of town-planning, which is followed across Gujarat and also in Maharashtra,” Pandey said, adding that land owners and farmers would be made aware that the pattern would be more profitable than the process of land acquisition for them. “Ahmedabad town planning pattern is the base for developing areas selected under TPS. In this pattern, around 100 or 200 acre land of multiple owners is pooled due to which investment for land acquisition is not required,” he said. The civic authority takes possession of around 30% of the pooled land for trunk roads, internal roads and spaces for amenities, while some land is also taken by it to meet the expenditure made in infrastructure development after which the land-owners get a major chunk of the net developed land as per their share in the pooled land, he said. In the existing infrastructure development plan, if the land-owner proposes lay-outs on his land, sparing around 40% of his land for roads and other purposes is a must, hence there will be no loss of land owners under the TPS, Pandey said. “The trunk road, internal roads, other infrastructure facilities and civic amenities lead to value addition to their land,” said Pandey. The Union housing and urban affairs ministry of the government of India had, in November 2018, selected 25 cities, including Varanasi, to cover local area planning and town planning scheme under AMRUT. Objective behind it was to enable planning for developing infrastructure in brownfield areas (those parts of the city that are already developed but are not able to sustain the pressure on existing infrastructure) and the greenfield areas (periphery of the city that is prone to haphazard growth and development), respectively. In August 2020, the process of appointing a consultant to prepare Varanasi TPS was completed through tender process by the VDA and an Ahmedabad-based company, Nektor Engineers and Project Consultants, has bagged the contract.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/vda-to-replicate-ahmedabads-town-planning-in-ddu-nagar/articleshow/80335238.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Goa||Holy Spirit church property vandalised||Margao: Tension rent the air Sunday night after a miscreant vandalised the property of the Holy Spirit church, Margao. Police sources said that they received a call informing them that a person appearing to be of unsound mind damaged some flower pots and other items within the church complex. Police rushed to the site and obtained the CCTV footage of the incident. Sources associated with the church said that the person has been identified to be the one who met with an accident minutes after he vandalised the church property. Fatorda police are investigating the case. However, no offence was registered until late night. Police said that the suspect was admitted in the Hospicio Hospital, and that he appeared to be in an inebriated state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/holy-spirit-church-property-vandalised/articleshow/80319129.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||Will incorporate ‘Karnataka-occupied areas’ in Maharashtra: CM Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said his government was committed to incorporating into the state the areas of Karnataka where Marathi-speaking people are in majority. This will be the “true tribute” to the martyrs of the cause, the chief minister’s office (CMO) said in a tweet. The state claims Belgaum and some other areas, part of the erstwhile Bombay Presidency but currently in Karnataka, on linguistic grounds. The Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti, a regional outfit fighting for the merger of Belgaum and some other border areas with the state, observes January 17 as the martyrs’ day for those who laid down their lives for the cause in 1956. “Bringing Karnataka-occupied Marathi-speaking and cultural areas in Maharashtra will be the true tribute to those who accepted martyrdom in the boundary battle. We are united and committed towards it. Respects to the martyrs with this promise,” the tweet by the CMO said. In reply, BJP Karnataka general secretary N Ravi Kumar said Thackeray’s statement was “foolish in nature”. “A CM should make a logical statement. Maharashtra annexing Belagavi or Karnataka demanding Kolhapur and Solapur is unrealistic and impossible,” Kumar said. The state claims certain areas, including Belgaum, Karwar and Nippani, contending that the majority population in these areas is Marathi-speaking. The dispute is pending before the SC. (With inputs from PTI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/will-incorporate-ktaka-occupied-areas-in-state-cm/articleshow/80319902.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Dehradun||Smack worth Rs 40L seized, restaurant owner held||Dehradun: A team of special task force (STF) on Sunday arrested a drug peddler and recovered 100 gram smack worth Rs 40 lakh from his possession. The accused, identified as Shivam Gupta, was nabbed by the STF sleuths from Doiwala area of Dehradun. The accused is a resident of Vasant Vihar area and owns a restaurant, which has been lying shut since the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/smack-worth-rs-40l-seized-restaurant-owner-held/articleshow/80317152.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 18, 2021||Surat||Polished diamond export from Surat rose 41% in Dec||Surat: The export of polished diamonds from India increased 41% in December 2020 at Rs 12,692 crore compared to Rs 8,000 crore in the same period the previous year. This is first time after Covid-19 that the export of polished diamond has increased.The coronavirus pandemic and the disruption in the supply chain dimmed the glitter of the world’s largest diamond cutting and polishing centre in Surat. However, Christmas has come as a silver lining for the diamond industry. According to the figures provided by the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC), the polished diamond export witnessed 41% increase in December 2020 compared to the same month the previous year. Surat’s diamond industry was the worst-hit as its large number of its workers got infected with Covid-19 post-June when the units reopened after three months of lockdown. About 50% of the cases reported in the city were from the diamond units. According to the GJEPC, the export of polished diamonds decreased 30% between April-November, 2020. However, the export of polished diamonds increased to a whopping 158% to $1,600 million in November 2020 compared to $620 million in the corresponding month the previous year.Industry sources said that the recovery in the polished diamond export is attributed to the holiday season in the US and China. Indian online retailers have recorded growth of 40% during Diwali. Thanksgiving spending rose by nearly 22% with the 37% jump in retail sales in the US. “There is a steady demand from Hong Kong and China,” said Colin Shah, chairman of GJEPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/polished-diamond-export-from-surat-rose-41-in-dec/articleshow/80317906.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Dehradun||Man held for allegedly killing two minors||Roorkee: A 23-year-old man was held by Manglaur police on Sunday for allegedly killing two minor boys. According to the police, the victim brothers were children of the 29-year-old widow woman with whom the accused was in a live-in relationship. Swapn Kishore Singh, SP (rural), said, “Accused Lakhan was not fond of Lucky (7) and Lavish (6). On Saturday, when their mother Suman had gone out for work, her live-in partner Lakhan killed the two kids by pushing them into the Gangnahar canal in Manglaur. We have learnt that while Suman worked in a factory, Lakhan was unemployed.” The official added, “After we received the missing complaint, we pressed our teams to find them. On Saturday late evening, we got a lead that both the boys were seen going towards Gangnahar canal with Lakhan. Upon interrogation, Lakhan confessed to the crime. He killed the boys as they were not his biological kids.” Police have recovered the body of Lucky while a search operation of Jal police is underway for Lavish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-held-for-allegedly-killing-two-minors/articleshow/80317142.cms||Tapan Susheel
January 18, 2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya Muslims donate for temple, seal secular fabric||AYODHYA: Muslims in Ayodhya are donating to VHP's crowdfunding drive for the Ram temple, holding aloft the ancient city's syncretism and secular moorings. Prominent among the Muslim donors so far are Faizabad native Wasi Haider and Shah Bano, who have donated Rs 12,000 and Rs 11,000 respectively. Iqbal Ansari, one of the oldest surviving litigants in the Ayodhya title suit that had dragged for decades, welcomed VHP's campaign since Friday to reach 55 crore people across the country. “I will definitely donate,” he said without spelling out the amount. “If Muslims donate for the construction of the Ram temple, it will strengthen harmony and cement their bonding with Hindus." Anil Singh, an RSS functionary based in Ayodhya, confirmed to TOI that many Muslims in the temple town had either donated already or sent feelers they would like to pitch in. “We will definitely go to our Muslim brothers and accept whatever they give for the temple," he said. Sirajuddin, a local cleric, said the quantum of donation wouldn't matter if Muslims were willing to be part of the drive. "We must respect the beliefs of our Hindu brothers and join their moment of happiness. We should donate, even it’s one rupee." Lawyer and social activist Sayyad Tahir Ali said, "While we may be opposed to the ideology of an organisation, remember that only a handful of Hindus subscribe to that agenda. The majority of Hindus are secular and we should show respect to their faith in Lord Ram and donate." On the eve of the launch of the crowdfunding campaign, Samajwadi Party parliamentarian S T Hasan had laced his appeal to maintain calm with a warning that BJP might deploy stone-pelters to incite communal violence during the course of the drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhya-muslims-donate-for-temple-seal-secular-fabric/articleshow/80319728.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
January 18, 2021||Noida||Noida: Why Dhanauri is in dire need of conservation||NOIDA: Despite discussions and promises of conservation, Dhanauri wetland is a poor show for birders this migratory season. For those who have been trekking all the way up to the green fields and the main wetland area this season, it has not been much of an excitement because the main water body that is central to the wetland has shrunk and is crowded with hyacinth leading to very little surface water available for waterfowls — a marked contrast to Surajpur which is a conserved wetland. Being considered for a Sarus crane sanctuary and with preparations on for a Ramsar tag, the wetland is in dire need for conservation. According to the Wetlands Institute of India (WII), a final mapping and documentation of the area will be done in February and the paperwork will be sent to the state wetlands authority to start the process of marking it as an official wetland and then work on getting it considered as a Ramsar site. None of the conservation activities, despite discussions have actually translated to work on the ground so far. Near the water body, a police van is seen posted to warn bird watchers about the ongoing bird flu. “The waterbody was much wider previously and now it has shrunk a lot. The hyacinth has to be cleaned to a certain extent. Migratory birds usually come down when they see the water surface. They will go where they see water because that means they will find food. This year, the water is so less that we are not getting to see a good flock here as compared to other habitats like Surajpur,” Jaswinder Waraich, a Noida-based bird watcher and a regular at Dhanauri, said. Ritesh Kumar, the head of Wetlands International South Asia (WISA) told TOI, “While absolute removal of hyacinth is not required and water bodies should to a certain extent be covered with hyacinth for birds to source food, the proportion has to be managed. Now, even if the site gets a Ramsar tag, it will not automatically get conserved, so concerned authorities will have to pay attention to the conservation of the wetland and its ecology. We have got a nod from the Wetlands Authority of Uttar Pradesh to get this area notified as an official wetland. The final mapping work for documentation will start in February.” Even as the wetland conservation is being discussed for several years now, what is speedily developing near Dhanauri is a roadway which is supposed to provide connectivity to the YEIDA residential sectors with Greater Noida, and could in future also indicate a heavy traffic flow within a kilometer of the Sarus habitat. According to environmentalist and birder Anand Arya, the road was initially planned through the wetland area until the issue was highlighted and the road shifted away to a distance. Arya has been for over five years seeking legal protection and conservation of the wetland and pressing on the need for the conservation of the area as a protected Sarus Sanctuary. Meanwhile, Arun Vir Singh, CEO of Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) said, “The road is an important connectivity for inner sectors and Greater Noida, but we are keen on conservation of the wetland. Funds are not a problem when it comes to the conservation of Dhanauri. In fact, we are serious about sarus cranes and that is the reason the bird was featured in the Jewar airport logo.” District forest officer PK Srivastava added that the department is working out a proposal. Watch Noida: Why the Dhanauri wetland is in dire need of conservation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/why-dhanauri-is-in-dire-need-of-conservation/articleshow/80319897.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
January 18, 2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya mosque’s Republic Day tryst with tricolour and trees||AYODHYA: Members of Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF), the Trust constituted by Sunni Waqf Board to construct the mosque complex in Ayodhya, will unfurl the tricolour on Republic Day at the mosque site in Dhannipur village.Talking to TOI, Athar Hussain, secretary of IICF, said, chairman of UP Sunni Central Waqf Board and president of Ayodhya Mosque Trust, Zufar Ahmad Faruqi, and other trustees will be present. The flag hoisting ceremony will be followed by tree plantation on the 5acre mosque site, signalling a formal launch of the project, whose defining theme will be zero carbon footprint. The mosque will have a cosmic design resembling the spherical earth cushioned in space powered by solar energy, as per the blueprint launched in December last year. IICF conducted a virtual meeting on Sunday and discussed progress of the Trust’s activity, particularly procedural delays in getting 12-A/80-G clearances under Income Tax Act and opening of an FCRA account to enable receipt of foreign donations. The Trust also decided to apply for a blueprint clearance from Ayodhya District Board and begin soil testing at the site, said Hussain. “The focus of the mosque project is to provide community service with a determined effort to create awareness on climate change, which is a major challenge to humanity,” said Athar Husain. The blueprint envisages a green area, where saplings from India and all over the world, including Amazon forests and Australia will be planted to create awareness on climate change.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mosque-projects-r-day-tryst-with-tricolour-trees/articleshow/80319733.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
January 18, 2021||Lucknow||PM flags off weekly Mahamana Express from Kashi to Kevadiya||Varanasi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Sunday, flagged off a new weekly train — Mahamana Express — between Varanasi and Kevadiya along with seven pairs of other trains in different regions through video conferencing. These trains will facilitate seamless connectivity from Varanasi to the Statue of Unity, the tallest statue of Sardar Patel at Kevadiya in Gujarat. The flagging off ceremony was organised at Varanasi Cantt station under the Lucknow division of Northern Railway (NR). The function was attended by DRM Sanjay Tripathi, other senior railway officials and distinguished citizens. Tripathi said the Mahamana Express is equipped with all modern facilities for passengers. It will cross four states in its journey from Varanasi to its destination Kevadiya. Besides Varanasi-Kevadiya train, PM Modi also flagged off seven trains, including Dadar- Kevadiya Express that will run daily, Janshatabdi Express, which will run daily between Ahmedabad and Kevadiya, Nizamuddin-Kevadiya Sampark Kranti Express (bi-weekly), Kevadiya-Rewa Express (weekly), Chennai-Kevadiya Express (weekly), and MEMU train (daily) between Pratapnagar and Kevadiya. The PM also inaugurated several other projects, including Dabhoi-Chandod gauge converted broad gauge railway line, Chandod-Kevadiya new broad gauge railway line, newly electrified Pratapnagar-Kevadiya section and the new railway station buildings of Dabhoi, Chandod and Kevadiya. In his address, the PM said, perhaps, for the first time in the history of Railways that trains have been flagged off for the same destinations from different corners of the country. This is because of the importance of Kevadiya as home to the Statue of Unity and Sardar Sarovar. He said the connectivity to Kevadiya from Chennai, Varanasi, Rewa, Dadar and Delhi along with MEMU service between Kevadiya and Pratapnagar and broad gauging of Dabhoi-Chandod and new Line between Chandod- Kevadiya will script a new chapter in the development of Kevadiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pm-flags-off-weekly-mahamana-express-from-kashi-to-kevadiya/articleshow/80318367.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Lucknow||Lull before the freeze: Cold, fog to shroud Lucknow in 2 days||LUCKNOW: Change in the wind pattern will provide relief from bitter cold and dense fog on Monday and Tuesday. However, an intense cold wave accompanied by thick fog is expected to be back from Wednesday. State Met director JP Gupta said the wind pattern on Sunday changed from northwesterly to easterly due to some weather changes over the Arabian Sea.  Northwesterly winds bring chill from the snowfed mountains of the north, while moisture laden easterly winds that come from towards the sea are comparatively warmer, he added. “As a result, the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to rise by 2-4 degrees on Monday and Tuesday in the state, including Lucknow. However, northwesterly winds will resume, bringing back the chill factor. It will make mercury fall again by 2-4 degrees in subsequent days till Saturday. The drop in temperatures will increase density of fog,” said the Met director. City had dense fog on Sunday morning though it cleared later. The minimum temperature was 10 degrees Celsius, about 2.5 units above normal, while maximum temperature was 19 degrees Celsius, 2.6 units below normal. The chill in the air was because of the winds. On Monday, moderate fog is expected in the morning hours, while maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to be around 21 and 10 degrees Celsius, respectively. In the rest of the state, weather is likely to remain dry. Dense fog may occur at some isolated pockets of Uttar Pradesh. Cold day conditions — maximum temperature 4.5 degrees or below normal — are also likely at isolated places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lull-before-the-freeze-cold-fog-to-shroud-city-in-2-days/articleshow/80319813.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Varanasi||60K bottles of banned cough syrup seized||Varanasi: The Special Task Force (STF) arrested six members of an interstate gang of drugs smugglers and seized a consignment of over 60,000 bottles of banned codeine-based cough syrup worth Rs 1.34 crores from them in Shahganj of Jaunpur district on Monday. The STF said that on a tip-off, its team from Varanasi field unit, led by Inspector Anil Singh, raided a building owned by one Kunj Bihari Yadav on Faizabad road in Shahganj of Jaunpur district. When the cops entered the building, the syrup consignment was being loaded in two trucks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/60k-bottles-of-banned-cough-syrup-seized/articleshow/80335248.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Lucknow||Ex-IAS officer Arvind Kumar Sharma’s political plunge in Uttar Pradesh fuels speculations||LUCKNOW: The entry of a retired IAS officer Arvind Kumar Sharma in UP politics has triggered a barrage of speculations. That Sharma would be given a plum assignment is a foregone conclusion, considering his proximity to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, but what? The guessing game is on. “Yogi is running his government smoothly and has consolidated the party position. Not only has he emerged as a star campaigner of the BJP, but has also managed to create a pan India image for himself. As the CM, Yogi’s image remains impeccable and unblemished. In the last four years, Yogi has never given any opportunity to the Opposition to accuse him of indulging in any scandal. To strengthen the party support base, he has promulgated ordinances to crack down on anti-CAA agitators and religious conversion,” says a political analyst. “Now, when hardly a year has left for the Assembly elections in the state, what's the need for creating a new power centre in the state?” he asks. While the insiders say that Sharma's vast experience in governance will help the BJP-led government in the year before the polls, the move no doubt has triggered rumour mills to flow freely in the state. As neither the party nor any of the government spokesmen has attempted to clarify the situation, rumour mongers are having a field day. Even senior ministers are not ready to come on record on the issue. The general refrain is “If Modi has sent Sharma to Lucknow, it is not just to head a department, but to handle something bigger.” A senior minister said that “there was no requirement of creating a new power centre in the state in the final year of the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ex-ias-officer-sharmas-politicalplunge-in-up-fuels-speculations/articleshow/80319822.cms||Subhash Mishra
January 18, 2021||Ludhiana||After daughter-in-law elopes, man feels insulted, kills himself||Ludhiana: Allegedly humiliated by his daughter-in-law and her parents, a man committed suicide by consuming a poisonous substance at his house at Begoana village in Dehlon on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Karamjit Singh, 58. On the complaint of his son, Pavittar Singh, the Dehlon police have registered a case. In his complaint to police, Pavittar Singh said he got married to Jyoti of Vishkarma Colony about six years ago and they have a daughter, aged four. On January 11, Jyoti suddenly left the house and when his father called her parents, they started abusing him and humiliated him. Investigating officer ASI Hardev Singh said during the probe, it was identified that Jyoti had eloped with her paramour and reached Chandigarh, from where she called up her parents. When Karamjit talked to Jyoti’s parents, they humiliated him, the ASI said. The ASI added that on January 14, Jyoti and her paramour talked to Karamjit and assured that they would return next morning, but they did not come and switched off their cellphones. On January 15, the police checked their location, which was found to be Zirakpur. Karamjit felt humiliated that his daughter-in-law had eloped with a man to marry him and took the extreme step in the small hours of Saturday, he said. The officer said Jyoti and her paramour have not yet returned and the police have registered a case against her, her father, Pritam Singh, and mother, Harwinder Kaur, under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC. The accused are yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/after-daughter-in-law-elopes-man-feels-insulted-kills-himself/articleshow/80317145.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Nagpur||Gram panchayats empowered to kill wild animals||Nagpur: The Standing Committee of National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) has empowered gram panchayats to deal with wild animals like dhole, rattle, common langur, rhesus monkey, boars, sambars, barking deer, chital, hyena, hares, porcupine, nilgai, and others if they become problematic. All the above animals fall in the Schedule II, III and IV and are protected under the Wildlife (Protection) Act (WPA) 1972, enacted by late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. However, approving the advisory on human-animal conflict, the 60th meeting of the Standing Committee NBWL held on January 5, 2021, has empowered gram panchayats in dealing with the problematic wild animals as per Section 11 (1) (b) of the WPA, 1972. Section 11(1)(b) of the WPA, 1972, empowers chief wildlife warden or the authorized officer, if he is satisfied that any wild animal specified in Schedule II, III, or IV, has become dangerous to human life or to property (including standing crops on any land) or is so disabled or ill beyond recovery, by order in writing and stating the reasons, therefore, permit any person to hunt such animal or group of animals in a specified area or cause such animal or group of animals in that specified area to be hunted. The advisory for management of human-wildlife conflict has made important prescriptions for the states and union territories for dealing with conflict situations and seeks expedited inter-departmental coordinated and effective actions. The NBWL has also envisaged utilizing add-on coverage under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojna for crop compensation against crop damage due to conflict and augmenting fodder and water sources within the forest areas as some key steps to reduce man-animal conflict. It has also asked to make payment of a portion of ex gratia as interim relief within 24 hours of the incident to the victim’s family. The advisory also envisages prescribing inter-departmental committees at local and state level, adoption of early warning systems, creation of barriers, dedicated circle-wise control rooms with tollfree hotline numbers which could be operated on a 24X7 basis, identification of hotspots and formulation and implementation of special plans for improved stall-fed farm animal etc. Though the human-animal conflict is on the rise in Maharashtra, experts feel more teeth to gram panchayats is likely to be misused. A section of chief wildlife wardens was cautious. They told TOI, “The government must have done it with some thought in mind. But we have not received any orders in this direction. Unless such orders are issued in writing, it will not be proper to comment.” State wildlife board member Kishor Rithe said, “These powers should remain with CWLWs only and there is no need to empower gram panchayats to handle wild animals. It will be more misused than solving the problem. In Maharashtra, the sensitive areas are already defined where the problem exists. In case of problem, local forest officers are delegated powers to deal with the issues.” “It is true that human-animal conflict is at its peak in Maharashtra but the state government has taken several steps like setting up rapid rescue teams (RRTs) to deal with the problem. In the case of human kills, compensation has been increased from Rs2 lakh to Rs15 lakh in the last 7 years. Cattle kill and crop damage compensation has also been hiked over the years,” said Bandu Dhotre, member, state committee on human-animal conflict. According to official data, in Maharashtra during the last 10 years, cattle and human kill and crop damage compensation has increased from Rs8.69 crore in 2010 to whopping Rs27.43 crore now. Last year, in Chandrapur district alone 32 villagers were killed in tiger and leopard attacks. “However, apart from conflict, the increase is due to a hike in the compensation package,” adds Dhotre. According to data sourced from Wildlife Protection Society of India (WPSI), an NGO working for wildlife law enforcement, in the last five years from 2016-2020, 18 tigers and an equal number of leopards have been electrocuted in farm fences in the Vidarbha landscape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gram-panchayats-empowered-to-kill-wild-animals/articleshow/80318048.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 18, 2021||Pune||Will incorporate ‘Karnataka-occupied areas’ in Maharashtra: CM Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said his government was committed to incorporating into the state the areas of Karnataka where Marathi-speaking people are in majority. This will be the “true tribute” to the martyrs of the cause, the chief minister’s office (CMO) said in a tweet. The state claims Belgaum and some other areas, part of the erstwhile Bombay Presidency but currently in Karnataka, on linguistic grounds. The Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti, a regional outfit fighting for the merger of Belgaum and some other border areas with the state, observes January 17 as the martyrs’ day for those who laid down their lives for the cause in 1956. “Bringing Karnataka-occupied Marathi-speaking and cultural areas in Maharashtra will be the true tribute to those who accepted martyrdom in the boundary battle. We are united and committed towards it. Respects to the martyrs with this promise,” the tweet by the CMO said. In reply, BJP Karnataka general secretary N Ravi Kumar said Thackeray’s statement was “foolish in nature”. “A CM should make a logical statement. Maharashtra annexing Belagavi or Karnataka demanding Kolhapur and Solapur is unrealistic and impossible,” Kumar said. The state claims certain areas, including Belgaum, Karwar and Nippani, contending that the majority population in these areas is Marathi-speaking. The dispute is pending before the SC. (With inputs from PTI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/will-incorporate-ktaka-occupied-areas-in-state-cm/articleshow/80321476.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Kanpur||Uttar Pradesh surpasses its paddy purchase target||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh has become the first state in the country to breach the target of paddy purchase about two months in advance, the state government said on Sunday. Till date, the state has purchased 60 lakh metric tonnes of paddy against a target of 55 lakh metric tonnes. A government spokesperson said that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed to continue with the purchase. The total purchase is likely to touch 70 lakh tonnes this year -- 14 lakh metric tonnes more than the previous year. The government said Rs 7,800 crore has so far been paid to more than 1 lakh paddy farmers and it will purchase other Kharif crops like paddy, maize, and groundnut by February 28. Rs 31,905 crore was paid to paddy farmers in the last four years, making a record for the highest payment in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/up-surpasses-its-paddy-purchase-target/articleshow/80322003.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Ludhiana||Doctors who took first shots say no side effects yet||Ludhiana: A day after over 200 persons including doctors got vaccinated for Covid-19 in Ludhiana district, most of them were doing fine on Sunday. They advised others not to trust the rumours of side effects of the vaccine and get inoculated without any apprehensions.On the first day of the vaccination programme, those administered the shots were mostly doctors, who got vaccinated at five sites in the district — Civil Hospital, Ludhiana, sub-divisional hospitals in Khanna and Jagraon, DMCH and CMCH.“There is a fear of side effects among people. We have also read about it and feel that there is no need to worry. We should understand that in case of any vaccine, there are certain fears when it is given for the first time. But, the benefits far outweigh any minor side effects. Long ago, when typhoid vaccine was introduced, there was fear among the masses. Before taking the shot, I was also expecting some sort of discomfort, but I didn’t feel any,” said Dr Clarence J Samuel, head of the department of community medicine at CMCH.Dr Samuel said after taking the vaccine, he performed his duties at the hospital. Since he is part of the team monitoring the vaccination work at CMCH, he was there till the end of the programme. “After spending some time with family today (Sunday), I have started working for Monday’s vaccination programme,” he added. Another senior doctor, who was among the first few to get inoculated, also released a video message to dispel rumours about the Covid vaccination.“I am one of the lucky healthcare workers, who got vaccinated on Saturday. We feel proud that India has its own vaccine. I was quite comfortable after the vaccination and attended to 30-40 patients in the OPD after that. I also delivered two lectures, as we have lots of webinars these days, especially on Saturdays. I urge all healthcare workers (HCWs) to get vaccinated, because it is a great opportunity that our government has given to the frontline workers and HCWs to get vaccinated first,” said Dr Gurpreet Wander, professor of cardiology at the Hero DMC Heart institute of the DMCH.Many other doctors, who also took the vaccine shots on Saturday, said they are fine and there has been no side effect yet.“I got vaccinated at Civil Hospital and I have been feeling quite comfortable. I continued with my daily routine after vaccination, interacted with family, watched TV and even went for a short stroll on Saturday evening. We have full faith in the scientists who have developed this vaccine. There is always an element of risk in vaccinations, but we need to weigh the advantages against the risks,” said Dr Varun Saggar, surgeon specialist at the Civil Hospital.He noted that although the vaccine is expected to give him immunity after the second shot, he would continue to follow the safety norms for Covid-19.Meanwhile, the authorities at CMCH, where the maximum number of persons, almost all doctors, were vaccinated on the first day, said none of them has experienced any side effects. “Everyone is fine,” said CMCH principal Dr Jeyaraj D Pandian, who was the first person to take the vaccine shot at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/doctors-who-took-first-shots-say-no-side-effects-yet/articleshow/80317160.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Anxiety, vax on empty stomach cause reactions among some||MUMBAI: A day after the mass Covid-19 vaccination drive, state officials on Sunday did not divulge if there had been any additions to the 22 cases of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) reported on Saturday. However, after 18,338 healthcare workers in Maharashtra took the vaccine, helplines across district hospitals received calls from beneficiaries complaining of fever, nausea, body pain, headache, among others. In Mumbai, that didn’t report any AEFI cases on Saturday, around 30 cases of mild fever, bodyache and headache were brought to the notice of the civic immunisation department on Sunday. However, none were severe, officials said. A total of 447 AEFIs have been reported in the country on Saturday and Sunday. Around 201 of 3,881 healthcare workers in Vidarbha developed minor complications, of which nine required hospitalisation for high fever. Authorities said all were stable. Three nurses in Ahmednagar were hospitalised after they complained of fever. Dr Archana Patil, head, Directorate of Health Services said there were AEFI cases in districts, but all were of a mild nature. “No severe cases have been seen so far,” she said. In Mumbai’s BKC jumbo facility, where 220 people were vaccinated, dean Dr Rajesh Dere said two female healthcare workers needed to be kept under observation on Saturday. “One was anxious after taking the vaccine, while another was a patient of hypertension who had not taken her morning medicine,” he said, adding both went home later. Rajawadi Hospital had received three calls, complaining of mild bodyache on Saturday evening. All could be resolved with basic medication and nobody needed hospitalisation, said medical superintendent Dr Vidya Thakur. Executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said they were collecting AEFI reports from all nine centres in the city. Several districts had cases where healthcare workers took the vaccine on an empty stomach or skipped their regular medication, giving rise to discomfort. Many had taken the shot after their day’s work when they were exhausted.  Solapur civil surgeon Dr Pradeep Dhele said they had two cases where the beneficiaries had taken the vaccine without having breakfast. “After taking the shot, they went to eat oily food which led to acidity. It got resolved with antacids,” he said. Kolhapur district reported the highest, five out of 22 AEFIs. Of the five, one had fever, while the remaining four complained of headache and dizziness. Dr Yogesh Sale, district health officer, said they were kept under observation for more than 90 minutes. About the nurses from Ahmednagar, who required hospitalisation, civil surgeon Dr Sunil Pokharne said it was more of a cautionary step. “We had just three hospitalisations out of 870 vaccinated,” he said. Healthcare workers who got the first shot will be monitored for 48 hours from 24×7 helplines. Surgeon Dr Bomi Pardiwalla said he got a call from his local ward office on Sunday. “Symptoms such as fever, bodyache are common as the first dose nudges the immune response,” said Dr Gomare, who too experienced mild fever. A serious AEFI involves seizures or severe allergic reactions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/anxiety-vax-on-empty-stomach-cause-reactions-among-some/articleshow/80319185.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 18, 2021||Allahabad||Uttar Pradesh surpasses its paddy purchase target||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh has become the first state in the country to breach the target of paddy purchase about two months in advance, the state government said on Sunday. Till date, the state has purchased 60 lakh metric tonnes of paddy against a target of 55 lakh metric tonnes. A government spokesperson said that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed to continue with the purchase. The total purchase is likely to touch 70 lakh tonnes this year -- 14 lakh metric tonnes more than the previous year. The government said Rs 7,800 crore has so far been paid to more than 1 lakh paddy farmers and it will purchase other Kharif crops like paddy, maize, and groundnut by February 28. Rs 31,905 crore was paid to paddy farmers in the last four years, making a record for the highest payment in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/up-surpasses-its-paddy-purchase-target/articleshow/80322004.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Lucknow||NBT Aarogya Vatika to reach every nook and corner of state||Lucknow: The Navbharat Times Aarogya Vatika initiative is gaining popularity and will soon reach every part of the state and country. Setting up of medicinal plants corner in every city park is a boon for environment and people’s health, said police commissioner DK Thakur during NBT’s Aarogya Vatika campaign held at joint commissioner, law and order, office on Sunday. Joint commissioner, law and order, Naveen Arora, said that NBT Arogya Vatika initiative is not only spreading awareness about the health benefits of medicinal plants but also helping in community policing. It is also environment healthy, he added. “This is for the third time I have become a part of NBT’s Aarogya Vatika initiative and every time I get to know about the health benefits of a new plant,” said Thakur. Appreciating the efforts, residents of nearby areas said that the initiative should reach every house. “Every house should have an Aarogya Vatika, which will help every family to attain health benefits of medicinal plants,” said Kamal Babu, a resident. Another resident Abhishek Sinha said, “Ayurveda has a cure for everything and NBT Aarogya Vatika takes one closer to Ayurveda.” “This is a wonderful initiative which has made me realise that the cure of mild cough and fever is available in our garden itself,” said Vimla Sharma, a local. Another resident AK Trivedi said, “Ashwagandha, giloi, and aloevera are available in every household but not all are aware of their benefits. NBT’s event is making people understand that the cure is in their garden.” NBT will be setting up Aarogya Vatika in different parts of the city. If you are interested in getting the vatika set up in your locality, drop a mail to nbtlucknow@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nbt-aarogya-vatika-to-reach-every-nook-and-corner-of-state/articleshow/80319705.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Lucknow||Raj Bhawan humbles Lucknow University by 43 runs in friendly cricket match||LUCKNOW: Dressed in jerseys and with pads and helmets on, Lucknow University team struggled to save its wickets on Raj Bhawan ground. Captain and LU vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai won the toss and opted to field first, but lost the match as Governor’s OSD Ashok Desai played a captain’s knock. He made victory tough for LU in a friendly cricket match between Lucknow University and Raj Bhawan on Sunday. The varsity lost by 43 runs chasing a score of 72 runs. The Raj Bhawan team got a solid start when the opening batsman Desai stroked four fours scoring 44 runs in 38 balls. Desai remained not out and made his team set a target of 72 runs in 12 overs for LU. Batting next, LU team got a shocker when its star batsman Prof Rajiv Manohar got bowled after scoring just one run. Proctor Dinesh Kumar could not save his team and also got out at 1 run. The vice-chancellor struggled to reach the crease on time and was run out by Desai. The entire team got out at 29 runs in 11.3 overs. The winning team won a price of Rs 1 lakh, while LU was awarded Rs 51,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/raj-bhawan-humbles-lu-by-43-runs-in-friendly-cricket-match/articleshow/80319702.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow University undergraduate exams to be held in 3 shifts||LUCKNOW: The undergraduate examinations in Lucknow Unversity will be held in three shifts to pace up academic session which is delayed by around two months. The 1.5 hour examination on multiple-choice question pattern will be held from 9am to 10.30 am, 12pm to 1.30pm, and from 3pm to 4.30pm. LU had declared the examination schedule for undergraduate students of BA, BSc, and BCom on Friday. The semester examinations (III & V) will begin from January 28. The examination of BA semester III students will be held from 9am to 10.30am and of BA semester V from 3pm to 4.30p.m. The examination of BCom III and V semesters will be held from 12pm to 1.30pm and of BSc III and V from 3pm to 4.30pm. The examination of management course BBA III & V semesters will be held from January 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-undergrad-exams-to-be-held-in-3-shifts/articleshow/80319691.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Dehradun||Surekha Dangwal appointed V-C of Doon University||Dehradun: Surekha Dangwal was appointed as the new vice-chancellor of Doon University on Saturday. In an order issued by governor Baby Rani Maurya, Dangwal was appointed for a three-year tenure or until her retirement age (whichever is earlier) as the vice-chancellor of the state public university. Dangwal was till now serving as the head of department (HoD) of the English department at the Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University. She has an experience of more than three decades in teaching and is an honorary lifetime member of the South Asian Literary Association, United States of America.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/surekha-dangwal-appointed-v-c-of-doon-university/articleshow/80317159.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 18, 2021||Varanasi||Uttar Pradesh surpasses its paddy purchase target||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh has become the first state in the country to breach the target of paddy purchase about two months in advance, the state government said on Sunday. Till date, the state has purchased 60 lakh metric tonnes of paddy against a target of 55 lakh metric tonnes. A government spokesperson said that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed to continue with the purchase. The total purchase is likely to touch 70 lakh tonnes this year -- 14 lakh metric tonnes more than the previous year. The government said Rs 7,800 crore has so far been paid to more than 1 lakh paddy farmers and it will purchase other Kharif crops like paddy, maize, and groundnut by February 28. Rs 31,905 crore was paid to paddy farmers in the last four years, making a record for the highest payment in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/up-surpasses-its-paddy-purchase-target/articleshow/80322002.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh surpasses its paddy purchase target||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh has become the first state in the country to breach the target of paddy purchase about two months in advance, the state government said on Sunday. Till date, the state has purchased 60 lakh metric tonnes of paddy against a target of 55 lakh metric tonnes. A government spokesperson said that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed to continue with the purchase. The total purchase is likely to touch 70 lakh tonnes this year -- 14 lakh metric tonnes more than the previous year. The government said Rs 7,800 crore has so far been paid to more than 1 lakh paddy farmers and it will purchase other Kharif crops like paddy, maize, and groundnut by February 28. Rs 31,905 crore was paid to paddy farmers in the last four years, making a record for the highest payment in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-surpasses-its-paddy-purchase-target/articleshow/80319758.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Goa||HC to govt: Hire chief for institute of psychiatry||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa has directed the government to fill up the post of director of the institute of psychiatry and human behaviour on regular basis “as expeditiously as possible”. The division bench of the high court comprising Justices Mahesh Sonak and Bharati H Dangre stated that “this will be in the interest of IPHB itself”. “We feel that since there is a post of director of the IPHB which is not filled up on regular basis, the respondents must take steps to fill up this post on regular basis, as expeditiously as possible,” the court held in the public interest petition filed by Dr Ashutosh Prabhu Dessai. The institute has been running without a full-fledged director for decades, a poor indicator of the priority afforded to mental health in the state by the government. Dean of Goa Medical College has been holding additional charge of director of IPHB. The Goa Human Rights Commission in 2013 recommended that the government expedite the process of filing up the post ‘without any further delay’. The commission in its inquiry report at the time had stated that posts kept vacant for long periods are “bound to have an adverse effect on the overall functioning of the institute” and added that it was high time that the state government take serious view of the lapses and make a concerted effort to fill up post of director and other posts which are lying vacant for a long period of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-to-govt-hire-chief-for-institute-of-psychiatry/articleshow/80319345.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Dehradun||Street art turns Haridwar into picture gallery before Kumbh||DEHRADUN: Walking on the roadside of Haridwar is a completely different experience these days. On the lines of Prayagrag Kumbh of 2019, the walls of Haridwar city, too, have been brightened with murals, which largely depict Hindu mythology, culture and traditions of Uttarakhand. The breathtaking murals are a cynosure of all eyes and have given a completely new look to the Kumbh preparations. Government buildings, ghats, bridges and roadside walls have been used to brighten the holy city on the eve of Kumbh – which is expected to be attended by crores of devotees. The beautification follows a 'Paint my city' campaign initiated by the Haridwar-Roorkee Development Authority. Several social organisations, individuals and groups joined hands for the project. In the past few months, they worked for hours to first scrub clean and then paint the walls with mesmerising colours. Mahendra Kodwani of Prastuti, an organisation from Indore whose 34 wall painting artists have been doing painting work for the past two months in Haridwar, told TOI, "We have done around 32,000 square feet of painting so far. It has been a great experience beautifying Haridwar ahead of the Kumbh Mela.” The murals have been designed on separate themes such as Kumbh, Ramayana, Uttarakhand traditions, musical instruments, folk dances and environment. In the backdrop of a mural, one can see tall mountains and a group of dancers performing folk dances in the foreground. Dressed in local attires and sporting large nose ring, hill women can be seen in another. The boundary wall and railing of the bridges en route to various ghats have also been painted in bright colours like orange and yellow. Speaking about the initiative, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat said, “We are committed to our promise of having a divine and grand Kumbh. Through these paintings, we are making an effort to inform the crores of devotees who would come to Haridwar about our rich cultural and traditional values.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/street-art-turns-haridwar-into-picture-gallery-before-kumbh/articleshow/80317171.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 18, 2021||Kochi||Cial commissions 452 kWh floating solar power plant||KOCHI: In yet another major achievement as part of the green initiative of Cochin International Airport Ltd (Cial), the company commissioned a floating solar power plant with a capacity of 452 kWh at its golf course here on Sunday. The company, which operates the world’s first airport fully powered by solar energy, commissioned the project furthering its efforts to sustain the power-positive status of the airport by using green energy. With the commissioning of the floating power plant, the total installed solar power capacity of the airport has become 40 MWp helping to produce around 1.60 lakh units of power a day against the daily consumption of around 1.30 lakh units. Cial said that it is one of the biggest floating solar power plants in the state. The project has relied on French technology in which cost-effective high-density polyethylene floats are used. As many as 1,300 photovoltaic panels were mounted on the polyethylene floats and laid over two artificial lakes located in the 130-acre Cial golf course. The plants covering a total area of one acre are connected to the KSEB power grid. The pre-commissioning trials showed that these plants, set up at a cost around Rs 2 crore, are producing power with the maximum output efficiency among the eight solar power plants installed by Cial at various locations on the airport premises. “Cial’s trysts with the experiments in producing green energy has achieved another milestone with this installation. Cial has been reinventing itself since its formative days. One of our innovations which proved that relying upon green energy is possible even for the high-energy consumers like an airport has won us the champions of the Earth Award instituted by the United Nations,” said Cial managing director V J Kurian. Cial has also successfully executed the idea of total sustainability management (TSM) in its golf course where treated water from the sewage treatment plant of the airport is used for water harvesting with the help of 12 artificial lakes. The water from these lakes is used for irrigating the lawns of the golf course. “Traditionally, the installation of the floating power plant costs two to three times more than that of the ground-mounted one. But using the novel French technology, we could bring down the cost at par with that of the ground-mounted ones. The technical assistance was provided by the French company, Ciel & Terre. The French Ambassador to India Immanuel Lenain had paid a visit to the floating plant in December 2020 and expressed his satisfaction. Cial aims to become the largest power producer in the state after KSEB. A 12 MWp plant is being completed at Payyannur, Kannur,” said a Cial statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cial-commissions-452-kwh-floating-solar-power-plant/articleshow/80317170.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Lucknow||Miracle in Bundelkhand with cultivation of strawberry, says Uttar Pradesh CM||LUCKNOW/JHANSI: Pitching for festivals in the name of fruits and food items of various districts, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said that the events could give a new identity and a platform to products. Yogi made the observation while inaugurating a month-long `strawberry festival’ of Jhansi virtually from his official residence here. The CM cited the products like ‘kala namak’ of Sidhharthnagar, the black rice of Chandauli and the guavas of Prayagraj and Kaushambi to name a few. He advised the agriculture and the horticulture departments to organise such festivals in other districts also Stating strawberry cultivation as nothing short of a miracle for Bundelkhand, Yogi said that this initiative of farmers will give a new identity to the region. “The diligent farmers of this region have broken the image of the Bundelkhand, considered to have infertile land in the past. This endeavour has given a new message,” he said. Yogi said that there is a general belief that the soil of the Bundelkhand region is not suitable for such fruits. “Strawberry could well prove to be an additional mode of earning for farmers of the region. The region has adequate surface water and by using techniques like drip and sprinkle farming for irrigation, farmers can definitely reduce the input cost,” he said. Officials said that workshops will be organised during the festival to encourage farmers opt for strawberries also. A work plan is also being made to encourage strawberry farming in Jhansi and other districts of the region. The district administration will also be providing strawberry plants to the people, The CM said that both the Centre and the state government had been facilitating farmers from seeds to markets. “The government has also been trying to create new facilities for irrigation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/miracle-in-bkhand-with-cultivation-of-strawberry-says-cm/articleshow/80319723.cms||Arindam Ghosh
January 18, 2021||Pune||Police bust gambling den, 11 face action||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police’s social security cell on Saturday busted a gambling den near Talegaon Dabhade and took action against 11 people besides recovering Rs6 lakh in cash, seven vehicles — five cars and two motorcycles — and cellphones, collectively worth Rs30 lakh. Senior inspector Vitthal Kubade of the social security cell said they raided the spot based on a tip-off that some people were running a gambling den on the premises of a restaurant at Kusgaon in Maval taluka. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-bust-gambling-den-11-face-action/articleshow/80318055.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Pune||Pune: Actor-director Mahesh Manjrekar booked for slapping farmer||Pune: A farmer from Tembhurni lodged an FIR with the Yavat police station against Bollywood actor-director Mahesh Manjrekar accusing him of voluntarily causing hurt and criminal intimidation. The complaint states that Manjrekar slapped the farmer during an altercation after their cars were involved in a minor accident near Yavat power house on Friday night. When contacted, Manjrekar told TOI, “I did not slap him. It was foolish on his part to travel at a high speed, ram into my car, then argue with me while I was checking the damage to my vehicle. We were going for a shoot at Chouphula near Bhigwan from Pune when my car slowed down. The car following us rammed into the vehicle following which I got down and an argument ensued". The complainant Kailash Satpute has alleged that Manjrekar’s car stopped suddenly and his vehicle hit the car. He has stated that Manjrekar started arguing and slapped him. Inspector Bhausaheb Patil of the Yavat police station said, “Satpute was heading from Yavat to his home at Tembhurni in his car.” Despite several attempts to contact Satpute, he remained unavailable for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/director-mahesh-manjrekar-accused-of-slapping-man/articleshow/80318052.cms||---
January 18, 2021||India||Will hold tractor rally in Delhi on Republic -Day: Farmers||NEW DELHI: A day before the Supreme Court’s hearing on a plea of Delhi Police to stay the proposed tractor march by farmers on Republic Day, the farmers’ unions on Sunday announced that they would go ahead with their march and it would be held “peacefully” on the Capital’s Outer Ring Road. Referring to the unions’ plan which was first announced on January 2, Delhi Police had moved an application before the SC seeking injunction against the tractor rally on January 26 saying it could cause law and order problems and embarrass the country on Republic Day. The unions, however, made it clear on Sunday that the tractor march would be held on a 50-km stretch of Outer Ring Road (far away from the venue of the official function at Rajpath) and the vehicles in the ‘Kisan’ (farmers) parade would consist of tableaus reflecting the agricultural reality of different states in addition to showcasing historical movements. “No anti-social elements will be allowed to infiltrate this,” leaders of ‘Samyukta Kisan Morcha’ (umbrella body of the farmers’ unions) said while addressing a press conference. Asked whether they had sought permission from Delhi Police for such a march, the leaders said there was no need for permission to hold a peaceful march on the occasion of Republic Day. “We are informing Delhi Police through this announcement,” they said. Urging Haryana and Delhi police to cooperate, they said, “The parade will happen peacefully, and will not disrupt the official Republic Day parade. There will be no threat to any national heritage sites, or to any other site. The vehicles will fly India’s national flag and will also have flags of farmer organisations that the members are affiliated with.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/will-hold-tractor-rally-in-delhi-on-r-day-farmers/articleshow/80320253.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Bengaluru||105 MBBS management quota seats vacant in Karnataka||BENGALURU: As many as 105 MBBS seats under the management quota in Karnataka have remained unfilled with admissions to undergraduate medical seats ending on January 15. Medical education department officials said no seat goes vacant and one or two may remain vacant due to errors in the admission process. Officials in the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, the umbrella varsity for medical colleges, said there are over 7,500 MBBS seats in state. This year, the unfilled seats are as high as 30 in a college in Devanahalli, 22 in an Anekal college and 14 in a Bidarahalli college. A new medical college in Bengaluru has 10 seats vacant. Colleges blame confusion over admission date: VCThe management seats include other quota seats like NRI which were handed over to the managements after they remained unfilled. RGUHS vice-chancellor Dr S Sacchidanand said private colleges are blaming the confusion over the last date for admission for the seats getting no students. “The last date was announced as December 31and it was extended to January 15. Many colleges said they were not informed of this extension. Usually, no MBBS seat goes vacant,” he said. A principal of a medical college in Bengaluru said the unfilled seats that were to be converted into management seats were returned by Karnataka Examinations Authority on January 13. “There was very little time for us to fill them up as January 14 was a holiday. It’s the first time that seats are going vacant,” he said. The chairman of another medical college in Bengaluru said: “Since the last date for dental seats was extended to January 31, parents expected the last date for MBBS seats, too, to be extended and unfortunately did not come to take seats.” The college has 14 seats unclaimed. According to officials at DME, increase in the number of medical colleges across the country could be a reason why the number of students coming to Karnataka has shown a drop. “According to the Centre’s plans, every district will have a medical college by 2025. Any 300-bed district hospital with 10 acres of land can be turned into a medical college with little investment from the state. Students will not have to travel to other states. Those colleges that have good infrastructure and provide quality education will get students,” he said. An expert said after NEET was introduced and admission to NRI seats streamlined, filling up seats had become a problem. “Covid might have played its part. Apart from paying ability, parents may not want children to travel far to study,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/105-mbbs-managementquota-seats-vacant-in-state/articleshow/80320324.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
January 18, 2021||Lucknow||Physically challenged lab tech does a Rancho, deftly conducts delivery on train||LUCKNOW: It was a real-life of Amir Rancho Khan's 'delivery feat' in '3 Idiots' climax. Only that it all happened onboard a running train and the protagonist here was a physically challenged lab technician from Delhi, Sunil Prajapati. He helped a woman deliver a baby on board Jabalpur bound Madhya Pradesh Samparkranti Covid-19 special express on Saturday night by using thread string taken out of shawl, blade from shaving kit pouch and instructions over a video call from senior eye surgeon. The woman had a history of miscarriage, having suffered three earlier. It all happened in B3 coach of the train while the train was passing through Mathura district after starting from Hazrat Nizamuddin Station in Delhi. After the delivery, railway protection force team including woman constable took the woman passenger and her newly born infant to Mathura district hospital. For the successful delivery, lab technician identified as Sunil Prajapati was hailed by his superior for her heroic act. He is currently posted in the pathology department of Northern railway Delhi division hospital, Chandani Chowk. A few months back he completed his LLB from Delhi University and was heading home (Sagar, MP) on three days leave for arrange marriage date. Speaking to TOI, 33-year Sunil said, “The train had just crossed Faridabad and I was to open my lunch box for the evening meal when I heard a woman sleeping in next coupe on middle berth crying in pain. She was travelling along with his brother and minor daughter to Damoh. In a brief inquiry, the woman who identified herself as Kiran (30) stated that her due date is of January 20 and she was heading back to in-law’s home.” “I offered to help her and asked whether she needs medical assistant any station, but she wasn’t sure if she was going under labour pain or abdomen pain caused by jerks while travelling in a bus to reach Hazrat Nizamuddin station. Since there was no woman passenger in the coach, I preferred not to take chance and informed my superior Dr Suparna Sen, who alerted Agra and Gwalior stations to put medical staff on standby. Nearly half an hour later, Kiran again screamed in pain and this time her blanket was wet with her blood indicating that she was about to deliver. I immediately informed coach TTE for first aid kit and took Dr Sen on a video call, as other passengers too found themselves helpless in the situation. There was no time to spare and I followed her instruction carefully. Fortunately, I managed to arrange fresh unused blade from a passenger, with which I cut the umbilical cord,” said Sunil who did his BSc in microbiology from Sagar University and later a master’s in public administration as he aspired to become a civil servant. Sunil had appeared for MP Lok Sewa Ayog interview thrice but failed to get into the merit list. “My heartbeats were rapid, I just helped a woman deliver and a healthy infant was in my arms. It was a mixed feeling of fear and excitement—I mean we only see such deliveries in movies. After delivery, I made a few more calls to other railway doctors to arrange medical assistance at Mathura. Since the train had no stoppage between Delhi and Gwalior, alert fellow passenger pulled the alarm chain at Mathura junction to stop the train, following which RPF team with woman constable Jyoti Yadav escorted Kiran to Mathura district hospital,” said Sunil who is youngest among six siblings. His father Hiralal Prajapti is a farmer. Lauding for the heroic efforts of Sunil, Dr Suparna Sen who assisted him in the delivery via video call said, “Hats off to the lab technician. He pulled an impossible task for a person like him who is physically handicapped from the leg and had never ever seen or experienced baby delivery. The delivery was successful because of his presence of mind for arranging tools likes blade from shaving kit and thread from shawl to execute the complex medical aid. I just guided him and he followed the instruction with utmost focus. He is a brave soul.” Dr Suparana Sen is an eye surgeon specialist in railway hospital since 1995. TOI also spoke to Kiran admitted in the district hospital with her baby. “Railway staff went out of their way to help me. They used video calling something which I could not have imagined for my delivery.” By the time this report was filed, her husband Dilip Kumar who works as a foreman in a private company in Rajasthan, was yet to reach Mathura. RPF Mathura junction including constable Jyoti Yadav rushed Kiran and newly born baby boy district hospital after delivery in train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/disabled-lab-tech-does-a-rancho-deftly-conducts-delivery-on-train/articleshow/80319782.cms||Arvind Chauhan
January 18, 2021||Lucknow||LMC to install streetlights at2,700 dark spots||Lucknow: Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has identified as many as 2,700 dark spots in the city where it will install streetlights. For the installation work Rs 12.5 crore has been released under the Central government’s ‘Safe City’ project. Approved by the Union ministry of home affairs in 2018, the ‘Safe City’ project aims at strengthening safety and security of women in public places. The areas have been identified near women colleges, schools, coaching institutions, model shops and some prominent stretches in several localities, including Gomtinagar Extension, Shingarnagar, Saadatganj, Para, Aliganj, Madiaon, Kursi Road and Gautampalli. Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, “Placing streetlights in these areas will ensure safety for both women and men commuting at night.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-to-install-streetlights-at2700-dark-spots/articleshow/80319792.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Lucknow||FIR filed against ‘Tandav’ creators for bid to trigger religious flare-up||Lucknow: An FIR was lodged against Ali Abbas Jafar and Gaurav Solanki, the director and writer of the web series 'Tandav' respectively, for allegedly depicting Hindu gods in a bad light 'which could lead to religious flare-up'. The FIR lodged at Hazratganj police station late on Sunday night by senior sub-inspector Amarnath Yadav, also names Amazon Prime's India head of original content Aparna Purohit, producer Himanshu Krishna Mehra and another unnamed person. “A police team from Hazratganj will leave for Mumbai to investigation and interrogate those named in the FIR on Monday morning,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police, central zone, Somen Barma. Those named have been booked for promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, makes destruction, damage, or defilement of a place of worship or an object held sacred; forgery for purpose of harming reputation, statements conducing to public mischief, with intent to threaten the unity, integrity, security or sovereignty of India, or to strike terror in the people or any section of the people. The FIR says that there are angry outbursts on social media against the content of the web series which was released on January 16 and people are posting its clippings. “After watching the series, it was found that in the 17th minute of Episode 1, characters playing Hindu gods and goddesses have been shown in an uncharitable way and using undignified language, which can trigger religious sentiments,” it said. “Similarly, in the 22nd minute of the same episode, efforts have been made to ignite caste clashes. The person holding a dignified post like that of prime minister has been shown in a very derogatory manner throughout the web series,” the FIR says. The web series has tried to destroy the social fabric of the country and create tension, Yadav has said in his FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fir-filed-against-tandav-creators-for-bid-to-trigger-religious-flare-up/articleshow/80319819.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Pune||Woman complains of online harassment||Pune: The Pimpri police on Saturday registered an offence against a man from Dhayari on the charge of uploading photographs of a woman on a social media platform and posting lewd comments there. The incident came to light on Friday when the suspect took a screen shot of the post and forwarded it to the complainant on Friday. The woman then approached the police on Saturday and lodged an FIR. The police have registered the offence under Section 509 (intending to insult the modesty of any woman) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the relevant sections of the Information and Technology Act. “We are yet to arrest the man,” an officer from the Pimpri police said. In another similar incident, a 24-year-old woman lodged an FIR with the Dighi police against man from Nagpur on Saturday for posting her morphed images on various social media platforms. The suspect, who had also been stalking the complainant for the past four years, tagged her brother and relatives while sharing her morphed obscene photographs. The woman also alleged in her complaint that the suspect had been threatening to end his life, if she did not talk to him. “The man has been booked under the relevant sections of the IPC and Information Technology Act,” an officer from the Dighi police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-complains-of-online-harassment/articleshow/80318062.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Pune||Oil spills on 9km road stretch in Pimpri Chinchwad, no injuries||Pune: Commuters in Pimpri Chinchwad had a tough time on Sunday early morning as oil had spilt on the 9km stretch between Chinchwad and Bhumkar Chowk in Wakad. An officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad traffic branch said the police got the information about the spilt oil in Mohannagar, Chinchwad. “We informed the fire brigade. When we reached the spot we found that some two-wheelers had skidded due to the oil. No one suffered injuries,” the officer said. He said that the police also found the oil had spilt on the road till Bhumkar Chowk in Wakad. “Even though the traffic was less, we closed the stretch to avoid any accident,” he said. Suryakant Mathpati, sub-officer from Pimpri Chinchwad fire brigade, said, “Four fire tenders from the Pimpri Chinchwad fire brigade were pressed into service.” He said they decided to cover it with sand and sawdust. “We began work at 7.15am and finished around 11.30am on the 9km stretch,” he said. He said while the firemen were busy in covering the spilt oil, the fire brigade received a call of leakage of an LPG from a cylinder in Kalewadi. “We attended that call too and stopped the leakage,” Mathpati said. An officer from Pimpri Chinchwad police said, “We are checking CCTV camera footages to identify the vehicle that spilt the oil,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/oil-spills-on-9km-road-stretch-in-pimpri-chinchwad-no-injuries/articleshow/80318061.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Kochi||Involve experts to study waterlogging issue in Kochi: T M Thomas Issac||KOCHI: Most of the long-standing issues plaguing Kochi city featured in the meeting attended by finance minister T M Thomas Issac, MLAs and heads of major development bodies here on Sunday. Mayor M Anil Kumar and councillors were also present during the programme, ‘finance minister with Kochi’, organized by Kochi corporation. The meeting, noted for its presence of officials of KMRL, CSML, GCDA, district collector and deputy commissioner of Police (DCP), discussed about the allocation made in the budget for 2021-22. Peoples’ representatives and stakeholders from various sectors demanded solutions for issues like flooding, waste management, public transportation and water metro. The minister said Kochi can play a big role in the transformation of Kerala. “Kochi has immense possibilities to bring transformation in various sectors and the corporation can do a lot to materialize it. Waterlogging is a big issue in Kochi and it was created by us. The issue can be addressed by opening the old path through which flood water used to flow earlier or create a new path, for which a study is needed,” he said. The minister also said money was not a problem for infrastructure development since KIIFB is there. Thrikkakara MLA P T Thomas said renovation of canals in Kochi is necessary as high tide has been causing waterlogging on the banks of some canals in the city. He also brought the attention of finance minister on the need to ensure green protocol in construction sector as buildings are mushrooming in Kochi with no regard for environmental issues. “A waterbody, which receives water from Boothathankettu dam and lying unutilized inside the FACT compound in Ambalamughal, can address the drinking water shortage issue in Thrikkakara and neighbouring areas. Waterbodies are also getting highly polluted. Kadambrayar river has been facing severe chemical pollution,” he said at the meeting calling for measures to stem the pollution caused by companies. Stakeholders in tourism sector said heritage buildings in Fort Kochi are being destroyed. They also called for protection of ecological system to retain tourism sector. Educationalists who attended the function also called for measures to conserve mangroves and rivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/waterlogging-money-not-an-issue-require-project-report/articleshow/80317210.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra officials plan to raise turnout with counselling||In Nashik, district health officials have decided to organise a robust counselling programme for the beneficiaries of subsequent Covid-19 vaccination drives. Turnout on the first day of the vaccination, Saturday, was a concern as in Mumbai only about 48% of the beneficiaries took the shot. In Nashik, urban turnout at some places was 49% and in Pune city, it was 55%. “We are calling up people who have missed taking the vaccine despite being listed as beneficiaries. We are trying to dispel fears and anxiety about vaccine safety,” Nikhil Saindane, Nashik district nodal officer for the vaccination programme, said. There were some listed beneficiaries who refused to take the vaccine on the first day. There were also some beneficiaries who were busy and could not appear to receive the jab. “When our teams contacted the beneficiaries personally, some expressed their concerns. They cited reports of some people abroad having adverse reactions to the vaccine. We have decided to take help of all those who have already taken the vaccine in counselling the future beneficiaries,” Saindane said. State immunisation authorities said their focus would be on the inclusion of maximum beneficiaries in the next drive. Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health (Pune region), confirmed that the vaccination would be starting from Tuesday. “The focus will remain on inclusion of more beneficiaries, but it is a voluntary vaccination drive and health care workers should come forward on their own,” he said. He said authorities were hoping for a gradual increase in the response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-officials-plan-to-raise-turnout-with-counselling/articleshow/80319283.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena to go solo in West Bengal polls||MUMBAI: The Shiv Sena, after suffering a major disappointment in the Bihar assembly polls two months ago, has decided to try its luck in the upcoming West Bengal assembly election. Insiders said the party was keen on contesting 100 of the 294 assembly seats. “Party chief Uddhav Thackeray has given the green signal, so we will first visit Bengal and get an idea about it,” Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said, adding that th eparty would not tie up with anybody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sena-to-go-solo-in-west-bengal-polls/articleshow/80319923.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Kochi||Fire breaks out in Edayar industrial area||Kochi: Timely intervention of the fire and rescue services averted a major tragedy as 110 personnel from 25 fire stations doused a major fire that broke out at Edayar industrial development area on Saturday night. Though fire service personnel were able to confine the fire within the source area to an extent, three adjacent industrial units — General Chemicals and Polymers, Orion Chemicals, and Sreekovil Industries — were severely affected. However, the personnel were able to prevent the spread of fire to the underground storage inside the General Chemicals and Polymers, where around 75,000 litres of highly inflammable liquids were stored, averting a major disaster. While Orion Chemicals was totally gutted incurring a loss of Rs 40 lakh (approx), General Chemicals and Polymers suffered a loss of about Rs 32 lakh in the incident. “We suspect these two units had abundantly stocked highly inflammable organic liquids in the form of raw material and products. Sreekovil, which deals with production of reclaimed rubber sheets out of general rubber waste incurred a loss of about Rs 10 lakh,” said a fire force official. Thirty types of fire-fighting appliances from 25 fire and rescue stations from in and around Ernakulam district and more than 100 personnel under the guidance of K K Shiju, regional fire officer, participated in the ‘Himalayan’ task to control the fire, sources said. According to fire force officials, the fire was reported around 11.50pm and it is suspected that it was caused by lightning. However, electrical inspectorate, factories and boilers department and fire and rescue services have planned to visit the scene on Monday to identify the exact cause. “Other companies in the area too had inflammable substances, increasing the risk behind the operation, which went up to three hours,” district fire officer Gogy J S.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fire-breaks-out-in-edayar-industrial-area/articleshow/80317225.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Pune||Pune-Daund passenger train service to resume this week||Pune: The passenger train service between Pune and Daund, suspended in March last year due to Covid-19, will resume this week, railways officials said. “We have received the proposal to restart the service from the government, and forwarded it to the railway board for approval,” Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer of Central Railway, said. A railways official said the service would be first available to only those involved in essential services. Vikas Deshpande, president of the Daund-Pune Pravasi Sangh, said eligible passengers have been given forms. “The police will issue QR code-based travel passes. We expect 1,300 people to allowed to travel at the first go,” Deshpande said.Meanwhile, the Central Railway will run five special trains from January 19, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-daund-passenger-train-service-to-resume-this-week/articleshow/80318065.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 18, 2021||Coimbatore||Bullock cart race keeps agrarian tradition alive||Coimbatore: Thousands of spectators enjoyed the rekla race held on Codissia Road here on Sunday. More than 500 bullock carts were brought from various parts of the state for the event.The Tamil Nadu Rekla Club and MGR Youth Wing had conducted the race as part of Pongal celebrations and to mark the 104th birth anniversary of late chief minister M G Ramachandran.Competitions were held in two categories – 200 metres and 300 metres. The organisers had announced that a motorcycle would be given to the winner of the 300-metre and car to the winner of 200-metre events.Rekla carts and riders were brought from Coimbatore, Sathyamangalam, Gobichettipalayam, Dharapuram, Kangeyam, Karur and Tirunelveli. The riders were given tokens and based on the tokens, allowed to participate in the two categories.Codissia Road was blocked for the event and barricades were installed to help spectators watch the race. Three ambulances were brought to the spot and two medical teams were also present.Coimbatore south assembly MLA Amman K Arjunan of AIADMK flagged off the race. While some carts had a rider and an assistant, others had a rider and two assistants. Many bulls covered 200 metres within 17 seconds. Spectators, including children, were seen clicking photos and videos using mobile phones. Though some bulls hit the barricades, spectators escaped without any injuries.Those who secured first 20 places in the two categories were given gold and silver coins.A pair of bulls from Saravanampatti won the first place in the 200-metre category. Municipal administration minister S P Velumani handed over the key of a new car to the bull owner. Later, a motorcycle was given to the winner of the 300-metre category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bullock-cart-race-keeps-agrarian-tradition-alive/articleshow/80319265.cms||A Subburaj
January 18, 2021||Coimbatore||Retired govt employee held for cheating man of Rs 16 lakh||Coimbatore: The city police arrested a retired school education department official on Saturday for cheating a man of Rs 16 lakh by promising a government job.The arrested person was identified as S Sekar, 62, of Maruthakutty Nagar at Rathinapuri. R Sathishkumar, 36, of Thevar Colony at Olympus in Ramanathapuram had approached Sekar along with his cousin to get a government job for his cousin’s son in March 2015. “Sekar, who was working at the regional education department office at Kavundampalayam, told Sathishkumar that he could arrange a job in the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation and demanded Rs 4 lakh to arrange the job. Sekar’s wife Kalamani also spoke to Sathishkumar and promised to get the job. Sathishkumar ended up paying Rs 21 lakh to the couple between 2015 and 2017,” a police officer said.When the job failed to materialise, Sathishkumar met Kalamani, who returned 5 lakh and asked him to get Rs 16 lakh from her husband. In December 2020, Sekar gave a cheque worth Rs 16 lakh to Sathishkumar, but it bounced. Based on his complaint, police registered a case against the couple and arrested Sekar on Saturday evening. He was remanded in judicial custody. Police are yet to arrest Kalamani.The couple was booked under sections 294 (b) (sings, recites or utters any obscene song, ballad or words, in or near any public place), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 506 (ii) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/retired-govt-employee-held-for-cheating-man-of-rs-16-lakh/articleshow/80319269.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Delhi||How police of two states worked together to nab northwest Delhi showroom robbers||NEW DELHI: It was around 12.49am on Saturday when inspector Pankaj at Hazaribagh Road police station received a call from ACP Brahmjeet Singh of Delhi Police. Singh requested assistance in an operation launched to catch the criminals involved in a dacoity in a Reliance jewellery showroom in northwest Delhi on January 14 morning. What followed was a brilliant display of interstate coordination that not only led to the culprits being nabbed swiftly, but also helped police recover more than half the loot. Around 4am last Thursday, a gang of criminals had looted around 7kg of gold worth over worth Rs 3.5 crore after holding the showroom guard at gunpoint. The robbers came and fled in a grey Honda City. During investigation, police first interviewed the staffers of the outlet and found that the showroom had been targeted by criminals two years ago too. The old FIR (number 344/19) and its case details were fished out and cops started tracking the whereabouts of the accused, including the two prime suspects, Suraj and Pitu Sheikh. Singh was roped in as he had investigated this case. Technical surveillance and informers revealed that the duo were involved in the current case too and had left Delhi. Two years ago, they had been unable to loot much, so they returned to make up for their “loss”. They were found to have boarded Kalka Mail. This information was confirmed by 11.30pm on December 15. Cops then approached the TTE on duty and the criminals were located in coach A2 of the train. Singh then contacted Hazaribagh Road police station around 1am and requested assistance in nabbing the duo. Inspector Pankaj and his team went to the station and requested the station master to delay the stoppage of the train by five minutes. When the train arrived, the duo was nabbed. When the two were interrogated on the spot, they revealed that their third associate was on the train too. However, the train had left by then. Delhi cops then alerted their counterparts in Dhanbad and sent the dossier of the suspect, Reet Mohammed. Hazaribagh cops shared the pictures and videos of the recovery and suspects to their Delhi counterparts on WhatsApp and handed over the suspects when a team reached there. Simultaneously, their associates were held in Delhi. In all, seven criminals were nabbed for the crime. Police have found that the gang was involved in four other cases reported from Dwarka and Rohini. Raids are being conducted to nab their associates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-police-of-two-states-worked-together-to-nab-showroom-robbers/articleshow/80318081.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Coimbatore||Operate bus till Manampalli powerhouse, say residents||Coimbatore: Residents of Kumatti settlement in Anaimalai Hills requested the district administration to resume bus service between Manampalli powerhouse and Valparai.The service was stopped after lockdown was imposed to contain Covid-19 pandemic. “We have to travel to Valparai for everything, even to buy grocery items or to see a doctor. It is difficult to travel as there are no buses. Earlier, we used to have three bus services between Valparai and Manampalli powerhouse per day. We have no other option but to shell out Rs 2,000 to hire a vehicle to reach Valparai,” a resident said.Valparai CPM secretary P Paramasivam emphasized the importance of resuming the bus service. “Movement of wild animals is high in the region and walking after evening hours is risky. When we contacted the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation, officials told us that the bus service was stopped due to lack of sufficient passengers. But as many as 45 families are residing in Kumatti settlement and another 30 families are residing near the powerhouse,” he said.The residents had submitted a petition to Coimbatore collector K Rajamani, requesting him to take steps to resume the service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/operate-bus-till-manampalli-powerhouse-say-residents/articleshow/80319243.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Lucknow||‘Mission Kayakalp’ opens job window||Sultanpur: In a giant leap to bring tribal hunters of Sultanpur district into the mainstream and wean them away from wildlife trafficking, the district police launched ‘Mission Kayakalp’ to provide them with alternate employment opportunities. The first phase was kicked-started on Saturday in Pakri village, where illegal wildlife trade is rampant among the indigenous people. Talking to TOI, Sultanpur superintendent of police Arvind Chaturvedi, said, “At least 150 tribal families in Pakri are traditionally involved in hunting, poaching and wildlife trafficking and we are counselling them to give up crime with a single-window job opportunity.” “Policing is all about crime prevention and this can be more effective by touching the people’s pulse. Majority criminals are those who failed to find jobs and took to crime as a livelihood. If we can change their adversity, crime graph will dip,” said Chaturvedi, who along with Sultanpur district magistrate Ravish Gupta held an awareness ‘chaupal’ in Pakri before launching Mission Kayakalp. Many residents of adjoining villages too joined the ‘chaupal’. “We chose Pakri hamlet to generate awareness among villagers about employment through self-help groups and ways to implement government job schemes in the village. In this way, they would become law-abiding residents and give up wildlife trafficking,” said the police officer. Recently, illegal softshell turtles were seized in West Bengal and traffickers from Pakri village were held. Chaturvedi said, officials of National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) and skill development department will visit the village on January 18 and will form a women’s group. “This group will be trained in skills like making of candles, incense sticks, sweet boxes for a month,” he added. Similarly, men will be trained in mobile repairs and other mechanical works. This will provide a source of livelihood to the villagers and encourage them not to indulge in illegal acts, Chaturvedi said. He said, “We have also roped in a US-based NGO Turtle Survival Alliance (TSA) to conduct a survey of the village and then request the Sultanpur district magistrate to get it included it in the list of smart villages of the Union government. “Under the scheme, as many as 26 government departments will come to work in the village and transform it,” he said. At least one village in each tehshil has been identified where ‘Mission Kayakalp’ would be implemented, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mission-kayakalp-opens-job-window/articleshow/80319739.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
January 18, 2021||Dehradun||Weekly offs help constables, many of whom work for upwards of 14 hours a day, rejuvenate & focus||For Uttarakhand’s 27,000-strong police force, it’s mostly a thankless, risky jobDehradun: Constable Hemlata, 24, posted at Ranikhet, says that her parents received a pleasant surprise when she spent an entire day with them recently. “It is quite unusual in this line of duty. I never imagined I would get a regular off apart from the usual leaves we have as police personnel. I spent an uneventful day at home with my family after years, including some quality time with my ailing mother. After five years of service, I availed my first ‘weekly rest’ on January 1 itself, the day the system was put in place,” Hemlata told TOI. For Uttarakhand’s 27,000-strong police force, it’s mostly a thankless and risky job. They served on the frontline when the pandemic struck. Over 1,900 tested positive, and five died. Constables can avail 30 casual leaves (CLs) in a year, paid leaves (PLs) depending on their designation and a total of six months’ sick leaves in their entire career. On January 1 this year, Uttarakhand joined states like Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Jharkhand in giving weekly offs to its constabulary. Police personnel who availed the offs, called “weekly rest system”, for the first time in their careers in the nine hill districts where it has been introduced, said that it was a much-needed positive change. DGP Ashok Kumar, who has said that the offs will be introduced in the remaining four districts also, said that the decision was taken based on the feedback he received. The DGP said that the offs were introduced to improve the ‘happiness quotient’ of the constabulary and ensure better work performance of the police force. “The complaints of bad behaviour with the public can also be attributed to the long working hours our personnel have to endure. The weekly rests will help in bringing about behavioural changes in certain ranks of the police force, which deal with the public on a daily basis,” Kumar said. According to the Status of Policing in India Report 2019, over 24% police personnel in India work for more than 16 hours a day on an average and 44% work more than 12 hours. A study conducted by the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D) found 90% of police officers worked for more than eight hours a day and 73% went without a single off an entire month and were called on emergency duty while on leave. As the numbers indicate, there is no social life for the police. “We don’t get to attend family functions, or meet friends. It causes disenchantment with the work. I’m sure the weekly offs will restore the motivation of police,” said a head constable posted in Pauri Garhwal. Constable Yogendra Prakash, who is posted in Almora district, leaves home at 8am daily and returns around 10pm, said that while working non-stop is the norm for police, it is also extremely taxing. “We attend 12-14 hours of duty daily without an official rest day, which takes a serious toll on our mental and physical wellbeing. This weekly rest was much needed. It will help in increasing the overall productivity and efficiency of the police force,” Prakash said. “For the first time in my 23 years of service, I got offs on two consecutive weeks. I spent the days with my family, especially the children. Being police personnel, we don’t get time for rest or recreation. In the long run, its effect starts to show,” said 44-year-old Kamal Negi, a 1997 batch constable currently working with Dharasu Police in Uttarkashi. Negi took his off on January 2 and 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/weekly-offs-help-constables-many-of-whom-work-for-upwards-of-14-hours-a-day-rejuvenate-focus/articleshow/80317237.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 18, 2021||Coimbatore||1.3kg ganja seized, guest worker held in Tamil Nadu||COIMBATORE: The Sulur police on Sunday arrested a guest worker with 1.25kg of ganja. The arrested person was identified as R Dambura Ravath, 22, a native of Odisha, who was working in a spinning mill at Kannampalayam near Sulur. Sulur sub-inspector N Jaganath, who received a tip-off, rushed to the Sulur boat house parking slot to pick up Ravath and recovered the contraband from his bag. Police grilled him at the Sulur police station. Ravath told the officers that he had received the ganja from another guest worker and was planning to sell it to other guest workers. He was booked under Section 8 (c) read with 20 (b) (ii) (A) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. The Sulur police had arrested Ravath last November for possession of 1kg ganja. He had come out of the Coimbatore Central Jail on bail a few weeks ago, police sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/1-3kg-ganja-seized-guest-worker-held/articleshow/80319270.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Kochi||Elamakkara GHSS gets hi-tech labs||Kochi: In a major facelift to the Government Higher Secondary School (GHSS), Elamakkara, six science laboratories featuring international standards were inaugurated on Saturday. The labs for chemistry, geology, physics, botany and zoology were set up in the new higher secondary building. A new lab for mathematics, considered as the only advanced maths lab in a government school in Kerala, too has been set up. The works were completed as part of the corporate social responsibility (CSR) project of Cochin Shipyard Ltd (CSL) at a cost of Rs 93 lakh. The new labs were inaugurated by Ernakulam MP Hibi Eden in the presence of Kochi corporation mayor M Anil Kumar, Ernakulam MLA T J Vinod and chairman and managing director of CSL Madhu S Nair. “The project was started over an year ago as part of the hi-tech school project when Eden was the MLA. But the pandemic has affected the work. With the schools having reopened for senior students for conducting the practical classes ahead of the exams, the new labs will be of much use. Practical classes for mathematics were introduced last year by the government. Though all other labs were there in the school they did not have much facilities,” said Elamakkara GHSS principal M S Sudheer. The labs feature modern furniture including tables, chairs, cupboards, laboratory stands, etc. The most expensive among the six works were the construction of the chemistry lab, which feature various racks and trolleys, gas pipelines, wash basins, waste disposal systems, etc. The equipment from the old labs will be shifted to the new labs. “The labs are spacious and well-lit with adequate ventilations. We hope to start the practical session when the government gives the permission,” Sudheer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/elamakkara-ghss-gets-hi-tech-labs/articleshow/80317232.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Congress to stage ‘Raj Bhavan Gherao’||Hyderabad: The Congress will organise Raj Bhavan gherao programme on Tuesday to express solidarity with the agitating farmers demanding MSP in the new farm laws. The Congress will also demand roll back of hiked petrol and diesel prices. The Congress leaders will gather at Lumbini Park near the old secretariat campus and march to Raj Bhavan. Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said the central government should stop its delaying tactics and immediately offer MSP and concede to other demands of the farmers. Stating that the prices of diesel and petrol are being increased every month despite the crude oil price coming down in the international market, Uttam demanded that the central government should reduce the fuel prices to spare the middle class and other sections of the society from additional financial burden due to increasing costs of petrol and diesel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-to-stage-raj-bhavan-gherao/articleshow/80318078.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Puducherry||Two smuggle booze from Puducherry, held||CHENNAI: Two people were caught on Saturday night at the Aarchirappakkam check post while trying to smuggle 960 bottles of liquor into Chengalpet from Puducherry. Police said the liquor was worth nearly Rs 1 lakh. The two were arrested and their car was seized. During a vehicle check, police apprehended Balakumar and Jayanthi, both residents of Chengalpet. The two tried to evade the check post, said an investigating officer. Police searched the SUV and found the liquor bottles hidden in a carton. The two told police that they had plans to sell it in Chennai for anywhere between Rs 500 and Rs 4,500. Police took the two to the Mathuranthagam PEW police station. Police said they had received information that liquor bottles would be smuggled from the Union territory into the city. Though the accused said they were first-time offenders, police are probing the case, said an investigating officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/two-smuggle-booze-from-pondy-held/articleshow/80448933.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Nagpur||Complex brain surgery done on 4-month-old||Nagpur: A complicated brain surgery was performed on a four-month-old in Wockhardt Hospital in the city recently. The baby boy, Avanish, hailing from Umaria, Madhya Pradesh, had a brain tumour which needed to be removed. The child also had fluid build-up in his brain, leading to a bulging in fontanelle (soft part in children’s skull). It was necessary to extract that as well. Neurosurgeon Dr Akshay Patil performed this surgery. “The child came to us in a complicated state, having a tumour in his brain which was very difficult to operate upon, but at the same time necessary to remove”, said Dr Patil. Post-operative care was provided to the baby by paediatrician Dr Sandeep Yadav. Another challenge for the medical team was to get a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan done before the surgery, which is quite challenging to perform on kids — especially on a four-month-old. The MRI was attempted four times but the child woke up each time. Thus, it had to be performed under sedation. Two simultaneous surgeries had to be performed — one for the hydrocephalus (build-up of fluid in brain cavities) and the other one for the tumour. Both the surgeries needed five-six hours each, and it was risky to keep the kid under sedation for such a long duration. Thus, it was decided that the surgery would be done in two phases. After performing Covid-19 test and other necessary diagnoses, the infant was taken for surgeries. Both the surgeries were successful. “We feel happy for our contribution in saving a life. The family was provided the benefit of Madhya Pradesh state government fund, as the treatment for these surgeries was quite expensive. The case was very complex and most of the hospitals in the region had refused to treat the child due to lack of proper facilities”, said K Sujatha, centre head, Wockhardt Hospital. TRICKY TUMOUR Ependymomas uncommon in paediatric population, extremely rare in very young children 4-month-old was having normal development milestones Admitted without knowledge of other medical history Tumour detected in hypothalamus Also had fluid build-up in brain, leading to bulging in skull’s soft part Two surgeries performed — one to remove fluid and another for tumour Baby recovered, now needs further paediatric care and radiotherapy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/complex-brain-surgery-done-on-4-month-old/articleshow/80319334.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 18, 2021||Chennai||Two smuggle booze from Puducherry, held||CHENNAI: Two people were caught on Saturday night at the Aarchirappakkam check post while trying to smuggle 960 bottles of liquor into Chengalpet from Puducherry. Police said the liquor was worth nearly Rs 1 lakh. The two were arrested and their car was seized. During a vehicle check, police apprehended Balakumar and Jayanthi, both residents of Chengalpet. The two tried to evade the check post, said an investigating officer. Police searched the SUV and found the liquor bottles hidden in a carton. The two told police that they had plans to sell it in Chennai for anywhere between Rs 500 and Rs 4,500. Police took the two to the Mathuranthagam PEW police station. Police said they had received information that liquor bottles would be smuggled from the Union territory into the city. Though the accused said they were first-time offenders, police are probing the case, said an investigating officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/two-smuggle-booze-from-pondy-held/articleshow/80438301.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Nagpur||Vax doses enough for 51 go waste on Day 1||Nagpur: Covid-19 vaccine doses enough for 51 people have reportedly gone waste in the district on Day 1 of the vaccination programme largely as all the selected healthcare workers did not turn up. The wastage — 6.14% — is, however, less than the prescribed limit of 10%. In Amravati district, which is the second-biggest city in Vidarbha after Nagpur, the wastage was much less as of the selected 500 healthcare workers, 440 (88%) turned up. Also, with Co-WIN not functioning, healthcare workers who were available and willing got vaccinations. Only 10 (2.22%) doses went waste as vaccine from 45 vials were used. The state government had permitted 12 vaccination centres in Nagpur district of which five were in city and seven in rural. Each centre was to vaccinate 100 healthcare workers every day. 779 (64.91%) of the selected 1,200 district healthcare workers turned up between 10.45am and 5pm for the jab. The turnout was low in city as 270 (54%) of the 500 doctors, nurses, ASHA workers, technicians, attendants who were selected for Day-1 and also received messages and calls, did not turn up. In Nagpur rural, 509 (72.71%) of 700 came for the vaccination. 20 doses (6.9%) in city and 31 (5.74%) in rural were wasted. Each vial of Covishield contains 5ml of vaccine and each beneficiary was to be injected 0.5ml for a total of 10 doses. Covaxin’s vial comprises of 10ml which means 20 doses. Therefore, chances of wastage in Covaxin are higher. All doses in a vial have to be consumed within 4-6 hours after breaking it open. They cannot be stored for a second day. At Daga Maternity Hospital, 53 turned up for which six vials were opened. It caused a loss of seven doses. Technical snag in Co-WIN application is another reason for the wastage. Beneficiearies did not get a slot allotted but were called randomly between 9am and 5 pm. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B told TOI that measures are being taken to “avoid refusals which would reduce wastage”. “We will improve information, education and communication (IEC) so that vaccine is given to potential beneficiaries only,” he said. NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said that the civic body is seeking approval from the government to administer vaccine to registered healthcare workers who are scheduled for the following day in case someone does not turn up on the given day. “As per existing guidelines, we have to administer vaccine to only the healthcare worker scheduled for the day,” he said. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde told TOI that wastage is expected “but should be avoided considering the present situation”. “The crisis calls for speedy vaccination. The number of people being hospitalized has gone down drastically in countries where vaccination is going on,” he said. Dr Shinde felt that healthcare workers should be contacted first to know their willingness and availability, and then selected for a particular day. “It will also ensure that the needy is being vaccinated. With better planning, 421 more needy health care workers could have been covered on day 1,” he added. In Nagpur district, 34,333 healthcare workers are registered for phase-I of the vaccination. The vaccination programme will resume on Tuesday. The healthcare workers who failed to run up on day 1 will get a chance only after the others are vaccinated. NMC officials said that vaccination will resume at five centres “as we cannot increase till further orders from the government. We had planned 60 centres”. Earlier, the NMC had planned the Covid vaccination programme on four days week with regular immunization on Tuesday and Wednesdays. Sunday was to be a rest day. “The five existing centres are hospitals and do not carry out immunization programmes. By increasing the number of days, more beneficiaries will be covered,” said NMC sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vax-doses-enough-for-51-go-waste-on-day-1/articleshow/80319370.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 18, 2021||Delhi||Vigil up as terror threat on Republic Day puts Delhi cops on toes||NEW DELHI: Ahead of the Republic Day celebrations, Delhi Police, in coordination with intelligence agencies, is carrying out massive security drills and combing exercises to thwart any attempt by terrorist organisations to disrupt law and order. Amid intelligence alerts of strike attempts by Pak-based groups, Delhi Police has, for the first time, put up posters asking people to keep a watch out for Khalistani terrorists in Delhi and inform them if anyone is spotted. The posters released till now mention absconding terrorists from al Qaeda, Indian Mujahideen, Lashkar-e-Taiba and other ISI-sponsored outfits. However, threats by pro-Khalistan outfits, including Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), a banned organisation, have prompted them to make the public appeal. Recently, SFJ’s spokesperson Gurpatwant Singh Pannun had declared a huge reward for unfurling the Khalistani flag at India Gate on January 26. Drives have also been carried out to detain Rohingyas and other foreigners living illegally in Delhi. Around a dozen FIRs under Foreigners Act have been registered and many have been sent to Lampur detention centre in outer Delhi. Some Rohingya committee leaders have also been questioned. This time, only 25,000 spectators have been invited for the Republic Day celebrations. With a tractor rally planned by farmers on the same day, coupled with the protests at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders, Delhi Police brass has asked for extensive deployment of personnel on the ground. Police have moved an application before Supreme Court seeking cancellation of the tractor rally fearing disturbance of law and order. Over 50,000 cops are expected to be deployed across the capital with the focus being on central Delhi and the three borders, where around 20 companies, including outside forces, would be deployed. While cement roadblocks are being used at the borders, checkpoints are being created at short distances on arterial roads. The dog and bomb squads would be also deployed at strategic positions on January 26, an officer said. Apart from paramilitary and reserve police, there would be Army-aided deployed at and around Rajpath. The use of sub-conventional aerial platforms, including UAVs, paragliders and hot air balloons, has been banned between January 20 and February 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vigil-up-as-terror-threat-on-r-day-puts-cops-on-toes/articleshow/80318158.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Chandigarh||Of 200 vax volunteers, only 3 tested positive||CHANDIGARH: Out of the 200 volunteers for Covishield trials at the PGI, three turned positive for the virus. As patients were either on the first dose or were given second dose and turned positive immediately, they are now being monitored. However, no adverse event has been reported till date. For efficacy of the vaccines, at least a year’s study is required on those, who were vaccinated with the required doses. No one knows about how long the antibodies will last,” said Prof Madhu Gupta, principal investigator of the Covishield trial at the PGI. She said, “The three Covid-19 positive patients have not been excluded from the trials and are being observed.” Although Covishield’s trials after phase 2/3 for safety and efficacy were published from the data collected from Brazil, South Africa and the UK, Indian studies have yet to be published. Sources informed that the data will be public by March end. Also, the antibody tests have been done in the participants of the trial. The antibody test reports of half of the participants reveal that they have developed antibodies against Covid-19 and the reports of others are awaited, said sources. The Oxford and AstraZeneca manufactured vaccine against Covid-19 had undergone phase II and phase III trials at the PGI. Throughout the country, out of the 1,600 volunteers, 1,200 have been a part of the safety trials, while others have been tested for immunogeneticity. Both these groups had been given second dose of the vaccine after a gap of 28 days. A total of 2,000 Covishield vaccines have been allotted for the health workers in the city. On the first day of the vaccination drive, 374 received the shot. It is expected that by the end of this month, all the health workers will be covered. There were three, who had nausea and dizziness on Saturday, while a few developed some pain on Sunday. But no adverse event was reported. The vaccination drive will be held four days in a week i.e. on Tuesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/of-200-vax-volunteers-only-3-tested-positive/articleshow/80317260.cms||Shimona Kanwar
January 18, 2021||Surat||Sajjan India to invest Rs 300 crore for expansion||SURAT/BHARUCH: Sajjan India, a leading manufacturer of active agro ingredients, electronic chemicals, speciality chemicals and intermediates, will invest Rs 300 crore to expand its facility in Ankleshwar GIDC. Company’s promoter MP Agarwal said, "Around 16 acres land adjoining to the existing unit has bee acquired for expansion of agrochemical ingredients manufacturing. It will be an 100% export-oriented unit and help import duty-free raw materials, packing, capital goods and consumables.” The expansion mainly focusses on agrochemicals ingredients. The new facility is expected to be operational by the end of 2021, said Agarwal. The addition of a new agrochemical plant will provide direct employment to 700 people and the company’s turnover is expected to touch Rs 1,500 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sajjan-india-to-invest-rs300-cr-for-expansion/articleshow/80318111.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Ludhiana||Police to attach assets of smugglers held with commercial quantities of drugs||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana police will soon start the process of attaching properties of smugglers held with commercial quantities of drugs. The city police have started preparing their list. Besides, to curb the drug menace, the cops are also planning preventive detention of habitual drug peddlers. The officials have sought the list of arrested drug peddlers from all the SHOs, who have been asked to submit the report as early as possible. An official working on the project said, “It is also important to take action against habitual drug peddlers, who have been arrested several times, as after coming out on bail they start smuggling again. So, we are preparing a list of habitual peddlers arrested by all police stations. Secondly, we will start work to attach properties of smugglers arrested with commercial quantities of drugs.”The police can attach properties purchased by accused within six years of the first NDPS Act case against them. The official said, “Not only the drug smugglers, but their family members and first relatives’ properties can also be attached if it is proved that these were purchased with drug money within six years of the first FIR. The city police may start the process by next month.”What is commercial quantity?The commercial quantity of opium is 2.5kg or above, poppy husk 50kg or above, heroin and smack 250g or above, ICE 50g or above, cocaine 100g or above, charas 1kg or above, cannabis (ganja) 20kg or above and morphine 100g or above.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/police-to-attach-assets-of-smugglers-held-with-commercial-quantities-of-drugs/articleshow/80317267.cms||Payal Dhawan
January 18, 2021||Nagpur||Garbage crisis in half of Nagpur mounts||Nagpur: Garbage and civic problems are mounting for the residents of Central, East, North and part of West Nagpur as the indefinite strike by workers of door-to-door garbage collection firm continued on its second day on Sunday. Garbage was not lifted for the second consecutive day in five zones — Gandhibagh, Satranjipura, Lakadganj, Ashi Nagar and Mangalwari zones of the city — with 850 workers of BVG India, one of the garbage lifting companies, striking work over sacking of 113 employees by the company. The city (with 10 zones) generates around 1,000 to 1,100 metric tonne garbage per day and AG Environ (Laxmi Nagar, Dharampeth, Hanuman Nagar, Dhantoli and Nehru Nagar) lifts 500 to 600 metric tonne of garbage per day. Similar is the quantum of garbage lifted by BVG workers from rest of the five zones. The NMC’s solid waste management department is now struggling to clean up half of the city with the ongoing strike by BVG India employees. Most of the garbage vulnerable points are overflowing with waste and households are also feeling the heat with no door-to-door garbage collection took place. According to sources, NMC’s solid waste management department has pressed its trucks to lift garbage collected through sweeping of roads. “But door-to-door collection has stopped completely,” said sources. On Sunday too, representatives of BVG India and striking employees held a discussion, but failed to reach any conclusion, said sources. Angry employees of BVG India on Sunday too staged protest near Jagnade Square, where the Pune company’s office is situated. The workers alleged that on January 15, when they were performing duties, the company issued termination notices to 113 colleagues. The termination letters were delivered in their residential addresses. However, the company deposited Rs60,000 each in their salary accounts in lieu of their three months salaries, they clarified. Unless the firm revokes the termination of 113 employees, the strike will continue in half of the city, said the striking employees. If the demand to reinstate the sacked employees was not met, the workers have threatened to intensify their stir. On Monday (January 18), the striking employees will gherao municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, a statement issued by the striking workers stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/garbage-crisis-in-half-of-nagpur-mounts/articleshow/80319373.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Ludhiana||Basant Vihar man dies of Covid, 33 test positive||Ludhiana: A resident of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 33 tested positive on Sunday.As per the local media bulletin, the 60-year-old man of Basant Vihar died at Deep Hospital. He had diabetes and tuberculosis.The day also saw the virus claiming the life of an outsider and 10 cases from outside the district testing positive here.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said the district toll tally has increased to 981 and that of outsiders to 467.To date, 5,73,068 persons have been tested.Of the 33 new cases, 14 are from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), one is a contact of a positive patient, 14 are from OPD, three from tracing process, and one international traveller.The local health department officials said the Ludhiana case count stood at 25,298 and that of outsiders at 3,826.So far, 24,030 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.98% of the total cases.There are 284 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 802.On Sunday, 38 persons were quarantined and 2,198 samples collected.There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four government ones at CMCH.Three patients, including two Ludhianvis, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/basant-vihar-man-dies-of-covid-33-test-positive/articleshow/80317271.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Surat||Ground-breaking ceremony for Surat Metro today||SURAT: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday will perform the ground-breaking ceremony virtually for the first phase of the Rs 12,020 crore Surat Metro Rail Project via video-conferencing. Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, social justice and empowerment minister Ishwar Patel and BJP chief C R Paatil among other dignitaries will remain present at the venue at Diamond Bourses in the city. According to sources, the metro project is 40.35km long and comprises two corridors. The 21.61-km-long corridor-I is from Sarthana to Dream City, while the 18.74km-long corridor-II is from Bhesan to Saroli. It will consist of 10 elevated stations in South-West Surat and connect Dream City with Kadarsha Ni Nal in the city’s core. East of that, the line will head underground towards Surat Railway Station for 3.46 km and onward to Chowk Bazar at 3.56 km. The first phase of 21.61 km metro rail will pass via Nana Varachha, Railway Station, Maskati Hospital, Gandhi Baug, Majura Gate, Roopali Canal, AlthanTenament, VIP road, Surat Women ITI and Convention Centre in the city. Earlier last month, the Gujarat Metro Rail Corporation (GMRC) approved the tender of the lowest bidder among the six to construct the first 11.6km Kadarsha Ni Nal to Dream City at Khajod section of Surat metro’s line-1. “The groundwork for Surat Metro is expected to begin in the first quarter of 2021 and full-fledged construction in the second quarter of 2021,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ground-breaking-ceremony-for-surat-metro-today/articleshow/80318120.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Nagpur||Inquiry panel yet to finalize report of Jan 9 Bhandara hospital fire that killed 10 babies||Nagpur: Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar-led committee was yet to submit the report of inquiry into the Bhandara district general hospital fire which claimed the lives of 10 premature babies on January 9. Till reports last came in late on Sunday evening, Kumar was said to be still in the process of finalizing the crucial report which is likely to fix responsibility for the tragedy and also make suggestions on fire preventions in hospitals to the government. Bhandara police too confirmed that the report was yet to be submitted till the time of going to the press. SP Vasant Jadhav told TOI that the police are already probing the case after registering Sec 174 under CrPC for accidental death. Action would be initiated after getting the expert committee report. The panel was given an extended deadline till Sunday. Health secretary Pradeep Vyas had informed the state cabinet that the panel would submit its report on January 17. Vyas and health commissioner Ramaswamy N didn’t respond to TOI’s calls and messages. Sources said the panel completed its spot inspection and questioning of stakeholders three days ago. Since January 15, the panel members are in the city busy writing the report at the commissioner’s office in the old secretariat. On Sunday, the members met at the PWD Civil Lines office where Kumar too reached to finalize the first draft of the report. Sources said the members are staying back late night to write the report and it is expected that they will finalize the first draft on Sunday night. BMC deputy commissioner (fire safety) Prabhat Rahangdale, who is also assisting the Kumar committee, had visited Bhandara just once on January 12. He is said to be working on his report from Mumbai. Dr Sadhana Tayade, GMCH paediatric head, Dr Dipty Jain, PWD representative, Bhandara collector’s representative and deputy chief fire officer (Mumbai) Rajendra Choudhary have majorly conducted the questioning and spot inspection. Panel chief Kumar has visited the hospital a couple of times. Speculations about the submission of the much-awaited report were also doing the rounds with many claims surfacing about the hospital administrative officials facing the panel heat. Rumour mills were also doing the rounds regarding top officials being under the scanner. However, some members refuted the allegations. On January 10, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had made it clear that no one would be made a scapegoat. It remains to be seen if the panel recommends any action against doctors and nurses at the hospital. Four of the seven rescued babies discharged The district general hospital at Bhandara has so far discharged four of the seven babies which were rescued on the night of January 9 from Sick newborn care unit (SNCU). The babies were shifted to family welfare department’s rooms after the fire at SNCU. The parents had been demanding discharge following the incident. They had accused the hospital administration of keeping their kids for show off as several VIPs flocked the hospital. One of the parents had a peculiar problem as the hospital discharged only one of the twin daughters and held back the other claiming she was still underweight. Two babies were discharged on Thursday while two more were allowed to go home by Saturday. The hospital has not disclosed about the remaining three babies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/inquiry-panel-yet-to-finalize-report-of-jan-9-bhandara-hospital-fire-that-killed-10-babies/articleshow/80319397.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 18, 2021||Ludhiana||Giaspura family accuses man of posing as cop to extort money||Ludhiana: A family of Pipal Chowk in Giaspura has accused a man of extorting money from them by posing as a cop. They also alleged that an ASI posted at Sahnewal police station helped the accused. Kailash Kumar lodged a complaint with commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal, following which a probe was initiated. However, the Sahnewal cops have refuted the allegations.Kailash Kumar said he had a dispute with his brother, Ram Vilas. On December 21 last, he had gone to his hometown in Bihar and on December 24, his brother, along with his son, thrashed his son, Ravi, after barging into their house. His wife, Radhika Devi, informed him about it. He alleged, “On December 25, my wife said Ravi has been detained by the Sahnewal police. When she reached the police station, accused Rajesh Verma, who claimed to be a cop, was present in support of my brother. When Radhika requested ASI Balbeer Singh to release Ravi, he said she would have to ask Verma and Ram Vilas, the main complainant. Verma asked my wife to give Rs 50,000 to save Ravi.” “The cops had beaten up my son. My wife was too scared and gave Verma Rs 50,000, following which ASI Balbeer released my son. My son got so frightened that on the next day, December 26, he left the house and has not returned yet. I came back on December 30 and reached Sahnewal police station to lodge a complaint, but they did not listen to us. So I had to file a complaint with the commissioner of police,” added Kailash Kumar. He has also accused a few accomplices of Verma who helped him in the extortion. However, Sahnewal SHO sub-inspector Balwinder Singh said, “The matter is in my knowledge. Kailash Kumar had a property dispute, a complaint of which was being investigated by ASI Balbeer Singh. Now, I am probing the case. Verma is not a cop, but I am checking his role in the case. The allegations against Balbeer Singh are baseless. Moreover, the family did not approach us for lodging a missing complaint of their son.” ASI Balbeer Singh, who was transferred to Shimlapuri police station about a week ago, said he does not remember any such case or complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/giaspura-family-accuses-man-of-posing-as-cop-to-extort-money/articleshow/80317284.cms||Payal Dhawan
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: After video goes viral, two who harassed woman on Western Express Highway held||MUMBAI: Two men were arrested on Sunday following a TOI report about a woman and her family being harassed by the duo on the Western Express Highway (WEH) on Thursday night. A video clip was shot by the woman showing the men making obscene gestures and mouthing expletives. They had no helmets or masks on, and their motorcycle did not have a number plate. The police went through surveillance footage from 27 cameras before tracking them down. The two were booked for rash driving, endangering human life and not wearing masks. The woman did not press charges. Kunal Singh (26), the motorcycle rider, works as a delivery boy for food apps. Rishabh Singh (21), who was riding pillion, is unemployed. Both live in Santacruz (east) and were headed to a falooda shop in Mahim around 10.30pm on January 14. The 21-year-old woman was seated in the front with her father, who was driving. Her 18-year-old sister and grandmother were in the back. “Around 10.10pm, when we were at Vakola on WEH, two men came riding rashly on a motorcycle. The rider was speeding and narrowly avoided colliding with our car. He was driving zig-zag throughout,” the woman had told TOI. The rider sped up to the driver’s side and hurled abuses. Then, they targeted the girls. “They hurled abuses in Hindi and English and made obscene gestures. My father drove away. The men changed lanes and came up to my side. I recorded them on my phone. They were drinking out of a glass bottle. Till we crossed Kherwadi, the harassment went on. They turned to go towards Mahim,” said the woman. “We checked footage from cameras between Andheri and Mahim,” said senior inspector Sunaina Nate. The men were captured on camera returning from Mahim. Without a number plate, the bike was not easy to track. The police found where the bike was usually parked in Santacruz.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-video-goes-viral-two-who-harassed-woman-on-weh-held/articleshow/80319419.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Surat||Surat: Man wanted in New Delhi loot nabbed||SURAT: Police nabbed a robber on Friday from Sachin GIDC area who was involved in loot in New Delhi in March 2019. Delhi police had announced Rs 20,000 reward on him and he had been absconding ever since. Police nabbed Sanjay Soni, 25, from near Diamond Park in Sachin GIDC and will hand him over to Delhi police for further investigation. Police inspector of Ichhapore police station S J Pandya received specific information about the location of the accused based on which he was nabbed. Police recovered cash Rs 22,800 and a mobile phone from the accused. The accused carried out loot in Shiv Vihar in Uttam Nagar of New Delhi in March 2019. Along with Soni his friends Viru, Babu and Lalla were involved in the loot. To receive information about Soni, Delhi police announced a reward of Rs 20,000 in November 2019. Soni, a permanent resident of Tilak Nagar in New Delhi was currently living in Sai Park Complex of Sachin. He was employed as a labourer in the industry of Sachin GIDC area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-wanted-in-new-delhi-loot-nabbed/articleshow/80318182.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Vadodara||Statue of Unity on fast track to beckon backpackers from world over||VADODARA: The Statue of Unity (SoU) is expected to witness a massive inflow of tourists with eight important destinations across India being connected to the world’s tallest statue with railway on Sunday. “Kevadiya has now become a global tourist destination and it is getting more visitors than the Statue of Liberty in the US. With more connectivity now, nearly one lakh people will visit Kevadiya in the coming days,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his address after virtually flagging off trains from eight cities to Kevadiya on Sunday. Close to 50 lakh people have visited SoU after it was inaugurated by the PM in 2018. Modi said nearly 200 rooms have been identified in the tribal villages in Kevadia to give the tourists an experience of homestay while bringing a transformation in the lives of the tribals. "New avenues of jobs and self-employment will open up for the adivasis. The railway line will provide connection to religious places like Karnali, Poicha and Garudeshwar on the Narmada River," he added. Kevadiya, which has been developed as India’s first green railway station, will also have a tribal art gallery and viewing gallery. Tourists will be able to view the SoU from this viewing gallery. The eight connectivities include Dabhoi-Chandod-Kevadiya comprising of 50 km electrified section, rightwards arrow Pratapnagar-Kevadiya section 80 km of electrified section, rightwards arrow Vistadome coaches for scenic journeys, Chandod-Kevadiya new broad gauge rail line, right-pointing triangle Dabhoi-Chandod converted broad guage, right-pointing triangle Pratapnagar-Kevadiya electrified section and right-pointing triangle new station buildings of Dabhoi, Chandod and Kevadiya. Without naming the previous Congress-led UPA government, Modi said, “The dedicated freight corridor (DFC) as an example of change in approach from earlier times. This project was under progress and between 2006-2014 work was done only on paper with not even a single km of track laid. Now, a total of 1,100 kms are about to be completed in the next few days.” Stating that "aatmanirbharta" (self-reliance) in railway-related manufacturing and technology has yielding good results, PM called for the need for skilled and specialist manpower to for transformation of railways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sou-on-fast-track-to-beckon-global-backpackers/articleshow/80316819.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Goa||Give land ownership rights to Melauli locals: Congress||Panaji: The battle against IIT Goa may have been won but the war to gain ownership of the land is not over for the villagers of Melauli, said Congress on Sunday. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said the villagers have shown the rest of Goa the power of unity and courage to take on the BJP government. Congress also felicitated the villagers, especially the village leaders, at the site of the protest. Chodankar demanded that the government grant ownership of the land to the villagers who have been cultivating it for generations. “The IIT is just a small issue but the main fight is for ownership of land. There are laws in Goa which state that those who cultivate the fields are the owners,” Chodankar said. “There is a Tenancy Act. Today the government says the land is theirs but how can they say this when you are cultivating the land?” Chodankar accused the state government, particularly chief minister Pramod Sawant, of trying to acquire the land. “Generations have come and gone but this land has been with all of them. The people’s fight is not over.” Congress said that it will support the villagers in their fight for justice. “The fight of the people of Melauli has given a sign to entire Goa that one small village can take on the government, take beating, go on hunger strike to compel the government to back off. It is not easy and there is a lesson for Goa,” Chodankar said. Congress general secretary Amarnath Panjikar applauded the villagers of Melauli for taking on the government in unity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/give-land-ownership-rights-to-melauli-locals-congress/articleshow/80319417.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: DDA banks on in situ rehab, to survey 96 slums in three months||NEW DELHI: Around 20 lakh people live in 675 slum clusters that dot the capital and out of these, 499 are on land belonging to Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and the central government. Even as work is going on for a decade on DDA’s in situ slum redevelopment projects at Kathputli Colony and Kalkaji and six similar projects covering 30 slum clusters are in the pipeline, the land development agency is embarking on a detailed survey of 96 slum clusters. These slums may see redevelopment in future. The quality of housing in slum or jhuggi-jhopri clusters is abysmal and the access to basic amenities for their residents is extremely inadequate. Officials said that DDA is implementing a three-pronged strategy of in situ upgradation, redevelopment and rehabilitation or relocation of slum dwellers, in a phased manner. The aim behind the survey, which will be carried out house-to-house over a period of three months, is to assess the number of people and households in approximately 96 slum clusters with documents on their status and eligibility for resettlement or in situ redevelopment. Besides providing inputs for development, the survey will also result in stakeholder analysis to understand people’s perception of their problems and aspirations. The survey will help DDA in assessing the affordability of the people for housing and to develop suitable housing and related indicators, which are required for monitoring, evaluation and planning. The survey, for which DDA is looking for a professional agency, will help create a comprehensive database of slum clusters and dwellers for rehabilitation, complying with the requirement of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna (Urban). After verification, the data will be updated on a mobile application in an electronic format along with GIS maps. During the survey, rough sketch plans of the clusters, showing the demarcation of boundaries and respective areas, will also be recorded. The survey will be supervised and the data will be finalised for eligibility by the in situ rehabilitation branch, Housing DDA. Out of the 96 slum clusters, the largest number – 42 – are located in and around Okhla Industrial Area. The largest of these clusters is Sanjay Colony, which is spread over 53,000 square metres with 3,792 households in Okhla Phase-II. Apart from Okhla Industrial Area, majority of the slum clusters are located in south and southeast Delhi areas, such as Lodhi Road, Bhogal, Amar Colony, Nehru Nagar, Kalkaji, Sukhdev Vihar, Mehrauli, Ashram, Anant Ram Dairy, Sangam Vihar, Prahlad Pur, Badarpur and Tughlaqabad. Other clusters are located in west and northwest Delhi areas like Todapur, Jwalapuri, Rohini Sector-3, Maya Puri and Peeragarhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-situ-rehabilitation-dda-to-survey-96-slum-clusters/articleshow/80318211.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 18, 2021||Ludhiana||Disciple of ‘godman’ sentenced to 12-yr RI for raping 17-yr-old||Ludhiana: A local court has sentenced a disciple of a self-styled godman to 12 years’ rigorous imprisonment for raping a minor at his office.The court of additional sessions judge Rashmi Sharma also imposed a fine of Rs 20,000 on the convict, Puran Mal. In case of default in fine payment, he will have to undergo another year’s rigorous imprisonment. The court also asked the District Legal Services Authority to pay Rs 4-lakh relief to the survivor under the victim compensation scheme. On June 28, 2017, Ludhiana police had booked Puran Mal of Churu in Rajasthan, who worked at the office of “godman” Mian Baadshah, for raping the 17-year-old at his office. As per the prosecution, the survivor’ father had told the police, “I have five daughters and a son. While three of my daughters are married, the 17-year-old and her younger sister are studying. My youngest child is physically disabled. Friends advised me to take him to godman Mian Baadshah. I along with my wife, two daughters and son went to meet the godman on June 28, 2017.”There, Puran Mal gave the complainant a folded piece of paper and asked him to visit a cremation ground along with his wife and son. “He told me to circle the paper over my son’s head seven times and throw it in front of the cremation ground gate. He also asked me to bring a black thread on returning. When we went back to the office of the godman, we found a crowd there and later learned that the accused had raped my daughter after sending her sister out,” he had said in his police complaint.During the case trial, the accused said he was being implicated. The additional public prosecutor, S S Haidar, sought punishment to the accused on the basis of prosecution evidence. The defence counsel argued that the “godman” not joining the investigation and not being examined as a prosecution witness were fatal to the present case. It was also submitted that the complainant had never intended to meet accused Puran Mal and wanted to get the godman’s treatment and when he was not present in the office, there was no question of the complainant or his family seeking any advice from the accused. “This contention on behalf of the defence is self-contradictory as defence nowhere denies accused Puran Mal having met the parents of the prosecutrix and asked them to visit cremation ground as part of treatment. In fact, defence itself is stressing upon the plea regarding family of prosecutrix having paid fees of Rs 1,500 to Puran Mal for the purpose of treatment and advice which itself negates the assertion of defence regarding accused Puran Mal having not met the prosecutrix and her family members,” the court held.“As far as contention of non-examination of Mian Baadshah in the present case is concerned, same does not in any manner bring the case of accused on any better footing,” the court observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/disciple-of-godman-sentenced-to-12-yr-ri-for-raping-17-yr-old/articleshow/80317295.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Surat||Three of a family drown in Navsari lake boat capsize||SURAT: A boat with around 10 members of a family from Surat capsized in a lake at Eco-Point near Soldhara village of Navsari district around 71 km from here late on Sunday evening. Three bodies including that of a one-year-old child were fished out from the lake while others were rescued and shifted to nearby hospitals. Police are, however, yet to confirm how many people were on the boat. “Police are focusing on a rescue operation at present. Only after we complete the search of the lake water we can confirm how many people were there on the boat,” said Rushikesh Upadhyay, superintendent of police, Navsari. The family had come from Surat and at around 7 pm and what caused the boat to capsize is still being investigated. Being a popular picnic spot number of visitors go to the Eco-Point on weekends. “So far three bodies have been fished out and search for other people is on. The exact number of deaths will be confirmed after the rescue operation ends,” said a police officer of Chikhli police station. Cops are trying to identify the family through their documents and mobile phones. Due to darkness, rescue operation has become challenging. Rescue teams from Chikhli and Navsari were joined by locals to save the victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-of-a-family-drown-in-navsari-lake-boat-capsize/articleshow/80318209.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Nagpur||Will take it later, out of station, on duty, say those who skipped vax||Nagpur: At least seven doctors and nurses had point blank refused to take Covishield shots when they were contacted on Saturday by the IGGMCH immunization team. On Sunday, TOI spoke to a couple of them to find out the reason for not taking the vaccine, and to some who took the vaccine. A nurse, who has been working in the Covid ward since March, said she was concerned about her kid in case of adverse effect following immunization (AEFI). “We have a 3-year-old son. My husband is also working. We somehow manage our shifts to take care of him in rotation. We don’t have anyone in the city with whom our son can stay.” She also added that she was not given time off from work to go and take the vaccine. “I would have gone if a substitute was provided at work. My shift was till 8pm, and I couldn’t leave my ward,” she said. The nurse also said, though, that following controversies over vaccination she had made up her mind to wait and watch. A doctor who had refused didn’t directly say no to the vaccine but expressed reluctance. “I don’t want to get vaccinated now. I had to go outstation for some urgent work,” he said. Another nurse said some urgent work had cropped up, and she had to go out of town. She didn’t say ‘yes’ when asked if she would get vaccinated later this week. NMC had registered nine refusals at Pachpaoli Women’s Hospital, where the inauguration for the district happened. An NMC official said, “Five persons received calls but did not turn up after assuring to come, so were placed under refusal. All were ASHA workers of NMC.” Of remaining four, three are doctors and one ASHA worker of NMC. One ASHA worker said, “My family members suggested not to take the vaccine on Day-1. I will wait for the results of others who took it, and then take the jab.” Contacted by NMC staff, three doctors also refused to come and take vaccine, saying they will take it at a later stage. They did not directly cite apprehensions but gave other reasons like not feeling well etc. At this centre, NMC had kept target of 85 as against centre’s guidelines of 100 per centre. Finally, only 59 turned up and took the vaccine. Besides the nine refusals, the remaining 17 included one pregnant, two active Covid cases, seven who said they were out of station, and seven who did not respond to calls. Among those who took the vaccine, zonal medical officer of NMC Ashi Nagar Zone Dr Dipankar Bhivgade said, “I am fine and faced no complications. There were no complaints from others who took the jabs at Pachpaoli centre.” He was the first health care worker to take the dose at the centre Also, zonal medical officer of NMC Satranjipura Zone Dr Minakshi Mane said, “I have no complications post vaccination. I am feeling mild fatigue, which might be due to work stress.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/will-take-it-later-out-of-station-on-duty-say-those-who-skipped-vax/articleshow/80319399.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 18, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Heritage committees’ nod must for construction in Walled City||JAIPUR: Construction and renovation in the Walled City area will now be done only after the permission of various heritage committees. Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC), Heritage commissioner Lok Bandhu has given orders regarding the same on January 13 under which any permission for construction in the Walled City area will have to go through several committees. In the Rajasthan Heritage Bylaws released last year, it was mentioned that committees will be formed to decide on permission for construction of buildings. The order issued by the commissioner states that for construction and renovation of all the heritage buildings inside Walled City — the 1,575 buildings of heritage importance, buildings on either side of the heritage walkway, buildings identified on behalf of the heritage cell along with buildings located on either side of the main markets — a permission will have to be sought from the Heritage Cell, Technical Heritage Committee and Building Construction and Works Committee. At first, an application will have to be made to the zonal offices of JMC, Heritage that will look into the ownerships of the building from where it will go to the Heritage Cell. After the cell has checked the details, it will be transferred to the head of Technical Heritage Committee i.e. the chief town planner. The town planner will further it to the Heritage mayor who will, after completing the formalities, transfer the file to the zonal office. Permission of state government will be held necessary for construction or renovation of any building of national and state importance. This multi-layer system of getting permission from different committees has technically made it difficult to construct or renovate a house in the Walled City area. The buildings, other than those of heritage importance, will have to follow a similar procedure except the mayor’s clearance. After the clearance from technical committee, the application will be sent back to the zonal office. Procedure to get approvalApplication will have to be made at the zonal office concerned After checking the ownership of the plot, the file will be sent to Heritage Cell which will examine the map as per the spot report and building regulations After investigation by Heritage Cell, the file will be sent to the Technical Heritage Committee After receiving the recommendation of Technical Heritage Committee, the file will be sent to the Building and Works Committee. The file will then be presented to city mayor for approval. Permission must from state govt for any building of national or state importance||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/heritage-committees-nod-must-for-construction-in-walled-city/articleshow/80318187.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Nagpur||Couple electrocuted by farm fence||Chandrapur: A couple was electrocuted due to a farm fence near Ghugus on Saturday night. No arrests were made as the post mortem report is awaited, said SDPO Sheelwant Nandedkar. Sonba Bandurkar’s farm is on the outskirts of Ghugus village. He electrified his fence to protect his crops from wild animals. Victims Sandesh Takkala (30) and his wife Umeshwari (28) from Shantinagar ward tried to creep underneath the fence and got electrocuted. The couple is survived by two small kids. The bodies were recovered on Sunday morning. Inspector Rahul Gangurde and his team completed the initial investigation. A large crowd had gathered at the spot. Congress’s Raju Reddy and other locals demanded Rs50 lakh compensation from the farm owner. After negotiations, the owner agreed to deposit Rs4 lakh each in the name of both the kids of the deceased couple and Rs1 lakh for their last rites. It’s still uncertain as to why the couple was trying to creep into the farm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/couple-electrocuted-by-farm-fence/articleshow/80319401.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||Ustad Ghulam Mustafa Khan who mentored generations of playback singers passes away||MUMBAI: Legendary classical vocalist Ustad Ghulam Mustafa Khan, who mentored leading singers of the Hindi film industry from Lata Mangeshkar to Geeta Dutt, Asha Bhosle, Hariharan and Sonu Nigam, passed away at age 89 Sunday. His passing brings down the curtains on an era of master vocalists led by stalwarts like himself, Pt Jasraj and Pt Bhimsen Joshi. Lata Mangeshkar made the announcement on Twitter. “I have just received the sad news that the great classical singer Ustad Ghulam Mustafa Khan is no longer in this world. I am deeply sad to hear this. He was a good singer of course, but also a very good human being.” She added, “My niece has also learnt music from Khan Sahab, I had also learnt a little from him. His passing leaves the world of music poorer. I pay my humble respects to him.” Khan received a state funeral at Santacruz Qabrastan around 7.30pm. During his lifetime he was presented all three Padma awards as well as the Sangeet Natak Akademi Puraskar. He sang for a few movies too, notably the Raagmala in ‘Umr-ao Jaan’, Mrinal Sen’s ‘Bhuvan Shome’ and ‘Badnaam Basti’. He enacted the part of Baiju Bawra for the German film ‘Rainmaker’. Khan Sahab lent his voice to no less than 70 documentaries made by the Films Division. The music fraternity turned out in strength to pay their last respects. His students carry the grain of versatility in their throats, just as he did. There was Hariharan, Anup Jalota, Nigam and Shaan, TV producer-director Gajendra Singh who introduced the young generation to Ustadji through his talent show ‘SaReGaMa’, attended the last rites. Khan is survived by wife Amina and eight children. His daughter-in-law Namrata Gupta Khan who authored his biography, ‘A Dream I Lived Alone’, said, “He had suffered a brain stroke October 15, 2019, and lived with us as he recuperated. In fact he was recovering well, so the end came as a shock.”  She recalled with fondness the stalwart who came to her conservative non-musical family to seek her hand for his son and promised to treat her like a daughter. Ustad Sahab was a torchbearer of India’s composite culture or Ganga–Jamuni tehzeeb not only in word, but also in deed. Nigam said: “Ustad Sahab was the last of the titans—one of the biggest classical vocal exponents of the country. To me his name epitomises all that is khaandani (of fine lineage), hard work, dedication, knowledge, responsibility...” Shaan said, “Ustadji taught me life lessons that will stand me in good stead always.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ustad-who-mentored-generations-of-playback-singers-passes-away/articleshow/80319970.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
January 18, 2021||Nagpur||Theatre coming back on track in city after prolonged Covid pause||Nagpur’s theatre activity, which was either stopped or only restricted to online platforms during the Covid-19 lockdown period, is now showing the signs of revival. Second week of January has seen near jam-packed audience (in new restricted seating format) at back-to-back three shows of Marathi play on Sant Gajanan Maharaj. Now, next two weeks will mark the re-start of the theatres — both local and commercial — in Nagpur in full swing. Of course, organizers will have to follow all the Covid-related rules and regulations in all the upcoming theatre activities. “The 3 shows of Marathi play ‘Shegavicha Mahayogi’ — one in Suresh Bhat Hall and two in Dr Vasantrao Deshpande Hall — on January 9 and 10, respectively, had received enthusiastic response. We were earlier sceptical about response to a commercial play. But, the audience enjoyed it a lot,” said producer-director Sanjay Pendse. From January 24, Nagpur centre of Natya Parishad, the apex body of Marathi theatre activists; is organizing an amateur theatre festival in memory of veteran theatre activist Prakash Lunge at Scientific Hall in Laxmi Nagar. “Eight plays, a story presentation and a monologue will be staged during the daylong activity. This will be the first amateur theatre activity post-Covid,” said Salim Sheikh, president of Marathi Natya Parishad, Nagpur branch. Groups from Nagpur, Chandrapur, and Indore will be presenting their shows. Nagpur’s prominent theatre groups — Sanjay Bhakre Foundation, Art Lab, Hemendu Rangbhoomi, Rashtrabhasha Parivar will also be presenting their plays. English theatre activity is coming back on stage on January 23 and 24 with Stagecraft bringing their lighthearted romantic love story ‘While we are working’ at St Ursula stage. Entry to both shows will be on-invitation. “Owing to Covid restrictions, we are going to have a very limited number of audiences. So, we have decided to invite some selected people to both the shows,” said Vikash Khurana of Stagecraft. It will take a few more days for commercial theatre from Mumbai to reach Nagpur. “I have booked theatre on February 21 and in the first week of March for Marathi commercial plays,” said theatre organizer Samir Pandit. First commercial play will be ‘Harawlelya Pattyancha Bangla’ starring Vandana Gupte, Pratiksha Lonkar and others. Prashant Damle’s play will be organized in March. “We have paid full rent of the theatres. However, Covid restrictions allow only 50% occupancy. We must get some concession in rent, otherwise it would be difficult for us to host commercial groups from Mumbai,” said Pandit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/theatre-coming-back-on-track-in-city-after-prolonged-covid-pause/articleshow/80319409.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 18, 2021||Nagpur||Take stringent action against Chinese manja, min tells CP||Nagpur: State home minister Anil Deshmukh has urged the top brass of the police department to ensure that the use of Chinese manja is curtailed in the city. During a programme at the Police Gymkhana on Sunday, Deshmukh also expressed grief over the death of 23-year-old Pranay Thakre due to nylon manja. City police chief Amitesh Kumar and Zonal DCP Neelotpal later apprised Deshmukh about their effective use of drone cameras to keep a watch on kite flyers and also to take action if they were found using the banned manja during the ongoing festive season. Deshmukh, who launched the body-worn camera project, handed over the gadgets to 10 traffic cops. He also appealed to citizens to not fall prey to cyber frauds promising the Covid vaccine. The home minister said cyber crooks can procure one’s bank and Aadhaar details by impersonating as health officials. Deshmukh also urged Kumar to use the gadget to ‘sting’ road Romeos who target women on the streets, especially at desolate places. Later, Deshmukh said body cameras would help the police to record violations, aggressive behaviour of violators and also improve overall policing. The home minister also asked the CP to act against bikers performing stunts which often lead to fatal accidents. Deshmukh stressed on using corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds from public sector organizations such as like MOIL and WCL for procuring advanced quality drones with effective payload capacities and public address systems. He also urged the CP to ensure special illuminated poles for motorists to indicate the colour of the traffic signal ahead. “Write to me about your requirement of advanced drones and I shall approach the Reliance group for your unit,” Deshmukh told the CP. Deshmukh also said that in the next phase, CCTV cameras would come with sound quality of the public address system. The home minister also inaugurated a compendium of traffic signals which were being prepared under traffic DCP Sarang Awad and his team studying the patterns of 163 signals in the city. Awad also said that traffic police have conducted studies on 18 over bridges and 52 black spots in city. Kumar said body borne cameras would help cops record violations. “It’s modern technology will help in evidence-based policing,” he said. Deshmukh praised Kumar and his team for conducting successful drives and also announced a reward of Rs50,000 for the Jaripatka police for recovering firearms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/take-stringent-action-against-chinese-manja-min-tells-cp/articleshow/80319405.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 18, 2021||Kochi||State’s protected areas get ‘good’ ratings from MoEF||Kochi: Seven of the eight protected areas (PAs) in the state which were evaluated for management effectiveness during 2018-19 have shown performance ratings that range from ‘good’ to ‘very good’. Only Mangalavanam bird sanctuary, within Kochi city has been characterised as ‘fair’ considering its urban surroundings, which makes its existence precarious. The report said rationalizing boundaries of PAs like Kottiyoor and Aralam WLS is a requirement, so that instead of being two small sanctuaries with separate managements they can become a single, compact and modest-sized landscape under better and unified management regime. Thattekkad Bird Sanctuary in Ernakulam topped the list with management effective evaluation (MEE) score of 77.5% and was categorized as ‘very good’. Neyyar Wildlife Sanctuary with a score of 72.5%, Peechi Vazhani Wildlife Sanctuary (69.2%), Kottiyoor Wildlife Sanctuary (67.5%), Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary (66.6%), Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary (66%) and Kurinjimala (61.7%) were categorized as ‘good’. The MEE, jointly carried out by Union ministry of environment and forest and climate change (MoEFCC) and Wildlife Institute of India, noted that all protected areas had significant habitat, floral and faunal values being located in the south of Western Ghats bio-geographic zone. One of the significant values of the PAs were their contiguity with the larger interstate transboundary habitat landscape, the report noted. These linkages and contiguity provides an opportunity for wildlife migration and gene flow amongst populations in different states. The report also flagged large human settlements in PAs like Wayanand and the management has to spend most of their time in sorting out the problems. Large human settlements also give rise to associated problems such as fire, grazing, invasive species and monoculture plantations, which the PA management needs to focus on if they are to move from ‘good’ to ‘very good’ category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/states-protected-areas-get-good-ratings-from-moef/articleshow/80317319.cms||Binu Karunakaran
January 18, 2021||Delhi||Give your opinion on master plan 2041 to ‘re-invent’ Delhi, urges DDA||NEW DELHI: Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is preparing the Master Plan for Delhi 2041 and it wants Delhiites to share their vision and become a part of re-inventing the capital. The authority is preparing MPD-2041 with the support of National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA) and has been carrying out a series of discussions and consultations with various stakeholders, including RWAs and civil society groups, to seek inputs that will help drive the agenda for the Master Plan. The land development agency has been holding many online public consultations and is seeking the opinion and vision of Delhiites to steer the next master plan. As part of the exercise, Delhiites can access and fill an online document through the authority’s website dda.org.in. It has requested respondents to write a maximum of five priority statements describing their ideas for the kind of city they want Delhi to be. DDA said the statements should be simple such as ‘I want a Green Delhi’, ‘Clean air for Delhi’, ‘Delhi’s heritage should be celebrated’ etc., an official said. The respondents will also be asked to briefly describe the issues they face in the city that they want to be addressed as part of the MPD 2041, such as issues related to infrastructure, environment, safety, security, employment, housing, transport, governance or any big ideas for the future of Delhi, the official said. To improve public participation in the making of the master plan, DDA has also launched an interactive microsite ‘Public Engagement Portal for MPD-2041’.“The portal has information on the preparation of MPD 2041 and provides citizens the opportunity to share their feedback,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/give-your-opinion-on-master-plan-2041-to-re-invent-city-urges-dda/articleshow/80318215.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 18, 2021||Surat||Fake vehicle loan frauds duped four banks: Surat cops||SURAT: Digging into the racket of procuring vehicle loan from the bank for ghost vehicles revealed that the fraudsters have duped at least three other banks apart from Yes Bank. Based on a complaint by Yes Bank officials, police have already booked 20 accused and arrested five on Saturday. Senior police officials informed that the accused have adopted similar modus operandi to cheat ICICI Bank and an inquiry is underway. While police suspect that the gang had targeted two other private banks and their names will be declared only after investigation. “From the preliminary investigation it was found that the accused have targeted Yes Bank, ICICI Bank and two other banks. The accused borrowed loans using forged papers and vehicle registration certificates (RC),” said police. The accused have been booked for borrowing 53 loans amounting to a staggering Rs 8.64 crore from Yes Bank between 2016 to 2018. They initially paid instalments but after default in repayment of multiple loans the bank started an inquiry. “With other banks the total amount of loan borrowed is less,” said an officer. Box Manufacturer denied making of these vehicles Investigation revealed that the accused got bus and trucks registered in Arunachal Pradesh (AP) using forged purchase and insurance papers. Later using these RCs, the accused borrowed loans from banks in Gujarat. Yes Bank officials contacted truck manufacturers TATA and Ashok Leyland for verification of the identification numbers, which they denied. “There could be involvement of bank officials as well when the loan was approved,” said police. Financial frauds on cops’ radar “We are doing a quick and in-depth investigation in financial frauds as these criminals siphon off a huge chunk of money in one attempt which is equal to the total value of thefts of loots reported in the city annually. We will immediately nail these crooks who target public money in banks or other victims,” said Ajay Tomar, city police commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fake-vehicle-loan-frauds-duped-four-banks-cops/articleshow/80318218.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
January 18, 2021||Kolkata||Calcutta University set to start opening PG labs after 10-month Covid break||KOLKATA: Calcutta University has given an informal go-ahead to its postgraduate departments to reopen laboratories for practical classes and the chemistry department is the first to invite students back on campus on Monday. SOPs have been drawn up for the laboratories that will be used after 10 months. Only the third-semester PG students will join face-to-face interactions. Elated with the decision of CU authorities, principal of Lady Brabourne College, Siuli Sarkar, has sent an email to VC Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee seeking permission to open labs for PG candidates. “On Monday, we have decided to hold laboratory session for the third-semester students. There are four specializations and each has 24, 18, 18 and 10 candidates enrolled. These students will be equally divided into batches. Each batch has been given a scheduled time and date to attend the practical classes,” said a chemistry department teacher of CU on the Rajabazar campus. He added that among the other guidelines which have been drawn up include the mandatory use of masks and hand sanitizers. The practical classes shall continue. Another teacher pointed out that the first semester PG students of chemistry department can’t be invited to the laboratories because the strength of the class is approximately 70. “They follow the same syllabus. Thus, it is difficult to hold such a huge number of students,” explained the chemistry department faculty member. “Some other departments like physics are lined up to reopen practical classes from the mid-week and several others are looking at beginning the laboratory classes from February 1. The science and technology faculties have approved the decision to start practical classes in their respective Board of Studies. The decisions had to be taken considering the upcoming odd-semester examinations from March 8 to March 26,” said a faculty teacher. “The colleges will have to decide themselves as CU is not issuing any instruction to formally begin the practical classes. The Board of Studies, which are autonomous, have taken the decisions. Similarly, no such instruction is to be mailed to colleges,” said a CU official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cu-set-to-start-opening-pg-labs-after-10-month-covid-break/articleshow/80318238.cms||Somdatta Basu
January 18, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra to resume vaccination tomorrow, for 4 straight days||MUMBAI: A day after the state government said the next Covid-19 vaccination session would begin after glitches in the Co-WIN app were resolved by the Centre, public health minister Rajesh Tope on Sunday announced that the second session would be conducted on Tuesday. He said it was likely that all four sessions allowed in a week would be wrapped up in four straight days. Tope’s announcement was an indication that the problems experienced with the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) on Friday and Saturday were nearing resolution and were likely to be ironed out by Monday. The state had suspended the vaccination drive after facing the problems. “On Saturday evening there was a video-conference with the Union health minister seeking feedback on the first day of vaccination,” Tope said. “All the states, including Maharashtra, raised the issue regarding the Co-WIN app. And it was decided that the second session will be held once the glitches are resolved.” “We will re-start the vaccination drive from Tuesday and will try to carry out the drive for four days continuously,” said Tope. The first vaccination round was held on Saturday, when the turnout of beneficiaries in the city was 48%, with the low figure blamed on Co-WIN glitches like the app not generating a list of beneficiaries or sending out messages to those who were to be vaccinated. Healthcare workers who received the first shot of the vaccine on Saturday are being monitored for 48 hours, said officials. Each vaccination centre has set up a 24-hour helpline for beneficiaries to report any adverse symptoms. As some who were listed as beneficiaries has also refused to take the vaccine on the first day, authorities decided to carry out a robust counselling programme in upcoming vaccination sessions. “We are calling up people who have missed taking the vaccine, despite being listed as a beneficiary, and are dispelling their fears and anxiety regarding the safety of the vaccines,” Nikhil Saindane, Nashik district nodal officer for the vaccination programme, said. Tope said problems with the Co-WIN app had slowed down the process on the first day in many centres. “The Centre has made it mandatory for the entire process to be carried out online and so the drive cannot start unless the app is rectified,” he said. While BMC officials said that they had been informed that a drive would be held on Tuesday, they had also been told it could not be held without Co-WIN. “We have very clear instructions that the drive should not be held without the application. We will review things on Monday when we will have an update on the app’s functioning,” Dr Mangala Gomare, BMC executive health officer, said. Dr Gomare said the turnout of 48% on the first day was not too bad. “Despite last-minute preparations and late intimations, nearly 2,000 people showed up,” she said. Regarding those who missed their chance on Saturday, Dr Gomare said that they were likely to be rescheduled for vaccination later. “We will have more clarity on this once the application starts working,” she said. TOI on Sunday reported the harrowing time BMC officials had gone through on Friday night, when beneficiaries did not receive messages and they had to make frantic calls to 4,000 of them in a span of three hours. The launch of the mega drive on Saturday had hinged on 4,000 healthcare workers showing up at 10 centres, but none had been informed. Tope said he had once again raised the issue of having the remaining Covid-19 vaccine doses sent to the state, which has only received about 9.6 lakh doses when its requirement is nearly 17 lakh. “We have once again raised our demand for free doses for the second phase of frontline workers and even for people from below the poverty line,” the minister said. The drive on Tuesday will start around 9am. “Hereon, it will be more like a routine immunisation programme since it will go on for several months, maybe lasting more than a year,” an immunisation officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-to-resume-vaccination-tomorrow-for-4-straight-days/articleshow/80321173.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 18, 2021||Chandigarh||400 Covid vaccination sites in Haryana by this week||CHANDIGARH: Haryana health authorities on Sunday said they are increasing immunisation sites by at least five-fold this week starting from Monday. They also claimed that the state has achieved 81% coverage of immunisation on Saturday. But the reports released by the Haryana health department on Saturday, 78% immunisation has been done in 77 sites across the state. ACS health, Rajiv Arora said the state has sufficient stocks of vaccine for the frst round and adequate measures have been put in place for the second round. “It was only due to encouraging turnover, we have decided to increase the sites. We have decided to take the total number of sites from 44 to 400 by the next weekend. We are happy to have recorded an 81% coverage in the region, which is higher than our neighbouring states,’’ added Arora. Haryana had started the immunisation from Panchkula on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/400-vaccination-sites-in-hry-by-this-week/articleshow/80318240.cms||Manvir Saini
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to resume vaccination tomorrow, for 4 straight days||MUMBAI: A day after the state government said the next Covid-19 vaccination session would begin after glitches in the Co-WIN app were resolved by the Centre, public health minister Rajesh Tope on Sunday announced that the second session would be conducted on Tuesday. He said it was likely that all four sessions allowed in a week would be wrapped up in four straight days. Tope’s announcement was an indication that the problems experienced with the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) on Friday and Saturday were nearing resolution and were likely to be ironed out by Monday. The state had suspended the vaccination drive after facing the problems. “On Saturday evening there was a video-conference with the Union health minister seeking feedback on the first day of vaccination,” Tope said. “All the states, including Maharashtra, raised the issue regarding the Co-WIN app. And it was decided that the second session will be held once the glitches are resolved.” “We will re-start the vaccination drive from Tuesday and will try to carry out the drive for four days continuously,” said Tope. The first vaccination round was held on Saturday, when the turnout of beneficiaries in the city was 48%, with the low figure blamed on Co-WIN glitches like the app not generating a list of beneficiaries or sending out messages to those who were to be vaccinated. Healthcare workers who received the first shot of the vaccine on Saturday are being monitored for 48 hours, said officials. Each vaccination centre has set up a 24-hour helpline for beneficiaries to report any adverse symptoms. As some who were listed as beneficiaries has also refused to take the vaccine on the first day, authorities decided to carry out a robust counselling programme in upcoming vaccination sessions. “We are calling up people who have missed taking the vaccine, despite being listed as a beneficiary, and are dispelling their fears and anxiety regarding the safety of the vaccines,” Nikhil Saindane, Nashik district nodal officer for the vaccination programme, said. Tope said problems with the Co-WIN app had slowed down the process on the first day in many centres. “The Centre has made it mandatory for the entire process to be carried out online and so the drive cannot start unless the app is rectified,” he said. While BMC officials said that they had been informed that a drive would be held on Tuesday, they had also been told it could not be held without Co-WIN. “We have very clear instructions that the drive should not be held without the application. We will review things on Monday when we will have an update on the app’s functioning,” Dr Mangala Gomare, BMC executive health officer, said. Dr Gomare said the turnout of 48% on the first day was not too bad. “Despite last-minute preparations and late intimations, nearly 2,000 people showed up,” she said. Regarding those who missed their chance on Saturday, Dr Gomare said that they were likely to be rescheduled for vaccination later. “We will have more clarity on this once the application starts working,” she said. TOI on Sunday reported the harrowing time BMC officials had gone through on Friday night, when beneficiaries did not receive messages and they had to make frantic calls to 4,000 of them in a span of three hours. The launch of the mega drive on Saturday had hinged on 4,000 healthcare workers showing up at 10 centres, but none had been informed. Tope said he had once again raised the issue of having the remaining Covid-19 vaccine doses sent to the state, which has only received about 9.6 lakh doses when its requirement is nearly 17 lakh. “We have once again raised our demand for free doses for the second phase of frontline workers and even for people from below the poverty line,” the minister said. The drive on Tuesday will start around 9am. “Hereon, it will be more like a routine immunisation programme since it will go on for several months, maybe lasting more than a year,” an immunisation officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-to-resume-vaccination-tomorrow-for-4-straight-days/articleshow/80320025.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 18, 2021||Delhi||Delhi schools: Back with Covid baggage||NEW DELHI: Ravi Sahoo finally got to meet his classmates after 10 long months when his school reopened on Monday. The Class X student of a government school revealed that his mother was reluctant to send him back to school for fear of Covid-19, but he had urged her to talk to his teachers. When she finally acquiesced, the 17-year-old hurried to school with two masks and a bottle of sanitiser in his bag to be greeted by a cheery school gate adorned with marigold flowers. Sahoo’s isn’t the exemplary case, however. The attendance registers on Monday showed how many students of classes X and XII were held back from school by their parents. In Sahoo’s institution, Kautilya Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya in Chirag Enclave, only 20% of the 700 class X and XII students were present on the day. School principal C S Verma said, “We hope more children will return soon. Seeing other students, parents will begin to feel confident.” Ayush Sharma, Class XII student of Mount Abu Public School, Rohini, was impatient to return to school. Welcomed warmly by their institution, Sharma and his friends were strictly advised to remain in their classroom bubbles. At Sardar Patel Vidyalaya in central Delhi, though just eight students reported for their pre-board exams, those who did observed a few new things. Class XII student Amitoj Singh found spots marked where students could stand to converse, sanitiser machines and wash basins at regular intervals and the Covid operating regulations pasted prominently. The Sardar Patel student was accompanied by his mother, Jagdish Kaur, a doctor who works with World Health Organization. Kaur said, “The infection rate is going down and people are venturing out to offices. The schools are taking all precautions and the kids are confident, so hopefully things will get back to normal now.” Government Boys’ Senior Secondary School, Ghitorni, too had dismal attendance with just six of 84 Class XII students present on Monday. Class X had a better day with 36 of 162 students returning. To ensure not more than 15 students sitting in a classroom, the three sections of Class X were divided into nine groups. One of the Class X students, Himanshu Vishwakarma, said, “I had missed my friends a lot and was happy to come back to school.” Government Co-Ed Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Sector 8, Rohini, was a happy contrast, with 60% of the students attending classes. “Resumption of classes is good because students of government schools don't have the kind of facilities to persevere with online classes,” ruminated school principal A K Jha. Megha Thakur, Class X student, exemplified such access-denied students. When her parents left for work every day, she didn’t have a phone to log in for classes. “I was so excited when the government announced that schools would reopen,” she laughed. However, many private schools will reopen a few days later. Springdales School, Pusa Road, was one of them. Principal Ameeta Mulla Wattal explained, “Some students requested to be excused because they had applied to sit for JEE in February and wanted to prepare for those exams. Their parents are fine with them returning to school and are confident about the precautionary steps we have taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/back-with-covid-baggage/articleshow/80335874.cms||Shradha Chettri
January 18, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Covid-19 antibodies remain for 6 months’||CHANDIGARH: Neutralising antibodies developed against Covid-19 remain up to six months in most infected people, said one of the largest longitudinal cohort studies in the country conducted by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) laboratories. Also those who had low exposure to the virus, who used private transport, had lower-exposure occupations, were smokers, had a vegetarian diet and A or O blood groups, appeared to have low severity of Covid virus. The study is a preprint covering 10,427 adult individuals working in CSIR laboratories and their family members. The CSIR laboratories from Chandigarh included IMTECH and CSIO laboratories. In Chandigarh, 455 samples were tested and seropositivity was recorded at 8%. The persistence of antibodies is likely to confer protection against re-infection with the same strain at least till six months. The study inferred that non-smokers in the cohort recorded a higher sero-prevalence of 10.11%, as opposed to smokers (6.88%). This indicated that despite Covid being a respiratory disease, smoking may be protective. The study found that large cities with more than 1,000 persons per square km had higher seropositivity than low density cities. Out of 10,427 people in the study, 10% were seropositive (developed antibodies against the virus). “We are going to follow up all the 10,427 people now whether they were Covid positive or not. In the 346 people followed for three months, antibodies rose but neutralising antibodies started declining. However, they were more than the threshold of 20%. We followed 35 people who completed their six months and their neutralising antibodies remained stable. Thus, there is less chance of reinfection,” said Dr Shantanu Sengupta, corresponding author, CSIR, IGIB, New Delhi. “This study is one of the largest cohort study in the country, that also shows that serology can be a predictor for future cases and places with low seroprevalence (where not many have developed antibodies against the virus) should be targeted for vaccination,” he said. The study found that seroprevalence (where the infection had occurred) was highest for blood group type AB (10.19%) followed by group B (9.94%), group O (7.09%) and the lowest for group A (6.97%). Blood group O was observed to be protective.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-19-antibodies-remain-for-6-mnths/articleshow/80318232.cms||Shimona Kanwar
January 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||46% plunge in average daily coronavirus cases in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The post-Diwali surge had yielded the highest ever daily Covid-19 positive cases for Ahmedabad city (354) and for the district (373), on November 21. On January 17, the city’s tally was 94 and district’s 99. The district recorded a two-digit number in the daily update after April 17, when the number was 77. Ever since, the number has not been below 100 for the district. The first 17 days of January recorded 126 average daily cases compared to 232 in December, a 46% drop. In November and October, the average daily cases were 233 and 166 respectively. The average daily deaths dipped from six in December and five in November to two (1.75) in January. “To put Ahmedabad’s importance in the fight against Covid-19 in perspective, the district has so far recorded close to 60,000 positive cases, which is 23% of the state’s total tally,” said a city-based public health expert. “The district recorded 2,279 or 52% of the state’s death toll of 4,365.” In fact, the eight municipal corporation areas in Gujarat in January have recorded 63% of the cases — six of every 10 new cases were recorded in these urban areas. Moreover, 72% of the deaths in January were recorded from these cities. Experts also pointed to the trend of increase in the case share of urban areas. For example, Ahmedabad city accounted for 20% of the average daily cases in Gujarat in January. The share was 19% in November and 14% in October. The share of non-municipal corporation areas in January is 37% compared to 46% in November and 48% in October. The district, however, shares the burden of the highest active cases in Gujarat at 37%, followed by 17% in Vadodara, 13% in Rajkot, and 11% in Surat districts. The four districts account for 78% of the active cases in the state. On Sunday, the active cases reached 6,400, the lowest since June last year. “Vaccines will surely improve the situation,” said the expert. “But if we let our guards down, it will be the worst period to do so. We have already seen the post-Diwali surge.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/46-plunge-in-average-daily-cases-in-ahmedabad/articleshow/80319976.cms||Parth Shastri
January 18, 2021||Chandigarh||Cops arrest 89 in GST scam, recover over Rs 112 crore||Chandigarh: Haryana Police has busted four major gangs related to issuing or registration of bogus firms involved in GST fake invoice bills scam which defrauded the government exchequer to the tune of over Rs 464.12 crore. The nexus of these fraudsters was active across the country. The crackdown on GST fake invoice scam has also led to the recovery of over Rs 112 crore and unearthing fake GST Identification Numbers (GSTIN). A total of 72 police cases have been filed so far, in which 89 accused have been arrested by the crime branch. Among those arrested, Govind Sharma, Gaurav, Anupam Singla and Rakesh Arora have been named in 40 cases. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-arrest-89-in-gst-scam-recover-over-rs-112-crore/articleshow/80318258.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Kolkata||Covid vaccine recipients in Kolkata gear up for mid-week drive||KOLKATA: A section of frontline healthworkers in city government hospitals who have either received the Covid vaccine on Saturday or are part of the first-phase rollout, will participate in a different vaccination drive midweek targeting infants and children. They will take part in the routine universal immunization programme on Wednesday, keeping the Covid vaccination drive on hold for the day. Even as the government hospitals gear up to increase number of booths on their premises and deploy more manpower to ensure smooth execution of Covid vaccination drive four days a week, steps have also been taken to ensure routine immunization programmes are not hampered. “We are taking all necessary steps possible to ensure there’s no other activity inside the hospital, including routine immunisation for infants and kids, is hampered because of the Covid vaccination drive. We have five public health nurses in our hospital, among whom one would have been dedicated for Covid vaccination for this week. But we have several more trained nurses who can handle the Wednesday immunization schedule even if there is an increase in booths at our hospital,” said a senior official of SSKM Hospital. Though the hospital is currently operating with one booth with a target to vaccinate 100 beneficiaries per day, the number of booths will be increased to 4 and 400 persons will be vaccinated per day in due course of time, sources said. The hospital has around 1,000 odd nurses, out of which around 100 are trained to inject vaccines and medicines, authorities said. “Covid vaccination programme will be closed in our hospital on Wednesdays to facilitate routine immunization for children. There is a direction that routine vaccination programme in no way should be hampered,” said Anima Haldar, principal, Infectious Diseases and Beliaghata General Hospital. Under the Universal Immunization Programme, free vaccination is provided to check preventable diseases like diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, polio, measles, severe form of childhood tuberculosis and hepatitis B, haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) and diarrhoea. The fact that the immunization schedule wouldn’t be hampered has come as a respite to many young parents. Even as hospitals that have opened up vaccination sites in the city will close Covid vaccination on Wednesdays to give way for universal immunization, hospitals in the districts have been asked to shut Covid vaccination on Thursdays as well. “We have reserved Wednesdays for routine vaccination,” said Saibal Mukherjee, principal of NRS hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vaccine-recipients-gear-up-for-mid-week-drive/articleshow/80318266.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 18, 2021||Chennai||No protocol here? Greater Chennai Corporation allows crowded event at park||CHENNAI: The Greater Chennai Corporation and the police declared the city’s beaches and the zoo off limits for the Pongal holiday crowd citing pandemic protocol, but allowed a crowded event for the past three days at a public park at KK Nagar. Huge posters were set up by local AIADMK cadres and children were charged an entry fee. Every Pongal,an event is held at Sivan Park by the local councillor, Gunasekaran. This year, he was denied permission. But the event was held by an AIADMK ward secretary, Govindhan, who told TOI that he had all the necessary permissions. Corporation assistant engineer in charge of the park Ashok, however, said the civic body had not permitted the event. “I have filed a written complaint at the K K Nagar police station seeking action against the organisers,” he said. The police a FIR against the Sivan Park walkers group. Its members said they didn’t have anything to do with the event. “We have taken permission to walk in the park and go there every day. We have no idea why they filed a case against us,” said Mano, a member of the group. A local activist, N B Babu, said he filed an online complaint with the corporation to stop the event but nothing was done. "In fact, every year, we filed complaints. This has been happening for the past nine years," he said. K K Nagar police inspector Sivakumar told TOI: “The park is their [corporation] property and they should take action. We were asked for security at the park so we provided it. When they filed a complaint, we filed a FIR. If they didn’t permit the event, why did they allow it to take place?” Gunasekaran, whose pictures were at the poster, said he had nothing to do with the event. MLA V N Ravi of Virughambakkam said he was asked to attend the event as a chief guest and he did it. “Moreover the ban is only for beaches and zoo. Not for small parks,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-protocol-here-corpn-allows-crowded-event-at-park/articleshow/80318245.cms||Komal Gautham
January 18, 2021||Chandigarh||HP panchayat polls see 78.80% turnout, 129 Covid-19 patients cast votes||Shimla: In the first phase of elections for the panchayati raj institutions in Himachal Pradesh, 78.80% polling was recorded on Sunday. Across state, 129 Covid-19 positive patients also exercised their franchise. In the first phase, elections were held for 1,227 panchayats to elect ward members, Up-pradhans, pradhans, panchayat samiti members and zila parishad members. Phase-II and phase-III elections will be held on January 19 and 21, respectively. Due to cold conditions, voting started on slow note, but it picked up during the day. Highest polling was recorded in Kullu district while lowest polling was recorded in Lahaul-Spiti district. After voting started at 8am, initial two hours witnessed slow polling as till 10am only 15.90% voting was recorded. But in the next two hours, it gradually started increasing — till 12pm it 35.30% voting was recorded and till 2pm 58.20% polling was recorded. Among districts, 78.50% polling was recorded in Bilaspur district, 79.10% in Chamba district, 74.20% in Hamirpur district, 76.40% in Kangra district, 63.40% in Kinnaur district, 84% in Kullu district, 62% in Lahaul-Spiti district, 80.90% in Mandi district, 79.70% in Shimla district, 80.50% in Sirmaur district, 83.40% in Solan district and 78.30% in Una district. While there were large numbers of first-time voters, “josh” was equally high among the old voters. First voter of independent India, Shyam Saran Negi (103) voted at Kalpa polling station of Kinnaur district. Negi was given red carpet welcome at polling station by the officials of district administration. Deputy commissioner Hemraj Biarva honoured Negi with Kinnauri cap and a shawl. In Hamirpur district, 100-year-old Labdu Devi voted at Amroh ward number 1 while 99-year-old Tirthu Devi from Beri village under Chauri panchayat of Mandi district also made it a point to vote. In ward no 7 of Poolan Panchayat in Bharmaur sub division of Chamba district, 100-year-old Lobhi Ram exercised his franchise while 102-year-old Mansa Ram inspired many youngsters by reaching at the polling station of Salwar panchayat in Jahndutta sub-division of Bilaspur district. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, along with his wife Sadhna Thakur, voted at polling station in Murhag panchayat of Seraj assembly constituency in Mandi district. Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur and his father former chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal voted at Samirpur panchayat of Hamirpur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hp-panchayat-polls-see-78-80-turnout-129-covid-19-patients-cast-votes/articleshow/80318257.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Inflated water bills: Secunderabad Cantonment Board asks residents to pay 27-month dues||SECUNDERABAD: Even as the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation is gearing up to provide free drinking water, the Secunderabad Cantonment Board’s (SCB) water wing gave a rude shock to flat owners by issuing inflated water bills. The flat owners allege that the water wing has sent demand notices with arrears from August 2018 to October 31, 2020. Till July 1, 2018, the water wing charged Rs 315 per flat but they have suddenly increased the bill to Rs 450 without any notice. So all the consumers paid only Rs 315 per month before they received this demand notice. Now in the new bill SCB has included the arrears of Rs 135 per month i.e an additional amount Rs 3,645 per flat. Perturbed by this unannounced hike, the flat owners have decided to strongly oppose the move. On Sunday, president of Vasavi Nagar Welfare Association (VNWA) and social worker Telukunta Satish Gupta conducted a meeting with several RWAs at Indrapuri Railway Colony, part of West Marredpally. “It is an unacceptable decision. Despite getting potable water at low pressure and that too once in four days, we are paying water bills regularly. It is unfair to send the demand notices without citing the reasons. Instead of providing free water like the GHMC, the SCB wants to collect thousands of rupees in the form of arrears,” said Y Ajay Kumar, resident of Ganesh Nagar. “I can’t understand on what basis the officials have calculated the arrears. It’s a burden for all of us. The SCB officials have to withdraw this and fix the price at Rs 315 per month,” demanded S Shravan Kumar, resident of Mahalakshmi Eleganat apartment. Telukunta Satish Gupta, president of Vasavi Nagar Welfare Association (VNWA) said, “All the RWA members are planning to meet Cantonment MLA G Sayanna and SCB chief executive officer B Ajith Reddy. We will urge them to discuss this issue in the board meeting to be held next week. Our demands are to withdraw these abnormal arrears and make plans to supply free water like GHMC.” When TOI contacted assistant engineer of SCB, N Surya Shashank, he said, “Flat owners need not panic regarding demand notices. We have only updated the water bills data which is pending since 2018”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inflated-water-bills-scb-asks-residents-to-pay-27-mnth-dues/articleshow/80318264.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 18, 2021||Kozhikode||Unseasonal rains hit farmers in Wayanad||KOZHIKODE: The recent unseasonal rains have caused massive damage to crops in the agrarian district of Wayanad where farmers are already battling price fall of produce and recurring natural calamities. The harvest season of both rice and coffee have turned out to be a bleak one for farmers with recent heavy rains destroying acres of rice fields ready for harvest and causing widespread berry dropping of coffee. According to agricultural department officials, as per primary estimates, the district has seen crop losses to the tune of Rs 2.5 crore for just paddy and banana alone. Wayanad principal agricultural officer Sajimon K Varghese said that 131 hectare of paddy have been damaged in the rains, causing loss of Rs 1.9 crore, while banana in 5.9 hectare have been damaged resulting in loss of Rs 6.2 lakh. He said that harvest-ready paddy plants fell to the ground and got germinated. “The reclining crop makes it difficult to use harvesting machines. Also, if the grains are not harvested within 3-4 days, it will get germinated,” he added. Coffee farmers have also been hard hit by the untimely rains in the midst of the harvest season. Prasanth Rajesh, president of Wayanad Coffee Growers Association, said that the rains which lashed Wayanad, which accounts for over 80% of the state’s coffee production, has resulted in dropping of coffee berries. “Also, it has made drying of the harvested beans, which are soaked in water, very difficult, thereby reducing the quality of the produce. We are expecting that the untimely rains would result in a 10% reduction in annual coffee production of 45,000 tonne in the district last year,” he said. Another major adverse effect has been that the untimely rains have led to the phenomenon of ‘running blossom’, where a part of the plants have blossomed, forcing the farmers to stop coffee-picking operations. “This will lead to ripening of the crop in an uneven manner in the next season,” he said. Coffee growers are also worried about fungal diseases in the berries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/unseasonal-rains-hit-farmers-in-wayanad/articleshow/80317340.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: After Covid break, time to go back to school for some today||NEW DELHI: Anu, a Class XII student of a Delhi government school, and Janvi Jain of a private school are excited to return to their schools as the latter will resume classes for X and XII students for the first time on Monday after 10 months since the pandemic led to closure of all educational institutes in the city last year. However, with exams and self-study going on, several schools might open later in the week or in the first week of next month. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia reviewed the preparations in government schools. Later, he tweeted, “Had a review meeting with senior education department officials. Everyone is excited and a little nervous at having Class X and XII students back in school tomorrow... All preparations-sanitizers, masks, social distancing measures are in place. Good luck to all.” Anu from the government school in Madanpur Khadar said, “I am happy that the school is reopening. Though the syllabus has been completed, I have so many questions to ask. I and my friends will be going to the school at the usual time around 7.30 am.” According to AK Jha, principal of Government Co-ed Sarvodaya Vidyalaya Sector 8, Rohini, “In our school, 70% of students have submitted the consent (of their parents) and we have decided to keep the classes on between 9 am to 12pm.” However, some private schools like Tagore International School, Vasant Vihar, will re-open on February 1. Likewise Springdales School, Pusa Road, will also resume classes later. The Indian School will not start t before Wednesday. Bal Bharti School plans to open next week. Janvi Jain, a student of Mount Abu Public School, Rohini, said, “I and my friends are looking forward to going to school. We have just a few months left of school days. But now students have become used to the new mode of learning (online classes) and therefore they don’t want to go back to school. Most of them have planned that they will go to school for one or two days to get their doubts cleared,” said Jain, a commerce student. For some like Ruhi Mathur, a student of a private school, she will be continuing her classes online itself. “My parents are a little apprehensive in sending me to the school. Though I wanted to go and meet my friends, I can’t go. It has been really a long time at home. Hopefully, my parents will get some confidence after seeing other kids at school,” said Mathur, a Class X student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-covid-break-time-to-go-back-to-school-for-some-today/articleshow/80318277.cms||Shradha Chettri
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Power demand set to go up this summer||HYDERABAD: The demand for power supply is expected to increase by 10 million units per day in Greater Hyderabad in the ensuing summer. It is likely to cross 250 million units (MU) per day in the state during peak summer. However, senior officials said there would be no shortage of power supply. TSGenco, TSTransco and the two power distribution companies are preparing a summer action plan to meet even a peak demand of 260 MU to 270 MU per day. “We are expecting the power supply demand to touch 14,000 MW during the peak summer and all arrangements are being made to meet this demand. Power is available at a reasonable cost at the exchange,” Transco and Genco chairman and managing director D Prabhakar Rao said. Officials involved in preparation of the summer action plan said power consumption in Greater Hyderabad is expected to touch 73 MU per day compared to 63 MU last summer. “The power consumption had gone down during summer 2020 due to the pandemic and lockdown. Though people had stayed indoors resulting in power consumption on the domestic front increasing, the closure of industries, commercial establishments, malls and multiplexes due to lockdown has led to a steep reduction in power consumption,” said an official. With all the commercial establishments, cinema halls, schools and colleges expected to be functional in the ensuing summer and agricultural activity to be at its peak, the officials are preparing to meet power demand of 260 MU, including 70 to 80 MU in the city alone. “The power supply disruptions being experienced by the consumers in the city and elsewhere in the state would be minimised during the summer as rigorous rectification and pre-summer maintenance works have been taken up. Our effort is to give round-the-clock uninterrupted power supply to the domestic, industrial, commercial and agriculture sectors,” said discom director (operations) Srinivas Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/power-demand-set-to-go-up-this-summer/articleshow/80318272.cms||Roushan Ali
January 18, 2021||Nagpur||Protest has not hit farm work, says union leader||Nagpur: Farmers will stay at the Delhi border till 2024, said Rakesh Tikait, the Bharitya Kisan Union leader from Uttar Pradesh and core committee member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella organization of the outfits carrying out protests against the new laws. Tikait was in the city as part of the countrywide outreach tours by the Kisan Morcha. Members of the Kisan Morcha are travelling across the country to sensitize farmers in other states about the issue. After Nagpur, Tikait will be travelling to Karnataka. Tikait later clarified that by saying 2024, he did not mean to make any political statement. He only wanted to say that the farmers are prepared for a long struggle. “If I had mentioned 2022 then it would have looked like a reference to the UP elections,” he said. The presence of farmers in the protests in large numbers has not hampered the operations back in their villages, he said. “This is because farmers are coming to the Delhi border in turns and also working in each other’s fields. If the fields have to be watered and the farmer is in Delhi, then the neighbours take care of the job,” he said. Tikait said the Kisan Morcha will stick to its demands that the three new laws must be withdrawn and an act making MSP procurement mandatory must be passed by the government. He said farmers respect the court. However, the outfit believes that since the laws have been passed by the government it should only be repealed in Parliament. This was in reference to the Supreme Court staying three laws and formation of a committee. “Our negotiations will only continue with the government,” he said. On why farmers in other states are not participating in the agitation, he said it’s not that only Sikh farmers from Punjab are staging protests. “There are farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand too,” he said. “Farmers from other states wanting to come have to face strict vigilance by the police. There have been instances of cops emotionally blackmailing farmers through relatives. Policemen have literally pleaded before farmers to not go to Delhi or else they may lose their jobs,” said Tikait.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/protest-has-not-hit-farm-work-says-union-leader/articleshow/80318322.cms||Shishir Arya
January 18, 2021||Chandigarh||Paper leak case: Seized mobile phones throw up more leads||Chandigarh: A total of 18 mobile phones recovered from the accused involved in the panchayat secretary paper leak case have given the police more leads on middlemen as well as beneficiary candidates. These middlemen and beneficiaries are under the scanner of the special investigation team (SIT) of the Panipat police. In a related development, SIT arrested Amit of Barwasni village of Sonipat, acquaintance of Rahul of Panipat, who was a paper solver. Assistant superintendent of police (ASP) Pooja Vashisth said police parties are conducting raids across the state on the basis of leads generated from mobile data and interrogation of the accused. “During phone verification, details like admit cards of candidates and other incriminating details hinting at the involvement of middlemen and candidates have come to the fore. Investigations are in progress and we hope to arrest genuine offenders,” said ASP Pooja Vashisht. With the arrest of Amit, the number of persons arrested in the case has gone up to 19. Those arrested include middlemen, owner of Paradise school, his wife as well as three women candidates. A total of 6.75 lakh candidates appeared in 1,000 centres in the written examination of panchayat secretary held in two shifts each on January 9 and 10. The examination was conducted by Haryana Staff Selection Commission, which cancelled the examination on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/paper-leak-case-seized-mobile-phones-throw-up-more-leads/articleshow/80318271.cms||Manvir Saini
January 18, 2021||Jaipur||Covid vaccination: 21 minor adverse events reported in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Following 21 minor adverse events following immunization (AEFI) have been reported from the state on the first day of Covid-19 inoculation drive, the health department is closely monitoring the situation. Majority of the cases were of nausea, vomiting and anxiety. The health department officials have also made the Centre aware about the incidents of AEFI. Among the three cases of AEFI in Jaipur, a nurse had complained of fever but she did not require hospitalization. In Sawai Madhopur’s district hospital, a nurse felt nausea and she vomited following immunization. “She is a nurse who is working in our district hospital. The doctors immediated helped her and she did not require hospitalization,” said Dr Tej Ram Meena, chief medical health officer, Sawai Madhopur.  In Alwar 5 such cases were reported, highest in the state, followed by Barmer (4), Jaipur (3) and two each in Udaipur, Bhilwara and Ajmer. One case was reported each from Sawai Madhopur, Pali and Dungarpur, while rest of the 24 districts of the state did not report any AEFI.  A health department official said that in case a person after receiving vaccine needed immediate care, the emergency facilities are available to handle the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/21-minor-adverseevents-reported-in-rajasthan/articleshow/80319403.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Now, no need for a mask if you’re inside your private vehicle||MUMBAI: You do not need to wear a face mask if you’re within the confines of your private vehicle. Civic marshals deployed to penalise those who fail to wear masks have now been asked not to do so if people in closed private vehicles are not donning the face gear. A direction to this effect was issued by the BMC on Sunday, and officials said it would be effective from Sunday afternoon itself. However, those moving on two-wheelers will still need to mask up. Also, those using public vehicles — cabs, autorickshaws, buses — will also need to sport a mask, failing which they can be made to pay up. The new diktat comes from civic chief Iqbal Chahal after many took to social media to complain that they had been fined Rs 200 each for not wearing masks while inside private cars. “The municipal commissioner has asked us to stop penalising any person not wearing a mask inside a private car,” said a senior civic official. “But this applies strictly for private vehicles only. We can still penalise people using public transport or even those on trucks and tempos if they are without a mask.” The official added that all marshals on municipal duty would be informed of the new direction on Sunday itself. “The order will be implemented immediately,” According to BMC officials, there are 1,200 marshals on duty across the city, with 50 in each of the 24 civic wards to penalise those not wearing masks. In November, to encourage Covid-19-appropriate behaviour among citizens the BMC had announced that it would provide ‘free’ masks to those found without face cover in public and also collect a fine of Rs 200 from each. On New Year's Eve, the BMC caught more than 13,000 people for not wearing masks and collected nearly Rs 27 lakh from them by way of fines. On January 1, 12,882 such offenders and Rs 25.6 lakh was netted as penalty from them. Those who did not have the money to pay up were made to do community service like sweeping the street, said officials. The BMC had emphasised on masks to rein in the spread of coronavirus and sought action against the offenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-no-need-for-a-mask-if-youre-inside-your-private-vehicle/articleshow/80316236.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra may issue heftier penalties under Moto Vehicle (Amendment) Act soon||MUMBAI: The state government is keen on implementing hefty penalties under the new Moto Vehicle (Amendment) Act, sources said. Maharashtra had kept the implementation of new fines on hold since September 2019, though other provisions under the act were being implemented. The decision might be taken soon and a final notification is likely to be issued during the Road Safety Month, sources said. The increased penalties, ranging from Rs 1,000-10,000, will serve as deterrent for traffic violators. Said A V Shenoy from Mumbai Mobility Forum: “There should be higher fines. When it comes to road safety, there should be no compromise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-may-issue-heftier-penalties-under-mva-soon/articleshow/80320031.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Nagpur||To drive away ‘evil spirit’, man rapes 4 of family, including a minor||Nagpur: Dharmendra Ninawe, alias Tulewale, was arrested by Pardi police for allegedly raping four members of a family, including a 17-year-old minor, after promising to drive away an ‘evil spirit’ from their residence. Ninawe raped the minor for five months at a stretch at his residence too. He was also demanding Rs1 lakh from the family. It’s learnt Ninawe and the father of the minor victim were friends. Ninawe had visited the house of the minor in May last year. He had pronounced the place spooky, saying a bad spirit was residing there. Ninawe had also said the minor was possessed by a spirit, which needs to be driven away with a 21-day ritual. On the pretext of driving away the spirit, Ninawe had taken the minor with him to a desolate place and forcefully established physical relations with her. After some time, Ninawe had trapped the minor’s mother, maternal grandmother and maternal aunt too. On the pretext of performing rituals, Ninawe had taken the women in turns with him to different places like Chandrapur and Dongargaon, where he forced himself upon them. When Ninawe, who is married with a grown up son, started harassing the family with demands of money and kept urging the women to come along with him, they approached the cops with a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/to-drive-away-evil-spirit-man-rapes-4-of-family-including-a-minor/articleshow/80319444.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 18, 2021||Chandigarh||AAP announces 129 candidates for Punjab local body polls||Chandigarh: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday announced 129 candidates for elections to 10 municipal bodies in Punjab on February 14. AAP state president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann claimed that his party, which is contesting the elections on the party symbol, will win all seats. The party has also intensified preparations for the polls to municipal corporations, municipal committees and nagar panchayats. The AAP announced candidates for elections to Ajnala nagar panchayat (15 wards), Dasuya municipal council (12 wards), Khanna municipal council (16 wards), Kothaguru nagar panchayat (11 wards), Kurali municipal council (six wards), Lalru municipal council (14 wards), Patran municipal council (11 wards), Patti municipal council (19 wards), Samana municipal council (20 wards) and Sri Hargobindpur municipal council (five wards). Mann said it was a golden opportunity for people to bring change in cities by electing councillors. He said crores of ruptees were being swindled in municipal corporations and municipal committees. “To prevent such corruption, it is imperative that educated and competent persons be elected as people’s representatives,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aap-announces-129-candidates-for-punjab-local-body-polls/articleshow/80318270.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||Covid vaccine drive to expand in Gujarat from today||AHMEDABAD: In Gujarat, 12,320 healthcare workers got the jab at 161 vaccination centres on January 16, the first day of the nationwide drive. While the day served as a starting point and instilled confidence among the first batch of recipients, the test for the state machinery will start from Monday when the programme is launched for 4.33 lakh beneficiaries. Projecting the figures of daily vaccinations based on Saturday’s experience, officials said that 12,000 to 16,000 vaccines are expected to be administered daily. While the central government announced about 447 cases of adverse events across the country, Gujarat authorities said that there were no major incidents on Saturday or Sunday. Two cases of ASHA workers feeling dizzy were recorded in Chhota Udepur, whereas several others spoke of a slight discomfort.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vax-drive-to-expand-from-today/articleshow/80320019.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Chandigarh||Victory flame to arrive in Hisar||Rohtak: To commemorate 50 years of India’s victory in the 1971 Indo-Pakistan war and to mark the commencement of ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’, Army’s ‘Dot on Target’ division is all set for the halt of the Victory Flame in Hisar. The Victory Flame was handed over to the Army by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 16, 2020 in New Delhi. The Victory Flame reached Hisar military station on December 15 and was received by Major General Devindar Kumar, General Officer Commanding ‘Dot on Target’ division. The Flame will travel through Rohtak on January 19 in memory of the sacrifices made by soldiers from the district. A ceremonial event has been planned to felicitate the veterans and “Veer Naris”. Veterans of the 1971 war and next of kin of war casualties will be felicitated during the passage of the Victory Flame, signifying the nation’s respect for the soldiers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/victory-flame-to-arrive-in-hisar/articleshow/80318324.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||People want to give BJP a chance: Sanjay||Secunderabad: Bandi Sanjay Kumar said that the people of Telangana were eagerly waiting to vote the BJP to power. While addressing the one-day executive committee meeting in Secunderabad Cantonment, the state BJP chief said, “Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is resorting to corruption in the name of projects. People are fed up with his government and are waiting to give a chance to the BJP.” He said that the poor in the state are not getting proper medical services as they are unable to afford healthcare services offered by corporate hospitals. Lauding the services rendered by the BJP cadre during the pandemic, Sanjay said that his party workers visited every house and educated people about the Covid-19 situation. Several leaders from the state unit and party seniors attended the meeting. With an eye on the Cantonment elections, BJP conducted the executive committee meeting here. Former SCB VP J Ramakrishna, who joined the party a couple of months ago, has been appointed as the state executive committee member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/people-want-to-give-bjp-a-chance-sanjay/articleshow/80318326.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Kochi||Won’t allow BEML to be sold to corporates: Kareem||Palakkad: The general secretary of state unit of Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) Elamaram Kareem, MP, said that no corporate would be allowed to take over central public sector defense production company BEML (formerly Bharat Earth Movers Ltd) at Kanjikode, as it will affect national security. Inaugurating the indefinite sathyagraha of agitating employees in front of BEML at Kanjikode, he said, “The wealth of the nation like BEML is sold at a throwaway price to private corporates by the central government. It is only LDF and its government in Kerala that is opposing the Centre’s privatization spree. Opposition parties, including Congress, are afraid to fight this reckless privatization,” Kareem said. The state government bought 374 acre gave it free of cost to the Centre to set up the unit at Kanjikode, and so the central government cannot give away the land without permission from the state, he said. There are 500 employees in the Kanjikode unit which was started in 2010 and divestment will destroy this strategic defense public sector company, he added. The central government had invited expressions of interest (EoI) from domestic and foreign players for strategic disinvestment in BEML. The government has ‘in-principle’ decided to disinvest 26% of equity share capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/wont-allow-beml-to-be-sold-to-corporates-kareem/articleshow/80317349.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Jaipur||Car sales in Rajasthan surge 35% in Dec, 3-wheelers down 54%||JAIPUR: Car registrations in Rajasthan rose by 35% in December compared to the same month in 2019. As per figures released by the Federation of Automobile Dealers Association, car registrations or sales rose riding on festival spillover demand, year-end discounts and announcement of price hike from January 2021. Sales of new passenger vehicles in December surged to 16,657 units from 12,350 units in the same month previous year. Except for sales of three-wheelers and commercial vehicles, all other segments posted positive growth. Three-wheeler sales declined by 54% reflecting the reluctance of people for travelling in hired vehicles during the corona times, while commercial vehicles fell 13% to 3,845 units. Tractors continued to grow at a faster clip, notching 36% growth even though the sales growth has cooled down a bit from previous months. Sai Girdhar, treasurer of FADA, and dealer of various brands in Rajasthan, said, “Some amount of pent up demand came into the market in December. The interest rates are very lucrative now. Also, there was year-end discount which had an impact.” Commenting on the rest of the financial year, Sai Girdhar said that the positive trend is expected to continue as people are getting optimistic about general economy. “The new corona cases are coming down and the vaccination drive has started. This would be key driver of the economy which will also impact positively the buying decision of the prospective customers,” Sai Girdhar added. Overall, the sales of vehicles, including all categories rose by 7% in December. Giving its outlook, FADA said it looks forward to demand spurring initiatives in the upcoming Union Budget and specific initiatives for auto industry to continue auto sales in higher gear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/car-sales-in-state-surge-35in-dec-3-wheelers-down-54/articleshow/80319420.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Udaipur||Car sales in Rajasthan surge 35% in Dec, 3-wheelers down 54%||JAIPUR: Car registrations in Rajasthan rose by 35% in December compared to the same month in 2019. As per figures released by the Federation of Automobile Dealers Association, car registrations or sales rose riding on festival spillover demand, year-end discounts and announcement of price hike from January 2021. Sales of new passenger vehicles in December surged to 16,657 units from 12,350 units in the same month previous year. Except for sales of three-wheelers and commercial vehicles, all other segments posted positive growth. Three-wheeler sales declined by 54% reflecting the reluctance of people for travelling in hired vehicles during the corona times, while commercial vehicles fell 13% to 3,845 units. Tractors continued to grow at a faster clip, notching 36% growth even though the sales growth has cooled down a bit from previous months. Sai Girdhar, treasurer of FADA, and dealer of various brands in Rajasthan, said, “Some amount of pent up demand came into the market in December. The interest rates are very lucrative now. Also, there was year-end discount which had an impact.” Commenting on the rest of the financial year, Sai Girdhar said that the positive trend is expected to continue as people are getting optimistic about general economy. “The new corona cases are coming down and the vaccination drive has started. This would be key driver of the economy which will also impact positively the buying decision of the prospective customers,” Sai Girdhar added. Overall, the sales of vehicles, including all categories rose by 7% in December. Giving its outlook, FADA said it looks forward to demand spurring initiatives in the upcoming Union Budget and specific initiatives for auto industry to continue auto sales in higher gear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/car-sales-in-state-surge-35in-dec-3-wheelers-down-54/articleshow/80320961.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Jodhpur||Car sales in Rajasthan surge 35% in Dec, 3-wheelers down 54%||JAIPUR: Car registrations in Rajasthan rose by 35% in December compared to the same month in 2019. As per figures released by the Federation of Automobile Dealers Association, car registrations or sales rose riding on festival spillover demand, year-end discounts and announcement of price hike from January 2021. Sales of new passenger vehicles in December surged to 16,657 units from 12,350 units in the same month previous year. Except for sales of three-wheelers and commercial vehicles, all other segments posted positive growth. Three-wheeler sales declined by 54% reflecting the reluctance of people for travelling in hired vehicles during the corona times, while commercial vehicles fell 13% to 3,845 units. Tractors continued to grow at a faster clip, notching 36% growth even though the sales growth has cooled down a bit from previous months. Sai Girdhar, treasurer of FADA, and dealer of various brands in Rajasthan, said, “Some amount of pent up demand came into the market in December. The interest rates are very lucrative now. Also, there was year-end discount which had an impact.” Commenting on the rest of the financial year, Sai Girdhar said that the positive trend is expected to continue as people are getting optimistic about general economy. “The new corona cases are coming down and the vaccination drive has started. This would be key driver of the economy which will also impact positively the buying decision of the prospective customers,” Sai Girdhar added. Overall, the sales of vehicles, including all categories rose by 7% in December. Giving its outlook, FADA said it looks forward to demand spurring initiatives in the upcoming Union Budget and specific initiatives for auto industry to continue auto sales in higher gear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/car-sales-in-state-surge-35in-dec-3-wheelers-down-54/articleshow/80320960.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Nagpur||Show me a human death due to bird flu, will give cash prize: Sunil Kedar||Nagpur: State’s animal husbandry minister Sunil Kedar has announced that anyone who is able to come up with a case of human death due to bird flu will be rewarded with a cash prize. Kedar was speaking at a meeting with the members of the Vidarbha Poultry Association (VPA) in light of the bird flu scare. The minster’s statement was meant to allay the fears of the disease killing humans as the poultry industry has complained of heavy losses due to the scare. Kedar said bird flu is not fatal to humans. Kedar said eating poultry meat or eggs do not lead to any infection. Poultry is an important allied agricultural activity in the rural economy. The animal husbandry department has in its statements mentioned that property cooked chicken or boiled eggs are safe for human consumption. At the same time the department has also issued directions for owners of chicken shops to use gloves, masks and maintain social distancing. Along with it, the department has also warned against rumour mongering. Meanwhile, the casualty of birds continued in the region. This included birds near the Bor forest reserve in Wardha district. Around eight birds, which included parrots, a dove, a kingfisher and a ruddy shelduck were found dead near a water body. The water body is a transit point for migratory birds, said a source among those who spotted the dead birds. They were sent to the animal husbandry department for further confirmation of the avian flu. According to the daily report released by the animal husbandry department, 402 poultry deaths were reported as on January 16. In Yavatmal and Akola, three and two deaths respectively of other species were reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/show-me-a-human-death-due-to-bird-flu-will-give-cash-prize-sunil-kedar/articleshow/80319464.cms||Shishir Arya
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Reach out to your mother, Radhika Vemula tells students||Hyderabad: Fight for what you believe, but don’t kill self, said Radhika Vemula, mother of PhD scholar Rohith Vemula, who died five years ago, on her son’s death anniversary at the University of Hyderabad campus on Sunday. She said that every house should have an Ambedkar. Radhika, who garlanded and hugged her son’s stupa at Velivada (north shopping complex), advised students to study well and reach out to their mothers in case of any difficulties. “Go back to your mothers. Whenever you’re disturbed, agitated, and left out, go to your mother, rest on her lap and share what you’re going through,” she said, and added that had Rohith reached out to her on that fatal night, he would have been alive today. “He did not tell me about his troubles as he did not want to make me cry, but now I will be crying for the rest of my life because of his demise,” she said. Rohith’s brother Raja, who recently completed his law studies, said: “While fighting for justice for Rohith, my mother said every one of us should become Ambedkar. Then I decided to pursue law. Now I have successfully completed my Bachelor of Laws. I dedicate my law degree to my brother and will fight for my brother and others like him.” This year, due to the pandemic, the death anniversary of Rohith Vemula was observed online. Radhika, Raja, and few students, however, visited Rohith’s statue on the UoH campus and paid their tributes. D Ravikumar, MP from Villupuram, Disha Pinky Shaikh, spokesperson, Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi and others participated in the online commemoration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/reach-out-to-your-mother-radhika-vemula-tells-students/articleshow/80318293.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Chandigarh||Women peace activists brainstorm for better India-Pak relations||Bathinda: Over 40 peace activists, including Nobel Peace Prize nominee Scilla Elworthy, came together for the virtual summit, ‘Indo-Pak Peace Summit led by women’ and brainstormed for solutions to build lasting peace in South Asia. Aekta Kapoor, founder and editor of eShe, who had organised the event, said “It is time to take practical steps to foster friendships, collaborations and harmony in neighbouring countries. Women are usually inclined to think in terms of cooperation, sustainability and building relationships.” The summit focussed on celebrating the shared heritage of India and Pakistan, channelling the energy of women and youth, and giving a platform to new approaches in literature, art, culture, design, cinema and youth activism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/women-peace-activists-brainstorm-for-better-india-pak-relations/articleshow/80318274.cms||Neel Kamal
January 18, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: Man accused of raping daughter for 7 years||HISAR: Hisar police have arrested a man for allegedly raping his 17-year-old daughter repeatedly over the past seven years and impregnating her several times and aborting the foetus. He is also accused of molesting his other daughter, aged 11. The accused is being interrogated by the police. Hisar woman police station registered a case on a complaint by the rape survivor against her father under sections 376(2)(n) (repeated rape), 376(2)f (rape by guardian), 354-A(1) (explicit sexual overtures), 313 (causing miscarriage without woman’s consent), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and under sections 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault) and 8 (sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. In the complaint to police, the survivor said her father worked as a cook with a government officer and stayed in an official quarter. She alleged that her father had been raping her for almost seven years. When she protested, he threatened to kill her, she alleged. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-accused-of-raping-daughter-for-7-years/articleshow/80318250.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Ajmer||Car sales in Rajasthan surge 35% in Dec, 3-wheelers down 54%||JAIPUR: Car registrations in Rajasthan rose by 35% in December compared to the same month in 2019. As per figures released by the Federation of Automobile Dealers Association, car registrations or sales rose riding on festival spillover demand, year-end discounts and announcement of price hike from January 2021. Sales of new passenger vehicles in December surged to 16,657 units from 12,350 units in the same month previous year. Except for sales of three-wheelers and commercial vehicles, all other segments posted positive growth. Three-wheeler sales declined by 54% reflecting the reluctance of people for travelling in hired vehicles during the corona times, while commercial vehicles fell 13% to 3,845 units. Tractors continued to grow at a faster clip, notching 36% growth even though the sales growth has cooled down a bit from previous months. Sai Girdhar, treasurer of FADA, and dealer of various brands in Rajasthan, said, “Some amount of pent up demand came into the market in December. The interest rates are very lucrative now. Also, there was year-end discount which had an impact.” Commenting on the rest of the financial year, Sai Girdhar said that the positive trend is expected to continue as people are getting optimistic about general economy. “The new corona cases are coming down and the vaccination drive has started. This would be key driver of the economy which will also impact positively the buying decision of the prospective customers,” Sai Girdhar added. Overall, the sales of vehicles, including all categories rose by 7% in December. Giving its outlook, FADA said it looks forward to demand spurring initiatives in the upcoming Union Budget and specific initiatives for auto industry to continue auto sales in higher gear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/car-sales-in-state-surge-35in-dec-3-wheelers-down-54/articleshow/80320962.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Delhi||‘144 animals died of shock at Delhi zoo in three years’||NEW DELHI: A large number of animal deaths at the Delhi zoo over the last few years have been due to traumatic shock or shock, an RTI inquiry has revealed. A total of 37 animals died of “traumatic shock/shock” in 2019-20, another 78 in 2018-19 and 29 in 2017-18. Animal activist Gauri Maulekhi, who filed the RTI queries on September 25, also stated that several cases of tuberculosis deaths were seen in the mortality list from 2017, indicating a possible lapse in the vaccination drives being conducted at the zoo. In a letter to the Central Zoo Authority (CZA), Maulekhi said urgent action is required to rectify the problems behind the scenes at the zoo. “It was highlighted in the RTI replies that the maximum animal deaths in the said time frame had been due to ‘traumatic shock/shock’. Several animals have died due to ‘shock’ and very few due to old age, which raises many questions on the management, handling and treatment being provided to the animals of the NZP,” said the letter, a copy of which is with TOI. “The functioning of the veterinary services inside the National Zoological Park, New Delhi (NZP) needs to be looked into urgently,” it added. The letter also highlights the case of two White ibis deaths, which occurred at the hands of a predator. “It is further astonishing to note that two White ibis were discovered to be dead on the same day (May 9, 2019) in their enclosure, eaten by predators in the pond. Only their feathers were found. How could the Zoo authorities not have discovered the dying or dead birds before they were eaten by the predator? Why were there predators in the enclosure of the birds,” the letter asked. A high-level committee in 2018 had found several violations at the zoo, including ‘suppression’ of a large number of deaths due to improper book-keeping, lack of records and ambiguity in maintaining these reports. Violations were also found in the post-mortem reports, along with the use of expired medicines on animals. Delhi zoo director Ramesh Pandey was unavailable for a comment. An official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that all efforts were being made by the zoo to provide transparency, especially in relation to any animal that has fallen ill. “Regular updates are being provided now if any animal falls ill and if a death occurs, that too is conveyed immediately. The best possible care is being provided to each animal,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/144-animals-died-of-shock-at-zoo-in-3-years/articleshow/80318332.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Police hunt for biker who hit cyclist, left him bleeding to die||MUMBAI: A 28-year-old cyclist lost his life four days after an unknown scooterist rammed into him at Andheri West. The victim, Masoom Qazi's, family did some sleuthing of their own and found out the accident spot as well as his missing cycle. DN Nagar police are looking for the culprit. Qazi worked as a painting and plastering contractor. On January 5, he left on his sports cycle from Jogeshwari, at 8.30pm, to head to his relative's place in Juhu Gully with a food parcel. Around 9.15pm, an autorickshaw driver called up his cousin, Saba Ansari, and told her that Qazi had had an accident. The auto driver brought Qazi to Behrambaug. Qazi said his head was hurting very badly. When relatives took him to their Juhu Gully home, he began throwing up. He was immediately rushed to Cooper Hospital where he underwent a CT-scan and was put on a ventilator. After battling for life for four days, Qazi succumbed to his injuries on January 9. "We were in the dark about how exactly did the accident occur or where was his cycle?," said Qazi's uncle, Asif. The family then started making inquiries around and on January 12, they found a society on JP Road where Qazi's cycle had been parked. Savio Pimenta who ran a shop in the premises said he had parked the cycle. Pimenta had been standing outside his shop on January 5 when the accident occurred. "Pimenta told us two men on a scooter had rammed into Qazi's cycle, causing it to hit the divider," said Asif. Qazi had fallen off and hurt his head and was bleeding. Onlookers asked the scooterist and his pillion rider to take Qazi to the hospital. But its not clear if they helped him into an auto and then left or fled from the accident spot itself. One of the bystanders clicked a photo of the scooter's numberplate but it was captured only partially. The family then went to the cops with the photo and an FIR was registered by Amboli police on January 12. Subsequently, it was transferred to DN Nagar police station. "We will make an arrest soon," said senior inspector Bharat Gaikwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/police-hunt-for-biker-who-hit-cyclist-left-him-bleeding-to-die/articleshow/80319476.cms||Nitasha Natu
January 18, 2021||Delhi||Despite being away from schools, learning didn’t stop for city kids||New Delhi: For Piyush Sharma, a Class XII humanities student of Kautilya Government Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Chirag Enclave, studying was difficult during the period when he was away from school. But this became an opportunity for him to utilise his time in learning new things. Sharma spent the past few months learning household chores. “For me, the period was about helping my mother with the household work. I now know how to make roti, chilli potato and some other things,” said Sharma who is now inspired to join a hotel management institute after completing his Class XII. For several school students, the coronavirus-induced lockdown was a difficult phase as their classes went online and they faced a number of issues studying at home. But for many, this was also a period of getting close to their families and exploring new things. On their first day of school, the students introspected about the lockdown days and what they learnt – beyond their books and online classes. Vijay, a Class X student of the school in Chirag Enclave, said that he spent some quality time with his mother. “Earlier my mother and I did not get along well as she would be always busy with her work. But the lockdown helped me get closer to her and also, helped me realise the importance of family,” said Vijay. Lakshit Pathak, a Class XII student of Mount Abu Public School of Rohini, said that while he was relieved to be back to school, he would always cherish the time spent with his family during the past nine months. For Abhishek Kumar, a Class X student of Government Boys Senior Secondary School, Ghitorni, the period helped him realise the importance of school and friends. “Now I will never stay absent from school. It was during the lockdown I realised so much fun we used to have here.” Amit Kumar, another student of the school in Chirag Enclave, learnt how to repair TVs. “I was always interested in playing with machines. During the lockdown period, I used to have so much time that I actually learnt and repaired the TV at my house.” Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Rohini Sector-8 student Nisha felt that the lockdown was a blessing in disguise for her. “The period of staying at home taught me the value of studying in classrooms and the importance of teachers and friends,” she said. She added that the pandemic period made her learn new skills and get familiar with digital learning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/despite-being-away-from-schools-learning-didnt-stop-for-city-kids/articleshow/80335908.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Nashik||Admin to step up counselling for vaccine beneficiaries||Nashik: Taking note of the satisfactory turnout on the first day of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination programme on Saturday, the district health officials have decided to organise a robust counselling programme for the beneficiaries of the subsequent vaccination drives.Nikhil Saindane, the district nodal officer for the vaccination programme, told TOI: “We are calling up people who have missed taking the vaccine despite being listed as beneficiaries. We are trying to dispel their fears and anxiety about vaccine safety.”As per the feedback received so far, there were some listed beneficiaries who refused to take the vaccine on the first day. There were also some beneficiaries who were genuinely busy and could not appear to receive the jab.“When our teams contacted the beneficiaries personally, some expressed their concerns. They cited reports of some people abroad having adverse reactions to the vaccine. We have decided to take help of all those who have already taken the vaccine in counselling the future beneficiaries,” said Saindane.Sanjay Gangurde, the ENT surgeon at the Nashik civil hospital, took the lead in getting the shot. Deans of various medical colleges, in and outside Maharashtra, who have taken the vaccine shots, have said a mild infection or any other mild adverse reaction after taking the jab was an indication that antibodies are getting created in the body.The turnout of beneficiaries in the rural areas was more than in urban areas. “In Malegaon camp, we have had a turnout of 80% while it was only 49% at the district civil hospital. We will talk to the beneficiaries again and put their names on the list only after getting their confirmation,” said the nodal officer.“While the supply of vaccines is limited, there are many other frontline workers, like police personnel, who are ready to take the dose. We fear that if the medical staff, who have been listed as beneficiaries now, reject the immunization process, they might lose the chance of getting vaccinated as their names may be deleted from the future list of beneficiaries,” said Saindane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/admin-to-step-up-counselling-for-vaccine-beneficiaries/articleshow/80320021.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 18, 2021||Chandigarh||Minister pays tributes to Kuka martyrs at Malerkotla||Sangrur: Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla on Sunday paid tributes to 66 Kuka Sikh martyrs at Malerkotla during a state-level function organised by Punjab government. Addressing a huge gathering in the presence of Namdhari sect head Satguru Uday Singh, the minister said the state government led by CM Captain Amarinder Singh would always stand by the community. Singla recalled the sacrifice of Kuka patriots in 1872, when 66 Namdhari Sikhs voluntarily stood in front of British cannons. He said the sacrifice of those total 80 martyrs could never be forgotten. Singla also remembered the contribution of Satguru Ram Singh to society and said that he was a pioneer and great revolutionary of the independence movement. He added the British had enslaved Indians with the help of their divide and rule policy. In answer to this, he said, Satguru adopted unite and fight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/minister-pays-tributes-to-kuka-martyrs-at-malerkotla/articleshow/80318286.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Kolkata||As campuses reopen outside Bengal, parents accompany kids to settle them in||KOLKATA: Going back to campuses in Pune, Puducherry, Manipal and other places is seeming like a herculean task amid pandemic. One has to keep the Covid negative report handy, done within the time period stipulated by the respective state to which the student is headed. If you land up without the report, you are tested at the airport and till the report comes, you are prescribed a quarantine. Concerned about the safety of their children, most parents are not only travelling with them, but are also taking a 15-20-day break to stay put and settle them in. Hotels are being booked after much screening for Covid safety for the duration and parents are insistent that their children stay with them till they are satisfied about the sanitisation and other precautionary measures on respective campuses. Some are even renting flats to keep their kids away from crowded hostels. Sanjukta Chakravarthi, who is from Darjeeling, has just returned to her hotel management school at Manipal, but not before she spent sleepless nights with her parents over the Covid test report. “Darjeeling is not equipped to give the RT-PCR test report the same day. So, we had to take her to Siliguri in the wee hours of the day she flew out to Mangalore, got the test done and kept praying that the report comes before she landed at the airport. Otherwise, she would have had to get the test done at the airport and would have been quarantined till the reports came,” said Sunirmal Chakravarthi, her father, former principal of La Martiniere for Boys, who’s currently a hotelier in Darjeeling. Indrani Chattopadhyay, vice principal of DPS Ruby Park, decided to take two weeks’ break from work and travel to Pune with daughter Baidehi, a post graduation student at the Pune University. She had to screen hotels to be booked for 15-20 days so that she could stay there with her daughter. Later, a notice reached her that the re-opening of the campus was delayed and students will be given a fresh date. “We are extremely worried about the safety of our daughter and have decided that she will stay outside till we are sure that the campus is absolutely safe,” she said. Students said that for 10 months now, they have done online classes from home but it’s just not enough. “We saw a notice from the Puducherry government that from January 6, all institutions would reopen and we are awaiting a notice from our university,” said Priyashmita Nandy, who is doing her postgraduation in chemistry at Pondicherry University. Research scholar Bittesh Barman, her senior, has been called to the campus already and his tense parents are in touch with him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/as-campuses-reopen-outside-bengal-parents-accompany-kids-to-settle-them-in/articleshow/80318283.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 18, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt writes to Tesla, offers land in Bhiwadi for a manufacturing unit||JAIPUR: After Tesla’s announcement to set up a R&D facility in Bengaluru and centres in five states, the Rajasthan government has also written a letter to the company offering land in Bhiwadi. Though the US electric car maker has not given details of its plans for its centres, the state government in the letter reached out to the company saying “consider Rajasthan state as a location for your future manufacturing unit In India.” The letter, addressed to Vaibhav Taneja, director, Tesla India Motors and Energy Pvt Ltd, undersigned by RIICO managing director Ashutosh Pednekar, said that the state’s investment promotion scheme offers “the most attractive incentive scheme amongst all Indian states and we will be glad to provide customized solutions to Tesla for its big-ticket investment in the state.” Rajasthan enjoys locational as well as resource advantages in automobile sector with Alwar district in the NCR region emerging as a hub with over 100 companies operating in the sector. The state has a “robust eco-system of automobile component manufacturers producing transmission & steering systems, suspension, braking systems, tyres, electrical parts, and climate control systems among others.” In fact, the businessmen in the state are aware of the future of the automobile and said Tesla’s entry into India will revolutionise the sector. Rajiv Arora, president of Federation of Rajasthan Exporters, had also written to letter the chief minister for reaching out to Tesla. “Rajasthan provides the strategic location for Tesla. That’s why the government needs to provide incentives under a special package to attract the company to the state,” said Arora. RIICO is currently opening industrial areas across Rajasthan for allotment, spread over 17,250 acre. The letter said the department “will be happy to facilitate identification of possible locations and in streamlining various further requirements.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-govt-writes-to-tesla-offers-land-in-bhiwadi-for-a-manufacturing-unit/articleshow/80319426.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 18, 2021||Kozhikode||Pinarayi was right, I want to apologize to him: Berlin||Kozhikode: Veteran communist ideologue Berlin Kunjananthan Nair, who had been highly critical of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the past, has said that he was now fully convinced that Vijayan was right and he would like to meet him and tender an apology. Speaking to media at his house in Kannur, he said that Vijayan was the ablest of the chief ministers in the state. “I am in my twilight years and I know that I would not live for long. I want to bid adieu after meeting Pinarayi Vijayan,” said the 96-year-old Nair, who is suffering from age-related ailments. Nair said that he had stood by V S Achuthanandan when there were some issues between VS and Vijayan and it led to developing a rift between him and Vijayan. “I am now fully convinced that it was the stand of Vijayan which was right. I want to tell him that I was wrong and also express thanks for renewing my party membership,” he said, adding that there was nothing wrong in tendering an apology as well. He also said that LDF would return to power after the assembly election under the leadership of Vijayan. Nair said that some of the things mentioned in his book ‘Polichezhuthu’ were wrong and he had withdrawn them from the later editions of the book. In 2005, Nair was expelled from the CPM after he took sides with Achuthanandan and criticized the party leadership when the factional feud in the party was at its peak. He was given back his party membership in 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/pinarayi-was-right-i-want-to-apologize-to-him-berlin/articleshow/80317355.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Maid held for robbing dead employer of Rs 29 lakh||KOLKATA: The maid servant of an elderly woman, who had passed away recently, was arrested for allegedly siphoning off Rs 29 lakh by using the cheques that were signed earlier by the woman. The kin of the deceased raised doubts after they noticed a change in the behaviour of the woman flaunting a lifestyle that was not supposed to be within her affordability. One of the relatives informed the Lake Town police about the matter. Cops interrogated the maid servant, who was arrested in the weekend, and learnt about the fraud. Her brother and son were also detained for interrogation. However, the police refused to reveal any name before completing the probe. Some other people are also under scanner in connection with the case, sources said. The accused had transferred the money in the name of her son, according to police sources. Cops recovered from her some valuables that, they believed, belonged to the deceased. “We will bring out the details once we complete the probe,” said an officer. Cops said they were seeking help of the bank’s anti-fraud team for the investigation. In the past 10 months, several house thefts were reported from Bhowanipore, Anwar Shah Road and Regent Park in the south and Beliaghata and Cossipore in the north and eastern suburbs and the accused were mostly maid servants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/maid-held-for-robbing-dead-employer-of-rs-29l/articleshow/80318340.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 18, 2021||Goa||Petrol, LPG sales in state jump to pre-Covid levels, diesel sees slight gap||Panaji: Fuel sales in Goa, including that of LPG, have returned to pre-Covid levels in January, even though diesel consumption continues to show a slight gap, Indian Oil officials said. Oil marketing companies expect the gap in diesel consumption, particularly institutional sales, to be bridged as industrial activity picks up in the coming weeks. Indian Oil officials also told TOI that a charging station, for private electric vehicles, will come up to cater to the 20-30 electric vehicles operational in the state. “The market trends are on the positive side if you talk about Goa,” said Indian Oil executive director and state head Amitabh Akhauri. “If you talk about petrol, there is growth. But on the diesel side there is a slight dip. The transport system has not started working everywhere, industries are not working at capacity.” Combined diesel consumption in Maharashtra and Goa shows that sales are at around 93% of pre-Covid levels. In comparison, petrol consumption has shown a growth of 3-4%. North Goa has shown a 2.2% growth in petrol sales, but a 1.7% drop in diesel consumption. South Goa continues to lag with a 7.5% and 6.8% dip in petrol and diesel consumption respectively. Indian Oil will also introduce low sulphur fuel or IMO grade fuel in Goa by mid-February as part of a nationwide push towards cleaner fuels. This fuel will help address environmental concerns. “The government is looking at cleaner fuels and cheaper fuels so the energy mix will change. We are going to encourage natural gas as a fuel. We are trying to have an EV charging station in North Goa and we will be expanding it, depending on the vehicle availability,” Akhauri said. He said that natural gas consumption, which is at 5-6%, will be increased to 15% by 2030. “Indian Oil-Adani Gas is going to have city gas distribution in South Goa. Work is in progress and we are going to start in one or two years. Through this, CNG stations will be plenty in numbers,” Akhauri said. A month-long fuel conservation campaign of Petroleum Conservation Research Association (PCRA), Saksham 2021, has also been kicked off in Goa. State Level Coordinator (SLC) for Oil Industry in Goa Siddhartha Swarup encouraged and motivated Kadamba Transport ‘ drivers, maintenance staff and other depot personnel to achieve higher kilometer per liter (KMPL) scheme to get recognised as the best depot. The depot with maximum mileage improvement stands to win an annual trophy and a cash award of Rs 50,000 for. KTCL’s Vasco depot won the state award for October 2019 to September 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/petrol-lpg-sales-in-state-jump-to-pre-covid-levels-diesel-sees-slight-gap/articleshow/80319496.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Rajkot||Swimming coach, wife die in accident||Rajkot: A swimming coach of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) and his wife died and their family members suffered injuries as their car turned turtle on Latipur road in Morbi in the early hours of Sunday . The deceased _ Vicky Chauhan (29) and Radhika Chauhan (25) _ were on their way to Dwarka along with other family members. After crossing Tankara, Vicky’s brother Parth, who was driving, took the narrow Latipur road. Police said that around 4.15 am, two stray dogs suddenly came on the road due to which Parth lost control over the vehicle. Vicky’s father Jagdish had recently bought the car. Vicky and Radhika died on the spot while their twin daughters Arvi and Arya, Parth, Jagdish, his wife, brother-in-law Anil, Anil’s wife Daksha and mother Chandan suffered injuries. Anil, Daksha, Chandan and Arya were taken to Rajkot Civil Hospital as their injuries were grievous while the others were given preliminary treatment at the government hospital in Tankara. The family lives in Sharadnagar in Tarsali area of Vadodara. Along with Vicky, Jagdish and Parth also work as swimming coaches of the civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/swimming-coach-wife-die-in-accident/articleshow/80316656.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan govt writes to Tesla, offers land in Bhiwadi for a manufacturing unit||JAIPUR: After Tesla’s announcement to set up a R&D facility in Bengaluru and centres in five states, the Rajasthan government has also written a letter to the company offering land in Bhiwadi. Though the US electric car maker has not given details of its plans for its centres, the state government in the letter reached out to the company saying “consider Rajasthan state as a location for your future manufacturing unit In India.” The letter, addressed to Vaibhav Taneja, director, Tesla India Motors and Energy Pvt Ltd, undersigned by RIICO managing director Ashutosh Pednekar, said that the state’s investment promotion scheme offers “the most attractive incentive scheme amongst all Indian states and we will be glad to provide customized solutions to Tesla for its big-ticket investment in the state.” Rajasthan enjoys locational as well as resource advantages in automobile sector with Alwar district in the NCR region emerging as a hub with over 100 companies operating in the sector. The state has a “robust eco-system of automobile component manufacturers producing transmission & steering systems, suspension, braking systems, tyres, electrical parts, and climate control systems among others.” In fact, the businessmen in the state are aware of the future of the automobile and said Tesla’s entry into India will revolutionise the sector. Rajiv Arora, president of Federation of Rajasthan Exporters, had also written to letter the chief minister for reaching out to Tesla. “Rajasthan provides the strategic location for Tesla. That’s why the government needs to provide incentives under a special package to attract the company to the state,” said Arora. RIICO is currently opening industrial areas across Rajasthan for allotment, spread over 17,250 acre. The letter said the department “will be happy to facilitate identification of possible locations and in streamlining various further requirements.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-govt-writes-to-tesla-offers-land-in-bhiwadi-for-a-manufacturing-unit/articleshow/80321049.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 18, 2021||Goa||Only mild side effects in state, none requiring hospitalisation||Panaji: A day after the first set of healthcare workers were administered the Covid-19 vaccine at seven centres in the state, immunisation officer Dr Rajendra Borkar told TOI that no serious adverse effects requiring hospitalisation have been reported so far. “Very few health workers experienced minor adverse effects like myalgia (muscle pain/soreness) and body pain. There were no severe or serious adverse effects reported,” he said. At Goa Medical College, the state’s main vaccination centre, nodal officer Dr Jagdish Cacodkar said there were only minor effects including fever, headache, bodyache, weakness and swelling. “They were treated with simple medication at home, and none required hospitalisation,” he said. Around 10% of the healthcare workers who were vaccinated at South Goa district hospital experienced minor side effects, but none were serious to warrant admission in hospital, said nodal officer Dr Ira Almeida. Like others, they had mild fever, bodyache, and flu-like illness. “These are common side-effects of the vaccine and are nothing to worry about,” Almeida said. One of the patients who had a history of allergies but hadn’t disclosed it, and another who had severe bodyache, have both recovered, she said. Borkar said that those vaccinated will receive the full effect of the vaccine 14 days after the second dose is administered on February 13. Those who received the first dose will have to continue to follow all health protocols even after they receive the second dose, he added. The government is yet to decide on the date for the second set of healthcare workers to get vaccinated. “It was a first time experience,” a government official said. “The government cannot just rush through it. A series of meetings will be held and everything will be reviewed before the next date is fixed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/only-mild-side-effects-in-state-none-requiring-hospitalisation/articleshow/80319479.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Fill teacher posts in KVs: Vinod||Hyderabad: Telangana State Planning Board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar on Sunday requested Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal to fill vacant teacher posts in Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs) in Telangana. In a letter addressed to Pokhriyal, Kumar said some parents of students studying in KVs in the state had brought the issue to his notice and informed him that due to the non-availability of sufficient teaching staff students were facing severe inconvenience. “Kindly take necessary action to fill up the vacancies with regular staff in the interest of students at the earliest as the parents are joining their children in KVs with great expectations that their children will get a better education than in a local institution,” Kumar said in his letter. In Telangana, there are 35 Kendriya Vidyalayas. Of 1,208 sanctioned strength of teaching staff, 959 were filled with regular staff, 131 were contractual staff and 128 posts were vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fill-teacher-posts-in-kvs-vinod/articleshow/80318345.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan govt writes to Tesla, offers land in Bhiwadi for a manufacturing unit||JAIPUR: After Tesla’s announcement to set up a R&D facility in Bengaluru and centres in five states, the Rajasthan government has also written a letter to the company offering land in Bhiwadi. Though the US electric car maker has not given details of its plans for its centres, the state government in the letter reached out to the company saying “consider Rajasthan state as a location for your future manufacturing unit In India.” The letter, addressed to Vaibhav Taneja, director, Tesla India Motors and Energy Pvt Ltd, undersigned by RIICO managing director Ashutosh Pednekar, said that the state’s investment promotion scheme offers “the most attractive incentive scheme amongst all Indian states and we will be glad to provide customized solutions to Tesla for its big-ticket investment in the state.” Rajasthan enjoys locational as well as resource advantages in automobile sector with Alwar district in the NCR region emerging as a hub with over 100 companies operating in the sector. The state has a “robust eco-system of automobile component manufacturers producing transmission & steering systems, suspension, braking systems, tyres, electrical parts, and climate control systems among others.” In fact, the businessmen in the state are aware of the future of the automobile and said Tesla’s entry into India will revolutionise the sector. Rajiv Arora, president of Federation of Rajasthan Exporters, had also written to letter the chief minister for reaching out to Tesla. “Rajasthan provides the strategic location for Tesla. That’s why the government needs to provide incentives under a special package to attract the company to the state,” said Arora. RIICO is currently opening industrial areas across Rajasthan for allotment, spread over 17,250 acre. The letter said the department “will be happy to facilitate identification of possible locations and in streamlining various further requirements.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-govt-writes-to-tesla-offers-land-in-bhiwadi-for-a-manufacturing-unit/articleshow/80321048.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 18, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan govt writes to Tesla, offers land in Bhiwadi for a manufacturing unit||JAIPUR: After Tesla’s announcement to set up a R&D facility in Bengaluru and centres in five states, the Rajasthan government has also written a letter to the company offering land in Bhiwadi. Though the US electric car maker has not given details of its plans for its centres, the state government in the letter reached out to the company saying “consider Rajasthan state as a location for your future manufacturing unit In India.” The letter, addressed to Vaibhav Taneja, director, Tesla India Motors and Energy Pvt Ltd, undersigned by RIICO managing director Ashutosh Pednekar, said that the state’s investment promotion scheme offers “the most attractive incentive scheme amongst all Indian states and we will be glad to provide customized solutions to Tesla for its big-ticket investment in the state.” Rajasthan enjoys locational as well as resource advantages in automobile sector with Alwar district in the NCR region emerging as a hub with over 100 companies operating in the sector. The state has a “robust eco-system of automobile component manufacturers producing transmission & steering systems, suspension, braking systems, tyres, electrical parts, and climate control systems among others.” In fact, the businessmen in the state are aware of the future of the automobile and said Tesla’s entry into India will revolutionise the sector. Rajiv Arora, president of Federation of Rajasthan Exporters, had also written to letter the chief minister for reaching out to Tesla. “Rajasthan provides the strategic location for Tesla. That’s why the government needs to provide incentives under a special package to attract the company to the state,” said Arora. RIICO is currently opening industrial areas across Rajasthan for allotment, spread over 17,250 acre. The letter said the department “will be happy to facilitate identification of possible locations and in streamlining various further requirements.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-govt-writes-to-tesla-offers-land-in-bhiwadi-for-a-manufacturing-unit/articleshow/80321047.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||Private hospital occupancy in Ahmedabad drops by 91% in 50 days||AHMEDABAD: On November 23, the number of non-requisitioned beds for Covid-19 patients in city-based private hospitals was 3,043. Of the total, 2,789 or 92% of the beds were occupied — and 208 of 223 ventilators were in use. Fifty days later, the hospitals recorded 247 patients in non-requisitioned beds, 7% of the 3,395 beds available. Patients on ventilators and in ICU were 24 and 43 respectively. In absolute terms, the drop in the number of patients is 91.2%, reveals an analysis. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), said that the drop is gradual but huge. “It reflects the ground situation in which the number of daily positive cases and active cases are falling in Ahmedabad in particular and in Gujarat in general.” He said the hope is that Uttarayan festivities will not result in another spike. The fallout of the dip in cases is that several hospitals are going back to their core competency. Some hospitals have stopped admitting new Covid-19 patients. Several mid-sized and smaller hospitals had invested in infrastructure such as oxygen supply and ICU beds. These hospitals have adopted a hybrid model, earmarking areas for Covid and non-Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pvt-hospital-occupancy-drops-by-91-in-50-days/articleshow/80320067.cms||Parth Shastri
January 18, 2021||Goa||Despite lockdown restrictions, crime rate saw 17% increase in 2020||Panaji: Despite being under lockdown for almost one quarter of the year due to Covid-19, Goa witnessed a 17% increase in crime rate in 2020 as compared to 2019. The crime detection rate, too, went up to 92.5% in 2020 from 89% in 2019. Superintendent of police (SP) Mahesh Gaonkar attributed the increase in crime rate to “free registration of first information report (FIR)” at all police stations following the instruction of new director general of police Mukesh Kumar Meena. While 2019 saw 3,727 cases registered, 2020 saw this number go up to 4,366, a 17% increase in crime over the previous year. Gaonkar said that the increased detection rate is because of proper monitoring by senior officers. While there was no sharp rise in murder cases in 2020, there was an increase in attempt to murder cases. Goa witnessed two sensational murder cases last year, those of jeweller Sawpnil Walke, in Margao in September, and of Vilas Methar, in Torda, in October. Police arrested all accused and filed chargesheets in both cases. Among other crimes, despite the hue and cry from social activities to act against matka gambling, the state saw a decrease in registration of matka gambling cases. In 2019, Goa police registered 875 matka gambling cases as against only 685 in 2020. There was a drop in the number of fatal accidents in 2020, Gaonkar said, attributing this to the lockdown. In 2019, 180 fatal accidents were reported which number reduced to 122 in last year. Narcotic crimes came down by almost 35% in 2020 over the previous year. Here too the lockdown played a role. Due to a halt in tourism activities there was no movement of drugs in the state. However, the drug seizure in 2020 was much higher than that of 2019 despite a few dealers using different strategies to avoid arrest while transporting drugs. Other cases reported included, culpable homicide not amounting to murder, rape, dacoity, burglary, theft, chain snatching, receiving of stolen property, cheating, rioting, unlawful assembly and kidnapping, among others. *** gfx sent Offence Sheet IPC Reported Detected Murder 34 34 Attempt to murder 23 23 Rape 57 56 Dacoity 1 1 Robbery 12 12 Burglary 109 50 Theft 371 239 Matka gambling 685 685 NDPS 147 147||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/despite-lockdown-restrictions-crime-rate-saw-17-increase-in-2020/articleshow/80319485.cms||Murari Shetye
January 18, 2021||Kolkata||Durgapur bridge may be closed for 3 days in January end||KOLKATA: While Lalbazar braces for a challenge on Monday morning after the closure of Sealdah flyover for Metro work, preparations have already started to shut down Durgapur bridge — that connects Alipore and Chetla with New Alipore — for 72 hours and allow Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) to carry out the pending load test on it. The work is likely to be done between January 22 and January 26 as this period has three holidays. The smooth flow of traffic on Majerhat bridge made cops confident to go ahead with the closure of Durgapur bridge. “With the Majerhat bridge fully functional, trucks are likely to be disallowed on the Dhana Dhanye bridge (beside Uttirno on DL Khan Road) and Zeerut bridge. We want the smaller vehicles to use the Bailey Bridge,” said an officer at Lalbazar. “We are finalizing the schedule, keeping in mind that the KMDA has also sought the closure of Ambedkar bridge at Panchannagram on EM Bypass for a similar load test. They have also sought restrictions to be imposed on the night traffic of Maa flyover for net installation work. The Metro authorities also want a block at Avishikta Crossing,” said the officer. According to sources, all the buses plying on the Durgapur bridge will be rerouted through Mominpur or Tollygunge Circular Road (via Tollygunge Phanri). “Those buses headed towards Behala can use the Mominpore-Tollygunge Phanri alignment. With Majerhat bridge already witnessing a massive jump in traffic, we may ask multiple autos, two-wheelers and private cars to use the Bailey bridge,” said the officer. The southwest and Tollygunge traffic guards are jointly preparing a diversion plan. Apart from Majerhat bridge, both Burdwan Road and Tollygunge Circular Road are expected to take the additional load of vehicles during the closure of Durgapur bridge. Both the roads are narrow, so advanced planning and traffic management are needed. “We are keeping in touch with the police to finalize the dates when the load capacity test of the Durgapur bridge will be conducted,” said a KMDA official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/durgapur-bridge-may-be-closed-for-3-days-in-jan-end/articleshow/80318388.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 18, 2021||Delhi||26 ‘adverse events’ on vaccination Day 2, say docs; 2 of them serious||New Delhi: The capital saw 26 cases of adverse reactions after getting the Covid-19 vaccine on the second day of mass vaccination in the country. On Monday, 3,598 people received the jab in Delhi. While 24 cases, also known as Adverse Events Following Immunisation, were categorised as minor, state health departments said there were two serious ones. One person required hospitalisation. “One person fainted post-vaccination. He was kept under observation at Max Hospital in Patparganj for some time,” the official added. Of the total adverse events reported, the maximum — four cases — were reported from central Delhi. East Delhi, northwest Delhi, northeast Delhi, south Delhi and southwest Delhi reported three such incidents; followed by two incidents in north Delhi. New Delhi and Shahdara districts reported one adverse event each and southeast Delhi did not report any such instance. On Saturday, the first day of mass vaccination against Covid-19, 51 people who received the vaccine reported adverse effects, mostly minor problems like pain at injection site and fever, and there were at least two who reported serious reactions, necessitating hospitalisation. This included a security guard at AIIMS, who complained about breathing difficulties and another person who got inoculated at Northern Railway Central Hospital. “The guard at AIIMS was observed for some time and then discharged,” sources said. Deepak Kumar, CPRO, Northern Railway said the individual at Northern Railway Central hospital developed adverse effects due to comorbidity, with the patient not fully disclosing that he had high blood-pressure in the morning before inoculation. There has not been any death due to Covid-19 vaccination in the city yet. The city is using two types of vaccines — Covaxin, which has been developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and Covishield, which has been developed by the Oxford/Astrazeneca in collaboration with the Serum Institute of India. “There is a lot of hesitancy among healthcare workers, who are first in the priority list for vaccination. They’re not very forthcoming, possibly because of reports of adverse events and even death among people taking the vaccine in other countries. Our vaccines are safe and we need to instil confidence among citizens so more people come forward to take to the jab to end this pandemic,” said a senior doctor at AIIMS. Less than a dozen healthcare workers turned out for vaccination on Monday at AIIMS till 4pm. On Saturday, 95 people received the vaccine at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/26-adverse-events-on-vaccination-day-2-say-docs-2-of-them-serious/articleshow/80335952.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
January 18, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Waste plant in way of Punjabi Bagh flyover to be relocated||NEW DELHI: The widening of roads and construction of the Punjabi Bagh flyover near Basai Darapur is stuck due to a waste compression plant by South Delhi Municipal Corporation that falls in the way of the project. SDMC has asked for over Rs 30 lakh to relocate the garbage compactor station to another spot. Under the project, Public Works Department aims to make the stretch from Dhaula Kuan to Azadpur Market Ring Road signal free, which includes two flyover extensions. A senior SDMC official said that the flyover project division of PWD has written to them, stating that the work for construction of the flyover at Basai Darapur has been awarded. The letter further said that the unit for collecting and compressing waste is falling in alignment of the road and flyover. PWD has asked SDMC to relocate the Fixed Compactor Transfer Station so that the project work can begin. “Under the overall project, the two-lane flyover near Moti Nagar Junction will be doubled, while the flyover near Punjabi Bagh will be expanded and extended,” said the official. “The flyover will be extended by 1,054 metres, which will come close to the waste processing facility near the Najafgarh drain.” Working on the PWD request, SDMC has asked the private concessionaire collecting garbage in the zone not to pursue the power distribution company for getting an electricity connection for the new site. The civic body officials say that the contractor had not placed the machinery in the site yet and therefore will not be liable for any compensation. “The structure has been constructed by the project division of the west zone. An estimate of Rs 30.93 lakh has been prepared for the demolition and reconstruction of similar structure at another location,” the SDMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/waste-plant-in-way-of-flyover-to-be-relocated/articleshow/80318412.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||First Indian fighter jet, electric locomotive brought back to life at city’s Science Centre||MUMBAI: At a time when all eyes are on the Mumbai Metro, bullet train or Tejas light combat helicopter, a tremendous assortment of vehicles, locomotives and aircraft from a bygone era that have been in a state of retirement at the Nehru Science Centre (NSC) in Worli are set to serve as a glorious reminder of their link with the past after these historic carriers were repaired and restored to their former shine. India’s first indigenously manufactured fighter jet, the HF-24 Marut, designed by a Nazi-era German engineer and used in the Bangladesh Liberation War; a 114-year-old steam lorry that towed ships into the Mazgaon dock; one of the first electric locomotives to enter the railways in the late twenties; an electric tram car from 1902; and a steam engine of the legendary Darjeeling Himalayan Railway — have for the first time since they completed their circuitous journeys undergone major restoration work as part of the centre’s initiative to keep alive the country’s heritage of transport. “These artefacts have been on display in the open science park of the Nehru Science Centre since 1979. Unfortunately, sultry climatic conditions due to close proximity to the sea over the years led to corrosion and deterioration. Although minor efforts like painting the body was done intermittently, there was never any attempt to restore these artefacts holistically with expert help,” said NSC director Shivaprasad Khened, who took advantage of the pandemic-induced lockdown to engage experts and resurrect these pieces of industrial history — stripped of parts and beset by rust — at a cost of Rs 16 lakh. To prevent Asia’s first fighter jet — donated by the Indian Air Force to the science park in 1978 — from crumbling any further, the centre sought help from its makers, the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL). The HF-24 Marut, also known as ‘Spirit of the Tempest’, designed to attack from a lower height and used in the famous battle of Longewala, was born out of Jawaharlal Nehru’s desire for India’s own fighter plane. Given the dearth of technology and expertise at the time, Nehru had appointed a German aerospace scientist, known for designing several Luftwaffe aircrafts for World War II. “Although the Covid-19 pandemic provided us an opportunity to attempt major restoration of this historic aircraft, we were also faced with a severe funds crunch. We appealed to HAL, Nashik. They sent their team of engineers and technicians who camped at our centre for three weeks and carried out the restoration, free of cost,” informs Khened. The other vehicle restored to its former self with a black and red band livery is the electric locomotive manufactured around 1929 that operated between Kalyan and Pune during the pre-independence era under the Great Indian Peninsular Railways. To reinstate the only locomotive of the “broad gauge, direct current, passenger traffic train” preserved in India — the Central Railway Locomotive Workshop in Parel, known for its 140-year-old history in manufacturing and repair of steam, electric and diesel locomotives — joined forces. “The exterior surface plates, structural members and roof were heavily corroded. We removed and replaced all the corroded parts and surface plates and took care to preserve its original colour, texture and structure,” said chief workshop manager Vivek Acharya. A 1906 steam lorry that replaced man and animal-powered wagons to haul ships into Mazgaon’s dry dock and for transporting shipping materials was resurrected from substantial wear and tear caused over four decades since it was gifted to NSC. “Apart from the humidity, visitors’ constant handling can be damaging to metal. Unlike art and archaeology museums, science museums are designed with hands-on exhibits that one can touch. Unfortunately this non-coercive approach has been counterproductive to preserving artefacts,” rues Khened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/first-indian-fighter-jet-electric-locomotive-brought-back-to-life-at-citys-science-centre/articleshow/80319525.cms||Mohua Das
January 18, 2021||Goa||Goa board halves exam fees for spl needs kids||Panaji: The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has decided to cut by 50% the examination fees for children with special needs, who appear for the Class X and XII public exams. The concession will be available to all special children sponsored to appear for the state board Class X and XII exams by a recognised high school or higher secondary school, the Goa Board circular, issued by secretary Geraldina Mendes, states. The revised fee to be charged will be Rs 525 without late fees and Rs 1,025 with late fees. A reduced fee of Rs 300 will be charged for the statement of marks and passing certificate. For students answering the exam under the scheme for children with special needs, no fees will be charged for practical examinations. The decision to extend the exam fees concession to children with special needs was taken by the Goa Board executive council last January. However, the decision will come into force from the upcoming board exams. Goa already has a scheme for special children in place since 2005, which was later revised in 2008 and 2018. The scheme provides financial assistance to regular schools to set up resource rooms and practice inclusive education. Individual grants are provided to parents of special children to avail facilities like physiotherapy. The Goa Board additionally offers its scheme for children with special needs, where students get various concessions at the Class X and XII public exams based on the nature of the disability, like provision of a writer for exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-board-halves-exam-fees-for-spl-needs-kids/articleshow/80319488.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||Registrations of passenger vehicles dip by 50% in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The sale of passenger vehicles in the state registered a sharp decline of around 50% in 2020 as compared to 2019. The sale dropped to 8,600 in 2020 from 17,800 in 2019. Covid-19-induced lockdown and other factors badly affected the sale of autorickshaws in 2020 as the three-wheeler sales in the state slump 63% to 28,600 in the pandemic year. The figure for 2019 was 76,600. “Those willing to buy passenger vehicles decided to wait and watch as they were not sure when curbs on vehicle movements would be lifted,” said an RTO official. The demand for two-wheelers declined 36% in 2020. Merely 6.83 lakh two-wheelers were registered in 2020 against 10.74 lakh in 2019. Car sales on the other hand recovered faster with a decline of 18%. Two lakh cars were registered in 2020 against 2.4 lakh in 2019. Industry players said that lack of easy finance was one of the reasons behind the drop in vehicle sales. “Mid-segment cars typically priced at Rs 5 -8 lakh are in maximum demand. In urban areas, sales are largely driven by newly launched models, particularly of SUVs,” said a dealer. Pranav Shah, chairman, Gujarat Federation of Automobile Dealers' Association (FADA), said, “Two-wheeler registrations showed a steeper decline in 2020. On the contrary, the car market recovered relatively fast.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/registrations-of-passenger-vehicles-dip-by-50-in-gujarat/articleshow/80320091.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 18, 2021||Kochi||Malabar Devaswom to pay pending salaries soon||Palakkad: The distribution of pending salary to the employees of Malabar Devasom Board will begin on Monday and will be completed within two weeks, said M R Murali, the new devaswom president. The state government handed over Rs 25 core to the board, and the disbursal programme on Monday will begin by distributing Rs 50,000 to A- and B-grade employees of the board, Murali said. The salary of employees could not be paid as temples had no income due to closure during Covid-19 lockdown. Thus the state government had sanctioned Rs 25 crore to the board as salary and other pending payments to the employees. The state government is considering bringing Malabar Devaswom Comprehensive Amendment Bill in the assembly, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/malabar-devaswom-to-pay-pending-salaries-soon/articleshow/80317361.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Rajkot||Lover’s kin booked for man’s suicide in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A 25-year-old man living on University Road in Rajkot ended his life on January 14 after he was locked and beaten up by a man with whose sister, he had an affair. The youth Atul Jadhav’s maternal uncle Gopal Chauhan lodged a complaint of abetment of suicide, extortion, assault and criminal intimidation against Ranchhod Bharwad on Saturday basis which Bharwad had been booked. Chauhan told police that Bharwad asked Jadhav to meet him on January 13 night. When Jadhav reached, Bharwad locked him in a room and beat him mercilessly. In the wee hours of January 14, Jadhav called Chauhan to inform him about what had transpired. When Jadhav made Chauhan talk to Bharwad, the accused threatened to kill Jadhav. When Chauhan made several requests to let Jadhav go, Bharwad demanded Rs 3 lakh. Chauhan told Bharwad that he will come to Rajkot from his home in Gir Somnath next day and hand over the money but let Jadhav leave. Trusting Chauhan’s word, Bharwad let Jadhav leave that night. A while later when Chauhan called Jadhav to know whether he had reached home safe or not, the calls were not answered. Chauhan did not pay much heed then as he was going to Rajkot next morning. But before Chauhan left, he received call from Jadhav’s flatmate Kirit informing him that Jadhav had ended his life by hanging himself from ceiling fan. After completing his nephew’s final rites, Chauhan approached police on Saturday and submitted the recording of the call which Jadhav had made in the wee hours of January 14 to him. After registering the FIR, police had started further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lovers-kin-booked-for-mans-suicide/articleshow/80316668.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Delhi||In pre-budget meet, Sisodia seeks a fair share for Delhi||New Delhi: In a pre-budget meeting with Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia sought a “legitimate share in central taxes” for Delhi so that the state could finance the developmental needs of the city after Covid-19 pandemic caused a 42% decline in revenue collection in 2020-2021. Sisodia claimed that Delhi required an allocation of at least Rs 8,150 crore in the revised expenditure for 2020-21 and Rs 8,555 crore in the budget estimate of 2021-22. He urged the Union minister to treat Delhi at par with the Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir with regard to the share in central taxes, central assistance to UTs and allocations under the Disaster Response Fund. At the meeting attended by finance ministers of all states and UTs, Sisodia pointed out that Delhi’s share in capital taxes has remained stagnant at Rs 325 crore since 2001-02. Because it is a Union territory with a legislature, Delhi is not included in the terms of reference of the Central Finance Commission, and therefore, gets an annual grant in lieu of a share in the central taxes capped at Rs 325 crore. “Since Delhi is the capital and one the fastest growing metropolises, Delhi government needs to maintain infrastructure that meets world standards. We also need funds to make huge investments in crucial departments like education, health, social, food securities, transports, roads and hospitals,” Sisodia said. Sisodia asserted that Delhi with a population of around 193.9 lakh should be provided at least Rs 1,150 crore, along with an appropriate annual enhancement grant to Delhi government for the capital’s local urban bodies, of which there were five, three being municipal corporations. These bodies should not be denied basic performance grants on technical grounds, he said, while highlighting how that the three municipal corporations of Delhi were under extreme financial distress. Considering the dire financial situation of the corporations, Sisodia requested a one-time grant of Rs 12,000 crore as the civic bodies’ share for the last 10 years. “The normal central assistance, which was 5.1% of the total expenditure in 2000-01, declined to 0.96% by 2020-21 (BE),” said the deputy CM, demanding Rs 1,835 in revised estimate of 2020-21 and Rs 1925 crore in budget estimate 2021-22. The Centre released Rs 11,092 crore to all state governments as Disaster Response Fund in April 2020, but not Delhi. Sisodia requested Sitharaman not to treat Delhi differently in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-pre-budget-meet-sisodia-seeks-a-fair-share-for-delhi/articleshow/80335971.cms||AlokKNMishra
January 18, 2021||Nagpur||Gadkari credits citizens for award||Nagpur: Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari gave the credit of his achievements to Nagpurians after receiving the Nalini Balkrishna Deopujari Memorial life time achievement award conferred by Padmagandha Pratisthan. “It is because Nagpurians gave me an opportunity that I could do big things in Nagpur and all over the country. I built a double-decker flyover in the city. Soon a multimedia show of international standards will start at Futala lake. Central government is expected to clear the Broad Gauge Metro soon, which will provide fast connectivity to towns near Nagpur. I could execute all these works because people gave me an opportunity to represent and serve them,” said Gadkari. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit, former Sanskrit university vice-chancellor Dr Pankaj Chande, Kanchan Gadkari, Padmagandha Pratishthan president Shubhangi Bhadbhade, Dr Satish Deopujari and others were prominently present in the function. Further speaking on his works, the minister said, “I am building a tunnel in Zoji La. It is the biggest tunnel in Asia. I built six bridges on Ganga and Bramhaputra rivers each. The 1,300 kilometre long green expressway linking Delhi with Mumbai will be completed within a year. I started rejuvenation of Ganga and restarted water transport in the country. During the corona lockdown period I held 280 video conferences and connected with 80 crore people.” “In the social field, I paid for the cardiac surgery of poor kids. I donated artificial legs to handicapped persons,” the minister further said. He expressed disappointment over the failure to stop farmers’ suicides in Vidarbha. “I launched several schemes for the farmers but did not get the expected success,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gadkari-credits-citizens-for-award/articleshow/80319487.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Metro to open more gates from today||KOLKATA: As Metro starts its first e-pass-free journey from Monday, more gates will be opened at stations. Five more gates will be opened at different stations of north-south Metro. At Central, gate number 5 will remain open for passengers’ entry. At Kalighat, gates 4 and 5 will be opened for exit while gate 10 will be used for entry. At Rabindra Sarobar, Gate 4 will be opened for easy exit. At Park Street, commuters could use gate number 1 for both entry and exit from Sunday. Similarly, at Chandni Chowk, commuters can now use Gate 1 for both entry and exit. As per the SOP in Covid times, customized entry/exit were allowed at each station to control footfalls ever since Metro had resumed operations on September 14. From December 18, an extra exit gate was opened each at Central, Chandni Chowk, Jatin Das Park and Mahanayak Uttam Kumar stations. From Monday, no e-pass will be required. Another 12 daily services will be added, taking the total count to 240 during weekdays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-to-open-more-gates-from-today/articleshow/80318464.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
January 18, 2021||Kolkata||Old Currency Building’s ‘Ghare Baire’ exhibition to display rare Jamini Roy, Sunayani Devi works||KOLKATA: A rare Jamini Roy tempera on jute of a mother and daughter is soon going to be added to the collection of the six national art treasure artists of India at the museum exhibition titled ‘Ghare Baire - The World, The Home and Beyond’ at the renovated Old Currency Building. Moving away from his iconic style, this addition reveals the iconic painter’s search for a simplified formal language that would resonate universally. Also being added are two embroidered works of Abanindranath’s sister, Sunayani Devi, which blur the lines between creative practices there were seen merely as feminine household work, in relation to fine arts practices that was a male territory. These works, which will be on display in February, shall complement the collection of lesser-known works of iconic artists, including Abanindranath Tagore’s pastel portraits and Nandalal Bose’s scrap experiments. It’s been a year since its reopening by PM Narendra Modi with an exhibition organized by a public-private partnership between the Ministry of Culture and DAG Museums, a private organization with a rich history in curating art. The renovated Old Currency Building is fast becoming a must-visit place in the city’s cultural landscape. On Sunday, a group of 13 enthusiasts visited its European Artists Gallery and then went on a trail of Laal Dighi with illustrator Alisha Dutt Islam. Talking about the Jamini addition, Sumona Chakravarty, deputy director of DAG Museums, said, “With his characteristic economy of lines and form, Jamini captures the mother’s quiet strength and the daughter’ spirited confidence. This painting is important because it positions him as an artist who wasn’t parochial and looked beyond the local landscape.” Among the existing Jamini works is an oil on board of a seated female nude in threequarters profile, viewed from behind. Building the form through an assured application of pigment, Jamini focusses on the sensuous potential of the back. Considering that most of his early work were impressionistically painted landscapes, this nude is a rare piece of work from that period. Sunayani’s paintings, which are already on display, are also arresting. “In the two paintings, one of Radha and the Gopis and the other a dream of Shiva, we see her representation of the deeply internal world of women and the iconic style of painting the eyes,” said Sujaan Mukherjee, senior associate, education and outreach, DAG Museums. Another famous exhibit is a Nandalal poster that was done when Gandhi had invited him to design the pavilion and posters depicting the everyday life of Indians at 1938’s Haripura session of the Indian National Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/old-currency-buildings-ghare-baire-expo-to-display-rare-jamini-roy-sunayani-devi-works/articleshow/80318432.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
January 18, 2021||Kochi||Heed farmers’ demands: Church to Union govt||Kochi: Syro-Malabar Church on Sunday issued an official statement indicating that the recently-concluded synod has requested the central government to heed the “just” demands of the farmers who have been protesting for the past 50 days, enduring extreme weather conditions. The synod, the statement said, has also expressed its satisfaction at an investigating report of the police intimating that the accusations against the major archbishop of Syro-Malabar Church cardinal George Alencherry in connection with the sale of properties under the Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese do not merit any consideration. “The Synod has asked archbishop Mar Antony Kariyil to take steps to conclude the sale of the properties. The synod has requested the concerned parties to show a spirit of cooperation in this matter,” said the statement. As per the statement, the synod has also discussed in detail the case of fake documents, an article that called into question the canonization of John Paul II and the problems caused by fundamentalist groups that make statements in the social media on behalf of the Church. The synod has asked the bishops to take disciplinary actions against those who take positions against the official stand of the church. The revised text of the Syro-Malabar eucharistic celebration will be published soon with the permission of the Vatican. The synod has approved a second lectionary on an experimental basis along with the present one. Besides formalizing a prioritized list of the feast days, the synod also gave its clearance to the text of prayers and the rubrics to be followed during funerals which has already been approved by the Church. The synod expressed its deep pain at the increasing level of violent attacks on Christians all over the world. The news about the killing of more than 750 Christians in Ethiopia during the Christmas season was heart-breaking, the statement said. "The martyrdom of Christians who were victims of such terrorist attacks in Africa and Europe speaks of the strength of the faith of those Christians,” the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/heed-farmers-demands-church-to-union-govt/articleshow/80317370.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Nashik||‘Beneficiaries across dist healthy’||Nashik: District nodal officer for the vaccination programme Nikhil Saindane said that all the health workers who had received the shot on the first day of the vaccination programme were doing well and and had no complaints. The adverse reactions were limited to wrist pain, muscle stiffness, slight fever or mild giddiness. All such syptoms subsided within the 30 minutes. “At night, three of the 745 beneficiaries injected with the CoviShield vaccine reported mild fever. They were prescribed remedial measures. In the morning, each one of them were back on their feet without any complaint,” said Saindane. He said if a vaccine has any big adverse effect, it reacts within five minutes and person complains of breathlessness, choking, etc. Oxygen supply and the medicines kept ready at the booths are enough.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/beneficiaries-across-dist-healthy/articleshow/80320093.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 18, 2021||Trichy||Smart toilet opens for public use on WB Road||Trichy: A smart toilet redeveloped on an existing sanitary complex on West Boulevard (WB) road was opened for public use by Trichy Corporation. Established at a cost of Rs 30 lakh, the complex has a sanitary napkin vending machine and a child-friendly toilet for women carrying infants. Facilitated with incinerator for safe disposal of sanitary napkins and diapers, the toilet was established in 600sqft space near the Main guard gate. A sanitary napkin vending machine will dispose of a napkin each for every Rs 1 deposited. The pay-and-use the toilet for both men and women will collect a user fee varying between Rs 2 to Rs 3. The complex, aesthetically designed with LED lights and decorative panels will benefit shoppers visiting the WB Road, Singarathope and NSB Road, which are dotted with several showrooms. “Both the men and women washrooms were provided with ramps to make the toilet disabled-friendly. Infant dressing room facility is equipped in women’s restroom,” a corporation official said. A private organisation will be identified to maintain the complex. The corporation had opened a ‘She toilet’ for women near the Chathiram bus stand at Rs 40 lakh in June 2019, but there is poor patronage due to missing signage boards. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/smart-toilet-opens-for-public-use-on-wb-road/articleshow/80319521.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Kolkata||One held for razor attack near Kolkata's Lalbazar||KOLKATA: Cops arrested a person on Sunday in connection with the attack on a 45-year-old man who was allegedly stabbed with a razor and robbed of Rs 18,000 cash and mobile on BB Ganguly Street near the police headquarters in the city. The arrest was made almost 96 hours after the crime. The accused, Md Selim (20), a resident of Bongaon in North 24 Parganas, was arrested around 12.30am from AJC Bose Road. On January 13, the victim, Lalbabu Yadav, was lying unconscious near the exit gate of Lalbazar with multiple stab injuries on his body. Some cops rescued him and admitted him to SSKM Hospital. Cops said that an old enmity was the reason behind the attack on Yadav. A case pertaining to attempt to murder, robbery and voluntarily causing hurt for robbery was registered at Muchipara police station following his statement, said DC (Central), Meeraj Khalid. The accused confessed to having a scuffle with the victim some days ago on PC Boral Street in Bowbazar over their previous enmity. Cops recovered the victim’s mobile from his possession. “The accused denied having stolen any money from the victim,” said Khalid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/one-held-for-razor-attack-near-lalbazar/articleshow/80318494.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 18, 2021||India||Co-WIN app snag pricks states, forces vaccine drive to go offline||NEW DELHI: A day after India rolled out what aims to be the world’s largest mass Covid-19 vaccination programme, random glitches in the Co-WIN app on Sunday forced several states to either reschedule their sessions or temporarily take the process offline at the cost of operational efficiency. Maharashtra, which had decided on the first day itself to postpone its second round of vaccination till the snags were solved, announced late Sunday that the technical glitch in Co-WIN had been fixed for the programme to resume statewide on Tuesday. Public health minister Rajesh Tope had said earlier in the day that four consecutive sessions of vaccination might be carried out. “At a video conference with the Union health minister on Saturday evening to give feedback on the first day of vaccination, Maharashtra and other states had raised the Co-WIN malfunction issue. Since the Centre has made it mandatory for the entire process to be online, the drive cannot resume unless the problems with the app are rectified,” Tope said. But in both Punjab and Karnataka, vaccination continued with mostly manual data entry even as communication hiccups resulted in confusion and kept away many among those listed for a shot in the arm. A senior official in Chandigarh said the Centre had permitted the Punjab government to manually maintain immunisation data for now and later feed the information into the central server. The state government decided that all 59 designated centres would individually contact the 100 frontline health workers each registered for inoculation on Monday to avoid any communication gap. “When the health department tried to send confirmation texts to those registered for vaccination on Monday, the central server was simultaneously sending messages to the mobile phones of those who could not be vaccinated on Saturday,” the official said. In Karnataka, none among the 13,408 people vaccinated on Saturday received the digital certificate that the Co-WIN app is meant to send. Also, like in Punjab and elsewhere, several healthcare workers did not get texts on Friday confirming their place in the queue. As a result, they didn’t turn up. “This glitch was a major reason – besides hesitancy – for the low numbers,” an official said. The vaccination process entails creating sites and uploading details of beneficiaries through the app. Registered healthcare workers get a message a day prior to the vaccination appointment. Those who submit Aadhaar numbers also get a beneficiary reference number. Identity verification teams at sites are required to cross-check ID cards and authenticate it on the portal. After the shot, Co-WIN sends another message indicating successful vaccination, followed by a certificate that includes a QR code. Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar said, “This is a humongous exercise and teething problems were expected. All issues are being examined and everything will be sorted out by Monday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/co-win-app-snag-pricks-states-forces-vaccine-drive-to-go-offline/articleshow/80320425.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Bareilly||UP ward boy dies day after getting Covid vaccine||BAREILLY: A 46-year-old ward boy at the district hospital in UP’s Moradabad district, one of the health workers to have received a jab of Covishield on Saturday, died a day later following complaints of "breathlessness and unease, especially in the chest." Dr MC Garg, the chief medical officer (CMO) there, told TOI: “Mahipal Singh (the ward boy) was given the Covishield vaccine at about 12 noon on Saturday. On Sunday afternoon, he suffered pain in the chest with breathlessness. He had worked the night shift after vaccination and we don’t think the death is due to any side effect of the vaccine. However, we are trying to verify the exact reason of death. The body will be sent for autopsy as soon as possible.” Nearly 479 health workers were vaccinated in Moradabad district on the first day of the vaccination drive in Moradabad. Mahipal's family said he had never tested positive for Covid-19 and was immunised as a part of the national drive. Mahipal’s son Vishal said, “My father was not doing well after the vaccination. He asked me to come to the hospital in an auto to take him back home as he couldn’t ride his two-wheeler after that. I reached there at around 1.30 pm and his condition had already worsened. He wasn't behaving as he normally would. He was short of breath. Some days ago, maybe a fortnight, I think he had mild fever. I brought him home and he was given tea and asked to take rest. On Sunday, while I was out for work, I came to know that my father’s condition had deteriorated and he was taken to hospital where he was declared dead. I feel it was the side effects of the vaccination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-wardboy-46-dies-day-after-getting-covid-vaccine/articleshow/80317379.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 18, 2021||Nashik||MSAMB to invest Rs 13 crore to upgrade export facility units||Nashik: The Maharashtra state agriculture marketing board (MSAMB) will invest Rs 13 crore to upgrade and expand four of its export facility centres in the Nashik division. There of the centres — Mohadi, Kalwan and Chandwad — are in the Nashik district, while one (Raver) is in Jalgaon district. The aim is to expand the capacity of pre-cooling, cold storage and storage facilities.The MSAMB has 46 export facility centres across the state. The objective of each centre is to assist farmers in sending their agricultural produce to various domestic and international markets. These centres have various facilities for grading, pre-cooling, cold storage and also holding rooms.“We are now adding value to the existing export centres by upgrading and expanding the facilities there. We are increasing the capacity of pre-cooling, cold storage and holding rooms,” said Chandrashekhar Bari, a senior officer of MSAMB’s Nashik division.“The Mohadi export facility centre is dedicated to grapes. Earlier, this facility was dedicated for export of flowers, but activities related to flowers did not take place and now it is being used for grapes,” said Bari.“The export facility centre at Kalwan is being used for grading of onions. This facility includes onion storage units, pre-cooling, cold storage, grading line etc. We are also upgrading and expanding this facility,” said Bari. Another export facility centre in Chandwad is also being used for onions.The facility centre at Savda in Raver taluka is being used for bananas. The MSAMB is expanding pre-cooling, cold storage, storage facility. Moreover, a training hall is also to be constructed there to give training to the banana farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msamb-to-invest-rs-13-crore-to-upgrade-export-facility-units/articleshow/80320094.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 18, 2021||Kolkata||Double-decker trial plan||Kolkata: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority is planning to conduct the trial run of a double-decker bus in the township on January 23. The trial will be conducted by the tourism department, said officials. They said the bus was brought in New Town a few days ago. “Earlier, a proposal was placed before the tourism department to operate an open air double decker bus in New Town. They agreed to the proposal. We are identifying spots for the trial,” said an NKDA official. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/double-decker-trial-plan/articleshow/80318528.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Dehradun||After Gujarat, U’khand HC directs CBDT to ‘leniently consider’ CAs’ request seeking time extension to file tax audit reports, ITRs||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Friday directed the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) to “leniently consider” and “give an opportunity of hearing” to the chartered accountants’ (CAs) society which has demanded that the time to file the income tax returns as well as tax audit reports for financial year 2019-20 should be extended to March 31, 2021. The direction comes as the Dehradun Chartered Accountants’ Society filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in the HC saying that though various CA bodies from across the country have approached the government with the request, the Centre has not agreed to extend the deadline any further. While delivering its judgement, the bench of Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Manoj Tiwari noted that the country is suffering from Covid-19 and therefore, a large number of people are finding it difficult to meet their CAs. “Admittedly, the country continues to suffer and to reel under the Covid-19 pandemic. A large number of assesses still find it difficult to even meet their chartered accountants and to file their income tax audit reports and the income tax returns. Therefore, this court permits the petitioner to submit a fresh representation. The CBDT is directed to leniently consider the said representation after giving an opportunity of hearing to the petitioner and to issue a reasoned order thereupon,” read the court order. With this directive, the Uttarakhand HC became the second to issue such an order. On Wednesday, a division bench of the Gujarat HC had also directed the CBDT “to consider issuing appropriate circular taking lenient view as regards the consequences of late filing of tax audit reports” as is provisioned under the Income Tax Act. Earlier, in December last year, the central government had set January 10 as the deadline to file income tax returns for individuals. The deadline for filing tax returns for businesses is February 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-gujarat-ukhand-hc-directs-cbdt-to-leniently-consider-cas-request-seeking-time-extension-to-file-tax-audit-reports-itrs/articleshow/80316719.cms||Prashant Jha
January 18, 2021||Kochi||Kayamkulam not my forte: G Sudhakaran||Alappuzha: PWD minister G Sudhakaran on Sunday spurned rumors that he would be the candidate of his party from Kayamkulam in the ensuing assembly polls. Speaking to media, he said that he was backstabbed in 2001 in Kayamkulam. Sudhakaran tasted failure from Kayamkulam in 2001 assembly polls. “I will not go there again as a candidate in the assembly polls. The current MLA U Prathibha is doing an excellent job there,” he said. Replying to questions related to his candidature from Ambalappuzha constituency, he said that the party would decide on it. The CPM has not even started discussions on candidates, he said. He said that Pinarayi Vijayan will become chief minister for a second term.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kayamkulam-not-my-forte-g-sudhakaran/articleshow/80317385.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Lab technician among 8 arrested for selling babies||MUMBAI: The city crime branch busted a baby-selling racket with the arrest of eight people, including a pathology lab technician. Accordingly to the police, the accused would approach new mothers from economically weaker sections and offer to facilitate the ‘adoption’ of their babies for a price—Rs 60,000 for a newborn girl, and Rs 1.5 lakh for a boy. Preliminary investigations indicate that the gang sold four babies in the last six months, but the police suspect the number could be much higher. Among those arrested on Saturday were Arti Singh, Rupali Verma, Rukshar Shaikh, Nisha Ahire, Heena Khan, Geetanjali Gaikwad, Shahjahan Jogilkar, and Sanjay Padam. Singh, a lab technician, and Verma were ‘agents’, while Khan and Ahire were ‘sub-agents’ in the baby-selling racket. The police seized eight mobile phones from the accused. They hope to trace the babies sold to families in Mumbai and Pune from the photographs and WhatsApp chats retrieved from the phones. The police have also sought the call detail records of the arrested accused, who have been booked under the Indian Penal Code sections of human trafficking and the Juvenile Justice Act. The racket came to light after sub-inspector Yogesh Chavan and Manisha Pawar of crime branch unit 1 got specific information that a woman from Dnyaneshwar Nagar in Bandra (E) had sold her newborn girl. They made discreet enquiries and identified Shaikh. “On further probe, we learnt that she had sold her baby boy to a Pune-based family through Verma. This was the second child she had sold via Verma,” said a police officer. On January 14, the police picked up Shaikh, Jogilkar and Verma and questioned them at the unit 1’s office at the police headquarters at Crawford Market. Shaikh allegedly told the police that in 2019, Verma had helped sell her baby girl for Rs 60,000 and recently her newborn boy for Rs 1.5 lakh. Jogilkar said she too had sold her newborn son for Rs 60,000 to a family in Dharavi. Verma, during interrogation, spilled the beans on Khan and Ahire. The police then arrested Khan, who allegedly admitted to selling Jogilkar’s son to Padam for Rs 1.5 lakh. Padam was then nabbed. Police are trying to trace Shaikh’s two babies who have been sold to two different families in Dadar and Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lab-technician-among-8-arrestedfor-selling-babies/articleshow/80319655.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 18, 2021||Nashik||Active cases drop below 100 in Sinnar||Nashik: The number of active cases in Sinnar taluka has dropped below 100 for the first time since April 2020. The count had touched an all-time high of about 400 active cases in October. The numbers of active cases in Sinnar taluka has dropped to two digits for the first time after the number crossed over three digits in July. The number of cases rose sharply since the unlocking process began, which was a cause of concern. Sinnar had been witnessing a high rise in the number of cases because of factors including many Sinnar residents travelling to Mumbai and a huge number of people coming from various parts to the industrial town (Sinnar). The cases in Sinnar taluka has now touched 89 from 116 active cases reported on January 10. There were three other talukas — Nashik, Niphad and Nandgaon — that had a large number of cases. The number of active cases in these talukas dropped below 100 in December and are around 55 cases at present. In October 2020, which was the peak time, the rural areas of Nashik had 3,800 active cases but now it has reduced below the 400-mark. Meanwhile, many people in Sinnar taluka donated various things including equipment to the Covid care centres (CCC) and the dedicated Covid health centres (DCHC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/active-cases-drop-below-100-in-sinnar/articleshow/80320100.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Kozhikode||Injured tiger still elusive, foresters fear for its life||KOZHIKODE: With the seriously-injured tiger, which moved from Kolavally in Wayanad to Bandipur Tiger Reserve in Karnataka, remaining untraceable for the last five days, forest officials now fear for its life. Though the forest officials of both states are undertaking a concentrated search on both sides, they have not been able to spot the tiger which has deep snare injuries around its neck. The Karnataka forest authorities had even deployed Kumki elephants for the search operations. Forest officials in the state had confirmed that the tiger, which spread panic after straying into human habitations at Kolavally for seven days, had snare injuries on its neck as revealed from drone footages. The efforts to tranquilize it on Tuesday had failed and it had crossed into Karnataka forests. “Officials said that the snare injury on its neck had developed into sepsis. As the tiger has remained untraceable for many days, we fear that it could have possibly died. With such injuries the tiger cannot survive in the wild as it cannot hunt for long and it has to come to human habitations to survive through cattle lifting. But we have not received any reports of such incidents from across the border,” said D K Vinod Kumar, chief conservator of forest (northern circle), Kannur. The tiger would have moved into the territory of resident tigers in Bandipur Tiger Reserve and would have to encounter territorial fights, he added. He said that the department had deployed two mobile teams to search for the tiger along the Kerala side of the border. “We have asked them to continue the patrolling for another 4-5 more days,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/injured-tiger-still-elusive-foresters-fear-for-its-life/articleshow/80317406.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Goa||BJP wiping out Parrikar’s legacy: Khaunte||Panaji: The present BJP government plans to gradually wipe out former chief minister Manohar Parrikar’s legacy, said Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte, who also accused the government of trying to politicise the Model Career Centre, which was introduced by Parrikar. Khaunte said that the career centre was an initiative by the labour and employment department under the leadership of Parrikar. “This government has been proactive in eliminating the legacy of Parrikar,” he said. “We had targeted to finish 30% of unemployment at various levels including unskilled, semi skilled and skilled,” he said. Khaunte said that major firms such as Cipla, Taj Hotels and Unichem had tied up with the government to train Goan youth. “If you want to finish legacy of Parrikar, it is up to you. But stop playing politics over the youth of Goa. They need to channelise their energy and ensure that they are employed somewhere,” Khaunte said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-wiping-out-parrikars-legacy-khaunte/articleshow/80319576.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||65,000 to take GTU exams from today||AHMEDABAD: After its plea to conduct university exams in online format was turned down by the court, 65,000 students are now expected to take the semester exams at Gujarat Technological University (GTU) in pen and paper format. The exams are scheduled to begin from Monday. GTU decided not to take semester exams online, but to go for in-person exams. It was the first varsity in the state to conduct exams online. GTU had conducted final-year examinations in online format earlier this year due to Covid-19 pandemic. However, the university decided not to hold tests online any longer for the semester exams. GTU had cited format restrictions in online examination, and that it can test students only through OMR, which is not adequate for engineering students. The university’s decision led some students to approach the high court complaining that the university’s stubborn attitude would unnecessarily put students at risk of infection. The year-end college exams conducted by the varsity in online format saw a huge surge in students successfully clearing the test.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/65k-to-take-gtu-exams-from-today/articleshow/80320101.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Govt schools find solutions to fulfil reopening norms||JAIPUR: The government schools in the city are done with the preparations for reopening from Monday after a gap of almost a year. Applications have been sent to the Jaipur Municipal Corporation as well for sanitising the government school buildings before their reopening. Rashmi Kankariya, health officer at JMC, Greater, said they received four applications from different government schools in the city where sanitisation was carried out. “We are sanitising the building on demand of the school authorities. Later, they will have to make their own arrangements according to the guidelines,” said Kankariya. Unlike private schools, who can afford the facilities, it is not possible to sanitise school buildings everyday by the JMC. Hence, many government schools have purchased sanitising machines and sodium hydrochloride sprays for the purpose. At Government Poddar School, the authorities purchased a sanitising machine by spending money from the grant they receive from the government every year. Principal Prabhakar Indoria said, “Every school receives a grant from the government to spend on daily expenditure, out of which we have spent a portion on purchasing sanitisers, spray machine, sodium hydrochloride and other stuff. We cannot rely on the government agencies every time.” Similarly, in Bajaj Nagar Government School, principal Anurag Sharma said they asked for the help of Bhamashahs to sanitise the school building. “It is not possible for the government to sanitise thousands of schools in the city. Hence, we have decided to seek help from patrons. Moreover, we have purchased a foot sanitizer and other necessary items that will be needed on Monday,” said Sharma. Reacting to the problems faced by the government schools, Narayan Singh Sisodia, spokesperson of Rajasthan Shikshak Evam Panchayati Raj Karamchari Sangh, said the government must first make masks available in the government schools for distribution. “In government schools situated in rural areas, students do not have masks or sanitisers in enough quantity. Now, the government has asked schools to stock up masks, but who will pay for it. It would have been better if the government had made masks available for distribution amongst children. Moreover, government schools lack basic facilities and it will be difficult to compete with private schools on that front,” Sisodia added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-schools-find-solutions-to-fulfil-reopening-norms/articleshow/80318556.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur institute develops low-cost eco-friendly paint from cow dung||JAIPUR: Kumarappa National Handmade Paper Institute (KNHPI), a unit under khadi and village industries in Jaipur, has developed low-cost distemper and emulsion from cow dung. The distemper is claimed to be eco-friendly and nontoxic. It could be a big income booster for gaushalas in the state. It is a first-of-its-kind product, with anti-fungal, anti-bacterial properties, claimed the institute. Two types Khadi Prakritik paints — distemper and emulsion — have been developed by the institute based on cow dung as its main ingredient. About 30% cow dung pulp is mixed with chemicals to produce these paints. The paint is cost-effective and odorless and has been certified by the Bureau of Indian Standards, said director of the institute Badri Lal Meena. One litre of distemper will cost only Rs 120 while that of emulsion is Rs 225 per litre which is much lesser than the market rates of similar products. Union minister Nitin Gadkari, who had launched the product, said he will paint his office walls with this paint to showcase the product. Meena said the testing of the distemper and emulsion paint has been conducted by reputed laboratories of the country including National Test House, Ghaziabad, Shri Ram Institute of Industrial Research, Delhi and National Test House, Mumbai, and all the properties were found satisfactory. He said the technology will be transferred to interested parties for micro, small and medium enterprises. Meena said the project was conceptualized in March 2020, and later developed by Kumarappa National Handmade Paper Institute, Jaipur. He said currently the institute has a capacity to produce 1,500 litres of paint in three shifts in a day. The paint is free of heavy metals like lead, mercury, chromium, arsenic, cadmium and others. It will be a boost to local manufacturing and will create sustainable local employment through technology transfer. This technology will increase consumption of cow dung as a raw material for eco-friendly products and will generate additional revenue to farmers and gaushalas. This is estimated to generate an additional income of Rs 30,000 (approx) per annum per animal to farmers/ gaushalas. Utilisation of cow dung will also clean the environment and prevent clogging of drains. A single unit of manufacturing the paint with a capacity of 500 litres per day could give employment to 10 people, it is estimated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-institute-develops-low-cost-eco-friendly-paint-from-cow-dung/articleshow/80318530.cms||Joychen Joseph
January 18, 2021||Kolkata||Mustard oil price breaks all records in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The record rise of mustard oil price has again added pain to households already struggling with reduced earnings or job losses. Mustard oil, an essential cooking medium across eastern and north-eastern India has breached its previous records to sell at Rs160-Rs 280 (premium brand) a litre in Kolkata. Even a year ago, it was selling at Rs 90-Rs 95 a litre. The price of mustard oil is now at a record high, thanks to fast-finishing mustard stock. This time, however, the production is good. Although new mustard is being harvested, anti-farm law agitation across Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan have hit the harvesting and timely dispatch to oil mills. So, the mustard oil production was hit hard, said Jayanta Biswas, an agro-economist. A Bengali family of five on an average requires five litres of mustard oil a month. “So, it is a straight increase of Rs 300-350 per month only on mustard oil, compared to last year. If you take into account a couple of litres of white oils — soya or sunflower oil — the bill gets higher,” said Anindita Ghosh, a homemaker from Bhawanipore. Since edible oil price is largely determined by soya and palm oils, which is widely used as cooking medium across rest of India, the lower import of these two varieties of edible oil left a yawning gap between the demand and supply, spiking edible oil prices across the categories. Edible oil, across all categories, has seen a steep price rise. “Groundnut oil price rose from Rs156 last year to Rs170 this year. Soybean oil from Rs80 to Rs130. Rice bran oil from Rs 75-80 to Rs125-140,” added Biswanath Agawal, general secretary, Posta Merchants Association. He added that the prices are unlikely to drop till the new oil seeds reach the mills in February-March. Taking advantage of the gap in demand and supply, retailers have started selling edible oil at MRP, which is normally Rs 20-30 higher than the normal price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mustard-oil-price-breaks-all-records/articleshow/80318536.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
January 18, 2021||Dehradun||Human-wildlife conflict worsened in the lockdown; number of deaths rose from 58 in 2019 to 63 in 2020||Dehradun: Human-wildlife conflict (HWC) worsened in Uttarakhand in 2020, with 63 lives lost to fatal encounters with wild animals, as compared to 58 deaths in 2019. Half of the deaths were caused by leopard attacks, which saw a significant spike in 2020. Leopards killed 31 humans in the hill state in 2020 as compared to 18 in 2019. The data was exclusively accessed by TOI from the Uttarakhand forest department. Apart from the usual reasons like habitat encroachment that trigger HWC, experts believe deserted roads during the lockdown added to the problem. The lockdown emboldened the big cats, who ventured into human habitats more freely than ever before. “In the first half of 2020, people stopped going to forests to collect fodder and firewood. The dogs accompanying them, which leopards typically preyed on, also stopped coming. As a result, leopards started entering human habitats more frequently,” said chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand forest department, JS Suhag. S Sathyakumar, senior scientist at Wildlife Institute of India (WII), said that the overlap of human and animal habitats is also fuelling the menace. “Humans and leopards are increasingly sharing the same resources,” Sathyakumar said. The maximum number of human deaths in cases of conflict with leopards — six — were reported from Pithoragarh forest division, followed by Narendra Nagar forest division at four. Snakes were the next big killer in 2020 killing 15 people. They were the highest killer the previous year, too, with 18 people dying of snakebites in 2019. Elephant attacks killed 11 people in the state in 2020, as compared to 12 the previous year. Bear attacks, which are the most brutal and require expensive treatment, killed three people in the state, as compared to four last year. Wild pigs killed two persons and one person was killed in a crocodile attack in 2020. In 2019, tiger attacks killed three persons whereas wild pigs killed one. A total of 286 people were injured in 2020 in these attacks, compared to 260 in 2019. The most deaths in cases of man-animal conflict — seven — were reported from Terai East forest division, followed by six each from Nainital and Pithoragarh forest divisions, five from Narendra Nagar forest division and four from Almora forest division. Pauri forest division recorded four deaths. The forest divisions of Bageshwar, Champawat, Terai Central, Terai West, Ramnagar and Badrinath recorded three deaths each. There were two deaths each in Rajaji Tiger Reserve, Nanda Devi National Park and Haridwar forest division. One death each was recorded in the forest divisions of Kotdwar, Central Soil Conservation Almora, Haldwani, Dehradun, Tehri, Uttarkashi and Rudraprayag. To curb these attacks, the state has turned to technology. Elephants and leopards are being radio-collared to track their movements. Also in Haridwar, local youths were sensitised on elephant behaviour to prevent any jumbo attacks on pilgrims during the upcoming Maha Kumbh. “Solar lights in vulnerable areas, early warning systems, radio collaring etc. by the forest department are technological advancements that can be expected to ensure peaceful co-existence of humans and animals. Moreover under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, toilets are being built in villages, so people no longer go to forests to relieve themselves and fall prey to animal attacks,” said Sathyakumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/human-wildlife-conflict-worsened-in-the-lockdown-number-of-deaths-rose-from-58-in-2019-to-63-in-2020/articleshow/80316727.cms||Shivani Azad
January 18, 2021||Nashik||Pvt hosp beneficiaries to be vaccinated tomorrow||Nashik: The civic administration said on Sunday the beneficiaries from private hospitals in the city would start getting the vaccine when the immunization drive restarts on Tuesday. Bapusaheb Nagargoje, medical superintendent of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), said there was an option of selecting the private hospitals in the CoWIN app after which beneficiaries received a text message about the day of their vaccination. The healthcare workers, like doctors, nurses and other health staff involved in treating Covid patients, are being administered the dose in the first phase of the Covid-19 vaccination programme that began from Saturday. There are 10,000 health workers in the city who have registered as beneficiaries — 2,000 from the civic hospitals and 8,000 from private hospitals. There are three vaccination sites in the city — two at Bytco hospital and one at the Indira Gandhi hospital in the Panchavati area of the city. Around 127 of the 300 beneficiaries registered for the immunization drive for the first day received the shot on Saturday. Nagaroje said they received the list of beneficiaries late on Friday evening. “Initially, the app was also not working properly but started functioning two to three hours after the vaccination drive began. Now, things are much more streamlined and the vaccination process will be smoother,” he said. “We have appealed to all our health workers to get vaccinated. We are expecting a good response for the vaccination drive on Tuesday,” said Nagargoje.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pvt-hosp-beneficiaries-to-be-vaccinated-tomorrow/articleshow/80320102.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 18, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Father, son held for abusing minors||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A father-son duo has been arrested by Vellarada police on charges of sexually exploiting two minor girls. The accused are the maternal grandfather and uncle of the victims. Police have withheld the names of the accused to protect the identity of the victims. They are aged 69 and 45, respectively. According to the police, the two girls who faced the alleged sexual abuse are cousins, their mothers being siblings. Both children lived under Parassala police station limits with their respective families. However, the arrests of the accused were recorded at Vellarada police station as the alleged crimes took place at the residences of the two men at Vellarada. Vellarada sub-inspector V Rajathilakan said that the two accused sexually abused the girls by taking them to their residences on separate occasions. Both of them were daily wages labourers. They committed the crime when their wives were away at work, being employed under rural employment guarantee scheme. One girl repeated the same statements to the police and before the local magistrate. The sworn statement of the other girl will be recorded by the local magistrate on Monday. Recently, one of the girls revealed the issue to her teacher during a telephonic call. The teacher alerted the Childline officials, who reported the matter to the police. The case was initially registered at Parassala police station and was later transferred to Vellarada station. Vellarada police arrested the grandfather on Saturday and the uncle on Sunday. The arrests were recorded by Vellarada station house officer inspector M Sreekumar. Both accused, charged with relevant sections under Pocso Act, have been remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/father-son-held-for-abusing-minors/articleshow/80317415.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Kolkata||Two-year multimedia exhibition on Netaji||Kolkata: As part of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s 125th birth anniversary celebrations in 2022, ministry of culture, National Council of Science Museums and Victoria Memorial Hall are organising a two-year-long multimedia exhibition on the “colossal” contribution of Netaji to freedom struggle. The exhibition — with the help of various forms of technology — will bring together historical documents, photos, belongings and other materials on Netaji from the large repository available with the government and VMH for the two-year-long exhibition, which will commence on January 23, birthday of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose.“The exhibition is an important aspect of the celebration of 125th birth anniversary of Netaji and his colossal contribution to the freedom struggle of India. It will also highlight some of the lesser known aspects,” said an official of national Council of Science Museums, which is associated with the exhibition on Netaji. Earlier this month, Government of India constituted a committee to commemorate the 125th Birth Anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, which includes chief minister Mamata Banerjee, former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, former Indian captain Sourav Ganguly, member of Netaji’s family, personalities associated with the Azad Hind Fauj and historians. Victoria Memorial Hall officials said the exhibition will be an accessible and learning environment for children and adults.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-year-multimedia-exhibition-on-netaji/articleshow/80318582.cms||Zeeshan Javed
January 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||Vivekanand college to get full-time faculty||AHMEDABAD: Students of Vivekanand Vidhyalay can finally take a breath of relief. The state education department has allowed the college to hire eight full-time lecturers. The grant-in-aid college had been running with the help of only visiting lecturers for the past three years. It was only after TOI highlighted this problem in educational institutes of Gujarat that the state government issued eight No-Objection Certificates to Vivekanand Vidhyalay. Over 1,200 students study in this college. Its trustee Bankim Pandya said, “The education department has allowed eight appointments. This will greatly benefit our students. Once the college gets regular teaching staff, we will witness an improvement in the quality of education.” The trustee’s enthusiasm is obvious because the last time the college got permission for major appointments was way back in 1998. According to the procedure recently adopted by the government, the college can hire teachers as ‘adhyapak sahayaks’, who will work for fixed pay for five years. These posts are permanent. The lecturer’s service can be regularized looking at his/her performance after five years. Sources said, “The government will conduct interviews for these posts and a member of the trust will participate in the selection process.” Earlier, the college management had complete say in the selection process of faculty members. There are nearly 15 colleges across the state which function either without regular faculty members or with the help of a couple of full-time teachers. One such college, Prabhudas Thakkar College in Paldi which has more than 250 students, has been functioning with only a couple of regular faculty members for past few years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vivekanand-college-to-get-full-time-faculty/articleshow/80319601.cms||Bharat Yagnik
January 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||Donald Trump said namaste, Ahmedabad civic body said bye to Rs 9 crore||AHMEDABAD: As US President Donald Trump prepares to exit the White House, it has emerged that his trip to Ahmedabad left the AMC with a bill totalling Rs 9.01 crore. An RTI applicant in Ahmedabad has been provided a detailed list of the costs incurred by the municipal corporation during the ‘Namaste Trump’ visit on February 24-25 last year. The costs relate to sprucing up some sites in the city and for publicity material placed along Trump’s route to Motera Stadium and Sabarmati Ashram. The RTI applicant had been trying for months to get this information and was finally given the billed amount as the financial year drew to a close. On February 29, 2020, the state government had reported to the assembly that in all just Rs 12.5 crore was spent on Trump’s visit — Rs 8 crore from the state and Rs 4.5 crore from the AMC coffers. “But the expenses show otherwise. The AMC had spent Rs 7.86 crore mainly on road repairs, route upgrade, and for ferrying people to Motera Stadium,” said the RTI applicant, Raj Sisodiya. “The documents clearly show how speedy approvals were given for minor civic works.” What Sisodiya has not been told is the amount billed for the publicity of the event. Earlier, TOI had reported that Rs 6 crore was spent on beautification of the city, Rs 4 crore on artists and volunteers for the grand show, and Rs 7 crore on arranging state and private transport to ferry people to Motera Stadium. Nearly 17 road stretches were reportedly resurfaced and repaired ahead of Trump’s visit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/trump-said-namaste-amc-said-bye-to-rs-9-crore/articleshow/80320105.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 6 die as bus comes in contact with live wire in Jalore||JAIPUR/AJMER: A pall of gloom descended in Ajmer and Bewar on Sunday when the bodies of six people who were killed after a bus touched a high-tension wire near Jalore late on Saturday night. All the deceased and 30 others who got burn injuries were returning after a pilgrimage to Nakoadaji temple. The deceased included three women from Beawar and three men from Ajmer of different localities. Six passengers were burnt alive and more than 30 others injured when a bus caught fire after coming in contact with a live electricity wire in Jalore district, police said. The preliminary investigation suggested that while the bus conductor went up to roof bus he got in touch with the high tension wire which was followed by the passing of current into the bus late on Saturday evening near Maheshpura area of Jalore district. On Friday evening two buses from Beawar left for the Nakoda temple with the devotees for the pilgrimage to the Jain temple situated in Jalore district. Apart from the Jain families the driver of the bus Dharamchand Jain and the conductor Manish Koli were very happy to be part of it. One of the bus took the highway route but the ill-fated bus driver following the digital map lost its way from Jalore onwards and get into single road areas of the interior villages. “Since in these villages the big height buses don’t pass through the height of the electricity wire was little low compared to the wires that pass through the national and state highways,” said an officer. After seeing an obstacle Manish the helper of the bus went to the roof of the bus which finally led to the accident. “Manish the helper went on the roof of bus to see the possibility of passing the bus and at that time he touched the high tension electric wire. The current ran inside the bus," said a passenger to Beawar police. “The deceased are Surbhi Jain(25), Chand Devi(65), Sonal Jain(44) all from Beawar and Dharmichand Jain(55), Rajendra Jain(58) and Manish Koli(30). Bodies reached at native villages on Sunday morning,” said a senior police officer of Jalore on Sunday. People were in tears when the death procession of Chand Devi and Sonal Jain who were mother and daughter was started. “Sonal got married to a family in Udaipur, however she was living with her husband at Beawar. It is very disturbing to notice both mother and daughter died,” said Suraj Jain one of the resident of Surana Nagar a Jain dominated colony of Beaware in Ajmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/6-die-as-bus-comes-in-contact-with-live-wire-in-jalore/articleshow/80318579.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Pune||RTO witnessed a dip in licence issuance last year||Pune: The Pune regional transport office (RTO) issued 22% fewer learners licences last year as compared to the number in 2019. The RTO also saw 23% slump in issuance of permanent licences during the same period. The officials said that the dip was expected due to the pandemic yet it wasn’t quite a worrying factor. “We very well could have been looking at a dip of over 50% in the license-issuing process in 2020 as compared to 2019. However, that has not been the case. There has been a dip and that affects the revenue but then the slump has not been huge. This is mainly because right after our offices opened for business after the lockdowns, we ensured that more licences were issued by increasing the daily appointment numbers as required,” said Sanjiv Bhor, deputy RTO, Pune. Following the pandemic and lockdown last year, all RTOs had to be closed for all kinds of business from March last week. Work resumed from May-end with the RTO again opening the daily appointment quota for procurement of licences. Presently, daily appointments for learners’ license rests at around 700. For a permanent license, daily appointments vary as per different vehicle categories. “Now, the number of licences, both learners’ and permanent, as well as the rate of renewal of licences and issuance of duplicate licences has reached pre-lockdown levels. If one looks at the month-to-month figures of license issuance between April to November, the figures has grown each month. For example, no learners’ licences were issued and only 36 permanent licences were issued in May. June saw 1,093 learners’ licences and 619 permanent licences being issued by the RTO. In July, 4,459 learners’ licences and 2,755 permanent licences were issues and so on. We have made progress since the RTO opened in May-end,” said another RTO official. Authorities said that with the vaccination drive starting and cases in Pune region dropping significantly, the numbers for 2021 may look better. Road safety month starts from Monday The Road Safety month will continue until February 17 and the RTO has planned several related events. “The event will be formally inaugurated by the collector on Monday. The events will be held throughout the month,” said Bhor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rto-witnessed-a-dip-in-licence-issuance-last-year/articleshow/80318578.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||Violence against pregnant women up in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The National Family Health Survey covering the 2019-20 period (NFHS-5) reveals that physical violence during pregnancy has increased 450% in urban Gujarat, while in rural areas the figure has reduced by 60%. One in every seven women in Gujarat has experienced spousal violence, according to the survey. The NFHS-5 data indicates that 2.2% of women in urban Gujarat experience physical violence during their pregnancy; the figure is 1.2% in rural areas. The data reveals that over the past five years, physical violence during pregnancy has increased in urban areas, while it has dipped in rural areas. The NFHS-4 (2014-15) had revealed that 3% of rural women had experienced violence during pregnancy, compared with 0.4% of their urban counterparts. For NFHS-5, information was gathered from 29,368 households, 33,343 women, and 5,351 men. For NFHS-4, information had been taken from 20,524 households, 22,932 women, and 6,018 men. Officials said that violence during pregnancy was more prevalent among women of Scheduled Tribes, and women who were widowed, divorced, separated, or had been deserted. Women with three children, especially girls, have experienced more violence during pregnancy than women of any other group. According to the NFHS-5, about 3.6% of women in the 18-29 age group said they had experienced sexual violence by the time they turned 18. The percentage of such women was 3 in urban areas and 4 in rural areas. In Gujarat, women who have experienced spousal violence was about 14% —16.8% in rural areas and 10% in urban areas. Gaurang Jani, a sociologist, said: “Violence during pregnancy can be spurred by multiple reasons, but one could be the sex ratio in urban areas.” Jani added: “In urban areas, the insistence on a male child is more intense than in rural areas. Hence, women with two or three girl children are subjected to violence.” Jani went on to say: “We have come across several complaints from police records of women being thrown out of the house during pregnancy or after delivering a girl child.” He said that in urban areas, women’s ambition to pursue studies or career can provoke violence. “Once women become pregnant, in-laws pressurize them to quit their job or studies,” he said. “When women say there is no need for quitting, violence can be unleashed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/violence-against-pregnant-women-up/articleshow/80319582.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 18, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Vizianagaram scion’s donation for Ram idol rejected||VISAKHAPATNAM: The endowments department rejected a donation of over Rs 1 lakh from Vizianagaram royal scion and senior TDP functionary Pusapati Ashok Gajapathi Rajutowards a new idol of Ram top be placed at Sri Kodanda Rama Swamy temple at Ramatheertham under Nellimarla Mandal in Vizianagaram district. The department said that the idols of Ram, Sita and Lakshman are being prepared by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam (TTD) as the reason behind rejecting the donation. It may be recalled that the Ram idol at the temple was desecrated a few weeks ago.  Ashok had written to assistant commissioner and executive officer, Sri Rama Swamy Devasthanam, Nellimarla, citing that the recent incident at the Sri Kodanda Rama Swamy temple had hurt the feelings of devotees all over the country. “The Ramateertham temples were built and prathishta was done by my ancestors centuries ago. Hence, I felt that it is my bounden duty as the founder trustee (just dismissed) as representative of the founder family, to present the idols of Ram, Sita and Lakshman for the purpose Punah Prathishta of the deities in the same place,” Ashok said. Following the rejection of his donation, Ashok took to social media and tweeted, “First, they unilaterally dismissed me as hereditary trustee/Chairman without as much as a notice in complete contravention of section 28. Now, they reject my offerings to the Lord as a representative of the founder family for the vigrahas.” It may be recalled that the state government had deemed that Ashok had failed to discharge his duties in temple administration and had removed him from the post of chairman of three temples in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vzm-scions-donation-for-ram-idol-rejected/articleshow/80320197.cms||Nalla.Babu
January 18, 2021||Amaravati||Irrigation dept focus now on second tunnel in Veligonda||Amaravati: Buoyed by the success in the completion of tunnel-I works, the irrigation department is harnessing all its energies to replicate the success in the second tunnel in Veligonda project in Prakasam district. Although tunnel-II work is yet to gain momentum, the government is hopeful of completing it before the flood season in the Krishna in October. Irrigation minister Anil Kumar Yadav has asked chief engineer to monitor the progress of the second tunnel in order to complete the entire project ahead of the schedule. P Narayana Reddy, engineer-in-chief, along with several senior officials of the department inspected the project site on Saturday and took stock of the latest situation. Lauding the department engineers and executives of Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Limited (MEIL) for completing the tunnel-I work almost two months ahead of the schedule, he asked them to shift their focus to the second tunnel. Reddy said the completion of the second tunnel would enable them to give water to the entire ayucut under the project. He said it would also help them provide drinking water to nearly 15 lakh people in three districts. The technical experts of Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Limited (Meil), who played a big role in reaching the breakthrough point in the tunnel-I, moved the entire machinery and men to the second tunnel. Officials are confident of digging the second tunnel much faster than the timelines set by the government as they have readied the blueprint for boring of second tunnel keeping their experiences in digging of tunnel-I in mind. “We achieved digging the tunnel for about 3.2 meters per day in Tunnel-I which was considered impossible while launching the work because the previous contractor had completed just around 0.6 meters per day. We are going to replicate our success in the second tunnel to achieve much bigger success,” said a senior engineering executive of MEIL. Sources said that works on the second tunnel work was commissioned in two modes from both the ends. While the machinery has been deployed at one end, manual labour have also started digging the tunnel from the second end. Meanwhile, engineers have started dismantling of Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM) which got stuck at the end of tunnel-I.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/irrigation-dept-focus-now-on-second-tunnel-in-veligonda/articleshow/80320189.cms||Samdani MN
January 18, 2021||Jaipur||Jalore bus mishap: Retired police officers vouch for strict action against electricity companies||JAIPUR: High tension wires hanging low or lying unattended on roadsides are turning into death traps. In the past one year, at least 16 people have lost their lives and over 50 injured, still no major action was seen against the negligence of the electricity companies. Retired police officers believe that these accidents amount to a case of causing death due to negligence or even culpable homicide not amounting to murder against the responsible officers of the electricity company. On Saturday, six people were killed and 30 injured after a high tension wire fell onto a bus near Jalore. In most of the fatal accidents, it was seen that an 11,000 KV electricity line passing through villages either snapped or fell onto bus, or a vehicle moving on the road. In some of the cases there have been accidents where people on the farm or in their houses got electrocuted. “I think the problem lies in the lacklustre approach of police. In such cases, people behind such negligence should be prosecuted. Police should set a precedent if we actually want to avert such accidents. Also, I believe morally the electricity companies should give compensation to the families of the deceased and victims so that next time they don’t act negligently,” said Omendra Bhardwaj, retired DGP, Rajasthan Police. He opined that in cases where a bus comes in contact with the high tension wire, police usually holds driver at fault. “I think the lineman in the electricity department is supposed to check the lines so does the assistant engineers and junior engineers concerned,” he added. In the past one year, in majority of the cases police have either filed a final report or have held drivers of the buses responsible. “I think by merely posting condolences and announcing compensation, the state government can’t get away from its responsibility,” said a retired senior officer of ADG rank on condition of anonymity. Box Incidents In Recent Past January, 16, 2021 – Six passengers killed and 30 injured when a bus came in contact with a high-tension wire in Jalore district January 1, 2021 - A man lost his life after being electrocuted in Bhainsrorgarh of Chittorgarh district. The victim was riding on a motorcycle when an 11KV line fell on him December, 10, 2020 - A 25-year-old schoolteacher died after a high tension wire fell on her near Banswara November, 27, 2020 -Three passengers were killed, while six others injured when a bus caught fire when it came in contact with a snapped wire on NH-8 near Achrol in Jaipur September, 29, 2020 - Three children of a family were killed at Dhavaldi Chokadia village adjoining Deogarh subdivision of Rajsamand after coming in contact with a live wire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/retired-police-officers-vouch-for-strict-action-against-electricity-companies/articleshow/80318583.cms||Ashish Mehta
January 18, 2021||Nagpur||16th edition of ‘Centunes’ conducted virtually||Nagpur: ‘Centunes’ is an annual musical programme conducted by Centre Point School, Wardhaman Nagar (CPSWN). It is organized every year to provide a platform to students from all age groups to showcase their talent. This year, being their 16th year of conducting Centunes, it was held online due to the Covid-19 pandemic, hosted by CPSWN and TORRINS. This year, Centunes received international participation too, competing in Hindi solo and duet and English solo and duet. The responses were overwhelming, with 715 entries in different categories from places like Mason, Centennial and Seattle in the USA, Muscat, Oman and Ghana. The grand finale was conducted on January 15th and 16th, live on the CPS Facebook page. The Hindi solo was won by Arya Shende from Bhavan’s BP Vidya Mandir (Khurd) with Shatarpura Chakraborty from Carmel Junior College, Jamshedpur and Shravani Khandale from St Vincent Pallotti, Nagpur as the first and second runners up. The Hindi duet was won by Naisha Singh and Rishan Chakravorty of CPS Dhaba, Nagpur. The team of Vihan Tarkunde and Atharva Agarwal from CPS International, Nagpur and the team of Manas Mankar and Emon Modi from Bhavan’s, Ashti, Nagpur were the first and second runners up. The promising talent in Hindi solo was won by Shreya Ashtankar of Narayana Vidhyalayam from Nagpur, and for Hindi duet the team of Aman Ali and Chaitiksha Pradhan from St Vincent Pallotti, Kamptee bagged the prize. The English solo prize was won by Anouksha Rajwade from Mahindra International School, Pune along with Dhwani Bijoul from Samson Johnson Music Academy and Arindam Kanoria from CPS Katol Road, Nagpur as the first and second runners up. The English duet was won by the team of Avani Dhawankar and Ishani Deb from CPS, Amravati Road Bypass, Nagpur. Jiya Shah and Mihika Rathi, from CPS Wardhaman Nagar were the first runners up and Riddhi Vimakshi and Harshada Ganeshkar were the second runners up. The promising talent for English solo was won by Anya Mathew from Corpus Christi School, Nagercoil, India and the team of Pariniti Nikhade and Saili Bankar from Bhavans, Shrikrishna Nagar bagged the prize for English duet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/16th-edition-of-centunes-conducted-virtually/articleshow/80326961.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Jaipur||Only 50% target achieved at Covaxin vaccination sites Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The collective percentage of vaccination in hospitals where healthcare workers were administered Covishield was higher than the percentage of healthcare workers where Covaxin jab was given on the first day of Covid-19 inoculation drive in the city. Prior to getting vaccinated, healthcare workers have to sign a consent form for Covaxin, and if the healthcare worker is not willing to sign, he is not allowed to get the vaccine. In Jaipur, the health department had identified six hosptials where Covaxin was administered to the healthcare workers, while in 16 hospitals, Covishield was administered. Among the six hospitals where Covaxin was administered are ESI hospital, Kanwatia hospital, Gangauri hospital, Metro Mas hospital, Narayana Hrudayalaya and JNU hospital. A health department official said, “On the first day, 302 people received Covaxin against the target of 600. The achievement was just above 50%.” Besides, Covishield was administered to 1,001 healthcare workers against a target of 1,600 with a percentage of 66.7. Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur-I, said, “It is mandatory for a healthcare worker to sign consent form having a mention that the clinical efficacy is yet to be established.” Bhawani Sharma, a nurse at Kanwatia hospital, where Covaxin was administered, was the first among nurses of the hospital to get vaccinated. “I signed a consent form before getting vaccinated. I have no side-effects following immunisation. Some looked confused and they opted out from vaccination. But I appeal to the people not to pay heed to any rumour, sign the consent and get the vaccine.” If talking about individual hospitals, there are hospitals where Covishield was administered, but the turnout of the healthcare workers for getting vaccinated in Jaipur was not encouraging. In Zanana hospital, the achievement of vaccination was just 26% where Covishield was administered. Besides, at a session site in SMS medical college, the target achieved was just 46%, not even 50%. Health department officials said that on the first day, Jaipur achieved 62% target and it is expected that in the coming days, the target will be achieved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/only-50-target-achieved-at-covaxin-vaccination-sites/articleshow/80318587.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Bird flu scare pours cold water on farmers’ profit expectations||VIJAYAWADA: Poultry farmers in the state incurred huge losses this Sankranti as a result of fears over of bird flu spread. Prices of live birds at the farms are said to have come down to around Rs 60 per kilo on Sunday, from Rs 129 per kilo as on February last year. Farmers alleged that retailers were procuring birds at cheaper prices and enjoying huge profits by selling them at Rs 160 per kilo during the festive period. January is said to be an important month for the poultry industry with demand for chicken being high around the new year and Sankranti period. Anticipating such demand, farmers had invested huge amounts for production but the outbreak of bird flu in certain states hit sales. Speaking to TOI, a poultry farmers from Krishna’s Komatigunta Laku village, Maganti Narasa Raju said, “Prices of live birds even touched Rs 132 per kilo at the farm in the first week of December and we expected huge profits around Sankranti but the bird flu scare played a huge spoilsport. We are not getting back our original investment now.” Huge stocks of live birds have gone unsold at farms across the district with traders selling birds at low prices to avoid investment in feed. “Feed and maintenance is a costly affair. Feed costs around Rs 8,000 per day for 1,000 birds and this may further our losses in coming days. We may have to distribute birds for free if the prices dip any further,” said Palla Ram Kumar, a farmer from Gollanpalli. Ram Kumar pointed out that even consumers were not getting benefits as a result of this dip in prices as retailers were still selling chicken at Rs 160 per kilogram. He, along with other farmers, have urged the state government for help by taking up campaigns to promote the poultry sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bird-flu-scare-pours-cold-water-on-farmers-profit-expectations/articleshow/80320193.cms||Venu Lanka
January 18, 2021||Rajkot||Ayurvedic doctor gets ransom threat calls||RAJKOT: A BMS doctor practising in Jamnagar received threat and ransom calls from an unidentified person from Mumbai last week. Dr Deepali Pandya, a resident of Hawai Chowk, registered a complaint at Jamnagar City B Division police station on Saturday evening. Pandya told police that she received a call on January 13 morning from a man who identified himself as a police sub-inspector named Patil from Agripada police station. The man told Pandya that a patient Rizwana Sheikh, who took medicines from her 15 days back, is having reaction. He said that Sheikh’s blood sugar level has increased to 595 mg/dL and she has been admitted to hospital. The man was going to hospital and will call her again, he said on the call. Pandya was also told that Sheikh was in Mumbai for a relative’s wedding. An hour later, Pandya again received a call informing her that Sheikh had died and her father wants to file a police complaint. Pandya was asked to talk to Sheikh’s father and pay him Rs 3 lakh to settle the case. However, when Pandya checked her records, no patient with the name Rizwana Sheikh had ever visited her clinic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ayurvedic-doc-gets-ransom-threat-calls/articleshow/80316776.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan informs Centre about glitches in CoWin||JAIPUR: Though first day of Covid-19 inoculation drive was marred by glitches in CoWin application, the state managed to achieve 73.8% of the target of vaccinating healthcare workers. The health department reported about the glitches in CoWin application to the Centre. However, it hopes that the vaccination drive will continue online rather than offline. The officials said that they have taken up the issue of glitches with the Centre. The vaccination will continue on Monday at 167 sites across the state. “It will continue like it happened on the first day of the drive. It will take place on the same sites,” said Dr Laxman Singh Ola, director of family welfare. The health department has reviewed preparations for the second day of the immunisation drive. “We have successfully launched our drive across the state as no major issues were reported from any part of the state regarding immunisation,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, nodal officer, immunisation. The health department is taking all measures to conduct the immunisation drive online. “Today, we have organised a training session of our immunisation teams on CoWin application. They have been trained how to operate CoWin again,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I). Meanwhile, one person died and 261 others tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Sunday. With this, the overall tally reached 3,15,181. With one more death, state’s toll rose to 2,747. The total death count touched 511 in Jaipur. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (44), Kota (37), Jodhpur (35), Nagaur (27), Bhilwara (17), Chittorgarh (13), Alwar (11), Pali (9), Baran (8), Ajmer (6), Udaipur (6), Jhalawar (5), Bharatpur (5), Sirohi (5), Tonk (5), Rajsamand (5), Bundi (4), Dungarpur (3), Jaisalmer (3), Sriganganagar (3), Bikaner (2), Banswara (2), Sikar (2), Barmer (1), Dholpur (1), Karauli (1) and Sawai Madhopur (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-informs-centre-about-glitches-in-cowin/articleshow/80318588.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Trichy||Cops step in as corpn delays road repair work||Trichy: Frustrated over the delay in repairing the road in the city that was damaged in the recent rains, the Trichy traffic police on Sunday volunteered to fill the potholes on arterial roads. The community-friendly measure received support from the locals who joined the drive by filling and levelling the potholes with soil and construction debris. The police team headed by inspector N Navukkarasu filled numerous potholes on the road that links Srirangam with Chathiram bus stand at Melachinthamani near Anna statue. Similarly, potholes on Karur Road near Kamarajar statue were filled. Stating they had earlier regulated traffic on bad roads by placing barricades before the potholes, Navukkarasu said at one point there were too many barricades on the stretch, hindering mobility. “The roads cause frequent traffic bottlenecks as they were used by mofussil and city buses. We were forced to repair the roads on our own as the bad roads were ignored by the authorities,” Navukkarasu said. On Sunday morning, as the police inspector accompanied by constables were filling the potholes on Anna Nagar main road near Science park, a few residents joined in and helped with tools including spades, police said. Even heavy machinery was provided by good Samaritans to level the roads. “We tried to fill the potholes on Sasthri Road, but there were too many potholes on the stretch. As it would take a day, we skipped repairing that stretch,” he added. On noticing the traffic police repairing the roads, both the state highways department and Trichy Corporation have planned to repair the damaged roads on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cops-step-in-as-corpn-delays-road-repair-work/articleshow/80319624.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Goa||‘MGP will contest municipal elections, expel Mamledar’||Panaji: Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) president Pandurang ‘Deepak’ Dhavalikar on Sunday said that his party will contest municipal elections scheduled for next month and also start preparation for the next year’s assembly elections. Speaking to mediapersons after the annual general body meeting, Dhavlikar said that they have confirmed the expulsion of former Ponda MLA and general secretary Lavu Mamledar from the party. “It has been decided to strengthen MGP. We have given befitting reply at the AGM to those who want to create problems in the party,” he said. He also said that MGP wants to preserve the identity of the state. Dhavalikar said that all constituency-wise committee will be reconstituted. MGP president said that if the party comes to power, then they will make a law to fix a timeframe to solve the tenant and mundkar cases. “We want these cases to be solved within two years’ time,” he said. He also said that MGP will come out with policies to create employment. Dhavalikar said that MGP extended full support to the Melauli agitation and that was the reason why it was successful. He also said that MGP added new members to the fold, and in the coming week, everyone will see how MGP moves ahead. Senior MGP leader and Marcaim MLA Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar said that he was criticised by some saying that he would merge the party with other political party. “Nobody can merge MGP with any other party. Even a small party worker can keep the identity of MGP alive. I want to warn other political parties that no MLA can merge MGP in any other political party,” Sudin said. The Marcaim MLA said that MGP will get 21 seats in the assembly election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mgp-will-contest-municipal-elections-expel-mamledar/articleshow/80319628.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Nashik||NMC conducts spl drive to clean Nandini river||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Sunday carried out a drive to clean the Nandini river near Untwadi area and collected over 10 quintal of garbage. A civic team comprising 15 employees participated in the drive and also cleaned the area near Untwadi bridge where the tea stalls and vendors dump their daily waste. “We have been providing garbage collection vans (ghantagadis) for door-to-door waste collection in the area. Nevertheless, some erring residents from nearby localities are throwing household waste into the river,” Kalpana Kute, director of solid waste department of the NMC, said. “The residents are expected to use the services of the garbage collection vans. We are also keeping an eye on such people who are throwing the garbage in the river or on the banks. What we have found that the activity is carried out around midnight,” he added. The waste collected by the civic body during the drive was sent to the NMC’s compost plant based on the outskirts of the city. “We have been carrying out such special drives in the city on Sundays for the past one month. We already conducted similar drives in Ramkund, Godavari and other locations of the city,” Kute said. The civic body has also joined hands with some city-based NGOs for carrying out the cleaning activities in various parts of the city. “Our objective is to clean the city and create awareness among people about sanitation. Apart from Nandini river, an NGO conducted a cleaning drive in Pandavleni area of the city on Sunday morning,” Kute said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-conducts-spl-drive-to-clean-nandini-river/articleshow/80320108.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Mask compulsory even if driving four-wheeler alone||AHMEDABAD: To strictly implement the mask rule, police will now fine car drivers caught without masks even if they are alone in their vehicles. In its Sunday edition, TOI had published a report that erroneously said people alone in their cars have been exempted from wearing masks. The decision to impose mask fines even on those alone in their vehicles was taken by the home department on January 1. A letter to this effect was circulated to all police commissionerates and SP offices across Gujarat on Saturday. “We are yet to chalk out a plan to implement this move,” said a home department official. “So a meeting with the DGP and all CPs and SPs will be conducted on Monday to get some clarity and to arrive at a solution.” Sources in the home department said that there was certain confusion over the mask rule after which a final clarification was circulated through the letter. Earlier on June 27, 2020, an office order by the state home department stated that if a person was driving alone, he or she would be exempted from wearing a mask. But if the driver needed to talk to a police officer by opening the car window or needed to come out of the car, then a face covering was mandatory. On August 13, the department issued another notification in which it was stated that even if a person is driving alone, he or she will certainly need to wear a mask or cover the face with a cloth. On January 1, the department issued another notification reiterating that people driving alone in their cars should wear masks. Minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja said there were multiple notifications on the issue. “I will look into the matter to ensure there are no discrepancies in the decision on Monday,” he said. Additional commissioner of police, Ahmedabad city traffic, Mayanksinh Chavda said that earlier fines were taken from lone car occupants too, which increased the chances of tiffs with cops over the mask-rule confusion. “We sought a clarification after which the letter was circulated on Saturday,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mask-compulsory-even-if-driving-four-wheeler-alone/articleshow/80319627.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Vadodara||SOG arrests two in drug selling racket||VADODARA: Two peddlers, including a woman, were arrested by the special operations group (SOG) sleuths on Sunday after they were found selling methamphetamine and pentazocine injections to drug addicts. SOG sleuths raided the house of Purvi Rana in Karelibaug area based on a tip-off about the illegal activities seized drugs worth Rs 95,000 from the spot and arrested both Rana and Dewan. “We found methamphetamine and pentazocine injections in the house. Apart from Rana, another accused Imtiyaz Dewan too was present there. He too was in possession of drugs,” the police said. Investigations revealed involvement of the third accused Mohammed Safi Dewan who had kept the drugs at Rana’s house, but he is absconding. According to the police, Imtiyaz Dewan was in the business of selling drugs since last three years and he was booked in 2018 for selling drugs. “Rana used to store and sell drugs for commission and Imtiyaz used to find customers for the illegal trade,” SOG sleuths said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sog-arrests-two-in-drug-selling-racket/articleshow/80316830.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Trichy||Trichy Corpn forced to tweak project to light up streets around Rockfort||Trichy: The Trichy Corporation has tweaked the proposal to illuminate the Rockfort hillock after facing public outcry as it involves erecting steel poles on narrow residential roads. Instead of erecting new poles for the LED lights, the civic body has made arrangements to place the lights on existing poles around the hillock to complete the work.The Rockfort hillock was identified as part of the heritage tourism development project proposed under smart cities mission in June 2018. After a suitable contractor was identified to execute the Rs 11 crore work, the civic body on October 2020 initiated work to erect poles to position LED lights. But the Vadakku street residents near the Rockfort’s base raised objection alleging that the poles will shrink the width of roads and Rockfort residents’ welfare association approached the Madras high court seeking stay order on the proposal. Following this, the corporation changed the proposal. “We have decided to use our own existing poles around the hillock to place LED lights. No poles will be erected in Vadakku street,” a source told TOI. Materials required for the project have already arrived here and the civic body has approached the HR&CE department that manages Rockfort hillock temple complex to facilitate permission to setup the lights. “We can complete the illumination work in two months,” the official added. Meanwhile, teppakulam beautification drive is also in the pipeline. The civic body had planned to establish laser and sound show arrangements in the five acres tank under smart cities mission. Officials said that they await a nod from HR&CE to make progress in the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-forced-to-tweak-project-to-light-up-streets-around-rockfort/articleshow/80319645.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 18, 2021||Nashik||NMC’s waste lifting service gets good response||Nashik: As many as 141 builders and individuals have used the services provided by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) to lift construction and building waste and paid the user charges. “NMC has collected user charges of nearly Rs 2 lakh from these builders and individuals for lifting the waste,” said Kalpana Kute, the director of the NMC’s solid waste department. The civic body started the service of lifting the construction and demolition waste at the user charges of Rs 800 per tonne from November 1 last year to find a solution to cases of construction waste being kept on the roadside and open spaces in the city. “During the first two-and-a-half months, the NMC has lifted 258 tonne of construction and building material waste through their vehicles and placed it near the compost plant at Pathardi,” she said. This waste will be used to make roads. The civic body has fined 110 people for placing the construction waste on the open and collected a fine of Rs 2.6 lakh in the last three to four months. Thrice of the user charges will be slapped as fine. The number of cases of people keeping waste on the roadside has reduced after December 1 as people have started using the services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmcs-waste-lifting-service-gets-good-response/articleshow/80320109.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 18, 2021||Pune||Delay in drawing exam may hold up extra marks for SSC||Pune: This year, students of standard X may struggle to get the extra three to seven marks for securing drawing intermediate certificate as the exam has not been conducted as yet. The Maharashtra Arts’ Teachers Association has written to the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education seeking an extension to apply for the extra marks. Friday was the last date to apply for extra marks.Dinkar Patil, chairman of the state board, said the board will consider the demand and will send a proposal to the education ministry to resolve the issue.Normally, the intermediate drawing examinations are held in September, but the pandemic put it off this time. Hence, standard X students who have completed their elementary examination, and were supposed to appear for intermediate examination this year, could not exercise the option, and would not be eligible for additional marks if they clear the intermediate examination.Sunil Borole, secretary of the Pune chapter of the association, said, “Students are eligible to apply for elementary examination in drawing after the age of 12 (class VII) and after qualifying, they can apply for the intermediate examination. Based on the grade one gets in the intermediate examination, they get additional marks in the board exams.”He said if conducting the examination is not possible at this short a notice, then marks can also be given based on the elementary examination performance.“There are students who have not yet received their certificate for the 2019 intermediate exam,” Borole added.Dinkar Patil, chairman of the state board, said, “We have got the representation from the association of arts teachers. Since there is a pandemic and late reopening of schools we need to take decisions, accordingly. As the intermediate examination has not been held yet, this issue also needs to be looked into. We will send a proposal to the ministry and further decisions will be taken after discussions with the higher officials.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/delay-in-drawing-exam-may-hold-up-extra-marks-for-ssc/articleshow/80318594.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 18, 2021||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Gram panchayat poll vote counting & results today||KOLHAPUR: The counting of votes polled for gram panchayat elections on January 15 is under way in the respective taluka headquarters of Maharashtra. According to the trends at 2.30pm, the panels backed by Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) was leading in more than 80-gram panchayats whose counting is over even as the results are yet to be announced officially. Maharashtra panchayat election results 2021 live updatesNagpur (rural) Congress president Rajendra Mulak speaks to media after #MaharashtraPanchayatResults were announced… https://t.co/BmiDIr5b8C— TOI Pune (@TOIPune) 1610958858000In Katol assembly constituency, represented by home minister Anil Deshmukh, NCP has won 19 out of 20 gram panchayats. #MaharashtraPanchayatResults : Winning candidates and their supporters celebrate at tehsil office near MLA Square N… https://t.co/4d0NxNH5U2— TOI Pune (@TOIPune) 1610953299000According to the Shiv Sena leaders, the party has got more seats – trouncing one of its ally, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), which had a very strong presence in the rural areas of Nashik. Nagpur: Congress wins all 17 seats in Nagpur's Patansaongi gram panchayat, the native village of dairy development… https://t.co/Rak3ykrHIn— TOI Pune (@TOIPune) 1610954265000"In most of the GP elections, Shiv Sena contested alone. In some we had the joint participation,” said Vijay Karanjkar, of Shiv Sena. Winners and their supporters celebrate after the results of #MaharashtraPanchayatResults ere declared at tehsil off… https://t.co/Js96UWK1fi— TOI Pune (@TOIPune) 1610952439000Similarly in the neighbouring Ahmednagar district panel backed by BJP heavyweights former minister Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil and former minister Ram Shinde have been defeated by the MVA in Loni Khurd and Chondhi, villages respectively. In Kothai GP in Muktai Nagar in Jalgaon, the panel backed by the former minister Eknath Khadse has got the majority. The polls to the 386-gram panchayats in Kolhapur district had more than 7 lakh electors cast their votes to elect the governing body for five years. The district reported 84% polling. For the 49 gram panchayats in the Karveer taluka, counting is being held at a grain house at Ramanmala. The police banned the entry of vehicles into the roads approaching Ramanmala on Monday. The traffic movement along Kasba Bawda — from SP office to Xavier’s school — is shut. Also, the road along with the Main Post Office to Pitali Ganpati mandir is closed. “The traffic has been diverted from the collectors’ office to Dhairyaprasad hall and further from Seva Hospital to Kasba Bawda. The diversion is for all, except emergency vehicles and vehicles of election officials. Three spots have been identified at each end of the roads closed. Political workers can park vehicles there,” said Shailesh Balkawade, the district superintendent of police. According to election officials, counting for each gram panchayat in the district are taking place on two tables. All kinds of celebrations have been banned given the Covid pandemic. In the Aurangabad district, where elections were held for 579-gram panchayats, the final polling figure was 81.5%. Over 9.4 lakh electors in the district had cast their votes during the gram panchayat elections, which were fought by different panels with support from established political parties. Among the nine talukas of Aurangabad district, Paithan and Phulambri had reported highest polling of around 85%, followed by Khuldabad (84%), Aurangabad and Sillod (both 83%), Soygaon (81%), Vaijapur (80%), Kannad (79%) and Gangapur (77%). Tehsildar Anita Bhalerao said, “The counting process began at 9am. As the EVMs were used for polling, the results are expected to be out in the first half of the day.” In the Nashik division, the vote-counting started at around 10am. Across the division — which includes Nashik, Nandurbar, Dhule, Jalgaon and Ahmednagar districts — 2,238-gram panchayats had the election. The division had recorded 75% turnout of the voters and the highest turnout was in Ahmednagar district (83%). The lowest turnout was in Dhule and Jalgaon districts (66% each). The counting is being held across 142 tables. There are 24 counting tables in Sinnar, while there are 16 tables each in Chandwad and Malegaon talukas. Trimbakeshwar has only one counting table, the district officials said. In Nashik district, polls to 565-gram panchayats were held after the bodies to 55-gram panchayat’s were elected unopposed. The election to one was cancelled by the orders of the state election commission as the villagers there had allegedly auctioned the posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/gram-panchayat-poll-vote-counting-results-today/articleshow/80327300.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Gram panchayat poll vote counting & results today||KOLHAPUR: The counting of votes polled for gram panchayat elections on January 15 is under way in the respective taluka headquarters of Maharashtra. According to the trends at 2.30pm, the panels backed by Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) was leading in more than 80-gram panchayats whose counting is over even as the results are yet to be announced officially. Maharashtra panchayat election results 2021 live updatesNagpur (rural) Congress president Rajendra Mulak speaks to media after #MaharashtraPanchayatResults were announced… https://t.co/BmiDIr5b8C— TOI Pune (@TOIPune) 1610958858000In Katol assembly constituency, represented by home minister Anil Deshmukh, NCP has won 19 out of 20 gram panchayats. #MaharashtraPanchayatResults : Winning candidates and their supporters celebrate at tehsil office near MLA Square N… https://t.co/4d0NxNH5U2— TOI Pune (@TOIPune) 1610953299000According to the Shiv Sena leaders, the party has got more seats – trouncing one of its ally, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), which had a very strong presence in the rural areas of Nashik. Nagpur: Congress wins all 17 seats in Nagpur's Patansaongi gram panchayat, the native village of dairy development… https://t.co/Rak3ykrHIn— TOI Pune (@TOIPune) 1610954265000"In most of the GP elections, Shiv Sena contested alone. In some we had the joint participation,” said Vijay Karanjkar, of Shiv Sena. Winners and their supporters celebrate after the results of #MaharashtraPanchayatResults ere declared at tehsil off… https://t.co/Js96UWK1fi— TOI Pune (@TOIPune) 1610952439000Similarly in the neighbouring Ahmednagar district panel backed by BJP heavyweights former minister Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil and former minister Ram Shinde have been defeated by the MVA in Loni Khurd and Chondhi, villages respectively. In Kothai GP in Muktai Nagar in Jalgaon, the panel backed by the former minister Eknath Khadse has got the majority. The polls to the 386-gram panchayats in Kolhapur district had more than 7 lakh electors cast their votes to elect the governing body for five years. The district reported 84% polling. For the 49 gram panchayats in the Karveer taluka, counting is being held at a grain house at Ramanmala. The police banned the entry of vehicles into the roads approaching Ramanmala on Monday. The traffic movement along Kasba Bawda — from SP office to Xavier’s school — is shut. Also, the road along with the Main Post Office to Pitali Ganpati mandir is closed. “The traffic has been diverted from the collectors’ office to Dhairyaprasad hall and further from Seva Hospital to Kasba Bawda. The diversion is for all, except emergency vehicles and vehicles of election officials. Three spots have been identified at each end of the roads closed. Political workers can park vehicles there,” said Shailesh Balkawade, the district superintendent of police. According to election officials, counting for each gram panchayat in the district are taking place on two tables. All kinds of celebrations have been banned given the Covid pandemic. In the Aurangabad district, where elections were held for 579-gram panchayats, the final polling figure was 81.5%. Over 9.4 lakh electors in the district had cast their votes during the gram panchayat elections, which were fought by different panels with support from established political parties. Among the nine talukas of Aurangabad district, Paithan and Phulambri had reported highest polling of around 85%, followed by Khuldabad (84%), Aurangabad and Sillod (both 83%), Soygaon (81%), Vaijapur (80%), Kannad (79%) and Gangapur (77%). Tehsildar Anita Bhalerao said, “The counting process began at 9am. As the EVMs were used for polling, the results are expected to be out in the first half of the day.” In the Nashik division, the vote-counting started at around 10am. Across the division — which includes Nashik, Nandurbar, Dhule, Jalgaon and Ahmednagar districts — 2,238-gram panchayats had the election. The division had recorded 75% turnout of the voters and the highest turnout was in Ahmednagar district (83%). The lowest turnout was in Dhule and Jalgaon districts (66% each). The counting is being held across 142 tables. There are 24 counting tables in Sinnar, while there are 16 tables each in Chandwad and Malegaon talukas. Trimbakeshwar has only one counting table, the district officials said. In Nashik district, polls to 565-gram panchayats were held after the bodies to 55-gram panchayat’s were elected unopposed. The election to one was cancelled by the orders of the state election commission as the villagers there had allegedly auctioned the posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gram-panchayat-poll-vote-counting-results-today/articleshow/80327304.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Nashik||Maharashtra: Gram panchayat poll vote counting & results today||KOLHAPUR: The counting of votes polled for gram panchayat elections on January 15 is under way in the respective taluka headquarters of Maharashtra. According to the trends at 2.30pm, the panels backed by Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) was leading in more than 80-gram panchayats whose counting is over even as the results are yet to be announced officially. Maharashtra panchayat election results 2021 live updatesNagpur (rural) Congress president Rajendra Mulak speaks to media after #MaharashtraPanchayatResults were announced… https://t.co/BmiDIr5b8C— TOI Pune (@TOIPune) 1610958858000In Katol assembly constituency, represented by home minister Anil Deshmukh, NCP has won 19 out of 20 gram panchayats. #MaharashtraPanchayatResults : Winning candidates and their supporters celebrate at tehsil office near MLA Square N… https://t.co/4d0NxNH5U2— TOI Pune (@TOIPune) 1610953299000According to the Shiv Sena leaders, the party has got more seats – trouncing one of its ally, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), which had a very strong presence in the rural areas of Nashik. Nagpur: Congress wins all 17 seats in Nagpur's Patansaongi gram panchayat, the native village of dairy development… https://t.co/Rak3ykrHIn— TOI Pune (@TOIPune) 1610954265000"In most of the GP elections, Shiv Sena contested alone. In some we had the joint participation,” said Vijay Karanjkar, of Shiv Sena. Winners and their supporters celebrate after the results of #MaharashtraPanchayatResults ere declared at tehsil off… https://t.co/Js96UWK1fi— TOI Pune (@TOIPune) 1610952439000Similarly in the neighbouring Ahmednagar district panel backed by BJP heavyweights former minister Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil and former minister Ram Shinde have been defeated by the MVA in Loni Khurd and Chondhi, villages respectively. In Kothai GP in Muktai Nagar in Jalgaon, the panel backed by the former minister Eknath Khadse has got the majority. The polls to the 386-gram panchayats in Kolhapur district had more than 7 lakh electors cast their votes to elect the governing body for five years. The district reported 84% polling. For the 49 gram panchayats in the Karveer taluka, counting is being held at a grain house at Ramanmala. The police banned the entry of vehicles into the roads approaching Ramanmala on Monday. The traffic movement along Kasba Bawda — from SP office to Xavier’s school — is shut. Also, the road along with the Main Post Office to Pitali Ganpati mandir is closed. “The traffic has been diverted from the collectors’ office to Dhairyaprasad hall and further from Seva Hospital to Kasba Bawda. The diversion is for all, except emergency vehicles and vehicles of election officials. Three spots have been identified at each end of the roads closed. Political workers can park vehicles there,” said Shailesh Balkawade, the district superintendent of police. According to election officials, counting for each gram panchayat in the district are taking place on two tables. All kinds of celebrations have been banned given the Covid pandemic. In the Aurangabad district, where elections were held for 579-gram panchayats, the final polling figure was 81.5%. Over 9.4 lakh electors in the district had cast their votes during the gram panchayat elections, which were fought by different panels with support from established political parties. Among the nine talukas of Aurangabad district, Paithan and Phulambri had reported highest polling of around 85%, followed by Khuldabad (84%), Aurangabad and Sillod (both 83%), Soygaon (81%), Vaijapur (80%), Kannad (79%) and Gangapur (77%). Tehsildar Anita Bhalerao said, “The counting process began at 9am. As the EVMs were used for polling, the results are expected to be out in the first half of the day.” In the Nashik division, the vote-counting started at around 10am. Across the division — which includes Nashik, Nandurbar, Dhule, Jalgaon and Ahmednagar districts — 2,238-gram panchayats had the election. The division had recorded 75% turnout of the voters and the highest turnout was in Ahmednagar district (83%). The lowest turnout was in Dhule and Jalgaon districts (66% each). The counting is being held across 142 tables. There are 24 counting tables in Sinnar, while there are 16 tables each in Chandwad and Malegaon talukas. Trimbakeshwar has only one counting table, the district officials said. In Nashik district, polls to 565-gram panchayats were held after the bodies to 55-gram panchayat’s were elected unopposed. The election to one was cancelled by the orders of the state election commission as the villagers there had allegedly auctioned the posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/gram-panchayat-poll-vote-counting-results-today/articleshow/80327302.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Gram panchayat poll vote counting & results today||KOLHAPUR: The counting of votes polled for gram panchayat elections on January 15 is under way in the respective taluka headquarters of Maharashtra. According to the trends at 2.30pm, the panels backed by Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) was leading in more than 80-gram panchayats whose counting is over even as the results are yet to be announced officially. Maharashtra panchayat election results 2021 live updatesNagpur (rural) Congress president Rajendra Mulak speaks to media after #MaharashtraPanchayatResults were announced… https://t.co/BmiDIr5b8C— TOI Pune (@TOIPune) 1610958858000In Katol assembly constituency, represented by home minister Anil Deshmukh, NCP has won 19 out of 20 gram panchayats. #MaharashtraPanchayatResults : Winning candidates and their supporters celebrate at tehsil office near MLA Square N… https://t.co/4d0NxNH5U2— TOI Pune (@TOIPune) 1610953299000According to the Shiv Sena leaders, the party has got more seats – trouncing one of its ally, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), which had a very strong presence in the rural areas of Nashik. Nagpur: Congress wins all 17 seats in Nagpur's Patansaongi gram panchayat, the native village of dairy development… https://t.co/Rak3ykrHIn— TOI Pune (@TOIPune) 1610954265000"In most of the GP elections, Shiv Sena contested alone. In some we had the joint participation,” said Vijay Karanjkar, of Shiv Sena. Winners and their supporters celebrate after the results of #MaharashtraPanchayatResults ere declared at tehsil off… https://t.co/Js96UWK1fi— TOI Pune (@TOIPune) 1610952439000Similarly in the neighbouring Ahmednagar district panel backed by BJP heavyweights former minister Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil and former minister Ram Shinde have been defeated by the MVA in Loni Khurd and Chondhi, villages respectively. In Kothai GP in Muktai Nagar in Jalgaon, the panel backed by the former minister Eknath Khadse has got the majority. The polls to the 386-gram panchayats in Kolhapur district had more than 7 lakh electors cast their votes to elect the governing body for five years. The district reported 84% polling. For the 49 gram panchayats in the Karveer taluka, counting is being held at a grain house at Ramanmala. The police banned the entry of vehicles into the roads approaching Ramanmala on Monday. The traffic movement along Kasba Bawda — from SP office to Xavier’s school — is shut. Also, the road along with the Main Post Office to Pitali Ganpati mandir is closed. “The traffic has been diverted from the collectors’ office to Dhairyaprasad hall and further from Seva Hospital to Kasba Bawda. The diversion is for all, except emergency vehicles and vehicles of election officials. Three spots have been identified at each end of the roads closed. Political workers can park vehicles there,” said Shailesh Balkawade, the district superintendent of police. According to election officials, counting for each gram panchayat in the district are taking place on two tables. All kinds of celebrations have been banned given the Covid pandemic. In the Aurangabad district, where elections were held for 579-gram panchayats, the final polling figure was 81.5%. Over 9.4 lakh electors in the district had cast their votes during the gram panchayat elections, which were fought by different panels with support from established political parties. Among the nine talukas of Aurangabad district, Paithan and Phulambri had reported highest polling of around 85%, followed by Khuldabad (84%), Aurangabad and Sillod (both 83%), Soygaon (81%), Vaijapur (80%), Kannad (79%) and Gangapur (77%). Tehsildar Anita Bhalerao said, “The counting process began at 9am. As the EVMs were used for polling, the results are expected to be out in the first half of the day.” In the Nashik division, the vote-counting started at around 10am. Across the division — which includes Nashik, Nandurbar, Dhule, Jalgaon and Ahmednagar districts — 2,238-gram panchayats had the election. The division had recorded 75% turnout of the voters and the highest turnout was in Ahmednagar district (83%). The lowest turnout was in Dhule and Jalgaon districts (66% each). The counting is being held across 142 tables. There are 24 counting tables in Sinnar, while there are 16 tables each in Chandwad and Malegaon talukas. Trimbakeshwar has only one counting table, the district officials said. In Nashik district, polls to 565-gram panchayats were held after the bodies to 55-gram panchayat’s were elected unopposed. The election to one was cancelled by the orders of the state election commission as the villagers there had allegedly auctioned the posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gram-panchayat-poll-vote-counting-results-today/articleshow/80316965.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Kochi||Munnar tourism to get a tech boost with QR code||IDUKKI: The district administration is exploring QR (quick response) code usage opportunities in tourism as part of developing a sustainable tourism development programme in the Munnar hill station. The administration will develop a mobile app and a website and provide QR-coded information. According to Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan, the aim of the project is to develop a sustainable tourism policy and draw more tourists to the hill station by offering them better facilities and services. “Munnar and nearby places are dotted with several tourism destinations. But most tourists do not know much about them and the distance to such spots. Sometimes, local guides and taxi drivers fleece the tourists,” Premkrishnan said. “As part of the project, the district administration directed an NGO, Kites Foundation, to conduct a study. As part of the study, Munnar was divided into seven parts and information was collected about major attractions, locales, accommodation facilities and on the distance from Munnar to these areas. We are holding a three-day hackathon “Code4 Munnar”, a camping initiative at the College of Engineering at Munnar on January 29, 30 and 31 for the purpose,” said the sub-collector. The QR code and mobile application will help in providing in-depth information to tourists, he said, adding that travellers can easily access the coded information at major centres of Munnar. When a tourist scans the QR code (for example in cards in rooms, notices and message boards in hotels) they will get a lot more information than they get from the usual, fixed displays. Likewise, the QR code system will help them quickly access details buried in websites, including information on nearest petrol pump, toilets, hospitals and other facilities, said Premkrishnan. “The project will be implemented under the aegis of the district tourism promotion council (DTPC). In addition, the DTPC will provide training to 30 expert guides so that they can display all the necessary information on the website,” he added. “The project will be launched in February. In the second phase, resorts and hotel owners will be included in the project,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/munnar-tourism-to-get-a-tech-boost-with-qr-code/articleshow/80317423.cms||Sandeep Thomas
January 18, 2021||Trichy||Officials to inspect all schools today||Trichy: The district education department will inspect a a total of 506 schools in Trichy on Monday, which will reopen for Classes X and XII on Tuesday for their board examination preparations. A district-level committee has been formed to carry out inspections in all the schools. They will be given a checklist of necessary arrangements mandated by the state government for reopening. Officials including block resource teachers (BRT), block education officer (BEO), district education officer (DEO), lecturers from district institute of education and training (DIET) and officials from Samagra Shiksha (SS) will carryout the inspection. “In the first two days, teachers should focus on bringing down stress among students on board examinations. Teachers must give hope to students as they may find exams challenging after remaining away from school for 10 months and as the exams are just a few weeks away,” said district chief education officer R Arivazhagan. Schools will be working for six days a week including Saturdays to complete portions on time. Students and parents will not be forced to come to school as those interested in attending classes from home can continue to do so. The schools should also give willingness in written for reopening to their respective district education offices. Similarly, parents must give consent letter to respective schools to send their children. Private school students have been asked to operate school buses while ensuring social distancing. “We have asked schools to encourage students to come by bicycle if they live near the school. This will ensure minimal contact with others,” said the CEO. At least 6ft distance should be ensured in the classroom between students and not more than 25 should be seated in a class. If schools are using big halls, they can accommodate 50 students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/officials-to-inspect-all-schools-today/articleshow/80319658.cms||Sampath Kumar
January 18, 2021||Pune||Over 100 fire extinguishers not refilled since Oct 2019||Pimpri Chinchwad: Over 100 fire extinguishers at the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) hospital have not been refilled since October 8, 2019, its mandatory refilling date, exposing the health hub’s lack of preparedness for fire emergency. Hospital’s dean Rajendra Wabale said the electrical department of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) had been directed to refill the extinguishers at the earliest. “The department was told to review the situation and refill or replace the extinguishers. We have the sprinkler system, which we test every month,” he said. Wabale said there were different types of fire extinguishers at the hospital, of which the carbon-dioxide (CO2) extinguishers needed to be refilled. The hospital also have around 105 ABC Fire Extinguishers, which use mono ammonium phosphate, a dry chemical with the ability to quickly put out different types of fires by smothering the flames. It also has around 300 bomb-type fire extinguishers as well, he said. When TOI contacted the PCMC electrical department, officials said the process to refill around 130 fire extinguishers at the YCM hospital had started on Wednesday. “We are going to refill all the CO2 fire extinguishers by this week. The department is also in talks with third-party fire audit companies, which can work on the fire auditing of the YCM hospital. If needed, we might float tenders,” an official from the PCMC’s electrical department said.When asked why there was a delay in refilling, the official said they could not do anything about the refilling process because of the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-100-fire-extinguishers-not-refilled-since-oct-2019/articleshow/80318600.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 18, 2021||Aurangabad||Free seminar on Unified DC rules today||Aurangabad: The local chapters of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI) and the Indian Institute of Architecture (IIA) have jointly organised a free seminar on Unified Development Control (DC) regulations on Monday. The open-for-all event — to be held at Rukmini auditorium of MGM from 10 am to 7 pm — will be attended by senior officials of the town planning department along with other government officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/free-seminar-on-unified-dc-rules-today/articleshow/80316971.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Goa||‘Wildlife warden ignorant of rules, a danger to environment’||Panaji: Environmentalists have reacted sharply to the department of information and publicity’s video in which Sterlite Power states that an environmental impact assessment (EIA) isn’t required for transmission projects like Tamnar. The same video sees the forest department state that declaration of a sanctuary shouldn’t become detrimental to further development. Researcher Nandini Velho said the same could be argued about the railway line being exempt from EIA. Stating that the “Wildlife Protection Act allows only those activities that are beneficial to wildlife within protected areas”, environmentalist Abhijit Prabhudessai said the forest official “must be immediately sacked for total ignorance and contempt of laws which he is supposed to implement”. “A state’s chief wildlife warden’s (CWLW) primary duty is the management and preservation of wildlife and its habitat. He is authorised to permit construction of roads, bridges, buildings, etc, only for the security of wild animals in the sanctuary and for the preservation of the sanctuary, nothing else,” 20-year-old law student and anti-coal activist, Sherwyn Correia, said, adding, A CWLW who is ignorant of these core duties and responsibilities poses a danger to the wildlife under his protection.  Prabhudessai said that protecting forests and wildlife is real development, especially in view of the climate crisis that threatens human existence, while pointing out that the Karnataka forest department has rejected Sterlite’s application for clearance in the tiger reserve in Karnataka on environmental grounds. “Sterlite has concealed this fact,” Prabhudessai said. “Sterlite is notorious not just for false submissions, but also the cold-blooded shooting down of numerous environment defenders at Tuticorin. In the video the Sterlite Power project head Pankaj Verma says trees will be cut only at the towers and not along the length of the lines. However, trees have already been felled along the length of existing transmission lines,” Prabhudessai said. “Why is Sterlite taking pride in basing their project on an information deficit when a group of 30 researchers from 22 institutes have just published the information deficits across the three projects,” she asked. TOI had reported that in the video released by the government of Goa, department of information and publicity, project head of Sterlite Power, Pankaj Verma said that an EIA is not required for transmission projects such as Tamnar since they don’t dispose any hazardous waste or chemicals and cited a 2006 circular issued b the Union ministry of environment to support his view. In the video chief wildlife warden Goa, Santosh Kumar stated that the declaration of the wildlife sanctuary shouldn’t hamper development. “Any interaction with Karnataka through road or rail or transmission line has to be through the sanctuary only,” he said. “Since we have declared it a sanctuary, it should not become detrimental for further development. We have declared it a sanctuary for the preservation of wildlife and forests. If you want any development project for public interest, you have to obtain approval from the government of India,” Kumar had stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wildlife-warden-ignorant-of-rules-a-danger-to-environment/articleshow/80319660.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Pune||Big challenge for schools set to open for 78 lakh more students||Pune: Schools across Maharashtra will reopen on January 27 for 78 lakh students, including 7 lakh in Pune district, from standards V to VIII. While school authorities said they will maintain hygiene and social distancing between the younger children, most parents said they would not send their wards to school even if they reopen. Looking at the poor response to the reopening of standards IX to XII, a poorer attendance is expected from students in the V-VIII class group, principals said.“Schools’ opening now have the added challenge of ensuring that the government’s norms are followed until the vaccination drive is complete. It will also be a challenge to get the children reacquainted with the school’s schedule. It is not unprecedented as there was a similar dilemma during the H1N1 pandemic. We are very particular about cleanliness and strict about following the norms including sanitisation of the entire campus, masks, temperature checks,” Anita Nair, principal of Orchids, The International School, said.The need for children to get back to routine is immense, said Vinaya Aranha, director of Rosary School and Junior College. “Proper care and consideration is a good move. We have to take appropriate measures of safety with all our teachers and non-teaching staff being tested, reduced hours of working and reasonable space in classrooms with only one child per bench,” Aranha said.Veena Meshram, principal of SPM English Secondary School, said while all precautions are taken, parents’ consent is a must. A principal of Pune Municipal Corporation school, said the reopening process is a way to prepare. “ There is hardly any time now and even if schools reopen, very few students will turn up. But parents will be ready for the next academic year. Education experts do not want the next academic year too to be impacted,” the principal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/big-challenge-for-schools-set-to-open-for-78-lakh-more-students/articleshow/80318598.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 18, 2021||Trichy||Car parking project moving at snail’s pace||Trichy: Although more than a year has passed since the Trichy Corporation took up construction work on the multilevel car parking project, it is progressing at a snail’s pace. With only the foundation work complete, the project is set to miss the deadline announced by the civic body. “Groundwater seepage due to the shallow water table was affecting the progress of foundation work besides the monsoons and pandemic. Seepage was witnessed once we dug beyond 3m deep,” a source said. Stating the substructure work is complete, corporation sources said that superstructure work can be completed in a year. Around 150 cars and 528 two-wheelers can be parked in the facility to make the commercial streets in Teppakulam, Singarathope, West Boulevard Road and Madurai Road localities free from street parking. The facility can be accessed both from West Boulevard Road and Madurai Road and shall have space for commercial outlets available on monthly rent to generate revenue apart from the parking fee collection. The project is being implemented utilising smart cities mission fund at a cost of Rs 20.3 crore. A recreational club on the land identified for the project was demolished in May 2019. The preliminary civil work commenced in September 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/car-parking-project-moving-at-snails-pace/articleshow/80319651.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Pune||Certificate for EWS can be submitted by Wednesday||Pune: The state common entrance test (CET) cell has extended the date to January 20 to submit the certificate for students belonging to the economically weaker section of society (EWS) for admissions to professional courses. For many courses, the first and second merit lists have been announced, but many students have failed to submit the documents for reserved seats. State CET Cell commissioner Pankaj Kumar issued a circular on Saturday stating that the cell had received many applications from students to extend the deadline for submission of the non-creamy layer and EWS certificates. They said they would lose the opportunity to take admission under the reserved quota without these certificates. The CET cell conducts the admissions for engineering, pharmacy, masters in business management, architecture, hotel management among other courses. Due to a delay in the Maratha reservation issue, there was a slack in the admission process. Despite applying for the EWS certificate and non-creamy layer certificate, many have yet to receive it. At the time of applying for online admissions, the students have to upload their certificates. Maratha candidates will now be allowed to avail the benefit of the 10% Economically Weaker Sections quota in educational institutions and government jobs, subject to the ongoing hearing in the SEBC quota matter before the constitutional bench in the Supreme Court. This extension of EWS benefits will be applicable for the year 2020-21, the MVA government said in a resolution in December 2020. After the state’s GR, the CET cell had decided to extend the admission dates for all professional courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/certificate-for-ews-can-be-submitted-by-wednesday/articleshow/80318601.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Nashik||Bhusawal cops earn praise for reuniting lost boy with uncle||Nashik: The Bhusawal police helped a 10-year-old boy reunite with his uncle after the child got lost in the Bhusawal market area on Friday.Around 3.30 pm on Friday, Dileep Bhagwat, the Bazarpeth police station inspector, had received a call that a child was alone and was crying for a long time near the Bhusawal bus stand. Bhagwat immediately sent a team to the bus stand.Police constable Milind Kank said: “The child was too scared and was not able to tell us his name, address or any other detail. Therefore, we brought him to the police station and comforted him. He could not even tell us anything about his parents.”With the little information that the police managed to get, they alerted the informers and told them to find out the boy’s background. He was later identified as Rohan Vikas Survade, a resident of Bhim Nagar in Malkapur in Buldhana district. “By the evening, we came to know that the boy’s parents had passed away and he lived with his uncle. The boy and his uncle had come to Bhusawal for work and Rohan got lost in the rush in the Bhusawal market area,” said Kank.The uncle did not register any missing complaint as the police contacted him within three hours of them spotting the child. Rohan’s relatives could not come to take him on Friday night as there were no buses from Buldhana to Bhusawal. The police took care of the boy overnight and handed him over to his uncle on Saturday.As the news about Bhusawal police’s gesture spread, state home minister Anil Deshmukh took to Twitter to shower praise on the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhusawal-cops-earn-praise-for-reuniting-lost-boy-with-uncle/articleshow/80320110.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 18, 2021||Pune||New policy to put the brakes on political publicity in civic works||Pune: Political parties in the Pune Municipal Corporation will find it tough to gain mileage by putting up their leaders’ names and party signs on public works. A new policy for naming public works is being finalised. The civic administration has planned a standardisation of the naming public amenities. Name plates or their colours will not have any links to any party. The colour codes and size of the plates for the names of roads and direction signs will be fixed for synchronization. “We are drafting the policy. The aim is to make sure wastage of public funds stops. Defacement of the city areas can be reduced with this move. A standard set for naming public projects and signages will improve the aesthetic value of public furniture,” additional commissioner of PMC Suresh Jagtap said. Various rules and regulations pertaining to the sky-sign department and municipal acts will act as the base for the policy. It will be sent to the all-party committee for approval, after which the policy paper will go to the standing committee and general body for a final stamp. It is expected to be implemented by the next fiscal. Many elected members have built arches, bus stops or bridges in their wards along with distribution of benches and garbage baskets which have been painted to align with party colours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-policy-to-put-the-brakes-on-political-publicity-in-civic-works/articleshow/80318603.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Post-Sankranti rush on NHs as travellers return to cities||VIJAYAWADA: Traffic on highways across the state slowed down Sunday afternoon as people started returning to the cities after the Sankranti festival. National Highway (NH)-16 and NH-65 witnessed traffic congestion with most vehicles heading towards Hyderabad or Visakhapatnam. Between Vijayawada and Rajahmundry, congestion increased owing to NH-16 expansion and bypass works. While the FASTag system lessened the wait time at toll plazas, Hanuman Junction, Gannavaram, Nallajarla and Bhimadole saw congestion. Police diverted vehicles through the Hanuman Junction bypass even though work is yet to be completed. With several vehicles heading towards Hyderabad, transport authorities held special drives at NH-65. Police arranged pickets at toll plazas and ensured free movement of vehicles. Highways between Gudivada-Bhimavaram, Eluru-Jangareddy Gudem and Vijayawada-Nuzividu also witnessed congestion from Sunday morning. Officials arranged temporary speed breakers and barriers to regulate vehicles on state highways. Police urged motorists to stick within permitted speed limits while breath tests to check drunken driving were held at multiple places on state highways. Meanwhile, private bus operators continued to overcharge passengers. A few operators charged Rs 5,000 for a semi-sleeper ticket to Bengaluru from Vijaywada, which costs Rs 1,300. “We have enjoyed Sankranti but are facing problems in going back to Bengaluru. We have tried tickets in APSRTC buses, but they are unavailable. Private operators hiked ticked prices and stopped selling them online. We finally managed to buy tickets from travel agents by paying Rs 5,000 per passenger. This is continuing every year and officials fail to control private operators,” M Ramana, a techie from Vijayawada said. Passengers complained that the condition of buses is poor in comparison to the fare that is charged. Upon receiving complaints, transport authorities started inspecting private buses, suspecting that some few agencies are operating old buses to cash in on the festival rush.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/post-sankranti-rush-on-nhs-as-travellers-return-to-cities/articleshow/80316784.cms||Venu Lanka
January 18, 2021||Nashik||Private seed firm ordered to compensate tomato farmers||Nashik: A private seed selling company has been ordered by the Nashik District Consumers Complaints Redressal Commission to compensate the farmers for selling poor quality tomato seeds owing to which the crop yield failed.“After large numbers of farmers raised complaints against the respondents (seed company), it was quite possible for them to get their seeds batch tested and certified from a laboratory about the worthiness. Despite that the company failed to do so due to which we draw a conclusion that the company sold defective seeds to the farmers,” the three-member commission, headed by Milind Sonawane, said in its judgment that was delivered on January 5.Prerna Kalunkhe-Kullarni and Sachin Shimpi were the other two members of the commission that has ordered the company to pay a compensation of Rs 40,000 per acre to eight farmers with respect to the area that was under cultivation along with 12% interest from October 5, 2017, when the complaint was registered with the commission. It also ordered a compensation of Rs 7,000 for mental harassment and Rs 5,000 as costs incurred to the farmers. The case against the company was registered by the eight farmers — Ramdas Tanaji Shevale, Rakesh Keda Mandvade and others from Chaugav village of Baglan taluka of Nashik district on October 5, 2017. The farmers had bought the seeds on June 2, 2016 and they were sown on June 30, but the fruits borne by the plants did not grow and the crop was lost. The farmers registered their complaint with the Taluka Agriculture Officer on August 31, 2016 and a team visited the farms on September 7, 2016 and recorded the statement saying that the crop had failed. It also made an important statement that the tomato crop in the adjoining farms was blooming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/private-seed-firm-ordered-to-compensate-tomato-farmers/articleshow/80320112.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Techie dupes buyers of Rs 1 crore with fake shopping portal||MUMBAI: A software engineer from Surat who lost his job in London during the pandemic was arrested on Thursday for allegedly duping online several shoppers of at least Rs 1 crore by creating a fake shopping website. The accused, Ashish BipinAhir (32), was in deep debt and took to cybercrime to clear his dues, said the police. The post-graduate in software applications from an institute in London allegedly duped over 22,000 people on social media platforms. Of these, 90% are women who fell victim to Ahir’s fake website — ‘shopiiee.com’. The name of this fake website is identical to some genuine portals which deal in women’s garments, imitation jewellery, dress material and other ware. Ahire was nabbed from Surat after a woman from Mumbai lodged a complaint of being cheated of Rs 2,400, said officials of the cyber crime police which has initiated a drive against fake shopping websites. He has been booked for cheating, forgery under sections of the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act, said deputy commissioner of police (Cyber) Rashmi Karandikar. He has been sent to police custody. Ahir’s arrest comes close on the heels of the drive launched against fake shopping portals. Last week six people, including a woman, were arrested for duping a public servant of Rs 3.70 lakh. The police have identified a dozen fake sites that dupe buyers with offers at throwaway prices and cheat them. “These sites are on Facebook and other social media. They offer huge discounts but after one pays for a product, it is never delivered to the buyer,” said Karandikar. The police have advised people to opt for ‘cash on delivery’ while shopping online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/techie-dupes-buyers-of-rs-1cr-with-fake-shopping-portal/articleshow/80317429.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 18, 2021||Vijayawada||TTD acts to end wild boar menace in Tirumala||TIRUPATI: Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) officials have swung into action to end the menace of wild boars in the hill town after images of the animals roaming in front of the Tirumala temple were shared with them on Sunday. The hill town is located in the Seshachalam biosphere and is home to many endangered species such as the Asian elephant, hyena, golden jackal, Indian fox, jungle cat, sloth bear, spotted deer, mouse deer and four-horned antelope, among other animals. The temple body had previously taken steps to ensure wild animals such as leopards and wild boars did not enter the hill town, however, a slowdown in recent months has led to groups of wild boars entering Tirumala in search of food. With pilgrim influx in the hill town on a steady rise (about 40,000 devotees visit Tirumala on average everyday), nearly 25 tonnes of garbage are generated at Tirumala each day. In the absence of measures to contain wild animals, groups of wild boars forage for food in the garbage and roam around in the hill town, posing a menace to residents and visiting devotees. When images of a group of wild boars moving in front of the Tirumala temple were shared with TTD officials, TTD’s vigilance and security department vigilance guard officer Bali Reddy along with health, engineering and forest department officials inspected the four mada streets and assured of stringent measures to contain wild boars. “We have set up chain link fencing at all entry points leading to the four mada streets encirclingthe hill temple. Wild boars can no longer enter the temple vicinity and we will maintain round-the-clock vigil,” said Bali Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-acts-to-end-wild-boar-menace-in-tirumala/articleshow/80316795.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 18, 2021||Thane||Thane: Robbers rent shop for 3 months, drill hole in wall to clean out jewellery store of Rs 1.3cr||THANE: In a crime straight out of a Hindi film, three men posing as fruit merchants leased a shop adjoining a jewellery unit in Thane’s Vartak Nagar area and later drilled their way into it through the common wall and fled with gold and silver ornaments worth Rs 1.3 crore, the Thane police said. According to officials, the incident was reported on Sunday morning after the jeweller approached the Vartak Nagar police. The CCTV footage inside the jewellery shop had captured the three accused digging a hole in wall using a gas cutter around 12.45am to enter the shop. The identity of the accused remained unknown except for their visuals as they had not shared any identity proof with the shop owner. “The men stole silver and gold ornaments kept inside the shop worth Rs 1.3crore and decamped,” said deputy police commissioner, zone V, Dr V M Rathod. Assistant police commissioner, Pankaj Shirsat, said the accused approached the shop owner in November 2020 and leased his premises for Rs 28,000 per month to start their fruit business under the name Abdul fruit mart. They cited slump in business due to Covid and convinced the owner to defer the agreement till they were settled financially, the police said. “The accused were aware of the activities in the jewellery shop and had timed their heist accordingly. Once done, they re-entered their shop from the cavity and escaped without raising any suspicion,” said the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/robbers-rent-shop-for-3-mths-drill-hole-in-wall-to-clean-out-jewellery-store-of-rs-1-3cr/articleshow/80319665.cms||Manoj Badgeri
January 18, 2021||Pune||Pune ZP to follow grassroots plan like Delhi to improve education||Pune: Decentralised educational programmes is on the anvil in Pune zilla parishad schools instead of a blanket policy that tells cluster heads to follow them irrespective of their usefulness in an area. Every cluster head has been told to draw up a plan for infrastructural and quality improvement of the schools after considering the problems specific to their locality and its geographical and socio-economic conditions by January 31.A separate budget will be allocated for each cluster depending upon the approval of their programme, which ZP chief executive officer Ayush Prasad said, is inspired by the Delhi model of empowering grassroots leadership. Primary education officer Sunil Kurhade said, “We have about 3,652 primary schools in Pune rural area divided into blocks and clusters. Every cluster will have about 15-20 schools headed by the cluster head. Each cluster will review its schools and chalk out a development plan. It will help us understand their actual needs, and accordingly provisions for grants can be done.” Infrastructure development, empowerment of all stakeholders and quality improvement are the main thrusts of the project. The facilities required, whether the facilities are optimally utilised, empowering teachers-students-parents, improving the attendance of teachers and students, emphasising the importance of weekly, monthly, quarterly lesson plans, quality examinations and analysis of results for every student, remedial classes for students are some broad areas to be included in the plan.At the meeting on January 7 cluster heads were told to submit their development plan between January 26 to 31 to their respective extension officers. “The idea is to improve educational levels. As per the plan, they will be provided with a budget and all support. We have tried to adopt the Delhi government model of empowering grassroots leadership,” Ayush Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-zp-to-follow-grassroots-plan-like-delhi-to-improve-education/articleshow/80318610.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 18, 2021||Nashik||Amnesty scheme helps NMC earn Rs 22cr||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has collected property tax dues amounting to Rs 22 crore in the first phase of the amnesty scheme, between November 1, 2020, and January 15, 2021. The civic body recovers 2% fine per month on the tax dues from the last day of paying taxes. It also recovers expenses of the notices and warrants issued to the defaulters. The civic body had launched the amnesty scheme from November 1 to increase the recovery of property tax dues from defaulters. As per the scheme, defaulters get 75% rebate for clearing dues by January 15 in the first phase, 50% if they pay in the second phase, between January 16 and February 15. Those who pay between February 16 and 28, will get 25% rebate. Pradeep Chaudhari, the deputy commissioner (tax) of NMC, told TOI that they have received very good response in the first phase of the amnesty scheme. “Around 37,000 property tax defaulters took the advantage of the scheme and we waived penalty amounting to Rs 4.7 crore,” he said. “We are expecting a good response in the second and third phases as well,” he added. The property tax collection of the civic body was badly affected by the Covid outbreak. Nashik Municiapal Corporation had collected the property tax amounting to Rs 82 crore so far during the current financial year against the property tax collection of Rs 110 crore during the same period of the previous financial year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/amnesty-scheme-helps-nmc-earn-rs-22cr/articleshow/80320113.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 18, 2021||Pune||Night temp to fall post mid-week with arrival of Northerly winds: IMD||Pune: The night temperature in the city may gradually fall after mid-week, officials from the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune, said on Sunday.The met officials have also predicted cloudy conditions for the next 72 hours but there is no possibility of rain.“The temperature is expected to fall to 11°C towards the end of the week as Northerly winds are expected to penetrate the state. Currently, the minimum temperature is above normal by five to six degrees Celsius,” Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather forecast division, said.On Sunday, it was sunny and clear till the afternoon, after which, it was cloudy and warm. Kashyapi also said the night temperature would decline January 21 onwards. He said the easterly wind is bringing moisture over Pune district, Konkan and Goa in Madhya Maharashtra. “As a result, the weather condition in the afternoon and later is expected to remain cloudy for the next 72 hours. Thereafter, the condition will normalize,” he added.The Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories on Sunday recorded minimum temperatures of 16.7°C and 18.1°C, which were above normal by 5.7°C and 6.1°C, respectively.Meanwhile, officials from the state agriculture department said the overcast weather condition is not conducive for crops. “The overcast condition is not conducive for onion growth as it requires chilly weather and clear sky. This kind of weather has prevailed over the district three times in the last three weeks. It hampered the growth of the onion at some places in Pune district,” said a senior official from the state agriculture department on the condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/night-temp-to-fall-post-mid-week-with-arrival-of-northerly-winds-imd/articleshow/80318629.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 18, 2021||Nashik||Constable arrested for beating his children, 2nd wife too held||Nashik: A police constable attached with the railway police and his second wife have been arrested by Igatpuri police for beating their two children — eight-year-old son and five-year-old daughter. According to police, the children are from the first wife of the suspect, Rahul Vijay More, and the complaint was filed by the children’s uncle. The couple has been booked under section 326 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) along with other sections of the IPC. Police sub-inspector SS Sonawane said that on Saturday More had badly beaten his two children following which the people from his building brought the matter to the notice of the children’s uncle. “The man came to Igatpuri and registered an offence against More and his wife. The children have been admitted to the Nashik civil hospital,” he said. “More’s first wife passed away in 2016 after which the children stayed with their grandmother in Surat. However, the grandmother passed away in October last year and the kids were brought back to live with More around two months ago. The couple then started harassing and beating the children,” he added. The couple were produced in a local court that remanded them in police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/constable-arrested-for-beating-his-children-2nd-wife-too-held/articleshow/80320115.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 18, 2021||Goa||Siolim locals oppose cyclone risk mitigation project||Saligao: Residents at Danda, Siolim, have raised objections to the national cyclone risk mitigation project, which is coming up in the village. On Sunday, office bearers of the Jagreshwar temple committee and the newly-elected zilla panchayat members of Siolim assembled at the project site and demanded that work should be stopped within the next eight days. The project is coming up within the temple premises. The locals said they had earlier complained to the chief minister, water resources minister, the North Goa collector, deputy collector and the panchayat, but noon paid heed to their pleas. “This project should be immediately be demolished as we were not taken into confidence while initiating it,” a local Rakesh Salgaonkar said. Residents said they are opposed to having the project within the temple premises as it will affect the annual festival and other activities at the temple. Under Goa’s first chief minister Dayanand Bandodkar, a two-storeyed school building was constructed at the site where the cyclone risk mitigation centre is planned. This old building was demolished in mid-2016 and the work of construction of a cyclone risk mitigation project commenced at the spot. The local temple committee members along with the residents had been raising objections to this project since the last two years. Locals were annoyed that the site earlier used for educational purposes is now being utilised for another project. However, the construction of the cyclone risk mitigation project continued. “Our MLA told us that as the project is financed by the Centre and he cannot do anything about it,” a local Devraj Shirodkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/siolim-locals-oppose-cyclone-risk-mitigation-project/articleshow/80319675.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: AQI falls to poor again, minimum temperature dips to 18.2°C||MUMBAI: As temperatures in the city dipped over the last two days, the air quality index (AQI) deteriorated to the poor category again on Sunday. According to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), Mumbai’s overall AQI was 252, as compared to 166 on Saturday. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) Santacruz observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 18.2C, 1C above normal. Track the pollution level in your cityThe Colaba observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 20.4C, also nearly a degree above normal. However, the minimum temperatures are lower than earlier in the week. Meanwhile, the maximum temperature of 31.3C at Santacruz was at par with the normal and Colaba’s 29 C was a degree below normal. IMD has forecast temperatures to dip over the next few days. “Due to low wind speed, lower fluctuation of temperature, and low boundary layer height, the Mumbai AQI is forecasted to remain in moderate to poor for next two days,” said a shortrange forecast released by SAFAR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/aqi-falls-to-poor-again-min-temp-dips-to-18-2c/articleshow/80319678.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Trichy||Horse rekla race held in Karur dist on MGR’s 104th birth anniversary||Trichy: Rekla race with horses was organised as part of 104th birth anniversary of former chief minister M G Ramachandran in Karur district on Sunday.The event was flagged off by transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar, school education minister K A Sengottaiyan, electricity minister P Thangamani and minister for environment, K C Karuppannan on the Karur-Erode bypass road.Hundreds of horses participated in the event conducted in three categories based on their age. The race was conducted for a distance of 15, 12 and 9 km where winners in each category were given trophies and cash prizes.Horses from Karur, Trichy, Madurai, Dindigul and Erode district participated in the eventA total 23 bullock carts participated in the rekla race organised in Kadiyapatti village in Thirumayam of Pudukottai district. Enthusiasts from Trichy, Thanjavur, Madurai, Dindigul, Sivagangai and Pudukottai participated in the event.The race was conducted in two categories where the participants had to scale a distance of 12 km. Total 10 bullock carts participated in big bull category and 13 were selected in small bull category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/horse-rekla-race-held-in-karur-dist-on-mgrs-104th-birth-anniversary/articleshow/80319671.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Vijayawada||Youth dies at kabaddi match||Tirupati: A youngster died on court during a kabaddi match at the district-level kabaddi meet held at Gangannapalli in Vallur mandal of Kadapa district on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Narendra, a resident of Kondapeta in Chennur mandal. Police said Narendra, who had completed his Master’s degree in commerce, was a kabaddi enthusiast. Eyewitnesses, organisers and players at the meet told police that Narendra, who went for a raid during the game was cornered, surrounded and caught by his opponents. When Narendra was freed, he got up to return to his team but collapsed all of a sudden. He was dead by the time the other players tried to revive him. Narendra was rushed to Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences where doctors declared him dead. A case has been registered and an investigation is on. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/youth-dies-at-kabaddi-match/articleshow/80316800.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 18, 2021||Lucknow||Physically challenged man plays midwife on train||LUCKNOW: It was a real-life redux of Amir ‘Rancho’ Khan’s midwifery feat in the climax of the movie ‘3 Idiots’, only that it all happened onboard a running train and the protagonist was a physically challenged lab technician working in Delhi. On Saturday night, Sunil Prajapati helped a 30-year-old woman deliver a baby on Jabalpur-bound Madhya Pradesh Sampark Kranti Covid-19 special express, using a thread string taken from a shawl, a blade from a shaving kit pouch, and taking instructions over a video call with a senior eye surgeon. The woman has a history of three miscarriages. It all happened in the B3 coach of the train while it was passing through Mathura district. The 33-year-old “super hero” told TOI, “The train had just crossed Faridabad and I was about to open my lunch box when I heard a woman sleeping in the next coupe crying in pain. She was travelling with her brother and a minor daughter to Damoh to her in-law’s place. On inquiry, the woman identified herself as Kiran, 30, and that she was due for delivery on January 20.” “I offered to help her and asked whether she needs medical assistant at any station, but she wasn’t sure if she was going under labour pain or abdomen twinge caused by jerks while travelling in bus to reach Hazrat Nizamuddin station. Since there was no woman passenger in the coach, I preferred not to take chance and informed my superior Dr Suparna Sen, who alerted Agra and Gwalior stations to put medical staff on standby. About half an hour later, Kiran again screamed in pain and this time her blanket was wet with her blood indicating that she was about to deliver. I immediately asked the TTE for a first-aid kit and took Dr Sen on video call. I followed her instructions carefully. Fortunately, I managed to arrange fresh unused blade from a passenger, with which I cut the umbilical cord,” Sunil said. After the delivery, RPF personnel took the woman and her new-born to Mathura district hospital. Sunil, who was hailed for his heroic act, is posted in the pathology department of the Northern Railway Delhi division hospital, Chandani Chowk. He was going home in Sagar, MP, on a three-day leave to fix the date of his marriage. “I just helped a woman deliver and a healthy infant was in my arms. It was a mixed feeling of fear and excitement. We only see such deliveries in movies. After the delivery, I made few more calls to other railway doctors to arrange medical assistance at Mathura. Since the train had no stoppage between Delhi and Gwalior, fellow passengers pulled the alarm chain at Mathura junction to stop the train, following an RPF team escorted Kiran to Mathura district hospital,” he said. Sunil is youngest among six siblings; his father is a farmer. Lauding Sunil’s efforts, Dr Sen said: “Hats off to him. He pulled off an impossible task. He is physically handicapped from his leg and had never ever seen a delivery. The delivery was successful because of his presence of mind for arranging tools likes blade from shaving kit and thread from shawl to execute the complex medical aid. I just guided him and he followed the instructions with utmost focus. He is a brave soul.” Kiran told TOI, “The railway staff went out of their way to help me. They used video calling, something which I could not have imagined for my delivery.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/physically-challenged-man-plays-midwife-on-train/articleshow/80320435.cms||Arvind Chauhan
January 18, 2021||Trichy||Two men injured during jallikattu events, die||Madurai/Trichy: Two people who suffered injuries in separate jallikattu events, died after failing to respond to treatment. A 24-year-old man, who suffered grievous injuries in the Alanganalllur jallikattu in Madurai district on Saturday, died in a hospital on Sunday. The deceased was identified as R Navamani from Alanganallur. Police said that he went to the jallikattu event accompanying a bull, which was brought by his brother and his friends from Trichy. A bull gored him when he came out in the playing arena through the vaadivasal. Red Cross volunteers and 108 employees rushed him to a nearby medical camp, where first aid was provided. Police said that he suffered injuries on his chest and was rushed to the Govenment Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai. He died on Sunday morning. Based on a complaint a case was registered with the Alananallur police under CrPC Section - 174 and an inquiry conducted. In another incident, a 42-year-old man who was seriously injured in an illegal jallikattu event on January 14 in Illupur of Pudukottai district died on Sunday morning. The deceased has been identified as K Ponnusamy from Sangirapatti village in Illupur taluk. According to the Illupur deputy superintendent of police, Arulmozhi Arasu, Ponnusamy, who had come to watch the event held at the Pidariamman temple thidal in the village, was pushed down by a raging bull when he was trying to escape. Ponnusamy suffered serious head injuries and rushed to the Pudukottai government hospital. After three days of treatment, Ponnusamy died in the hospital on Sunday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-men-injured-during-jallikattu-events-die/articleshow/80319673.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Vijayawada||Day 2: Over 13,000 administered Covid vaccine in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: As many as 13,041 healthcare workers in the state were administered the Covid-19 vaccine on Sunday. The target on Sunday was 27,233 healthcare workers. It may be recalled that against the target of 31,570 healthcare workers, 19,108 turned up for vaccination on the first day of the drive on Saturday. Officials of the health department said two cases of Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI), one each in Krishna and Nellore districts, were reported. Eight cases of AEFI, including five in Kurnool, were reported on the first day. Officials did not specify the nature of side-effects. The vaccination programme was taken up in 308 locations across the state on Sunday with each session site supposed to cater to 100 beneficiaries per day. East Godavari district saw the highest turnout of 1,959 beneficiaries out of the targeted 3,400 while Krishna saw 485 against the target of 898. Altogether, 480 healthcare workers were vaccinated at 14 session sites in Krishna district on Sunday. Officials said no side-effects were noticed on the second day of vaccination. Though officials set a target of vaccinating 3,000 healthcare workers per day, only 2,700 persons were vaccinated each day on the first two days. District collector A Md Imtiaz inspected the vaccination drive at Machilipatnam government hospital and interacted with healthcare workers who were inoculated. He also enquired about the status of workers who took a dose of the vaccine on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/over-13k-administered-vax-two-cases-of-aefi-on-day-2/articleshow/80321255.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Chandigarh||Summons amid farmers stir: At least 3 don’t appear before NIA||JALANDHAR: In keeping with the unions decision that no farmer who has received NIA notices will appear before the agency as a mark of protest, abstentions marked day one of the hearings by the agency. TOI has information of at least three such persons refraining from visiting the NIA headquarters in Delhi on Sunday. Others have been asked to appear before the agency over the next few days. The NIA has summoned at least two dozen people who have been supporting the agitation against farm laws. The notices were issued in connection with a case of sedition, under provisions of UAPA and for other offences registered against SFJ in December last. Khalsa Aid India team members have also been sent notices. Farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa, who has been participating in the government-farmers meetings to resolve the issue, Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu and Karnail Singh of Hoshiarpur district were slated to appear before NIA on Sunday but did not do so. On Saturday, BKU (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal had stated that those put on notice by the NIA should not appear before the central agency. He made this statement after a meeting of farmers unions and other leaders and strongly criticised the NIA notices as “harassment” by the government. Meanwhile, the NIA has rescheduled the appearance of at least two persons before it. Jalandhar-based writer and commentator Balwinderpal Singh, who was to appear before the NIA on Monday and had informed that he was still recovering from Covid-19 infection, received a message on Sunday that he would be sent another notice when he is fit to appear. Former Akal Takht jathedar Jasbir Singh Rode’s appearance was also rescheduled from Monday to January 21, after he questioned the short notice for appearance. #NIAusedAgainstFarmers trends on Twitter Punjabi netizens also spoke out against NIA notices, terming it as an intimidating exercise. They made #NIAusedAgainstFarmers to trend on Sunday and it trended on top in India for around an hour. By evening, over 1.34 lakh tweets were already done using this hashtag. This is probably for the first time when NIA has trended on Twitter with a negative hashtag. MHA-ordered FIR in Dec The FIR registered by NIA under sections 120B, 124A, 153A, 153B of IPC and sections 13, 17, 18, 18B and 20 of UAPA on December 15, 2020, on the order of Union ministry of home affairs (MHA), issued on the same day, reads: Whereas Central Government has received information that Sikhs For Justice, an ‘unlawful association’ under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, and other Khalistani terrorist outfits including but not limited to Babbar Khalsa International, Khalistan Tiger Force and Khalistan Zindabad Force along with their frontal organizations, have entered into a conspiracy y to create an atmosphere of fear and lawlessness and to cause disaffection in people and to incite them towards rising in rebellion against the Government of India...||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/summons-amid-farmers-stir-at-least-3-dont-appear-before-nia/articleshow/80318644.cms||IP Singh
January 18, 2021||Lucknow||Each vax beneficiary to be examined thrice in 15 days||Lucknow: The health department will monitor every vaccination beneficiary thrice in the next 15 days for any reaction besides taking feedback from them on how to improve facilities at vaccine centres. Meanwhile, the Day 2 of the vaccination drive scheduled on Monday has been postponed till January 22 on the directions of the state government. Spokesperson of the CMO office Yogesh Raghuvanshi said that since antibodies develop in a recipient within 15 days after vaccination, the department will call every beneficiary thrice during this period to inquire about his health. “Their feedbacks will be recorded and studied before sending it to the state government for further research. In case of side-effects, medical assistance will be provided immediately. Also, beneficiaries will be asked about suggestions on improving facilities at the vaccination centres,” he added. Regarding the next date of vaccination drive, CMO Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar said, “We have not been informed about the next date yet but we are ready for next round.” On Day 1 of the drive on Saturday, 1,200 health care workers were to be vaccinated, but 840 turned up. Sources said that officers are assessing the situation. “We are resolving technical issues with the centralised system. We are also ensuring adequate stock of vaccine required to immunise about 51,000 health care workers in Lucknow,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/each-vax-beneficiary-to-be-examined-thrice-in-15-days/articleshow/80319674.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
January 18, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Day 2: Over 13,000 administered Covid vaccine in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: As many as 13,041 healthcare workers in the state were administered the Covid-19 vaccine on Sunday. The target on Sunday was 27,233 healthcare workers. It may be recalled that against the target of 31,570 healthcare workers, 19,108 turned up for vaccination on the first day of the drive on Saturday. Officials of the health department said two cases of Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI), one each in Krishna and Nellore districts, were reported. Eight cases of AEFI, including five in Kurnool, were reported on the first day. Officials did not specify the nature of side-effects. The vaccination programme was taken up in 308 locations across the state on Sunday with each session site supposed to cater to 100 beneficiaries per day. East Godavari district saw the highest turnout of 1,959 beneficiaries out of the targeted 3,400 while Krishna saw 485 against the target of 898. Altogether, 480 healthcare workers were vaccinated at 14 session sites in Krishna district on Sunday. Officials said no side-effects were noticed on the second day of vaccination. Though officials set a target of vaccinating 3,000 healthcare workers per day, only 2,700 persons were vaccinated each day on the first two days. District collector A Md Imtiaz inspected the vaccination drive at Machilipatnam government hospital and interacted with healthcare workers who were inoculated. He also enquired about the status of workers who took a dose of the vaccine on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/over-13k-administered-vax-two-cases-of-aefi-on-day-2/articleshow/80316813.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Chandigarh||Now, songs on farmers a hit at weddings||Chandigarh: Punjabis have literally made a song and dance about the farmers’ protest, making it not merely a political statement but part of popular culture. In marriages, several dance troupes, which traditionally started their performance with a hymn, now sing about the farmers at Tikri, Singhu, Palwal and Shahjahanpur-Khera borders. After singer Kanwar Grewal touched all the right chords with his song on the Delhi march, others followed suit. “We are from farmers’ families. Imagine the plight of those braving the biting cold at the border. Have you ever thought about the kin of those who sacrificed their lives in the farmers’ agitation?” said Amardeep, who leads a dance troupe. Even food stalls at weddings have LED screens playing songs about the farmers’ movement. While their support in real life is quite open, they hesitate to go on record. Speaking on condition of anonymity, a banquet hall owner said their support for farmers stems from a sense of duty. “It’s not pressure but a moral obligation towards farmers and those agitating on the Delhi borders,” he said. On being asked if guests approve, he said no one has raised objections so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/now-songs-on-farmers-a-hit-at-weddings/articleshow/80318656.cms||Manvir Saini
January 18, 2021||Chandigarh||SC hearing today, but no plans to junk parade||BATHINDA: A day ahead of the Supreme Court taking up the pleas of the Central government and Delhi Police to restrain farm organisations from taking out a tractor march in Delhi on Republic Day, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, on Sunday, announced that it is determined to proceed with the tractor parade on January 26. Outlining the route plan for the proposed Kisan parade on January 26, the morcha said it would be held on the 47 kilometre outer ring road on Peeragarhi-Dhaula Kaun side. This settles confusion on whether the proposed tractor parade would be held inside or outside Delhi. Morcha leaders announced that the parade would be completely peaceful and tractors would fly the Tricolour besides flags of farmer organisations. They also made it clear that no flags of any political party would be allowed on the vehicles. Earlier, a morcha leader said the parade would be carried out on Delhi borders. It was speculated that farmers would head towards Vijay Path, parallel to the official parade or towards Red Fort to unfurl the farmers’ flag. Farm leaders announced that no protester would have firearms and no provocative slogans would be raised. There is no proposal to disrupt the official parade on Republic Day or to reach any national monument in Delhi. Morcha leaders said those who cannot reach Delhi should take out a parade in state capitals or district headquarters with the same guidelines. They also called upon NRIs settled in various countries to hold protests in their respective countries between January 24 and January 26. Morcha leaders went on to condemn the notices being sent by the National Investigative Agency (NIA) to persons supporting the farmers’ struggle, including transporters, singers and those running langars. Morcha leaders Darshan Pal and Yogendra Yadav said, “We have made the announcement and there is no need to seek any permission from the police. We do not want Delhi or Haryana police to stop farmers from taking out the parade. We are determined to take out the parade at all costs and will debate what the Supreme Court decides about the proposed parade.” Morcha leader Shiv Kumar Sharma Kakka Ji said they hope the Supreme Court would not stop them from organising the parade. Sharma also rejected agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s appeal to settle for something other than repeal of the laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sc-hearing-today-but-no-plans-to-junk-parade/articleshow/80318649.cms||Neel Kamal
January 18, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Man arrested for raping, impregnating minor daughter||THANJAVUR: A 36-year-old man was arrested for raping and impregnating his 17-year-old daughter near Papanasam in Thanjavur district. The girl gave birth to a girl on January 11. According to police, the accused, a native of Papanasam lost his wife after she gave birth to a girl in 2003. Soon after her death, the accused left home and went to Mumbai. There he got married to another woman and the couple have two children. The victim was raised by her paternal grandparents. She studied up to Class XII. After the announcement of lockdown in March 2020, the accused returned to his village from Mumbai along with his family. Meanwhile, due to a disagreement, the couple parted ways in April 2020. Subsequently, he joined as a labourer in a rice mill and brought his daughter to his house. In April, on one night he came home in an inebriated condition and forced himself on his daughter and raped her. Since then, he had been sexually assaulting regularly. Unable to bear the sexual assaults, the girl returned to her grandfather’s home. Meanwhile, the victim gave birth to a girl on January 11, 2021, at a government hospital in Papanasam. On information, authorities from the district child welfare office visited the hospital and lodged a complaint with the Papanasam all-women police and subsequently arrested her father under the Pocso Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-36-arrested-for-raping-impregnating-minor-daughter/articleshow/80319685.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: 12 districts post 161 fresh Covid cases, none from Kadapa in last 24 hours||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh on Sunday reported 161 new infections and one Covid-19 death. The cumulative caseload rose to 8,85,985 and death toll increased to 7,140. As many as 251 patients were declared cured on Sunday. The active caseload dropped to 1,896. While the number of cumulative recoveries stands at 8,76,949, the active caseload dropped below the 300-mark in twelve out of thirteen districts in the state. Chittoor district reported 52 new infections, followed by Krishna (26), Guntur (19), East Godavari (12), Srikakulam (12), and West Godavari (11). Another six districts recorded single-digit case numbers while YSR Kadapa did not report any case on Sunday. Visakhapatnam district recorded one Covid-19 death in the past 24 hours. Krishna district has 300 active Covid-19 cases followed by Guntur (280), East Godavari (206), Nellore (198) and Chittoor (183). The number of active cases is less than 100 in Kurnool, Prakasam, Srikakulam, Anantapur and Vizianagaram districts. While Chittoor has contributed 846 cumulative deaths, the highest for any district in the state, Vizianagaram has the lowest fatalities (238). As many as 36,091 samples were tested in the past 24 hours to detect 161 new cases, a case positivity rate of about 0.44%. Andhra Pradesh has so far conducted 1,25,76,272 crore Covid-19 tests with an overall case positivity rate of 7.04%. The mortality rate remains stable at 0.8%. Six districts recorded single-digit case numbers while Kadapa did not report any case on Sunday. Vizag district recorded one Covid-19 death in the past 24 hours||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/12-dists-post-161-fresh-cases-none-from-kadapa-in-last-24-hours/articleshow/80316827.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: E-seva kendra to be started today at Esplanade Centre for all metropolitan magistrate courts||MUMBAI: The e-seva kendra will be inaugurated at the Esplanade Centre for all metropolitan magistrate courts on Monday.  A similar service was started at the City Civil and Sessions Court in December. With an aim to make access to justice more litigant-friendly, the services will include handling of inquiries about case status, next date of hearing, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/e-seva-kendra-to-be-started-today/articleshow/80320173.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Trichy||Docs reassure public on Covaxin shots||Trichy: Trying to quell rumours on Covaxin, doctors in Trichy have assured that the vaccine is completely safe. “On the first day of the vaccine drive on Saturday, a total of 20 people took Covishield. No one came forward to accept Covaxin. After health secretary J Radhakrishnan took Covaxin, the number has gone up to 40 for Covaxin on the second day of the drive. Many prominent Indian Medical Association (IMA) officebearers of Trichy also received the vaccination on Sunday,” dean of Trichy Government Medical College, Dr Vanitha said. Speaking to TOI, cardiologist Dr Senthilkumar Nallusamy, who took Covaxin on the second day at MGMGH said that he felt completely safe and comfortable. “Since Covaxin is India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, I opted to take that. Because, we should set an example to others and create awareness among the general public,” he said. There was no way out to get through the pandemic but for the vaccine, senior doctor and former office-bearer of the IMA, Trichy Dr Ashraf said. He took covishield vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/docs-reassure-public-on-covaxin-shots/articleshow/80319688.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Madurai||Driver’s plea against punishment dismissed||Madurai: The Madras high court has dismissed a plea moved by a driver employed in a government office challenging his dismissal from service as he caused two accidents. The court was hearing a petition filed by S P Balasubramanian who joined as a jeep driver at the Tamil Nadu Forest Plantation Corporation Limited in 2007. The petitioner was imposed with a punishment of dismissal from service as he caused two accidents in 2007 and 2008, and causing Rs 1,46,073 loss towards repair of the vehicle. Referring to Supreme Court directions, justice M Dhandapani observed that it is implicitly clear that the courts, in exercise of its power of judicial review, cannot extend the examination to the correctness of the act of the disciplinary authority, but only limit itself to the manner in which the decision has been arrived at by the authorities and whether the same is in accordance with law. The judge observed that the petitioner was under probation and his service has not been regularised on the date of award of punishment. It is also well settled that during the probationary period, there is no necessity for the employer to initiate any inquiry and the services of the employee can be terminated at any time. However, as a matter of precaution and without violating the principles of natural justice, the authorities have gone ahead with the inquiry and dismissed him from service. The judge said that a careful perusal of the entire records relating to the inquiry, it clearly transpires that the disciplinary authority has applied his mind to the report and all the other materials while imposing the punishment and the same was also confirmed by the appellate authority. The judge observed that the punishment imposed on the petitioner is reasonable considering the nature of delinquency and no sympathy can flow from this court for such an act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/drivers-plea-against-punishment-dismissed/articleshow/80318659.cms||Kaushik Kannan
January 18, 2021||Patna||Inoculated lot in Bihar inspire others for shot||PATNA: The healthcare workers, who got vaccinated on the first day of the drive on Saturday, allayed the apprehensions of the remaining beneficiaries in their contact regarding safety and efficacy of the Covid-19 vaccines and motivated them to go for inoculation without fear. The remaining beneficiaries registered in the first phase will be vaccinated on Monday and thereafter. Each of the 301 centres in the state has 100 healthcare workers registered for vaccination in the first phase. Only around 62% of the registered beneficiaries across the state could be vaccinated on Saturday. Some of the vaccinated beneficiaries enjoyed the spotlight on them as they received calls from relatives, friends and neighbours to inquire about their health and experience. Kundan Kumar, who works in the billing department of a private hospital in Patna, said he experienced minor pain at the sight of the injection, but there was no adverse effect. A resident of Rajbanshi Nagar, Kundan told this newspaper that those who called him got convinced and were ready to take the vaccine shots. “I received more than 50 calls from friends, relatives and neighbours since Saturday evening about my experience. I encouraged my colleagues to take the dose and told them that I went to my workplace after getting the shot. Now, they are also confident and ready to take the vaccine,” he said. Nagendra (23), a data entry operator at Fatuha primary health centre (PHC), said initially he was not ready to take the vaccine. “It took more than half an hour for the doctors to persuade me to take the shot. I was the first one at the centre and reluctant also because of misinformation and tales regarding the vaccines. But now I’m relieved. One of my friends going to be vaccinated on Monday was also nervous. I told him about my experience and others as well and advised him not to hesitate,” he said. “There are doubts about vaccination, especially in rural areas. So, it is my honour to tell the people that it is safe and has no side effects,” said Amit Kumar, a sanitation worker, who received the dose at Phulwarisharif PHC. Dr Sudeep Kumar, additional professor of orthopaedics department at AIIMS-P, said, “At least 20 of my colleagues called me to know about my reaction. I am fine and played badminton after vaccination while my wife Dr Kranti Bhawna (head of ENT department at AIIMS-P) did her household chores and works. So we are telling people going for vaccination on Monday that it is safe and we have to take a leap of faith.” Ranju Rani of microbiology department at IGIMS, Patna said, “It is our duty to convince the people about the vaccine and its safety. Several people contacted me to know about my experience. I have encouraged them all to take it without any fear.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/those-vaccinated-inspire-others-to-get-shots-today/articleshow/80317533.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 18, 2021||Pune||Big boost in water supply to Pune’s southern parts||Pune: The southern parts of the city, such as Katraj, Dhankawdi, Katraj-Kondhwa Road and parts of Sinhagad Road, will soon receive water on all days of the week. Supply to these areas is currently being stopped one day each week. Pune Municipal Corporation said it has constructed three overhead water tanks and laid supply lines to augment water availability in these areas. Residents of these areas have been complaining of inadequate water supply for nearly two years, which they blamed on a lack of overhead tanks to store and supply the water. PMC officials said most of the infrastructure was in place and that they would run basic trials from February 1, following which regular supply would start. A civic official said so far, these areas had been getting water just from Wadgaon water works. Now, we plan to supply additional water from the Padmavati pumping station, the official said. The weekly water supply closure will be gradually phased out, the official said. PMC’s water supply department head Anirudh Pavaskar confirmed that the administration was now in a position to supply water on all seven days. “The southern areas have been facing water shortage. To overcome this, the administration constructed additional tanks. Continuous water supply will provide relief to residents,” Pavaskar said. Local citizens and elected representatives urged the administration to complete the trials at the earliest. Corporator Vishal Tambe, who has been following up on this issue for the past two years, said his constituents were extremely displeased with the current situation. “More often than not, the one-day closure turns into no supply for two or even three days, as it takes least 48 hours for the supply to resume at normal pressure,” Tambe said. He said special permission was granted to ensure that construction continued during last year’s lockdown. Katraj resident Sanjay Shah said that many areas were suffering from water shortage, even though the reservoirs supplying the city had adequate stock. “We hope that the water supply will increase soon, now that the tanks are ready,” he said. Early in December, the four reservoirs that supply water to Pune city had collective water stock of 27.5 thousand million cubic feet (94.4%) — 0.50 TMC more than the previous year’s stock during the same period. At the time, he storage in Khadakwasla was at 66%, Temghar 79%, while Varasgaon and Panshet had 99% stock. An extended monsoon this year meant that the dams consistently reported full storage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/big-boost-in-water-supply-to-punes-southern-parts/articleshow/80318663.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 18, 2021||Goa||Azossim-Mandur villagers oppose Old Goa-Pilar road||Panaji: The status of the major district road from Old Goa to Pilar should be reverted to village road and any proposal to connect it to national highway (NH) 66 and NH 4-A will be opposed, gram sabha of Azossim-Mandur panchayat resolved on Sunday. At a special gram sabha chaired by sarpanch Pranisha Naik, a few issues, including upcoming projects on Azossim hill, lack of transparency on the panchayat’s part and demand for more gram sabhas were also raised. In a few resolutions, a heritage committee to survey heritage structures and tree cover was mooted. The road also passes through Agassaim, Neura and Carambolim. St Andre MLA Francis Silveira said that he would not allow the road widening work, assuring to take up the matter at the government-level. Henrique de Souza, convener of Save Azossim Committee, stated that many heritage structures, places of worship and hundreds of trees would be lost in the road widening. “With a jetty proposed at nearby Cumbharjua, the road would only help coal transportation and the builders lobby at Kadamba plateau and life would be nightmarish for villagers,” he said. Ramrao Wagh, a local, said that more gram sabhas should be held for reasons of accountability. He alleged illegal acts by the panchayat authorities - and no response was heard at the meeting - related to 150 luxury dwellings in a 1 lakh sqm area. While ZP member Dhaku Madkaiker and panch members were also present, Fr Brito Fernandes, parish priest of Azossim said they should move door to door to solve people’s issues before they hit the streets with the same zeal they approach voters for canvassing. With a jetty proposed at nearby Cumbharjua, the road would only help coal transportation and builders lobby at Kadamba plateau and life would be nightmarish for villagers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/azossim-mandur-villagers-oppose-old-goa-pilar-road/articleshow/80319697.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Chandigarh||Fake FB a/c of BKU leader seeks funds||Ambala: A Facebook account, allegedly impersonating Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Haryana (Charuni) state president Gurnam Singh Charuni, sought donations for the farm protest through a post on Sunday morning. The matter came to the notice of BKU Haryana workers, following which Charuni released a video and saod some mischievous element did this act and that his union had not released any such post or demanded donation online. In the video released soon after the post, Charuni said, “Somebody has made a fake ID in my name and requested to donate funds through it. A bank account of Axis Bank has been given in the post. We have not yet come to know who has made this fake ID and we have not demanded any such donations. We request everybody that they should not deposit any money in the given bank account. If anyone comes to know about the person who committed this act, they should inform us and we will get an FIR lodged against the person. Those giving donations should give it to the actual workers of our union.” BKU (Charuni) spokesman Rakesh Bains said, “Gurnam Singh has one Facebook account and one Facebook page. This morning the matter came to our notice that someone has created a fake account and is seeking money. We will try to get a verified account status for Gurnam Singh’s official account so that there is no such incident in future, and we will get the case registered soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fake-fb-a/c-of-bku-leader-seeks-funds/articleshow/80318660.cms||JK Singh
January 18, 2021||Madurai||TNSTC told to give relief to victim’s family||Madurai: The Madras high court has dismissed an appeal by the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) against the order of the Nagercoil Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal, and directed the authorities to disburse compensation amount to the family of a person who was killed in an accident. The man died when a government bus collided with his two-wheeler in Kanyakumari district. The court was hearing a civil miscellaneous appeal filed by the TNSTC. The deceased, Sam Surjit Singh, who was working as a mechanic was going on his two-wheeler when an overspeeding government bus coming in the opposite direction on the wrong side of the road collided with his two-wheeler near Puliyoorkurichi. He sustained grievous injuries and died on way to the hospital. Following this, his family members approached the tribunal seeking Rs 40 lakh compensation. Since the tribunal came to a conclusion that the accident took place only due to rash and negligent driving on part of the bus driver, the tribunal directed the TNSTC to pay Rs 24,93,490 with 7.5% interest. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tnstc-told-to-give-relief-to-victims-family/articleshow/80318654.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Rural households in Krishna district to get subsidised LED bulbs||VISAKHAPATNAM: The government will distribute LED bulbs to households in rural areas of Krishna district with the support of Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) in a move aimed at promoting energy efficiency in every household and to benefit every family. The EESL will invest Rs 450 crore to distribute four high quality LED bulbs to each family for replacement of conventional bulbs. The EESL will inaugurate the ‘Gram Ujala’ scheme in five districts—Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh, Vadnagar in Gujarat, Nagpur in Maharastra and Arrah in Bihar, apart from Krishna. In Krishna district, EESL will launch the programme by distributing around 8.84 lakh LED bulbs. The energy department has requested the panchayat raj and rural development department to identify one or two mandal headquarters for launching the programme. “LED is a highly energy efficient lighting technology. Residential LEDs use at least 75% less energy,” state energy secretary Srikant Nagulapalli said. Widespread use of LED lighting has the highest impact on energy savings. Further, LEDs emit less heat compared to incandescent bulbs and CFLs, which release 90% and 80% of their energy as heat respectively. EESL will distribute nine-watt LED bulbs at a subsidised price. “It is proposed to provide four high quality LED bulbs to each rural household in the selected five districts, including Krishna district in AP at a nominal price of Rs 10 each,” said executive vice-chairman of EESL Saurabh Kumar in a letter to the energy department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rural-households-in-krishna-dist-to-get-subsidised-led-bulbs/articleshow/80316838.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 18, 2021||Madurai||Reissue passport to evangelist, HC tells authorities||Madurai: Observing that the right to travel abroad is implicit in Article 21 of the Constitution, the Madras high court has directed the authorities to reissue passport to evangelist Mohan C Lazarus. The court was hearing a petition filed by Lazarus, who sought to reissue his passport as his old passport was damaged. When the authorities called for a police verification report, it came to be known that Lazarus was involved in as many as four criminal cases. Since the petitioner had suppressed the information about the cases, the authorities had rejected his application. Justice G R Swaminathan observed that an applicant is said to commit an offence under Section 12 of the Passports Act, 1967 if he suppresses any material information with a view to obtain a passport. He is not obliged to make any disclosure as regards those cases that are pending at the FIR stage, however, he is bound to give the details if the criminal case had been taken on file by the jurisdictional criminal court. The judge noted that in the case on hand, out of the four criminal cases, one had already been taken on file. The judge observed that when the act of the applicant prima facie amounted to an offence, the order passed by the passport authorities was justified in rejecting the petitioner’s request. Hence, the judge held that the order passed by the authorities cannot be faulted and it is valid. The judge observed that it cannot be the end of the matter as right to travel abroad is implicit in Article 21 of the Constitution as held by the Supreme Court. The judge said that the right to go abroad is in an area falling within the right to privacy as held in Aadhaar judgment by the Supreme Court. By applying the aforesaid yardstick and taking into account that the petitioner does not represent flight-risk as he had travelled to foreign countries on several occasions and never overstayed, the judge directed the petitioner to submit a fresh application and further directed the authorities to reissue passport within three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/reissue-passport-to-evangelist-hc-tells-authorities/articleshow/80318665.cms||Kaushik Kannan
January 18, 2021||Chandigarh||3 villages in Jind collect Rs 40 lakh for agitation||Chattar/Jind: At a time when the National Investigation Agency (NIA) is sending notices to farmers and those supporting their protest against the farm laws, Haryana farmers have intensified their campaign to collect more funds to counter the latest propaganda. At panchayat meetings held in Uchana sub division of Jind district on Sunday, three villages managed to collect around Rs 40 lakh. At Chhatar village, the largest in Uchana sub division, the collections were Rs 20 lakh by the end of the meeting. The village has around 9,000 acre land and every farmer contributed Rs 200 per acre. Those who don’t have any land, will contribute as per their capability. Chhatar former sarpanch Kala said, “We have collected over Rs 20 lakh, which may go up to Rs 5 crore if the agitation gets extended for long. It is to show the Union government that villages are there to fund the (farmers) agitation. We have planned to fight against these three laws till 2024. We have even banned the entry of BJP leaders and their supporters in our village till the time our demands are met. The BJP is trying to divert the agitation (of protesting farmers), but they don’t know that every section of society is standing with farmers and funding the agitation.” Similarly, at Goghariya village, farmers collected around Rs 5 lakh, with every tiller contributing Rs 100 per acre. At Karsindhu, the collections were started after announcements in the village. With every farmer donating 100 Rs per acre, they managed to collect Rs 10 lakh in a single day. Several villagers told TOI that there is around 10,000 acre land in the village and collections will continue. “This is a donation for farmers, but the government calling it funding to give it a negative connotation... We are not terrorists but farmers, who feed the nation. We are collecting funds for our own people and to save our own country. This is just a start and collections will increase in the future,” claimed Karmpal Singh, an exserviceman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-villages-in-jind-collect-rs-40-lakh-for-agitation/articleshow/80318667.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Madurai||13th century boundary stone found in Theni||Theni: A boundary stone dating back to the 13th century Pandiya period has been found at a village near Bodi in Theni district. Lt Dr S Rajagopal, assistant professor, department of history, Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College, Madurai, who discovered the stone, said that he had found it while exploring the plenty of inscriptions in Sadayalpatti in Bodi taluk in Theni. J Jayakumar, a landowner in the village, had informed him of a half-buried stone in his land, which seemed to have inscriptions. He said that the stone had a few lines inscribed in the ancient Tamil script. The copy of the stone inscription was taken with the help of the owner of the land. The stone is one-and-a-half foot wide, and is two feet long. Some symbols on the upper edge were damaged. There are five lines in the ancient Tamil characters, which dates back to the 13th century Pandiya period. He said that the inscription is engraved on the south side of the stone as (savastsrī savaṇaṉar nilattukku teṉ ellai) “Southern boundary to the land of Savast Sri Savananar”. The word ‘Swasti Sri’ engraved on the inscription means ‘devotional word’ and ‘Savanar’ refers to the people of the Navidar clan. He said that the inscription means that it marks the southern boundary of the land given to the Navidar clan. The message was confirmed by retired archaeologist, Dr C Santhalingam of Madurai. Rajagopal said that there were many such stones scattered in the area and more exploration will help find the name of the ancient ruler of the land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/13th-century-boundary-stone-found-in-theni/articleshow/80318674.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra police set up 36 units to curb human trafficking||MUMBAI: The state police have set up 36 specialized units across Maharashtra to curb organised human trafficking of women and children. In a related development, the Protection of Atrocities against Women and Children department will launch an initiative to trace missing women above 18 years of age on Monday. The drive will continue till the end of the month. Cases of missing women and minor children will be probed by the local police stations, and if they are not traced within six months, the cases will be transferred to the anti-human trafficking cells. These cells will be headed by assistant commissioner of police or deputy superintendent of police rank officers. The anti-human trafficking cells will focus on ‘forced’ labour, child labour, bonded labour and women forced into prostitution, said an official. “In many cases, the missing people return home, but we are not informed,” said a senior police officer. The local police will follow up each case and update the records accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-police-set-up-36-units-to-curb-human-trafficking/articleshow/80319714.cms||Mateen Hafeez
January 18, 2021||Pune||Ward-level survey of 24x7 system on the cards||Pune: The civic body will conduct a ward-level assessment to provide an insight into how the equitable water supply project is working out. Pune Municipal Corporation officials they had yet to identify a ward for the survey, and added that they would share data of the metered water supply to encourage people to opt for the system. An official said the survey was necessitated by the poor response to the installation of water meters. “We are exploring various possibilities to create awareness about the importance of water meters. Result highlighting how much water is saved and how the bills are lowered will be announced,” Aniruddha Pawaskar, head of PMC’s water supply department, said. As per Pawaskar, around 28,000 meters have been installed across PMC limits, with more currently installed. The civic body had initially planned to install 60,000 meters in a year. The 24x7 water supply project includes the construction of 103 water tanks, laying a 1,600km pipeline network and installing water meters. PMC is expected to spend around Rs3,000 crore on this project. Work on 83 tanks has started, with the construction of the rest stuck for the want of land, among other reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ward-level-survey-of-24x7-system-on-the-cards/articleshow/80318675.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Madurai||3 double murders pushed cases up in Madurai||Madurai: Three double murders that took place in 2020 have resulted in the number of murder cases increasing in Madurai district. As many as 68 murders took place in 2020, which is more than one compared to 2019. Police officials said that double murders are not common in rural areas. But 2020 witnessed three double murders. Two of the three double murders were due to extra marital affairs, which took place near Melur. A 26-year-old woman from Therkutheru in Melur and her paramour were hacked to death by an armed gang on May 17. A 45-year-old was hacked to death by the husband of a woman with whom he had developed an extra marital affair on June 1. The deceased’s friend was also murdered when he tried to save him, police said. The other double murder was recorded in Karuppayurani police station limits. Panchayat president of Kunnathur village and an overhead tank operator were hacked to death by a gang over elections disputes, police said. A police officer in Madurai district said, “Most of the murders recorded in Madurai are due to personnel enmity between relatives and neighbours. The murder of ganja smuggler Senthilpandi near Thiruvathavur by his rivalry gang was an exception,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/3-double-murders-pushed-cases-up-in-madurai/articleshow/80318669.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Chandigarh||Soon, permit must to visit Spiti’s Chandratal||Manali: The Lahaul-Spiti district administration is going to impose a permit system for people wanting to visit Chandratal (moon lake) in Spiti, as it is anticipating a heavy rush of tourists and fears this could impact the high-altitude water body’s ecology. The plan is to allow only a limited number of tourists to the ecologically fragile region, which is surrounded by mountain peaks and some of the largest glaciers of Himachal. The administration is mulling to issue 200-300 permits to vehicles daily. The permits will be available online with a fixed daily quota. Camping near the one kilometer long lake will also be banned. This will prevent the lake area from being polluted. Lake remains closed in winter due to heavy snowfall. It is open from June to October. Lahaul-Spiti deputy commissioner Pankaj Rai said online permits will be issued to the tourists. “Cleanliness and environment will be considered first. Local residents will be given opportunity to earn livelihood at tourist places in an organised way. Parking spaces will be marked at different places along the highway where toilet facilities will be available for tourists. A surge in tourist footfall is expected in summer. Officials will be deployed near Atal tunnel who will keep an eye on tourism activities between Sissu and Koksar,” he said. Lahaul-Spiti administration was taken by surprise by the heavy tourist rush after the opening of the Atal tunnel. The district administration is expecting a heavier rush in May and June, so it is planning in advance. Officials are planning to build parks and toilets at tourist places. The administration in the tribal district is also working on garbage segregation and treatment. Located at an altitude of 13,940ft, just below the Kunzum pass, Chandratal was one of the two high-altitude wetlands of the country designated as Ramsar sites. Chandratal wildlife sanctuary is also home to a large number of wild animals, including tsnow leopard. While only a few hundred tourists used to visit this lake till two decades ago, now thousands reach every year in summer. This number is expected to increase manifold this year due to the opening of Atal tunnel. Chandratal is connected by a narrow dirt road for small vehicles. The road’s condition is poor and there are hardly some places which could accommodate two vehicles at a time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/soon-permit-must-to-visit-spitis-chandratal/articleshow/80318668.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Pune||Wall to stand between Kausarbaug residents, cemetery||Pune: The collapse of the a wall serving as a boundary between a housing society and the Rahat Baugh Kabrastan, last year, brought the proceedings of the cemetery in direct view of the residents of the Kausar Baug. While the residents had been demanding the restoration of wall since last monsoon — when the wall had caved in owing to rainfall — it was after the Covid-19 outbreak that the residents began to stress on its urgency. The fear of contracting the virus as several bodies of those succumbed to the virus were being buried at the Rahat Baugh Kabrastan made the residents look for all means necessary to build a boundary wall. Local corporator Nanda Lonkar said she took the matters into her own hand when the Pune Municipal Corporation passed the buck to the affected housing societies. “We did the ‘bhoomi-poojan’ on Sunday and are hoping that the wall will be built in one month’s time,” the corporator said. “All the mud that flowed into our society from the burial ground during the rains last year made it impossible for the residents to take out their vehicles from the parking area. The lack of a boundary wall had a drastic effect on our mental state. People were already in a state of panic due to the pandemic and watching over 20 dead bodies brought in and buried daily made it worse,” Humera Shaikh, a resident, said. “People who came to bury their loved ones who passed away because of Covid-19 would often leave the PPE on the burial ground. This PPE would find its way into the adjoining societies. Residents were scared of contracting the infection from it. Thankfully, due to the wall being constructed after continuous request from the residents, things might improve,” Sameer Punjabi, another resident, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wall-to-stand-between-kausarbaug-residents-cemetery/articleshow/80318671.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Amaravati||Flights from Kurnool airport likely to begin in March: Mekapati Gautham Reddy||AMARAVATI: With the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) granting the aerodrome licence for Orvakal airport in Kurnool district, the state government is gearing up to launch the flight operations from March. Orvakal airport is located on the outskirts of Kurnool town, spread over an area of nearly 1,000 acres, and the launching of flight operations is expected to come as a boon to the development of the region. The state government has cleared all hurdles to launch the flight operations by constantly following up on the pending clearances with the Centre. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy had discussed the issue with Union ministers, including Union home minister Amit Shah, during his visits to New Delhi and pushed the process on the fast track. District minister Buggana Rajendranath had met Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri and top officials in the ministry several times in the last one year and prevailed upon them to grant the permissions. “The DGCA granted the permission to launch flight operations from Orvakal airport in Kurnool which is a major achievement of our government’s sustained efforts,” said state industries minister Mekapati Gautham Reddy. He said that the government is planning to inaugurate the airport after finishing the final leg of works in the airport by March. Gautham Reddy said it is the first airport in the southern states that is fully developed by the state government. The Centre has granted licence to Indigo airlines to operate flights from Kurnool airport under its Udan scheme. The flight operator would have exclusive rights to operate flights from Kurnool for three years. The state government has cleared all hurdles to launch flight operations by March by constantly following up on the pending clearances with the Centre||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/flights-from-kurnool-airport-likely-to-begin-in-march-mekapati/articleshow/80316854.cms||Samdani MN
January 18, 2021||Chandigarh||Farm group invites Hema Malini to talk laws||JALANDHAR: Farm group Kandhi Kisan Sangharash Committee has written a letter to BJP MP Hema Malini, inviting her to Punjab and to “explain” to them how the three contentious farm laws are beneficial for the farmers. The committee has offered to pay the the air fare and expenses for her stay in a five-star hotel for a week. The letter, sent by committee chairman Bhupinder Singh Ghuman and vice chairman Jarnail Singh Garhdiwal, said Punjabis have been looking up to Hema Malini with respect as she is the wife of actor Dharmendra, who is loved by the people of the state. “It was hurting when you said farmers could not understand the laws when 100 people have already died in this agitation. Our committee has decided to invite you so that you can explain the farm bills (laws) which, according to you, farmers have not be able to understand,” the letter reads. “We have decided we shall arrange your stay in a five-star hotel, and farmers and labourers would pay for it,” the letter reads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/group-invites-hema-malini-to-talk-laws/articleshow/80318684.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||VHR urges Sonia Gandhi to pay tributes to Pingali Venkayya||HYDERABAD: Former MP, V Hanumantha Rao urged Congress president Sonia Gandhi to hoist the national flag on April 1 in Vijayawada as a mark of respect to the tri-colour and also pay tributes to Pingali Venkayya, who designed the national flag. Mahatma Gandhi had approved Venkayya’s design of the flag at a Congress meeting in Vijayawada on April 1, 1921. Later, some changes were made and national flag with Ashok Chakra and three colours was approved in August 1947. In his letter, Rao urged Sonia to direct all the state Congress units to launch year-long jayanti celebrations of Venkaiah. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vhr-urges-sonia-to-pay-tributes-to-pingali-venkayya/articleshow/80318700.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Pune||Vaccination: Focus on adding more recipients, say Maharashtra immunization authorities||PUNE: State immunization authorities on Sunday said that their focus will be on the inclusion of maximum beneficiaries in the next Covid-19 vaccination drive. The drive will resume from Tuesday across the same vaccination sites that were used on Saturday. Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health Pune region, confirmed that the vaccination will be held on Tuesday and Wednesday and later this week on Friday and Saturday. He said, “The focus will remain on inclusion of more beneficiaries, but it is a voluntary vaccination drive and health care workers should come forward on their own. We are sure, after a few more vaccination sessions, the number of people turning up for the jabs will increase. The response on the first day was good and we expect to keep the same tempo in the coming sessions as well.” He added that there are doubts among beneficiaries, but the authorities are hoping for a gradual increase in the response. Meanwhile, the head of Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health department Ashish Bharati on Sunday said that the vaccination drive will start from Tuesday across eight centres. The drive will be conducted from 9am onwards. Each centre will cater to 100 beneficiaries. “The preparations for data updation and registrations will be carried out via the CoWin app on priority. The application is working properly at five out of eight centres. The remaining centres will be updated by tomorrow. Even a backup system for online registration will be kept ready,” said Bharati. Notably, on Saturday January 16, around 61% beneficiaries received Covishield and Covaxin vaccines across Pune rural region, while 55% were vaccinated across areas under PMC and 57% across Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/focus-on-adding-more-recipients-say-officials/articleshow/80318706.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 18, 2021||Pune||TERI to formulate building bylaws for 62 cantonments||Pune: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB), the nodal agency for an exercise to frame new building bylaws for all 62 cantonments across the country, has engaged New Delhi’s The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) for the task. “The Directorate General of Defence Estates (DGDE) has appointed us the nodal agency for the countrywide exercise and, as per DGDE’s directives, we have issued the work order to TERI to carry out surveys and furnish a report. The agency has been asked to submit the report before April 30,” PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar told TOI. The issue of building bylaws has become a point of concern in several cantonments across the country. Many residents have been unable to carry out repairs or renovations to their houses due to Floor-Space Index (FSI) restrictions, officials said.“To resolve this, DGDE had asked all cantonments to submit drafts of building bylaws in 2015. However, these plans were not approved by DGDE and Ministry of Defence for various reasons,” a senior DGDE official, on the condition of anonymity, said. “Moreover, the government-appointed Sumit Bose committee on cantonment reforms had recommended that FSI be considered on par with the nearest municipal corporations. But this recommendation was turned down by the Army authorities. As a result, TERI has now been appointed to complete this task,” the official added.Another DGDE official said new bylaws would benefit both the residents as well as the cantonment boards. “If the ministry approves or sanctions additional FSI, cantonment residents will be to construct new houses and buildings. This would in turn generate revenue for cantonment boards in the years to come. But at the same time, the ministry must consider the security concerns of the Armed Forces,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/teri-to-formulate-building-bylaws-for-62-cantonments/articleshow/80318694.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 18, 2021||Pune||Pune: Vaccinated healthcare staff under surveillance for 48 hrs||PUNE: Healthcare workers who on Saturday received the first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine are being monitored for 48 hours, health officials told TOI on Sunday. Each vaccination centre has set up a 24×7 helpline for beneficiaries to report any adverse, post-vaccination symptoms. As many as 1,802 of the 3,100 randomly selected beneficiaries in Pune Metropolitan Region took the vaccine on the first day of the drive.  A doctor administers the vaccine to a beneficiary inside a makeshift facility set up at Yamunanagar Municipal Hospital in Talawade on Saturday.“The objective (of the surveillance) is to boost vaccine confidence. None of the beneficiaries developed any symptoms post-vaccination in the city so far,” Pune city’s health chief Ashish Bharati said. As many as 470 of the 800 beneficiaries in Pune municipal limits received the first dose across eight designated centres on Saturday. Varsha Doiphode, additional civil surgeon, Pune district, told TOI that they were keeping a close eye on the 60 beneficiaries who received Covaxin on Saturday. By Sunday evening, none of them had any adverse complaints. “We have asked them to immediately contact us if they experience any kind of discomfort in the next 48 hours. They have also been instructed on the precautions to be taken. Getting vaccinated does not warrant unsafe behaviour; folowing safety protocol is a must,” she said. PCMC additional civic health chief Pavan Salve said they too received no complaints, barring the eight minor complaints on Saturday. As many as 456 received the shot at eight designated centres in Pimpri Chinchwad. Pune district civil surgeon Ashok Nandapurkar said Saturday’s incident, in which a healthcare worker who received the vaccine on an empty stomach fainted at the Wagholi primary health centre, was the only issue so far. “A beneficiary at Daund complained of minor symptoms, but they were coincidental and not related to the vaccine.We have asked the beneficiaries to contact their respective centre’s helpline number if they develop any symptoms,” Nandapurkar said. A few doctors involved in Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK) developed minor symptoms, like headache, bodyache, etc. Minor post-vaccination symptoms are common and reflect the body’s immunological response,” Sanjay Patil, former vice-president of the state chapter of IMA, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vaccinated-healthcare-staff-under-surveillance-for-48-hrs/articleshow/80318677.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 18, 2021||Chandigarh||Group in Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s village says won’t let him enter||CHANDIGARH: A group of residents of Nindana, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s native village, on Sunday resolved to actively participate in the farmers agitation and not allow the CM’s entry inro the village. They also decide to join the tractor parade planned by farm groups on January 26. Villagers have constituted a committee to mobilise support and collect funds for the protest. “A meeting was convened in the wake of ongoing farmers agitation on Delhi-Haryana borders. It is really unfortunate that the CM is from our village, but we haven not heard any farmer-related statement from him. Hence, we shall oppose him,” said Sandeep Kumar, a resident who participated in the meeting. Another resident, Surender Kumar, said a member of each family from the village, irrespective of the community, will be asked to take part. “We will reach the state borders with Delhi on January 24,” he said. No panchayat member could be contacted for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/group-in-haryana-cm-khattars-village-says-wont-let-him-enter/articleshow/80318676.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Pune||Resident doctor sets example for second time, motivates others to take the jab||PUNE: Anuj Darak, a resident doctor, had inspired fellow junior doctors when he put up a brave front and volunteered to serve at the Bharati hospital’s Covid-19 ward when the pandemic struck Pune in March, last year. He stood up the second time when he came forward to take the vaccine, when the first two junior doctors refused citing health reasons on Saturday. Darak’s vaccination motivated quite a few resident doctors, who were initially in a fix. “He has been working tirelessly in the hospital’s Covid-19 ward and has not taken an off in the last nine months. In fact, many of our resident doctors did not taken an off during the first nine months of the pandemic,” Jitendra Oswal, the deputy medical director of Bharati hospital, said. At present, Anuj is pursuing his postgraduation in medicine at Bharati medical college and hospital. “The experience of serving at the Covid-19 ward was heart wrenching. I am happy I could chip in when the pandemic was at its peak,” he said. Anuj was also the first to take the shot. “He was among the first 10 doctors who were scheduled for the vaccination in the first slot. After the first two doctors refused to take the shot on health grounds, he became the first to take it,” Oswal said. Resident doctor Sayali Deshpande was the fifth beneficiary at Bharati hospital. “Initially, I was a little anxious, but I felt motivated when Anuj took the vaccine,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/resident-doc-sets-example-for-second-time-motivates-others-to-take-the-jab/articleshow/80318738.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Traffic signals on the blink, chaos at many junctions in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Even as the police are cracking the whip on violators of traffic rules to curb road accidents, defunct signals at major intersections remain an area of concern. On Sunday, TOI drove around the city and found traffic signals that either frequently blink or defunct at several major junctions leading to chaos and confusion on the busy roads. Most of these roads, especially those at Narayanaguda, Moti Nagar, Nagarjuna Circle and SR Nagar, lead to many schools and colleges. For instance, TOI noticed six faulty signals within 500 metres between Umesh Chandra statue circle and SR Nagar police station. One of the signals in front of the Persis Cafe was not only defunct but the entire pole was on the verge of falling on the pedestrians and motorists using that route. Commuters said the authorities must repair these traffic lights as they are causing serious road safety concerns. “The traffic signals at the junctions near Kalyan Nagar X Roads, SR Nagar police station and also near Himayat Nagar cross roads are mostly defunct. The situation near Ratnadeep supermarket in SR Nagar gets chaotic every single day as there are at least a dozen schools and colleges in the area,” said Ganji Subhash, a cab driver. “The situation is the same near Himayat Nagar cross roads where the traffic is at its peak during morning and evening hours. We can see commuters arguing with each other due to confusion almost every day,” said Subhash. TOI also noticed that in some places like Narayanguda YMCA and near Nagarjuna Circle in Panjagutta, the chaos and confusion are evident throughout the day despite police toiling hard to ensure smooth flow of the traffic. “The intersection at Nagarjuna circle is the most confusing for commuters. There is traffic coming from all four sides and people have no idea when to stop or go,” said Prakash Singh, an auto driver. “The contract with Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) ended on November 30, 2020. The new contract for maintenance of these signals has been given to another traffic engineering company IBI on December 1, 2020. The new firm will now operate and maintain the existing traffic signals and simultaneously install new ones,” a senior traffic official said. “The new group which was given the contract to maintain the signals is currently under a three-month gestation period during which they will do a survey and procure the parts necessary to repair and restore the faulty signals,” said B Srinivas, superintendent, GHMC electrical wing.  “There are also plans to install traffic signals at 155 junctions and 98 pelican signals in addition to the existing 221 traffic signals,” said Srinivas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/traffic-signals-on-the-blink-chaos-at-many-city-junctions/articleshow/80318716.cms||Moulika.KV
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||RTC bus rams lorry on highway||Hyderabad: After a lorry driver applied a sudden break while travelling on highway in Shadnagar, an RTC bus driver— who was unable to control the speed of the bus—hit the lorry from behind. In the process, bus passengers were injured. Police said that they were immediately shifted to a hospital nearby. The front portion of the bus got damaged in the accident. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rtc-bus-rams-lorry-on-highway/articleshow/80318743.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Vizag's zoo to host regular butterfly walk sessions||VISAKHAPATNAM: To raise awareness about the importance of butterflies and pollinator plants, the city’s Indira Gandhi Zoo Park (IGZP) organised a butterfly walk and talk session this weekend. The Eastern Ghats are home to hundreds of species of this winged fauna. Participants were informed about the life cycle of butterflies, their habitat, behaviour, species varieties and other features. A powerpoint presentation by the butterfly park assistant B Divya Jyothi was conducted prior to the walk. Speaking to TOI, curator of IGZP Dr Nandini Salaria said, “We have recently commenced this butterfly walk and this session will be held next week as well. We are planning to conduct daily butterfly walk series as many visitors, especially children, are interested in activities related to butterflies.” The butterfly park in the zoo, set up in 2013, has around 60 species of butterflies of which 10 are frequent flyers and two are rare species, including Danaid Eggfly and Crimson Rose. Both species are protected under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Apart from the butterflies, visitors also had the chance to see and learn about pollinator plants—the host and nectar parts in the garden. Pollinator plants include lantana, jungle geranium, marigold, blue morning glory, shoe flower, cuphea and Jatropa curcas, among others. “The main host plant in our garden on which many butterflies lay eggs is Murraya paniculata (curry leaves). Lantana, jatropa, cuphea, rose moss, blue morning glory plant and Egyptian cluster plant serve as nectar source plants,” said the curator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/zoo-to-host-regular-butterfly-walk-sessions/articleshow/80316883.cms||Sulogna Mehta
January 18, 2021||Pune||Man serving life term in murder case escapes from Yerawada open prison||PUNE: A 43-year-old convict serving a life sentence in a murder case escaped from the open jail of Yerawada Central Prison on Saturday. In an FIR lodged with the Yerawada police, prison officer Hemant Patil stated that the convict, Datta Kisan Gaikwad, was part of a group of prison inmates working at the open jail when the prison officials found him in possession of a tobacco-like substance. Gaikwad was then asked to stand near a barrack for further check. Fearing action, Gaikwad ran away from the spot by crossing the iron mesh compound of the open jail, the prison officer said. “The prison officials searched the jail premises and other areas before lodging a complaint with us. We have alerted the Osmanabad police and are searching for him,” inspector Ajay Waghmare of the Yerawada police station said. “Gaikwad, who had spent 14 years in the Yerawada central prison, was moved to the open prison four years ago owing to his good conduct. He would have been released from the prison in the next six months,” a senior prison officer told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-serving-life-term-in-murder-case-escapes-from-yerawada-open-prison/articleshow/80318711.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Pune||Vaccination drive: Smoother work in second round, says senior Maharashtra health official||PUNE: State health officials said on Sunday that the glitches that had affected the cloud-based internet technology platform Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (CoWIN) on the first day of the vaccination drive on Saturday, have been fixed. Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health Pune region, said the logging in issues have been addressed, but the server is still slow and is likely to be restored by Monday. Deshmukh said, “CoWin was getting unresponsive at times, but has resumed. Until Sunday evening, Solapur had started working on the second round of the vaccination, while the three vaccination sites across Pune Municipal Corporation too reported that they were working on it.” There is no change in the number of vaccination sites or the number of beneficiaries a site has to operate in the second round, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/smoother-work-in-second-round-says-senior-state-health-official/articleshow/80318713.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Kite flying on Makar Sankranti leaves over 800 birds injured||MUMBAI: Over 800 birds of various species reportedly suffered kite-string injuries during the Makar Sankranti festival on January 14 and 15 in Mumbai and suburbs and parts of Thane district. A young flamingo was one among the wounded with a deep wing injury caused by kite strings and is being treated in a bird rescue camp in Virar. Honorary district animal welfare officer, Mitesh Jain, said, “Several animal rights groups had set up bird rescue camps across the city and suburbs to rescue the injured. At the Karuna Trust bird rescue camp in Virar, the wounded flamingo was brought from the nearby coastal region. It is now being treated.” Jain added that in the coming days, there will be more reports of bird injuries, or those that are entangled in the threads used to fly kites. Often, we have to take the help of the fire brigade to rescue birds from top of trees and towers.” Activists said that besides the glass-coated manja, the Chinese threads used to fly kites are very hazardous for the avian species.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kite-flying-on-makar-sankranti-leaves-over-800-birds-injured/articleshow/80320186.cms||Vijay Singh
January 18, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||KSRTC MD tries to steer clear of trade unions’ ire||Thiruvananthapuram: A day after lashing out at a section of employees in KSRTC for weakening the organisation from within, managing director of the ailing corporation Biju Prabhakar on Sunday tried to steer clear of trade unions’ ire. In a Facebook live addressed to KSRTC employees, he said only the bunch of thieves would have felt hurt by his open criticism against the ill doings in the corporation, adding that he was of full of admiration for trade unions and employees in general. “There is no truth in the reports that I have tried to lower the esteem of employees. I made no such attempts and have no such intentions. I don’t also find anything wrong in trade union leaders reacting on the basis of such reports. Any responsible trade union leaders would do that. I opened up against the corrupt practices taking place in the corporation. Only those who embezzle the corporation’s money would have felt hurt by my words, not the hardworking and principled employees,” Prabhakar said in his Facebook live. The managing director of the corporation, however, stuck to his stand that a small section of employees was bunking from work to pursue private business and a group were working against the efforts to modernise the corporation. He had claimed that there were no expenditure details of Rs 100 crore during the 2012-15 period. Following the MD’s statement, trade unions have come up against him, seeking apology for insulting the workforce. The pro-Congress trade union had announced state-wide protest programmes and CITU leader Elamaram Kareem termed the MD’s statements as unnecessary and expressed hope that he would correct his words. The MD’s news conference on Saturday followed a major rejig of top officials. Prabhakar said he was fully confident of running the corporation successfully and pulling if off the debt trap in another few years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ksrtc-md-tries-to-steer-clear-of-trade-unions-ire/articleshow/80317564.cms||---
January 18, 2021||India||Beneficiary dies, doctors don’t relate it to vaccine side effects yet||BAREILLY: A 46-year-old ward boy at the district hospital in UP’s Moradabad district, one of the health workers to have received a jab of Covishield on Saturday, died a day later following complaints of “breathlessness and unease, especially in the chest”. Dr MC Garg, the chief medical officer (CMO) there, told TOI: “Mahipal Singh (the ward boy) was given the Covishield vaccine at about 12 noon on Saturday. On Sunday afternoon, he suffered pain in the chest with breathlessness. He had worked the night shift after vaccination and we don’t think the death is due to any side effect. However, we are trying to verify the exact reason of death. The body will be sent for autopsy as soon as possible.” Nearly 479 health workers were vaccinated in Moradabad on the first day of the vaccination drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/beneficiary-dies-doctors-dont-relate-it-to-vaccine-side-effects-yet/articleshow/80320441.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||Can’t vaccinate sans Co-WIN, BMC staff awaits update on app||MUMBAI: BMC officials said on Sunday that they had been informed that a Covid-19 vaccination drive would be held on Tuesday and that they had been told it could not be held without Co-WIN. The officials said that they would go in for a review of the situation on Monday and proceed with the drive accordingly. “We have very clear instructions that the drive should not be held without the application. We will review things on Monday when we will have an update on the app’s functioning,” Dr Mangala Gomare, BMC executive health officer, said. Dr Gomare said the turnout of 48% on the first day was not too bad. “Despite last-minute preparations and late intimations, nearly 2,000 people showed up,” she said. Regarding those who missed their chance on Saturday, Dr Gomare said that they were likely to be rescheduled for Covid-19 vaccination later. “We will have more clarity on this once the application starts working,” Dr Gomare said. TOI on Sunday reported the harrowing time BMC officials had gone through on Friday night, when beneficiaries did not receive messages and they had to make frantic calls to 4,000 of them in a span of three hours. The launch of the mega vaccination drive on Saturday had hinged on 4,000 healthcare workers showing up at 10 centres, but none had been informed. The drive on Tuesday will start around 9am. “Hereon, it will be more like a routine immunisation programme since it will go on for several months, maybe lasting more than a year,” an immunisation officer said. State health minister Rajesh Tope said that problems with the Co-WIN app had slowed down the process on the first day of vaccination at many centres. “The Centre has made it mandatory for the entire process to be carried out online and so the drive cannot start unless the app is rectified,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cant-vaccinate-sans-co-win-bmc-staff-awaits-update-on-app/articleshow/80319730.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Speeding car hits house on road side||Hyderabad: A house was partially damaged after the driver of a speeding car lost control over the vehicle and hit the house, which is on the die of the road in Hayathnagar on Sunday. Police said that the car driver escaped with minor injuries. In a stroke of luck, none of the the residents of the house were present in the house at the time of the accident. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/speeding-car-hits-house-on-road-side/articleshow/80318758.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Moving train’s parcel van catches fire||Thiruvananthapuram: In a freakish yet potentially dangerous incident, the Thiruvananthapuram-bound Malabar Express caught fire on the run at Edava, near Varkala, on Sunday. The alertness of railway and fire & rescue personnel, and even local residents helped avert a major tragedy by containing the fire to the luggage van, where it broke out. This prevented the blaze from spreading to the engine, in front of it, or the passenger coaches preceding it. No casualties were reported. The fire is suspected to have been caused by two motorcycles in the luggage van. Though there is a guard’s cabin inside the luggage van, the guard on duty was in his cabin in the rear end of the train when the fire broke out. The incident happened around 7.45am as the train passed Edava railway station. Railway officials brought the train to an emergency halt near Edava railway gate. Two units of firefighters from Varkala station and one from Paravoor station rushed to the spot and started efforts to douse the flames. The situation was brought under control by 9am. Varkala fire station officer G Venugopal said that two firefighting units under his command reached the spot by 7.50am. By then, loco pilots and guards had already made a vain attempt to douse the flames using fire extinguishers. “Many of the glass windowpanes of the adjoining bogies developed cracks from the heat and we pumped water inside through the windows from either side,” the fire station officer said. He added that the spot where the train came to a halt turned out to be advantageous for rescue work. It was just before the Edava level cross gate. This helped fire officials to position their fire tenders on either side of the train strategically. A local resident, Haris Thaha, who is also a popular magician, aided the operations. His residence is adjacent to the railway track and he allowed fire officials to park one of their fire tenders inside his premises, even though it damaged his property as well as the fire tender, Venugopal said. “If the train had not stopped at this particular spot, our operations would have suffered owing to lack of accessibility to the track,” he said. Passengers claimed the train stopped after they pulled the chain on sensing smoke. However, railway officials maintained that they took necessary steps even before passengers pulled the chain. “The gatekeeper of level cross 555 spotted fumes on the running train and alerted Varkala station authorities. The Varkala station master then alerted operations control officials in the city, who in turn initiated traction-control manoeuvres by turning of power supply in the electrical section between Varkala and Paravoor,” said a railway official. After bringing the train to a halt, the loco pilots disconnected the luggage van from the rest of the coaches to isolate it. Senior divisional mechanical engineer and divisional safety officer of Thiruvananthapuram division of Southern Railway visited the spot and inspected the luggage van. The cause of fire is yet to be determined. The train resumed its journey at 9.10am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/moving-trains-parcel-van-catches-fire/articleshow/80317594.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Pune||Pimpri: Both Covid-19 jumbo units closed, staff waits for dues||PUNE: The Covid-19 jumbo units set up at the College of Engineering Pune grounds in Shivajinagar and at Annasaheb Magar Stadium in Pimpri were closed on January 15 after the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) showed no interest in their extension. The operational agency MedBros Healthcare Private Limited had demanded a week’s extension for smooth handover. The closure of these facilities means over 1,000 healthcare workers in both facilities will have to look for new employment. MedBros officials have said that the pending dues need to be cleared first by the government authorities so that they could clear the pending dues of the staff. They said the staff members hired from other states are stranded in private hotels, waiting for their salaries to be paid. Sangram Kapale, director of MedBros Healthcare Private Limited, told TOI, “The staff we hired are from various states across the country. They worked diligently during the Covid-19 crisis when it was at its peak. However, their dues have not been paid and they are waiting here for their salaries. We requested them to return to their home towns, but they want to collect their dues.” According to Kapale, they had requested PMRDA to sponsor the stay of the staff members after January 15 which was turned down. “We have no choice but to bear the costs of the employees’ accommodation and food. We will not desert our staff midway now when they need us the most,” he said. A nursing staff member from the Annasaheb Magar stadium jumbo unit, on the condition of anonymity, said, “The work experience has been really good at the medical facility. However, payment issues could have been handled properly.” Earlier last week, PMRDA’s chief engineer Vivek Kharwadkar had said there was never a long-term commitment of employment at the jumbo units as this was a temporary facility. He had added that the extension was not warranted at this point due to fewer patients. The CoEP unit was inaugurated on August 23, while the Pimpri jumbo unit was inaugurated on August 26 last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/both-covid-19-jumbo-units-closed-staff-waits-for-dues/articleshow/80318772.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 18, 2021||Pune||Covid-19 in Pune: 581 people recover; single-digit fatalities||PUNE: Four people succumbed to Covid-19 in Pune Metropolitan Region on Sunday, taking the death toll to 8,954. In the 24-hour period till 8pm on Sunday, 499 people tested positive, while 581 recovered from the infection, as per data released by the district health office. With this, the progressive caseload for the region increased to 3,73,019, while the total number of recoveries stood at 3,58,908. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits, at 273, reported the highest number of fresh cases, followed by Pimpri Chinchwad with 123 new infections. The rural areas added 77 patients, while the cantonments and municipal councils recorded three and 23 cases, respectively. PMC also accounted for the highest number of recoveries with 345 discharged patients, while Pimpri Chinchwad saw 151 people getting discharged. Three people died in PMC limits and one person breathed their last in the PCMC areas. As of Sunday, there were 5,329 active cases in PMR — 3,515 patients were being treated in hospitals, while 1,814 people were under home isolation. As per a daily report issued by PMC, 293 patients were being treated with oxygen support, while 204 were in a critical condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/581-people-recover-single-digit-fatalities/articleshow/80318748.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||With over 4,000 numbers, cobra is most rescued snake in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Spectacled cobras are the highest number among rescued snakes in the city. An analysis of snake rescues by the Friends of Snakes Society (FOSS) revealed that out of 8,895 snakes rescued in 2020 in the city, 4,407 are cobras. Rat snakes and checkered keelback are the other snakes that are commonly found in the city. Avinash Viswanathan of FOSS said that the society receives about 100 to 200 distress calls each day, requesting assistance to remove snakes that enter residences or office spaces. “Injured snakes are treated at the Nehru Zoological Park, Bahadurpura, and the healthy ones are relocated to forest areas, away from human habitation, with the help of the Telangana Forest Department,” said Avinash. In 2020, FOSS rescued a total of 8,895 snakes in the state. Of these, 4,009 were non-venomous and 4,886 were venomous. “Our data indicates spectacled cobras, which are well-adapted to thrive even in densely populated areas, are the most frequently sighted group of snakes. In 2020, 4,407 Cobras—which is around 50%—were rescued from the state,” Viswanathan said. Snakes, being cold-blooded animals, rely extensively on the environment to carry out various biological processes. Spectacled cobras mate during the onset of summer, around March, and after sixty days of gestation, lay eggs in May. The cobra hatchlings, after a two-month incubation period, hatch during the monsoon, when their prey is abundant. Therefore, there is a spike in spectacled cobra population during March (mating), and July (hatchlings).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-over-4000-nos-cobra-is-most-rescued-snake-in-city/articleshow/80318804.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Son pesters father to look for a match, gets attacked||Hyderabad: A man was taken into custody by the police for allegedly attempting to kill his son in Kothur in Ranga Reddy distrcit on Sunday. The incident took place in Chegur. Police said that the victim was forcing his father to look for a match to get married. The man got annoyed as his son was pressuring him constantly over the issue. The accused then attacked his son using an axe when the victim broached the topic of finding a match for him again. After the locals informed Nandigama police, the victim was shifted to hospital and his father was taken into custody. The police said that a case has been registered against the accused and further investivgation is on in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/son-pesters-father-to-look-for-a-match-gets-attacked/articleshow/80318782.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||26-yr-old hangs self in Jeedimetla||Hyderabad: A 26-year-old man, K Deepak, committed suicide by hanging himself to the ceiling at his residence in Jeedimetla. Police said that he returned to the city on Saturday after visiting his native place in Karnataka. He had gone to celebrate a festival with his family. Police said the deceased was staying in a room along with his brother. Deepak hanged himself when his brother was not present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/26-yr-old-hangs-self-in-jeedimetla/articleshow/80318745.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Madurai||Wallets open up as grand weddings make a comeback||Madurai: Grand weddings are back with a bang in Madurai as almost all wedding halls have been booked while decorators and caterers have their hands full. The only thing that seems to have changed is the use of mobile applications to transfer cash into the accounts of the couple instead of giving it physically. R Senthil Kumar of Helo events said that this is the first time they are seeing a demand for decorations post lockdown. “Spending has come down by about 30% but that does not mean they are not favouring decorations. Many weddings I have booked have shifted the venue from wedding halls to hotels and the decoration cost has also come down,” he said. He said wedding planners specify they will be employing two welcome girls and two bouncers to provide hand sanitizers to guests. K Kumar another organiser said that people who usually planned lavish weddings for nearly a 1,000 people have reduced the numbers by half, but crowded weddings have become common in villages. “I cannot leave out a person who I know in the village for fear that he would treat me with hostility in future as corona is not a big problem in our village,” said T Kalimuthu of Sholavandan. Wedding halls decorated with grandeur are back in fashion as demand for people who deal with fresh flowers has also gone up. Madurai Flower Markets Associations coordinator S Ramachandran said that the price of jasmine has gone up to Rs 3,000 per kg. “As it has started to become sunny again, we expect the supply of flowers to the market, especially jasmine, to go up in the coming days,” he said. Some are even shifting the wedding venues to ensure safety and hygiene. R Sundar has shifted the venue of his son’s wedding from a marriage hall to a star hotel in Madurai. “I have sent out messages to people to say that their blessings are important and that I was restricting the guests to 200. Hotels are safer in terms of hygiene of staff and cooks,” he said. Meanwhile, a wedding held on Sunday in Madurai had a QR code printed on the wedding invitation to allow guests to transfer cash. “Due to Covid restrictions, it (online transfer) is safer than handling cash,” said a guest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/wallets-open-up-as-grand-weddings-make-a-comeback/articleshow/80318842.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||One injured in clash on road||Hyderabad: Two groups clashed with each other on Jubilee Hills road no. 51. One person suffered injury and was shifted to a hospital. Police said that the two groups clashed on the issue of returning loan amount given to one Gopal. Police said that they reached the spot after someone called Dial-100, informing them about the clash between the two groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/one-injured-in-clash-on-road/articleshow/80318765.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Enviro impact of NIMZ Zaheerabad is a copy-paste job: Experts||Hyderabad: Scientists for People, a group of retired scientists, has objected to the environment impact assessment (EIA) report of National Investment and Manufacturing Zone at Zaheerabad. The scientists, in a letter to ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF &CC) change secretary RK Gupta and chief secretary Somesh Kumar, alleged that pollution loads presented in the EIA report were fictitious and have no basis. The social impact assessment did not present the number of families losing land and its impact on their lives. “Plagiarism in several chapters, where EIA is copied and pasted from various websites,” they added. Former IICT chief scientist Dr K Babu Rao said, “Zaheerabad NIMZ proposes to take away land, which has been sustaining them for generations, from thousands of poor farmers at a throwaway compensation and TSIIC will profit from it. We have analysed the EIA report and found it manipulated to serve the interests of TSIIC and is not an objective scientific study. We have looked at three crucial chapters of the report on anticipated impacts, alternative studies and environmental management plan in detail.” “MoEF&CC did not include food processing industries under EIA Notification 2006, but the draft EIA report shows the pollution load from this sector is highest, especially sulphur dioxide emissions are maximum. There is no proposal for steam generation and the fuel used for it,” he added. “TSIIC tried to get over this aspect by conveniently blaming the people, saying they were chased away preventing any study. But they present pictures of interaction with people at three tandas. We are specifically shocked at the extent of plagiarism in these three chapters of the report,”he said, adding “we observed plagiarism in other chapters also but would like to confine to these three chapters as it is enough to attract the rejection. “The probability of two different persons writing the same sentence of ten words in English is less than one in a trillion. Matching of pages and pages of text with other sources cannot be accidental. It is an act of deliberate copying and deception,” the former IICT scientist said “MoEF&CC can verify our plagiarism report and then take quick action to disqualify the EIA,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/enviro-impact-of-nimz-zaheerabad-is-a-copy-paste-job-experts/articleshow/80318835.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 18, 2021||Madurai||Murder cases in south Tamil Nadu down 10%||MADURAI: The number of murder cases registered in the southern districts of the state came down by 10% in 2020 compared to 2019. As many as 442 murder cases were recorded in the 10 southern district police units in 2020, according to a data with police. Each police unit had devised several measures to bring down murder cases in their respective areas. However, measures such as creating deterrence among rowdy elements by sending stringent warnings from the top officials and executing bonds under CrPc sections such as 107 and 110 were followed uniformly across the districts. Police officials said that lockdown too played a role in bringing down murders. Travel restrictions, increased visible policing on the roads and unavailability of liquor and ganja are the other major factors that brought down such crime incidents. According to the data, Sivaganga, Dindigul, Tuticorin, Ramanathapuram and Theni districts have brought down murder cases significantly, while murder cases increased in Tenkasi, Tirunelveli, Virudhunagar and Madurai. Sivaganga witnessed steep reduction in murder cases as it recorded 22 murders in 2020, while it was 46 in 2019. "Spot inquiry for petty cases and quarrels helped us ease tension and prevent incidents that may lead to murders. We ensured that incidents are not brushed under the carpet and every incident was brought to book," Sivaganga district superintendent of police Rohit Nathan said. "Covid-19 related lockdown helped in bringing down murder cases partially. On our part, we ensured notorious elements are not involved in crime incidents by executing bonds with them. It helped bring down murders due to gang rivalries. Most of the murders in the district were due to family issues," Ramanathapuram district superintendent of police E Karthick said. Tuticorin police cited increased detention under Goondas Act and strict measures had helped them bring down such cases. As many as 86 people were detained under Goondas Act in the second half of 2020, officials said. Officials from Tirunelveli and Tenkasi said that various measures were taken to bring down murder in the last few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/murder-cases-in-south-tn-down-10/articleshow/80318843.cms||V Devanathan
January 18, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Chief secy Vishwas Mehta frontrunner for CIC post||Thiruvananthapuram: The government has initiated the process of appointing the chief information commissioner (CIC) for the state, to fill the vacancy created by the retirement of Vinson M Paul, who completed his tenure in November. After calling for the applications, the last date for which was on December 28, the government on last Tuesday issued the order constituting the panel consisting of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, law minister A K Balan and opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala for choosing the new CIC. Based on the committee’s majority recommendation, it is the governor who would appoint the CIC. It is reliably learnt that outgoing chief secretary Vishwas Mehta stands a strong chance for the post. Even though it is the committee that selects the CIC and the information commissioners, a division bench of the high court had earlier held that the committee is not a very democratic committee, while dealing with a petition against political considerations superseding the eligibility of candidates. “There is the chief minister and a minister of his cabinet and then the solitary leader of opposition. Surely the decisions are known. But we may add that from the very fact that such senior persons are chosen to constitute the committee, it is expected that they would rise above party affiliations and private political interest and act as a repository of public faith and confidence,” the court had observed in 2017. The committee’s selection of information commissioners during the tenure of the previous UDF government had ended up in a major controversy when the then governor P Sathasivam returned the recommendations and the high court upheld the governor’s decision. It was widely accused that the committee (read government) had chosen such candidates solely on the basis of political considerations by misinterpreting the eligibility criteria that “commissioners should be persons of eminence in public life with wide knowledge and experience from diverse backgrounds”. The HC had then said that in the case of appointments of CIC and the information commissioners, the governor is not a rubber stamp in performing this duty. As a result of the legal battle, the information commissioners were appointed two years after the CIC was appointed, and the opportunity to appoint the information commissioners fell to the present LDF government, which chose a fresh set of names.  RTI (Amendment) Act, 2019, had downgraded the status and allowances of the CIC from being equivalent to that of election commissioner of India to that of chief secretary. The CIC would be appointed for a term of three years or till the age of 65 years, whichever is earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/chief-secy-vishwas-mehta-frontrunner-for-cic-post/articleshow/80317685.cms||KP Saikiran
January 18, 2021||Madurai||After two weeks, Madurai has a sunny Sunday as rains abate||Madurai: The sun shone bright in Madurai on Sunday, after a gap of nearly two weeks, giving the residents a respite from the continuous rains that had been plaguing them. Even on Saturday the district had received a meagre average rainfall of 2 mm and the city was relatively dry compared to the rural areas. Sathaiaru dam on the outskirts of the city recorded the highest rainfall (8 mm) in the last 24 hours ending on 8 am on Sunday. Tallakulam and Viraganoor in the city did not record any rainfall at all. However, the after effects of the intermittent rains in the previous days continued to plague the people in the form of stagnated rainwater in pits and potholes on the roads. Other southern districts also experienced less rainfall when compared to the previous few days. Ramanathapuram district recorded an average rainfall of 5.4 mm. Paramakudi, Theerthandam and Ramanathapuram were the only places in the district which experienced more than 10 mm of rainfall. Inflow to the two major dams - Mulllaperiyar and Vaigai - also decreased, as the rains in the catchments reduced. The water level of Mullaperiyar stood at 130.6ft and the inflow was 2,483 cusecs while the water level at Vaigai dam was 69.7ft with an inflow of 2,593 cusecs. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/after-two-weeks-madurai-has-a-sunny-sunday-as-rains-abate/articleshow/80318870.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Bhopal||Back to job after jab: All’s well, say those who took the shot||BHOPAL: It was business as usual, said health care workers who took the vaccination shot on Saturday. JP hospital security guard who took the shot on Saturday said, “I returned to my job an hour after I took the vaccination shot.” “First day was totally normal. I had no additional symptoms, except the prick I got. There was slight pain at the site of the injection,” Gandhi Medical College (GMC) HoD PSM, Dr D K Pal. “Normally when we take vaccine there is a pain on the local site,” he added. Swati Nipit, a paramedic said, “I had fever in the evening. It was not bearable. I consulted a doctor, who recommended me to rest. In the morning I was back to normal.” Dr R K Sharma had some reaction like an allergy after taking the first dose of coronavirus vaccination. “I have a comorbid condition. Taking anti-allergic medication resolved the situation.” Om Prakash, a lab technician, developed some itching and irritation in the evening when he reached home. “It was minor case of vaccination location turning red. I had react the vaccination factsheet and contacted a doctor for assistance.” He was hospitalised and later discharged. There were seven AEFI reported by the MP health department. The youngest were under 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/back-to-job-after-jab-alls-well-say-those-who-took-the-shot/articleshow/80317695.cms||Jamal Ayub
January 18, 2021||Madurai||Cases dip: 73 in south TN, 67 in central dists||Madurai/Trichy: The ten southern districts of the state reported 73 Covid-19 cases and one death, while taking the tally to 1,35,146, which include 714 active cases, 1,32,312 recoveries and 2,120 deaths. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 67 new cases taking the tally to 75,187, which include 550 active cases. The region recorded no deaths maintaining the toll at 937. Madurai reported 16 new cases, the highest in the south, followed by Tirunelveli (14). For the first time, Tenkasi district has reported no new fresh cases, becoming the second district in the region after Ramanathapuram to report no new cases in a single day. Other districts reported 15 new cases or less. With 138 active Covid-19 cases, Kanyakumari remains on top in south TN in the number of active cases, followed by Madurai (120). All other districts have less than 100 active cases, with Theni (50), Tuticorin (50), Sivaganga (47), Tenkasi (32) and Ramanathapuram (30) having 50 or less active cases. Tirunelveli (9), Virudhunagar (9), Theni (6), Tuticorin (3), Ramanathapuram (2) and Sivaganga (1) reported new cases in single digits. Dindigul (14) and Kanyakumari (13) had also reported fresh cases. Covid-19 cases in the southern region have been seeing a steady decline in January. The lone casalty on Sunday was a 77-year-old man in Virudhunagar. The death rate in the region is 1.56%. Thanjavur is on top among the central districts in reporting fresh cases as it tested 22 people positive on Sunday, while pushing the tally to 17,527. Trichy recorded 17 fresh cases taking the tally to 14,503. Covid cases were also reported in Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur (7), Karur and Pudukottai (6), and Ariyalur (2), while Perambalur recorded zero cases.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cases-dip-73-in-south-tn-67-in-central-dists/articleshow/80318890.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Madurai||Covid-19 vaccination drive gains pace in southern districts||Madurai: On the second day of the state-wide Covid-19 vaccination drive that was kicked off on Saturday, the flow of beneficiaries to the vaccination centres in the southern districts started gaining pace. However, many beneficiaries had not turned up as it was a holiday and few technical difficulties were reported as well.As many as 728 healthcare providers were given the Covishield vaccine at 39 centres across the southern districts while Covaxin was given to 26 beneficiaries at one centre on the second day. In Madurai, 178 beneficiaries were vaccinated on day 2. In south TN, this was the highest number of beneficiaries being vaccinated among all 10 districts on day 2 as well. According to health officials, the vaccination centres at the three government hospitals in Madurai saw more than 50 beneficiaries each being vaccinated on Sunday. However, vaccination at the two primary health centres in Kallandiri and Samayanallur was almost nil.Among the southern districts, Virudhunagar reported the second highest number of total beneficiaries being vaccinated on Sunday, with 153 beneficiaries taking the vaccine. Meanwhile, in Ramanathupuram health unit district (HUD), only four people were vaccinated on Sunday, which was the lowest at any HUD across the state. In Sivaganga district, where the only vaccination centre currently is at Government Sivaganga Medical College Hospital, authorities said that while more than 100 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Saturday, on Sunday, it had dropped to 25. “Due to Pongal holidays, a number of beneficiaries had not turned up. Otherwise, there is a steady flow of beneficiaries showing willingness to get vaccinated,” said the hospital dean Dr A Rathinavel.Vaccination centres at all southern districts are administering only Covishield vaccine except for the centre at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. On the first day of Covaxin vaccine being administered to beneficiaries on Sunday at the hospital, as many as 26 healthcare providers opted to receive it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-19-vaccination-drive-gains-pace-in-southern-districts/articleshow/80318878.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man booked for running over stray dog in Kandivli||MUMBAI: An FIR has been lodged against a 30-year-old man for running over a stray dog inside a residential complex in Kandivli (E) recently. A complaint was lodged by an animal activist, Christina Jha, who resides in the same complex, Gundecha Valley of Flowers, where the incident took place. “The accused, Vijay G, was driving his car rashly due to which he ran over the dog. However, in a statement to the police, the accused said that he did not see the dog,” Jha said, adding that she was encouraged to lodge the FIR by ACP Sudhir Kudalkar of the anti-corruption bureau. The Samta Nagar police checked the CCTV footage as well before registering the complaint. A case has been registered against the accused under Sections 279 and 429 of the IPC. The accused has been released on an anticipatory bail of Rs 5,000. Meanwhile, several animal activists said that the existing Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, must be revised and strengthened so that those who harm or kill animals do not get away easily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-booked-for-running-over-stray-dog-in-kandivli/articleshow/80320195.cms||Vijay Singh
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Conmen dupe 82-year-old of Rs 40L with ‘evil spirit’ ruse||MUMBAI: Two men under the pretext of removing the ‘evil spirit’ from her body and house, allegedly duped an 82-year-old woman of Rs 40 lakh. The duo was arrested by Nagpada police. Hanif Shaikh (30) and his friend Imran Ibrahim Sayyed (29), who are house painters by profession, were booked under the IPC and Black Magic Act. The police said that the woman would have lost more money, had her son-in-law not sensed something amiss and checked in on her. Ashma Abbas, a resident of Welfare Road, Byculla, often goes to a Zeenat Aappa, who claims to have spiritual powers, for advice. Abbas had complained to Aappa about family issues in 2019, after which Aappa introduced her to Shaikh. Aappa told her that he will help her solve her problems. “Shaikh examined her house and told her that there was an evil spirit there, for which he needed to do prayers and remove it,” said the police. Under the pretext of buying sandalwood, attar (perfume) and to sacrifice goat, Shaikh extracted huge amounts of money from Abbas. The two also stole jewellery from Abbas. — S Ahmed Ali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/conmen-dupe-82-year-old-of-rs-40l-with-evil-spirit-ruse/articleshow/80319803.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Police recover 1kg gold, 209gm silver from jewel shop burglar||HYDERABAD: Two days after a burglary in a jewellery shop located in Pot Market, city police arrested a lorry driver and recovered the stolen 1,009 grams of gold, 209 grams of silver and Rs 50,000 cash. In a press note, Hyderabad police said that they received a complaint from a pawn broker cum jewellery businessman in Pot Market on Friday, who claimed that someone had decamped with valuables, many of which were property mortgaged by his customers for loans. The complainant said that he closed his store at 4.30 pm on Thursday and on Friday morning when his employee opened the store, he found the valuables kept in a drawer missing. When the employee called the businessman, they realised that someone had entered the store by forcefully opening an iron grill in the terrace. Upon verifying CCTV footage, they found that a person entered the store at night. During the investigation, police found that the accused Mohammed Aadil, a resident of Bansilalpet, was once the car driver of the complainant. Police nabbed the accused from his residence, where the stolen property was recovered intact. The accused has an existing record.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-recover-1kg-gold-209gm-silver-from-jewel-shop-burglar/articleshow/80318876.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Kochi||Labour movement museum to be opened in Alappuzha||ALAPPUZHA: A museum telling the fascinating story of the workers’ struggles from across the world will soon open in Alappuzha, the cradle of the labour movement in the state.  The labour movement museum, the first of its kind in the country, is being developed as part of the Alappuzha heritage tourism project and will be set up alongside the port and coir museums.  On display will be a huge repository of documents, pictures and other exhibits chronicling the growth of labour movements across the world as well as in the state.  The exhibits at the port and coir museums reflect the town’s rich maritime heritage and the setting up of the labour museum is part of the tourism department’s plan to draw visitors to the region showcasing its social and cultural history. The museum is being set up at the New Model Cooperative Society building, previously run by the Bombay Company.  The Kerala State Coir Corporation’s building will be converted into the museum of coir history while the port museum will come up at the old port office and the adjacent godowns.  Tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran said besides its unsurpassed natural beauty, Alappuzha has a rich commercial and maritime heritage dating back to the ancient times and connected to distant lands.  “The Alappuzha heritage tourism project is conceived to bring this legacy before the tourists, in which these museums are important components. They will also serve scholars specializing in the commercial and labour- related topics,” he said.  The setting up of two coir museums—the yarn museum and the living coir museum—is in its final stages, under a project that strings together the coir industry, port and heritage of Alappuzha, tourism principal secretary Rani George said. “Together with the initiation of the Travancore, the Thalassery and the Muziris heritage projects, Kerala is well on its way to showcasing its rich heritage and history to the visitors of this beautiful land, making it a complete experience,” she added.  “The city is also getting its past glory restored through the renovation of centuries-old buildings situated west of the Circular Canal and the Commercial Canal,” tourism director P Balakiran said.  The project is being executed under the Muziris heritage project. The museums will be inaugurated once restoration of heritage structures are completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/labour-movement-museum-to-be-opened-in-alappuzha/articleshow/80317702.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Covid deaths and cases not rising, not declining either||MUMBAI: New cases of Covid-19 and deaths in Maharashtra have remained consistent over the past few days. On Sunday, the state registered 3,081 new coronavirus cases and 50 deaths, taking its caseload to 19,90,759 and toll to 50,438. Mumbai recorded 531 new cases and 7 deaths. With the new additions, the state capital’s tally reached 3,02,757 and deaths touched 11,244. Significantly, no deaths were reported from Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Domivli, Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi, Mira-Bhyandar, Palghar, Vasai, Raigad and Panvel in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Of the 50 new deaths in Maharashtra, 21 occurred in the last 48 hours and eight in the last week. The remaining 21 deaths were from the previous week. A state official said that while it was important to note that Covid-19 deaths and cases were not rising, they were not declining either. In Mumbai, coronavirus deaths have been in single digits for the last 18-20 days, barring two days when a dozen deaths were reported. Of the seven deaths on Sunday, in the case of five patients, they had comorbidities, while six were aged above 60 years. There has been no decline in the trend of positive cases, that have remained between 500-600 for nearly two months now. A senior doctor said that testing has seen a decline and if more people were tested, cases could be found. A civic official, however, said that the positivity rate has remained around 5%. “We are testing over 15,000 samples daily and there has been no decline in daily testing,” said the official. Maharashtra’s public health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state has entered the vaccination phase with a reasonably good turnout on the first day. “But people must wear masks and continue their Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, including those who have taken the vaccine,” he said. The minister said that the recovery rate in the state was nearly 95%. On Sunday, 2,342 patients were discharged from hospitals across the state, taking the total to 18,86,496, said Tope. The state saw a marginal rise in active cases while Mumbai’s slightly dropped. About 14 deaths were reported in MMR, of which 7 were from Mumbai and seven from Thane. Kolhapur and Aurangabad circles reported zero deaths on Sunday while Nashik and Latur circle registered one each in the last 24 hours. Pune and Nagpur circle reported 11 and 17 deaths, respectively. Thane city saw 84 new positive cases on Sunday, taking the tally of infected people to 57,343. There were no Covid deaths reported here. The virus toll remained 1,284. The recovery rate in Thane was 96% with 55,038 people recovered and 1,021 still under treatment. As many as 5,471 tests were done in the city on Saturday while around 9,24,557 tests have been done till date. (Inputs by Manoj Badgeri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-deaths-and-cases-not-rising-not-declining-either/articleshow/80319123.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 18, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: No complications in 7 who felt uneasy after vaccination on Day 1||BHOPAL: Of the total seven AEFI (Adverse Events Following Immunisation) that were reported on the first day of vaccination, no complications were reported in any of them. As per norms, after vaccination, the health workers were kept under observation for 30 minutes in separate rooms to see if there were any adverse events. Overall, seven people reported some minor complications, but it soon normalised. In Rewa, a female health worker got scared during the vaccination, but she became normal soon. “No such reports were received regarding any problem from anyone on Sunday also,” said chief medical and health officer, Rewa, Dr ML Gupta. Gupta himself was the first person to get vaccinated at the vaccination booth situated at Rewa district hospital. Similarly, a health worker at Victoria hospital in Jabalpur also felt uneasy for sometime after vaccination, but became normal after a few minutes. “He was fit and fine, and no such reports were received on Sunday,” chief medical and health officer, Ratnesh Kurariya, said. Sources from Katni, where two such incidents were reported, also said that no information about any complication was received on Sunday. In Gwalior too, a doctor felt uneasy. However, he felt better in sometime, said sources. No complications-related report was received from Gwalior.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-complications-in-7-who-felt-uneasy-after-vac-on-day-1/articleshow/80317700.cms||Amarjeet Singh
January 18, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Private hospital staff line up for jab, boost confidence in vaccine||BENGALURU: The second day of the Covid-19 vaccination programme passed off smoothly in Bengaluru, with 58% of the targeted healthcare workers receiving the Covishield vaccine on Sunday. Bengaluru city had achieved 73% of the target on Saturday, but Sunday’s target of 6,277 was more than seven times that of the target of 878 for Day 1. While Saturday’s drive was mostly at government hospitals, three private hospitals and a BBMP facility took up the baton on Sunday. Manjunatha Prasad, BBMP commissioner, said the lower-than-scheduled turnout was due to a variety of reasons — from people deciding to wait and watch to some beneficiaries dropping out after developing a fever or other ailments. Besides, Sankranti festivities, it being a weekend and the fact that some beneficiaries could not be informed of their status due to errors while registering their phone numbers, also contributed to the low turnout. “Overall though, the perception is very good as no major reactions or side effects were reported,” Prasad said. While honchos of private hospitals took the vaccine to set examples for their coworkers, nurses and nursing students also queued up enthusiastically. Linnet Susan George, 24, a nurse at Manipal Hospitals, Old Airport Road, was the first to be vaccinated. Linnet, who has been with the hospital for two years, said, “I’m cines are good. I would advise everyone to take the vaccine because contracting Covid is much worse.” Nikhita Khandpani, 20, a student of Baptist Nursing College, was among the youngest to receive the vaccine. Nikhita is from Odisha and has been living in the city for the past three years. “My parents are also from a medical background and they understand the importance of the vaccine. None here distrust the vaccine,” she said. Prasanna Kumar, 46, from Shivamogga, has been working in Baptist hospital for seven years as a housekeeping supervisor. He said that the past 10 months have been rough for everyone in the medical field. “It is very difficult to work while wearing a PPE kit,” said Prasanna, who took the vaccine on Sunday. “I’m not saying that we should immediately stop thrilled to be the first in this hospital to be vaccinated. I have treated many Covid patients and all the hard work has paid off.” Dilip Jose, MD and CEO, Manipal Hospitals, who also took the jab, said, “After Saturday, people were more confident about taking the vaccine considering no adverse reactions were reported. After a few more days, confidence in the vaccine will soar.” In Bangalore Baptist Hospital, 13 booths were set up and every booth had an observation room where people who received the vaccine stayed for 30 minutes. Dr Naveen Thomas, the CEO of Bengaluru Baptist hospital, “In two hours, we vaccinated 215 people. We expect flu vaccine-like symptoms. Many of our staff said they expected it to be painful, but were surprised it wasn’t. Safety profiles of both vacwearing the kit, but with a vaccine out, we are getting closer to normal.” Delbi Johnson, a nurse at St Philomena’s hospital for 30 years, said, “So far, we have not faced any adverse issues with the vaccine. People who are coming to get vaccinated are also calm, not paranoid.” Dr Shankar Prasad, medical director, St Philomena’s Hospital, said, “I got the vaccine on Sunday and I fell fine. People have fears but they are unfounded.” BBMP’s Cox Town Maternity Hospital was the only government facility to conduct vaccinations on Sunday. “In most hospitals, there was also the daily schedule for staffers to attend to, so it was not easy to inoculate everyone,” said Rajendra Cholan, BBMP special commissioner, health and IT. “However, there is no deadline and all will get the vaccine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/day-2-op-vax-58-turn-up-in-bluru-top-docs-take-the-shot/articleshow/80318390.cms||Mrinalini Bhat
January 18, 2021||Bhopal||Covid-19: Just 0.5% doses wasted across Madhya Pradesh on first day of vaccination||BHOPAL: While 9,584 health workers were vaccinated on the first day of vaccination, 0.5% or around 51 vaccine doses were wasted, said sources. The wastage is very low. At 150 odd vaccination centres of the state, there was a total 64 per cent turnout. Sources said that each vaccination booth was provided with 10 vials of vaccine. Each vial was meant to vaccinate 10 people. However, once a vial is opened, it cannot be repacked and used again, hence the remaining vaccine dose goes waste. This is normal for any vaccination. It is normally considered that around 10% of the vaccine will get wasted in any vaccination drive, said sources from the health department. Explaining the process, sources said that each vial contains 10 vaccine doses, and like in state capital Bhopal, a total 608 people were vaccinated. This means that 61 vials were used, but in place of 610 people, only 608 were vaccinated. Thus, two vaccine doses remained unutilised. Overall, only around 51 such doses were wasted in the entire state on the first day of vaccination on January 16, added sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/0-5-doses-wasted-across-mp-on-first-day-of-vaccination/articleshow/80317732.cms||Amarjeet Singh
January 18, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: More shots today; first round target reduced to 2.25 lakh||BHOPAL: First round coronavirus vaccination target has been reduced to 2.25 lakh healthcare workers in Madhya Pradesh. Earlier it was understood 4.16 lakh. The revised plan has been put in place to improve supervision and monitoring, said a senior MP health department official. The benefits of the move were noticed in MP on day of vaccination, wherein only seven AEFI cases were reported. “The current round would involve 2.25 vaccination doses for health workers. It would take 14-working days of immunisation to be completed. The list of beneficiaries is in order, computerised database on first-cum-first basis. There is no pick and choose involved. All will get the vaccine,” official said. On the first day of immunisation, MP achieved a target of 63.6%. On further analysis of it was found that in many instances, pregnant or nursing women were also listed for coronavirus vaccination. “Those who are pregnant, young mothers or sick have been placed under contraindication list. The list is being revised,” he said. An analysis of a district revealed that as many as 23% of those who missed vaccination were on account of contraindications. It has resulted in another task for the health department, as many of its workers are young. An estimated 3% of the young population is likely to be young or caring for infants. In another instance in AIIMS Bhopal, two medicos were ruled out for vaccination after they had been administered hepatitis b vaccine in the past fortnight. Taking no chances, some of the vaccination sites, printed a hard copy of beneficiaries who are to get the first dose on Monday. All session sites will start the vaccination drive from 9 am, which will continue till 5. Targeted vaccination of 15,000 people is planned for Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/more-shots-today-first-round-target-reduced-to-2-25l/articleshow/80317717.cms||Jamal Ayub
January 18, 2021||Madurai||Timely medical response brings down jallikattu deaths in Madurai||MADURAI: Timely medical response from the ambulance service and volunteers of the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) have saved the lives of many jallikattu enthusiasts even as the three-day world-famous bull taming fest in Madurai left more than 200 people injured, of which many of them are critical. Team of 30 staff from GVK-EMRI 108 Ambulance service with 10 ambulances and two bike ambulances were stationed at all three jallikattu venues through the course of the events. “Timely medical aid at the jallikattuevents has brought down deaths over the past few years. At Alanganallur, a bull tamer suffered serious injuries to his neck and chest leading to severe blood loss. However, the first aid given to him at the venue and the speedy transportation to the nearest hospital has helped save his life,” said R Prasad, regional manager, Madurai, 108 Ambulance service. The team has handled as many as 202 injury cases in three days at the jallikattu events, which include 34 critical cases. A team of 10 volunteers from IRCS, Madurai, led by district secretary M Gopalakrishnan and vice-chairman V M Jose were also working with the 108 ambulance service staff in providing first aid and medical help for the injured. “Since 2017, Red Cross volunteers have been offering their support at the jallikattu events. Our team is trained in disaster management and first aid,” said A Rajkumar, co-ordinator, IRCS, Madurai. He said that the role of trained emergency medical response teams is crucial. When someone is injured, only fellow participants will be carrying the injured men to safety, which in turn will worsen the injury by contact with dirt or coir. Awareness among bull tamers has increased. Initially, many of them were not willing to seek medical help as they think it would prevent them from playing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/timely-medical-response-brings-down-jallikattu-deaths-in-madurai/articleshow/80318905.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
January 18, 2021||India||Just 447 adverse events across India, most are minor issues||NEW DELHI: A total of 447 adverse events following immunisation against Covid-19 were reported during the first two days of the vaccination drive. While only three cases were initially hospitalised, two have already been discharged from AIIMS, New Delhi, and the Northern Railway Hospital, respectively, the health ministry said. “One case is still under observation in AIIMS Rishikesh and is fine,” additional health secretary Manohar Agnani said. Most of the adverse events reported so far are minor like fever, pain, headache, nau-sea, giddiness and mild allergic reactions like rashes etc. “Protocols are in place for reporting, immediate case management at vaccination session site, transportation and hospitalisation and further care of such cases. Protocols are in place for systematic investigation and causality assessment of serious AEFIs,” Agnani said. A worker in AIIMS was hospitalised after he developed an allergic reaction after getting a Covaxin shot on Saturday. An adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) is defined as any unexpected medical occurrence which follows vaccination. It may or may not be related to the vaccine or the vaccination process. India launched its first phase of Covid vaccination programme on Saturday with two vaccines — Oxford University and AstraZeneca developed Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. Meanwhile, reports from states said at least 12 health workers who were administered vaccines on Saturday had to be hospitalised in Maharashtra, Bengal and Madhya Pradesh. While nine health workers were hospitalised in Vidarbha, two were admitted in a hospital in Ujjain in MP and one in Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/just-447-adverse-events-across-india-most-are-minor-issues/articleshow/80320447.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid vaccination sites in Hyderabad to be increased to 42||HYDERABAD: The Covid-19 vaccination drive will see 50 beneficiaries at each centre on Monday, a slight increase from 30 on the launch day. The number of centres in the state will be increased to 324 on Monday and the drive will cover nearly 16,200 beneficiaries.  While the state health department initially announced that 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated at each centre, the target had to be revised due to reluctance among beneficiaries as per insiders. Meanwhile, as per official details, the number of vaccine session sites in Hyderabad will be more than doubled from 14 on the launch day to 42 on Monday, with 28 new centres. Officials want to go slow and increase the numbers of centres as they learn on the way and so that errors that took place on the first day can be avoided. “Although we have the capacity to vaccinate nearly two lakh people per day, we want to go slow on the process. With the first few rounds seeing no complications and as the beneficiaries get back to work a day after taking the vaccine, more beneficiaries will get convinced about the safety of the vaccine,” said a senior official from the state health department. Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director of public health, Telangana, said in an official statement on Sunday that arrangements have been made to vaccinate beneficiaries at 324 centers in the state on the second day of the vaccination programme. In addition to the 140 centers where the vaccine was administered on the launch day, another 184 centers were added. On Saturday, when the vaccination programme was launched in the state, a total of 3,962 beneficiaries including sanitation workers and healthcare workers were vaccinated across 140 centres in the state. The health status of the 11 beneficiaries who had reported mild side effects was enquired over phone, said the official, and all the 11 are doing fine. “They will be monitored for another two to three days,” added Dr Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vaccination-sites-in-hyd-to-be-increased-to-42/articleshow/80318932.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Release white paper on job generation: Telangana BJP chief||HYDERABAD: BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar demanded the government to release a white paper on the number of jobs created and the companies that have invested in the state after TRS came into power. Addressing the newly-appointed state executive committee, Sanjay said that the TRS is making false claims. “Nothing happened on the employment front. TRS did little to create jobs for the youth. They should release a white paper on what they have done. If they really did what they claim, I will praise them,” Sanjay said. He also alleged that the TRS regime did not do enough to tackle the pandemic situation while the Centre did everything possible. “Had the Telangana government introduced Ayushman Bharat scheme the people would have benefited from it. The TRS leaders took rest during the lockdown while BJP activists helped people,” claimed Sanjay, adding that the state government in not submitting detailed project reports (DPR) for many irrigation projects. “BJP will expose this corrupt government and will come to power in the next assembly elections. We will hoist the saffron flag at Golconda,” he added. Dismissing the allegations of Sanjay, state animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav said, “We are giving the highest salary for our state government employees, much better than the BJP ruled states. We are the first government to alert the Centre about the novel coronavirus and asked them to stop international flights. We did a lot for the migrant labour.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/release-white-paper-on-job-generation-sanjay/articleshow/80318947.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Meerut||97.4% Covid patients curedof infection in Agra district||Agra: Over 97% of patients have been declared cured of Covid-19 and discharged in Agra, out of the 10,432 cases reported in the district. The number of active Covid cases reduced to 93 on Sunday.Moreover, at least nine new Covid positive cases surfaced in Agra till Sunday evening, taking the district tally to 10,432. The patients included a staffer of SN Medical College and a staffer of Agra Municipal Corporation. Four persons were found positive in random testing conducted by the health department.Also, eight Covid patients were discharged on Sunday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The current sample positivity rate has reduced to 2.25%. So far, 10,168 (97.47%) people have been cured of the infection. People who had come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened. Random testing is being conducted in different parts of the city."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/97-4-covid-patients-curedof-infection-in-agra-district/articleshow/80316927.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Nagpur||204 report problems after vax, 9 need admission, stable||Nagpur: Some 204 (5.25%) of 3,881 health care workers reportedly developed minor complications some hours after Covid-19 vaccination, which is technically known as Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI), in Vidarbha. Only nine of the 204 health care workers required hospitalization for high fever, and all are reported to be stable. The offices of Nagpur and Amravati deputy director of health services said a doctor from Shalinitai Meghe Hospital, Hingna, was admitted on Sunday morning at the same hospital and is stable. Three each health care workers were admitted in Akola and Buldhana, and one each in Deulgaon Raja, and Karanja (Washim), all of who are also reportedly stable. Remaining 195 health care workers, 165 of whom were from Nagpur division and remaining 30 from Amravati division, did not require hospitalization as they had mild fever, vomiting, body pain, and headache. Officials said all cases of AEFI had been administered Covishield. In Nagpur city, six minor cases of AEFI were registered from NMC Pachpaoli Women’s Hospital, Daga Maternity Hospital and IGGMCH. None of the 3,881 health care workers complained of any health issues within 30 minutes of hospitalization on Day-1 of vaccination in 11 districts of the region on Saturday. Officials told TOI, “Some reported minor complications in night and some in the morning.” There were 56 vaccination centres in the region. AEFI Nodal Officer has been appointed at all centres, who contacted their beneficiaries and inquired about the health. They will continue to do so for next six days. Amravati divisional commissioner Piyush Singh told TOI, “Eight Covishield beneficiaries complained of limb pain and fever. They were admitted to different hospitals. All are well and will be discharged on Monday.” Singh said three patients each have been admitted to Government Medical College, Akola, and District General Hospital, Buldhana, while one each has been admitted at Deulgaon Raja in Buldhana district and Karanja in Washim. In Yavatmal district, 12 beneficiaries in Wani and 13 in Pandharkawda reported fever with chills, body ache and myalgia, but all were at home. In Akola, 18 complained of pain and three were admitted for high grade fever and headaches. In Buldhana district hospital, three have been admitted for same complaints. There are no admission at Amravati, however, 20 having mild fever and myalgia were treated on OPD basis, Officials said, “There was nothing to worry. Complications within 30 minutes of vaccination are to be dealt with more cautiously. Minor complications like fever, vomiting, body ache etc after some hours are normal in some beneficiaries. It happens with all types of vaccines as these are antigens. Complications also mean vaccine has started to work in the body,” they said. STABLE IN HOSPITAL * One person each admitted at Hingna (Nagpur), Deulgaon Raja, and Karanja (Washim) * Three health care workers admitted in Akola * Three persons admitted at Buldhana * All are reported to be stable||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/204-report-problems-after-vax-9-need-admission-stable/articleshow/80318942.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 18, 2021||Meerut||UP ATS busts money laundering racket; 9 arrested from UP, 5 from Delhi||Meerut: Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) of UP Police has busted a money laundering racket and arrested 14 people including five from Delhi for their alleged involvement in dubious transactions.Bank accounts opened using these SIMs were used in money laundering, police said. “The arrested accused were not only involved in providing pre-activated SIMs but also in the laundering of money,” a senior UP police official privy to the investigation said. According to police, the racket was using pre-activated SIMs which were sourced from retail dealers of UP cities like Sambhal, Amroha and Moradabad. “Illegally obtained money was being laundered online to fund criminal activities,” an ATS sleuth said.A lookout notice has been issued against foreign nationals involved in the racket.According to senior officials in the department, the kingpin, Prem Singh, used to collect such pre-activated SIMs from dealers in UP and supply them to customers, including foreign clients, in Delhi. “Between July 2020 to January 21, Prem Singh gave 1,500 SIMs to his conduits in Delhi who later sold it to customers,” an excerpt in the release said. Meanwhile, investigating sleuths believe the arrests are a tip of the iceberg and there will be more clarity on the extent of the money laundered and active accomplices in the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-ats-busts-money-laundering-racket-9-arrested-from-up-5-from-delhi/articleshow/80316921.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Catch-up round after two weeks for 5,000 health workers who skipped vac||BHOPAL: For more than 5,000 health workers, scheduled to be vaccinated on the first day, but who did not turn up for it, there will be catch-up rounds later. The catch-up round will be held after two weeks, i.e. after eight days of vaccinations. Vaccination for Covid-19 will be done on four days a week — Monday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, said sources. The exact dates for this catch-up vaccination schedule is yet to be finalised, but it would definitely be held after eight days of vaccination. Sources said that all those health workers who could not come for vaccination on the first day will be included in this round. It is noteworthy that for 150 vaccination booths made across the state, a total 15,000 health workers —at the rate of 100 at each booth — were called for vaccination. Messages were sent to these workers through the CoWin software — developed for the purpose by the Union government — in which they were informed about the venue and time in which they will have to come for vaccination. However, against these 15,000 people, only 9,584 turned up and were vaccinated. The remaining 5,416 could not be vaccinated. Overall, only 64% of the total health workers, who were scheduled for vaccination, turned up, said sources. There were districts like Seoni or Rewa where the turnout was less than 50%. Even in state capital Bhopal, only 51% people, who were scheduled to be vaccinated, turned up for it. There are at least five districts where more than 200 health workers, scheduled for vaccination, did not turn up. This also includes two districts — Bhopal and Rewa — where more than 400 such health workers did not come for vaccination, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/catch-up-round-after-two-weeks-for-5k-health-workers-who-skipped-vac/articleshow/80317744.cms||Amarjeet Singh
January 18, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||LDF promise to review pension yet to see light||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With its term coming to a close, the state government is proving to be Janus-faced in its approach to the contributory pension scheme. While on the one hand it is in the process of withdrawing the programme for its employees, yet, on the other, it has gone on to implement it in five bodies. The LDF election manifesto for the 2016 assembly election talked about reviewing the scheme. Making a mockery of the committee appointed to review the scheme, the government rolled it out for toddy workers’ welfare fund board, state library council, Kannur University, Guruvayur devaswom management committee and state pollution control board. The contributory pension scheme was introduced by the previous UDF government on April 1, 2013 for public-sector undertakings in the state. LDF had vehemently opposed the decision and promised to review it. Despite coming to power in 2016, the government did not take any action for the first two-and-a-half years of its term. But it had to subsequently heed to pressure from employees and, on November 11, 2018, appointed a committee, headed by former district judge S Sathish Chandra Babu and consisting of former additional chief secretary P Marapandian and director of Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation (GIFT) D Narayana as members. The committee was given the mandate to examine all aspects -- including financial and legal -- of the scheme, and offer appropriate suggestions. The term of the committee was extended to April 30, 2021 after it failed to submit its recommendations before expiry of its stint on November 1, 2020. Since the notification for the assembly election is expected in February, the committee is unlikely to submit its report before that. The panel’s functioning has so far cost the exchequer Rs 55.89 lakh, including Rs 21.61 lakh in 2019-20 and Rs 34.27 lakh this financial year, as per latest official figures. “The government has not touched up on a scheme that it vehemently opposed and also claimed to review, prior to the last assembly election. It should ensure that minimum pension is ensured while implementing such a scheme which is what UDF intends to do,” Congress’ V D Satheesan MLA said. Under the scheme, which is enforced by doing away with the statutory pension scheme, 10% of salary is contributed by employees wherein an equal share will be contributed by employers. Under the central government’s version, which has been in place since January 1, 2004, employees contribute 10% of their basic salary and dearness allowance every month, while the employer chips in with 14%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ldf-promise-to-review-pension-yet-to-see-light/articleshow/80317749.cms||KP Saikiran
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||15 more arrested in Secunderabad businessmen’s abduction case||HYDERABAD: Another 15 persons were arrested on Sunday in the sensational abduction of three businessmen, relatives of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s personal assistant, from their residence at Manovikasnagar in Secunderabad recently. With the latest arrests, mostly drivers, document writers and others, Hyderabad police have so far arrested 19 persons in the case. Police had declared 30 persons as accused in this case.  However, former AP minister Bhuma Akhila Priya’shusband Bhargav Ram Naidu, her brother Bhuma Jagat Vikyath Reddy, Bhargav’s mother Kiran Mai Naidu and M Srinivas Rao Chaudhary, also named accused in the case, were absconding. Based on the confession of the arrested 19 accused, including Akhila Priya, Hyderabad police at a press conference on Sunday said after the three victims— K Praveen Rao, Sunil Rao, Naveen Rao — were kidnapped from their Manovikasnagar residence by some of the arrested accused, who entered their residence by claiming to be income tax officials, police have gathered information to link the sequence of events. “After the victims were taken to Bhargav’s guesthouse at Moinabad, the accused forced them to sign on 10 stamp papers —five in the name of Bhargav and an equal number in the name of Jagat Vikyat Reddy,’’ deputy commissioner of police (North Zone) Kalmeshwar Shingenavar said. On January 2 and January 4, Akhila, Bhargav, their close associate Guntur Srinu and a few other persons had met at her residence at Kukatpally and Bhargav’s school at Yousufguda and hatched a conspiracy to abduct the three brothers. While executing the offence, several cars and bikes were used by the accused.  One of the cars was found to be registered in the name of Bhargav’s mother Kiran Mai. Though Bhargav did not go inside the victims’ residence on January 5, the day of the abduction, he was waiting outside their residence in a car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/15-more-arrested-in-secbad-bizmens-abduction-case/articleshow/80318910.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Brain dead girl’s organs donated in Warangal||WARANGAL: The parents of a 20-year-old girl who was declared brain dead after an accident donated her organs—a liver and two kidneys—to three people on Sunday, reports Shiva Kumar Pinna. On January 14, Cheryala Abhinitha, a resident of Julaiwada in Hanamkonda and a B.Tech final year student, met with an accident on Hunter Road in Hanamkonda. She had undergone treatment in Hanamkonda and Hyderabad, however, she was declared brain dead by the doctors. Jeevandan, NIMS, Hyderabad co-chairman Dr G Swarnalatha supervised the transplantation process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/brain-dead-girls-organs-donated-in-warangal/articleshow/80318955.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Dubbak-like situation was there in 2019, says G Kishan Reddy||HYDERABAD: Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy, on Sunday, said the BJP did not realise that there was a Dubbak-like situation in the state during the 2019 Parliament elections. Addressing the newly-appointed state executive committee, he said that TRS could win only nine seats out of 17. He cautioned the cadre that the next two years are extremely critical for the BJP. “Every leader and worker should participate in the protests and agitations that the party conducts. Had the TRS not misused power by advancing the dates of GHMC elections, BJP could have won the mayor's post,” Kishan Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dubbak-like-situation-was-there-in-2019-says-kishan/articleshow/80318954.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 18, 2021||Meerut||UP woman nabs mobile snatcher who pushed her in front of a truck||MEERUT: Showing plenty of grit, a 26-year-old woman not only survived a push before a speeding truck but also chased and caught the accused, who almost killed her while trying to snatch her mobile phone in UP’s Bulandshahr district.  Meena jumped out of the road in the nick of time, got hold of the situation and soon chased and caught the accused, with a little help from the passersby on Saturday evening in Sikandrabad area of the city. Video: A 26-year-old woman nabs a youth who pushed her before a speeding truck while trying to snatch her mobile ph… https://t.co/deYvU4wflk— TOIWestUP (@TOIWestUP) 1610941178000It all happened just 500-metre away from a police station on a street brimming with passersby. “I was returning home when the accused attacked me from behind. He snatched my mobile phone and pushed me on the road. I fell in front of a truck. Somehow I jumped out and saved my life,” says Meena, who works at a college. In a video, which has now surfaced on social media platforms, Meena can be seen thrashing the accused while hauling him through the busy street towards the police station. Police have arrested the youth. “An FIR under relevant sections was registered against the youth. He has been arrested. The mobile phone has also been recovered," Bulandshahr police said in a tweet. Meena wasn’t too impressed by the local police. “Nobody is looking out for anyone. Police are just for the name. If there is security, such incidents will not happen,” she said. Watch Brave! UP woman chases and nabs mobile snatcher who pushed her in front of a truck||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-woman-26-nabs-mobile-snatcher-who-pushed-her-in-front-of-a-truck-drags-him-thana/articleshow/80316931.cms||Piyush Rai
January 18, 2021||Agra||Uttar Pradesh: Newborn girl abandoned in temple rescued||AGRA: A plastic bag lying in a corner of a temple premises attracted the attention of the sweeper on Sunday morning. When he tried to brush it aside with his broom, it did not move. Surprised, he went and examined it. To his shock, he found a baby girl inside. Someone had abandoned the newborn, possibly no more than a year old, at the temple. As news spread, a crowd gathered at the temple in Mohammadabad village in Firozabad’s Tundla tehsil. Seshpal Yadav, who first spotted the baby, said, “The baby wrapped in cotton wool was placed in the plastic bag. We wrapped her in a quilt. As she would not stop crying, we took her the community health centre (CHC).” Tundla CHC in-charge, Dr Sanjeev Verma said, “The newborn was suffering from hypothermia. We kept her in an incubator for some time and now, she is out of danger. She is only a day old. The umbilical cord of the child was not removed after birth. She will be fine very soon.” Ramendra Shukla, Tundla SHO, said, “We are trying to trace the baby’s parents. Asha workers have also been asked to help in this regard. Following orders of the child welfare committee, the newborn will be handed over to an authorized NGO to ensure her proper care. Several people have also expressed willingness to adopt her.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/newborn-girl-in-plastic-bag-abandoned-in-temple-rescued/articleshow/80316939.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||FIR against actor-director Mahesh Manjrekar for slapping farmer||PUNE: A farmer from Tembhurni lodged an FIR with the Yavat police station against Bollywood actor-director Mahesh Manjrekar accusing him of voluntarily causing hurt and criminal intimidation. The complaint says Manjrekar slapped the farmer during an altercation after their cars were involved in a minor accident near Yavat power house on Friday night. Manjrekar said: “I did not slap him. It was foolish on his part to travel at a high speed, ram into my car, then argue with me while I was checking the damage to my vehicle. PUNE We were going for a shoot at Chouphula near Bhigwan from Pune when my car slowed down. The car following us rammed into my vehicle following which an argument ensued.” The complainant, Kailash Satpute, has alleged that Manjrekar’s car stopped suddenly and his vehicle hit the car. He stated that Manjrekar started arguing and slapped him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fir-against-actor-director-for-slapping-car-driver/articleshow/80319817.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid-19: Telangana to have separate sites for distinct vaccine||HYDERABAD: The stage is set for increasing vaccination centres from Monday. However, there will be separate inoculation sites for Covishield and Covaxin by next week. On the first day, the state had administrated only Covishield vaccine and might begin administration of Covaxin in the next few days. The state had received both vaccines last week. Now, with the consent form made available for Covaxin, its roll-out would begin soon, officials said.  “As per rules, persons getting vaccinated should be given two doses of the same vaccine. It will be easy for us to maintain data if we have separate sites,” director of public health and family welfare, Dr G Srinivasa Rao, said. However, identification of separate vaccination sites would happen later, officials said. In the meantime, an elaborate plan has been prepared for next week. The state will receive another 3.5 lakh doses of vaccines in the coming days. Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (TIMS) is the only big centre left to launch the vaccination drive.  “The vaccine roll-out will begin from Monday,” officials said. Interestingly, TIMS is one of the hospitals where more than one vaccination centre could be administered, the officials said. The government also directed the health department to identify more district hospitals, area hospitals and community health centres as vaccination centres instead of primary healthcare centres (PHC). “It is important that the temperature is maintained between 2 to 8 degree Celsius where ice-lined refrigerator (ILR) are available and PHC should be connected with cold chain point for the vaccine storage. Presently, all such centres are being identified as vaccination centres,” the officials said. At big centres, more than one vaccine session (a session means covering 50 people a day) would happen. For this to happen, there should be availability of three rooms at the vaccination centres. At present, Gandhi Hospital, Osmania Hospital and other big hospitals have such facilities. “This is a cautious approach, to go in limited numbers first just like in vaccine trial. Our norms are far better than many advanced counties,” Dr Kiran Madala, a certified researcher with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said. Sources said vaccination for government healthcare employees would be completed in the next 15 days. In the city, 28 more vaccine centres would be added from Monday in addition to the existing 14, while neighbouring Rangareddy district would have five additional centres apart from the existing nine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-have-separate-sites-for-distinct-vax/articleshow/80318945.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 18, 2021||Meerut||UP govt sets timetable, assigns officials formonthly inspections in schools & colleges||Meerut: After schools and colleges failed to achieve targets of monthly inspections, the Uttar Pradesh government has now set a timetable and assigned officials for each visit. The move comes with an aim to make officials accountable for the inspections which have been low in the months of November and December - accounting for 40% and 51%, respectively.“Instructions were given to each district to conduct inspections of schools every month to keep a check on the state schemes and to see that all of them are being executed properly. These schemes include midday meals, distribution of school uniforms, books, school bags and others,” read the order issued by director general, school education, UP, Vijay Kiran Anand.The target for December was to cover 76,350 schools. However, 39,112 schools underwent the inspection, which is 51%. It was also found that inspections of only 40% of the total schools in the state was completed in November.According to the November target, as many as 76,350 schools were on the list. But, 30,189 schools were covered.“To ensure that accountability is set for inspections, timetable with the concerned officials has been fixed. This has been done so that if the inspection number is low, the said officials can be held accountable,” Anand said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-govt-sets-timetable-assigns-officials-formonthly-inspections-in-schools-colleges/articleshow/80316942.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Swachh race: GHMC caught napping on sanitation||HYDERABAD: Though the Central government started a survey to rate the cleanest and dirtiest cities in the country, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is yet to plug loopholes in sanitation. In Swachh Survekshan 2021, citizen survey will carry 1,800 marks out of 6,000 unlike previous year where people’s feedback carried 1,500 marks. The newly-installed public toilets in the city are yet to be operational, while sanitation activities are not being performed by private agencies as per norms. GHMC officials are turning a blind eye to these developments. The newly-installed public toilets at Nanakramguda, Road Number 2, Banjara Hills (KBR Park Road), NTR Marg and Khairatabad bridge are among dozens of washrooms yet to be opened for public use. According to the year-ender submitted by GHMC, in 2020 the civic body had installed over 7,000 public toilets, but most of these are operational. While some of them have been locked up, many are yet to get a sewage connection. “From Road Number 2 , Jubilee Hills till Prashasan Nagar, I could not find a operational public toilet. There were boxes on pavements which were locked and on those were written public toilets, ” BR Kiran, a marketing consultant at a private firm, told TOI. According to GHMC officials, they were collaborating with private agencies to maintain the toilets. “Of the over 7,000 public toilets, 5,026 are covered under maintenance. We have another 3,100 to tie-up. In a week’s time even those will be completed,” GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar said. “GHMC is taking steps for proper maintenance of 7,400 public toilets in the city. A QR code has been allotted to each toilet to get “information on timing of cleaning and public opinion on maintenance,” GHMC said in a release.  Private agencies have been handed over the road maintenance contract underCRMP and are responsible for taking up sanitation , but things are different on the ground. The main roads are being cleaned by sweeping machines without following norms .The stretch is again cleaned by GHMC’s outsourced sanitation workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/swachh-race-ghmc-caught-napping-on-sanitation/articleshow/80318953.cms||Nabinder Bommala
January 18, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Land is a graveyard claims waqf board, RSS says we bought it||BHOPAL: The dispute over the land (which according to a RSS functionary was 34,000 sqft, but has significantly reduced due to encroachments) is at least 30 years old. Though it's often referred to as a dispute between the RSS and the MP Waqf Board, but none of the two have been directly involved in the legal feud, which has gone on for years. The RSS functionary in question on the condition of anonymity said that they had first obtained town & country planning (T&CP) permission for construction on the land way back in 1960s but MP Waqf Board in the name of individuals kept fighting for possession of the land on one pretext or the other. According to some, the land in question was donated to RSS, which has its Bhopal office on the other side of the road named "Keshav Needam" by Rajdev's family, which had built houses in the colony, which is now known as "Sindhi Colony." The RSS in its legal case has claimed that they had bought the land. According to the RSS functionary, they wanted to and would still develop a garden on the land and use it for organising Shakha and carry out other activities. MP Waqf Board, on the other hand, feels that the land, which was a graveyard of Muslims, has been taken away from them by "using the administration as a tool". Advocate for Waqf Board, Sarvat Sharif, told TOI that what the administration is calling the court order is order of the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Jamil Khan, who vacated the order to appoint the receiver for the land in the wake of dispute over its ownership (town inspector (TI) of the area was the receiver) and handed over land to Rajdev Jan Seva Samiti. "The land belonged to the Waqf Board. Rajdev Jan Seva Samiti says the land was sold to it by Faiyaz Ali, who was a chowkidar appointed to guard the land, which was a graveyard. How could he have sold the land? And, according to section 52 of the Waqf Act, land of a graveyard can't be sold by anyone", said Sharif. After the police filed a case on the disputed land in the SDM court under section 145 of the CrPC, a receiver was appointed. But, when litigant in the case, Ismail Khan, died, the SDM court declared the suit infructuous and handed over the land to the Rajdev Jan Seva Samiti under section 146 (1) of the CrPC. They have been given the possession of land and allowed to construct the boundary wall despite the fact that "title suit" for the land is still pending in the Waqf Tribunal at Bhopal, which is headed by a sessions judge. Mohammad Suleman has filed the suit stating that his ancestors were buried in this land and therefore, it must be preserved as a graveyard. District collector, Avinash Lavania, when asked on the issue, said "It is a Trust, which through various courts has been able to establish that the land in question belongs to it. They had filed an application about 15 days ago to remove the receiver and allow them to construct a boundary wall because there is no stay on it from any court, following which the receiver was removed and construction of boundary wall allowed."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/land-is-a-graveyard-claims-waqf-board-rss-says-we-bought-it/articleshow/80317759.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
January 18, 2021||Kochi||Cycle of floods and wheels of history||Idukki: What was taken by the flood has been returned by it. That is how the official of a museum run by Kanan Devan Hill Plantation Company in Munnar sees it. In 1924, a devastating flood flattened Munnar and washed away the monorail built by the British. Close to a century later, in 2018, another flood battered the hill station and underneath the sludge and rubbles a part of what was lost long time ago was found again: The wheel of a monorail train. The monorail wheel was recovered almost a year after the 2018 floods from near the old Periyavara bridge while construction works for a new one were underway. “The wheel of the monorail train lay buried in the mud for 94 years until it was recovered again. It has not suffered any damage. We have painted it and kept it in the museum and now it is one of the main attractions in the museum,” said a KDHP official. “The museum already houses a pair of wheels of the trains of the light railway. But we did not have any remains of the monorail which was built even earlier connecting Munnar and Mattupetty with Top Station,” he said. The monorail was built by the Britishers for moving tea leaves and transportation of people. In 1908, the monorail gave way to a light railway. Starting from the Munnar station, the service had two stations en route, at Mattupetty and Palaar, before ending the journey at Top Station. The 35-km long railway line used to pass through the various tea estates of KDHP plantations. After the floods, the railway line was not repaired. Later, a road was constructed on the Munnar-Kodaikanal route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cycle-of-floods-and-wheels-of-history/articleshow/80317770.cms||Sandeep Thomas
January 18, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur’s cases, recoveries, deaths more than 9 districts put together||Nagpur: Nagpur district’s day’s caseload, recoveries and Covid deaths were double than that collectively of nine districts of the Vidarbha even though the overall figures remained low on Sunday too. Thanks to no reporting of daily Covid numbers from Gondia, more recoveries than new cases were recorded in 10 districts of the region. In the day’s tally of 621 new cases, 692 recoveries and 16 deaths in Vidarbha, Nagpur alone posted 329 cases, 375 recoveries and 8 deaths. In Nagpur division, Chandrapur recorded the highest new cases of Covid infection at 22. In Amravati division, Amravati district had the highest cases of 71. Amravati division’s Covid toll was just 4. The 16 deaths in the day were from Nagpur (8), Bhandara (1), Wardha (2), Amravati (1), Yavatmal (3), Buldhana (1). This takes the total to 6,815. No Covid deaths were reported in Chandrapur, Washim and Gadchiroli. Besides Nagpur, new cases were from Bhandara (16), Wardha (14), Chandrapur (22), Gadchiroli (11), Akola (31), Amravati (71), Yavatmal (50), Buldhana (44) and Washim (33). This took the total cases to 2,65,034. The 692 recovered patients are from Nagpur (375), Bhandara (45), Wardha (4), Chandrapur (28), Gadchiroli (13), Akola (34), Amravati (67), Yavatmal (66), Buldhana (55) and Washim (5). This increased the tally to 2,50,834. Now, 7,166 are under treatment. Gadchiroli: No Covid death was reported. New cases count increased by 11 while 13 recoveries were reported. The district now has 123 active cases, while total cases are 9277. So far, 105 have succumbed to the disease while 9,049 defeated Covid and declared recovered in the district. Washim: The district reported no Covid death. The district reported 33 cases and 5 recoveries. Death toll remains at 152. The new cases took the tally to 6,905, discharged rose total count to 6,589 while 163 are active. Buldhana: One Covid death took place while 44 new cases and 55 recoveries were reported. According to official data, the district now has 13,311 cases, 12,813 recoveries, 159 deaths and 339 active cases. Bhandara: The district reported one Covid death, 16 new cases, and 45 recoveries. The district has 309 active cases. Total caseload is 12,980 cases and 12,356 discharged patients. Covid toll is 315. Gondia: The district officials didn’t issue daily Covid figures on Sunday. Akola: The district reported 31 new cases, 34 recoveries. No Covid death took place. The case tally climbed to 11,148. So far, 328 people have died of Covid. With new recoveries, the tally touched 10,214. Still 606 are active. Chandrapur: While 22 tested positive, 28 got discharged on Sunday. There were no deaths. The Covid total is 22,850 with 22,193 the discharge count. There are presently 276 patients under treatment. Amravati: Seventy-one new cases as against 67 recoveries took the district's caseload to 20,770 and total recoveries to 19,995 respectively on Sunday. One death took the toll to 409. This left 366 active cases. Yavatmal: The district recorded three deaths, taking the toll to 420. Out of the 257 tests, 50 tested positive. Currently, there are 428 active positive patients undergoing treatment in the district. Wardha: Two patients died due to coronavirus, taking the toll to 293. In all, 14 patients tested positive while 4 were discharged. The caseload increased to 9,686, recoveries 9,059 and active positive 343.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpurs-cases-recoveries-deaths-more-than-9-districts-put-together/articleshow/80318965.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 18, 2021||Bareilly||FIR after miscreants spread rumouragainst Covid-19 vaccine in Bareilly||Bareilly: Police and health department in Bareilly have swung into action and registered an FIR on Sunday after miscreants tried to spread rumours about the Covid-19 vaccine by distributing mischievous pamphlets late at night.Residents of Premnagar locality woke up to find pamphlets at their doorstep on Sunday morning stating in detail how the "Covid vaccine is made from the blood of bovine and dogs".The pamphlets further mentioned that "attempts are being made to declare people Covid positive even if they were healthy". Several worried locals shared the pamphlets with police and local media.A contact number of an ayurvedic doctor from Haryana was also mentioned. When contacted by police, the doctor firmly said that he has nothing to do with it, and may be, his contact details have been randomly misused by the trouble-makers.Abhay Shiv, a local youth activist, told TOI, “Someone tried to spread misinformation against the government and the Covid vaccine. Strict action should be taken against such people.”SP (city) Ravindra Kumar said, “We have ordered an FIR against the unidentified people. CCTV footage is being thoroughly scanned.”While district surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “We request people to ignore such rumours and trust our medical experts. Covid vaccine is safe, secure and meant for our safety.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/fir-after-miscreants-spread-rumouragainst-covid-19-vaccine-in-bareilly/articleshow/80316945.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Bareilly||Woman foils rape bid attempt by neighbour||Pilibhit: Following the orders of the additional director general of police, Bareilly zone, an FIR was lodged against a 40-year-old man of a village under Pilibhit’s Sungarhi police station for allegedly attempting to rape a 30-year-old dalit woman who had gone to inspect her agricultural field. The woman alleged that her neighbour, finding her alone, grabbed her and dragged to a nearby sugarcane field with intent to rape her. However, she put up a fight and screamed. Hearing her, people working in nearby fields rushed to her aid and he fled. However, local police turned her away when she went to lodge a complaint. Therefore, she sought help at the ADGP’s office. Atar Singh, SHO, said the accused was booked under IPC section 354 A (physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) and provisions of the SC/ST Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-foils-rape-bid-attempt-by-neighbour/articleshow/80316949.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS, MIM threat to national security, claims Telangana BJP||HYDERABAD: With an eye on various upcoming polls, the BJP trained its guns on the TRS as well as MIM on Sunday, calling them a threat to national security. However, both TRS and MIM questioned the claims of BJP, saying these were mere gimmicks and political posturing ahead of polls without any basis. The state is set for bypoll for the Nagarjunasagar assembly seat, two MLC graduate constituencies and civic polls in Khammam and Warangal. Earlier, in a bitterly fought GHMC election in December the BJP had snatched 48 out of 150 seats leaving TRS with just 56 seats, while the MIM won 44 seats. “The voters of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation have realised that an alliance between TRS and MIM is a threat to national security,” the newly appointed state executive committee of BJP said in a series of resolutions as the party tries to consolidate its position in Telangana. “Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said that he will float a national-level party and toured the country and the two parties had friendly contests in Hyderabad. Unable to bear the result, CM KCR tried his best to ensure that newly elected councillors do not go to council for two months using all the loopholes in the laws. Continuing the council with the mayor who lost the verdict reflects narrow-minded political attitude,” the BJP said in the statement. Countering the BJP’s claims, state animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav said: “I want to ask what actually is happening in other states where BJP and MIM are contesting? BJP is only trying to taint us with communal tinge to get political mileage. But this won’t last long.” While the MIM pointed out that it has never contested elections in alliance with any party. “AIMIM and TRS never contested elections together. How can BJP call us an alliance partner of TRS? In GHMC elections, there was fight between AIMIM and TRS in several seats. BJP is trying to impose false narrative to misguide people. How can a political alliance be a threat to people and security of a state or country,” said an MIM leader. In other resolutions, the BJP committee condemned the state for ignoring and blocking the implementation of central government programmes in the state, and questioned why the state government was not using the logos of central government for the schemes. “The party rank and file has been given a call to prepare for an intense battle against the TRS regime. The resolutions very much resonate it,” A Rakesh Reddy, BJP spokesperson and member of the executive committee, said. The political resolution introduced by BJP MLC Ramchander Rao also spoke about many sections, including dalits, tribals, pensioners and employees ignored by the state government and non-implementation of reservation for economically backward sections. (Additional reporting by Nabinder Bommala)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-mim-threat-to-natl-security-claims-state-bjp/articleshow/80319821.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||AQI: Rains, Covid-19 lockdown saved Hyderabad from slipping into ‘poor category’||HYDERABAD: The lockdown prompted by Covid-19 outbreak in March followed by unprecedented rains significantly reduced the air pollution levels in 2020 with the air quality index (AQI) in the city not entering the poor category even once. In 2019, the AQI had touched the poor category at two locations — Sanathnagar and Zoo Park on a few occasions. The AQI recorded in 0-50 are indexed in good category, 51-100 in satisfactory category, 101-200 in moderate category and so on. As per the Telangana State Pollution Control Board’s (TSPCB) annual data, the AQI was recorded below 100 in the satisfactory category for seven months (March to September, 2020) as against five months in 2019. In fact, in June, July and August, the AQI was recorded below 50 thereby indicating a drastic drop in the air pollution levels. Sanathnagar, which had recorded AQI of 140 in May 2019 recorded AQI of 63 in May 2020. Similarly, Zoo Park, that recorded AQI of 107 in 2019 recorded AQI of 72 in 2020. TSPCB officials said that apart from the lockdown, during which almost all activities including major contributors to air pollution such as transport, industries, construction etc. came to a standstill, unprecedented rains played a pivotal role in drastic drop in AQI levels. “This year, Hyderabad witnessed unprecedented rains which led to better dispersion of pollutants. Every year, we observe peaks during mid-summer around May. But this year, on most days, the AQI was in the good category due to rains,” said Prasad Dasari, senior scientist, TSPCB. The drop in PM2.5 and PM10 levels was evident at many places. After the lockdown was partially lifted in August, there was a gradual rise in the AQI levels. The AQI levels soared above 150 after resumption of economic activities from September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aqi-rains-covid-19-lockdown-saved-city-from-slipping-into-poor-category/articleshow/80318958.cms||Preeti Biswas
January 18, 2021||Nagpur||Unidentified person killed in leopard attack||Chandrapur: An unidentified middle aged person was killed in a suspected leopard attack in the shrubby forest near the power substation in Durgapur on Sunday morning. It was the first instance of human kill in predator attack in Chandrapur ravaged by man-animal conflict. Durgapur police took the body for post mortem. A part of the deceased’s thigh was eaten by the predator. Forest officials suspect it to be a case of leopard attack, but have not ruled out the possibilities of homicide. Both police and forest officials are awaiting the post mortem report to ascertain the cause of death. The man-animal conflict is raging in the district since years. Last year, 31 died in predator attacks. The list included 24 killed by tigers, six by leopards and one by a wild boar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/unidentified-person-killed-in-leopard-attack/articleshow/80318973.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Inter-faith coalition to bridge gap among communities||MUMBAI: To counter the forces of fanaticism and bigotry, iconic Sufi shrine Mahim Dargah has formed a coalition of leading places of worship in the city. The shrine will soon sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with some leading Hindu, Christian and Sikh places of worship and religious organisations to shore up support for conflict-free, peaceful living. “We, as a seat of Sufi values, have a responsibility to promote peace. Peace cannot be promoted in an environment of intolerance. We are reaching out to like-minded religious and spiritual organisations to partner us in this task of harmonious living,” said Pir Makhdoom Ali Mahimi charitable trust’s managing trustee Sohail Khandwani. He added he was speaking to the management of dozens of small and big dargahs and mosques in the city and they are expected to greenlight the move. Sufi music concerts, interfaith dialogues, peace and harmony marches are some of the steps planned. During the lockdown Mahim Dargah and Haji Ali Dargah had facilitated distribution of ration provided by actor Amitabh Bachchan among thousands of needy in the city. “The experience taught us that more inter-community interactions are needed,” said Khandwani. The alliance will both firefight during troubled times and work to strengthen harmony through the year. “It is not a one-time initiative. We will ensure that our members meet regularly and hold inter-faith dialogues to remove misunderstanding and misconceptions,” said Sabir Syed, director, Information Technology, at Mahim Dargah. Misconceptions among communities grow due to misinformation and lack of information, hence Rev Ajahn Prashi Ratna Gautam, president of leading Buddhist organisation Sanghakaya Foundation, is backing the initiative as it seeks to know neighbours. “The gap between the communities has widened so much that we claim to have ‘bhaichara’ (brotherhood) but actually use each other as ‘chara’ (fodder),” quipped Gautam. Just by saying we are brothers is not working, he said, suggesting actions on the ground. One of the steps Abraham Mathai, president, Indian Christian Voice, suggested is urging the government to reserve flats for members of minority communities in housing societies. “Mahim Dargah’s initiative is good, but unless the government intervenes and promotes cosmopolitanism, mere dialogues and interfaith conventions will not achieve much,” said Mathai. Aadesh Bandekar of Sri Siddhivinayak Temple Trust said he had not received the proposal yet and would comment only after seeing the proposal for the alliance. “We are in the process of preparing the proposal in consultation with our advocates,” said Khandwani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/inter-faith-coalition-to-bridge-gap-among-communities/articleshow/80319839.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
January 18, 2021||Noida||29 bird samples collected in Noida sent for testing||GREATER NOIDA: The surveillance team of the Gautam Budh Nagar animal husbandry department has sent 29 samples, picked up from different locations, for further testing. Though no threat or probability of bird flu has been detected in the city so far, the samples have been sent for examination as a precautionary measure. The sampling will also help determine the condition of fowls being sold through poultry farming. Officials said that samples were collected during the first half of January and have also been taken from bird species found in Surajpur wetland as well as Okhla bird sanctuary. “We have not come across anything alarming or untoward so far. As per our preliminary findings, these birds have died due to extreme winter and protein deficiency and it is a routine exercise,” said Virendra Srivastava, chief veterinary officer of the district. Most of the samples were collected from the live bird markets across the city. The dead birds are examined at Bisrakh veterinary hospital and the ones that look suspicious are being sent for further examination to Meerut veterinary hospital. Srivastava added that during extreme winters, birds die due to protein deficiency and lack of nutrients in the body. “Crows and pigeons survive in the open during the night. Finding food is also difficult as people like to stay indoors and do not feed animals and birds. We check for these symptoms after coming across dead birds,” Srivastava said, adding that lesions in the cortex (brain) of dead birds are checked to ascertain the cause of death.In Uttar Pradesh, only the Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly, is equipped to confirm H5N1 strain. “However, to avoid unnecessary crowding, samples are sent to Bareilly only after something suspicious crops up during testing in Meerut,” Srivastava said.The four-member surveillance team is also keeping an eye on the two registered poultry farms located in Jarcha and have taken samples from there as well. Officials added that samples are collected every month in a routine manner and the most common disease detected in the district has been fowl salmonellosis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/29-bird-samples-collected-in-noida-sent-for-testing/articleshow/80318959.cms||Shalabh
January 18, 2021||Bareilly||Woman, 34, raped by brother-in-law, family forces her to live with him 'for honour', court orders FIR||Pilibhit: A 34-year-old woman --mother of five children -- was allegedly raped by her husband’s younger brother and then forced to live with him by her in-laws and husband, who recently remarried after ditching her. The alleged incident took place in Pilibhit’s Neuria area in September last year. But the FIR was registered this week only after a court intervened.The woman, who was thrown out of the home by her in-laws after she refused to live the alleged rapist, had approached court on December 4 after local police refused to file a case.According to the woman, she got married 12 years ago. A year ago, when she got ill, her husband married another woman. She alleged that on September 20 last year, when she was alone at home, her husband’s younger brother barged in and raped her. Later, when she narrated the incident to her husband and mother-in-law, she was scolded and told to forget it, the complaint said.On November 20, she was asked to stay with the rapist, which she refused. It was then that her husband and in-laws forced her out of the home with the elder daughter.After police didn’t help her, the woman moved court. Her husband, his brother, his second wife and his parents were booked on court’s direction.“In compliance with the court order, the husband of the victim, his second wife, his younger brother and his parents have been booked under section 494 (marrying again during lifetime of husband or wife), 376 (rape), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation),” station house officer Jagat Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-34-raped-by-brother-in-law-family-forces-her-to-live-with-him-for-honour-court-orders-fir/articleshow/80316951.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||299 Covid-19 cases, two deaths in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Sunday recorded 299 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths, even as the number of active cases in the state inched close to the 4,200 mark. The total number of cases so far are 2,91,666 while the death toll is 1,577. So far, a total of 2,85,989 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection while the state currently has 4,191 active cases. With the recovery rate improving further to 98% in the state, there are just 2,395 Covid-19 positive patients who are currently hospitalized. The average recovery rate in the country is 96.6%. On the other hand, the case fatality rate (CFR) in the state is 0.54%, being much lower than the country average of 1.4%. Keeping in line with low testing in the state over the last couple of days, 33,298 samples were tested on Sunday. With this, a total of 74.6 lakh samples have been tested so far in the state, taking the number of samples tested per million population to 2 lakh now. Among the districts, GHMC recorded 57 new cases. This was followed by 26 cases in Medchal-Malkajgiri, 24 cases in Karimnagar, 18 cases in Rangareddy and 11 cases in Bhadradri Kothagudem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/299-covid-19-cases-two-deaths-in-state/articleshow/80318962.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Bareilly||SP suspends two constables for operating sex & bribe racket, molesting girls||Pilibhit: The superintendent of police, Jai Prakash Yadav, on Saturday night, suspended Sachin Mishra and Vipin Mishra, two constables posted at Gardvakhera police outpost of Seramau North police station, for running a sex racket, from which they made heavy earnings. The matter was disclosed after an audio of the exploited women went viral on social media.The constables had involved some girls in their criminal conspiracy, who would call the customers over to a place close to the police outpost as specified by the two cops. Then they would conduct a raid on the spot and under the threat of prosecuting the “customers” for illegal activity, they would extract a heavy bribe from them. The girls got a share in the bribe, but were also sexually abused by the two cops.Puranpur circle CO, Pramod Kumar, said the constables, aged between 22 and 23 years, had been posted in Seramau police station circle for the last one-and-a-half years. SP Yadav said the cops had been suspended with immediate effect and an inquiry in the matter marked to the Puranpur circle CO, who has been instructed to file his report at the earliest, after thoroughly examining each and every aspect of the matter.Regarding the accused women, the SP said punitive action against every person involved in the matter would be brought under stern legal action, but would first need the disclosure of the inquiry report over comprehensive details of the crime, its duration, as well as the number and network of people involved and their identification.“Based on findings of the inquiry, we’ll ensure stringent legal action against the two cops, apart from departmental action,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sp-suspends-two-constables-for-operating-sex-bribe-racket-molesting-girls/articleshow/80316956.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 18, 2021||Jaipur||Claim of axing 2.25L trees by villagers doubtful: Cops||JAIPUR: The Alwar police has found a complaint claiming the axing of 2.25 lakh trees by people from 10 villages in a private farmland by a farm owner in Ramgarh doubtful. The complainant, Bhagwati Farm Land, accused the villagers of axing the trees worth Rs 3 crore for 24 hours on January 6. The matter came to light after BJP state president Satish Poonia shot a letter to chief minister Ashok Gehlot urging prompt action against the culprits on January 16. Subakaran Pareek, vice-president of Bhagwati Farm Land, said that around 100 people from 10 villages looted their trees and threatened not to grow trees in future. “The police were informed soon they started axing trees but they came 24 hours later. They were reluctant to file the police complaint and the case has been filed through the court,” said Pareek. Alwar SP Tejaswini Gautam said that they are investigating the case and prima facie found that claims made by the complainant are far away from reality. “The claim of 2.25 lakh trees axed is being investigated, but primary inquiry says that the volume is so huge that it takes a month to axe trees and can’t be done in a day or a few days,” said Gautam. She shared that investigation has revealed that the farm owners had a tiff with the villagers from the nearby villages over them growing eucalyptus trees. “The eucalyptus trees require a great amount of water for full-blown height. The villagers have been objecting them of growing these trees which are fast depleting groundwater affecting them as well,” said Gautam, who agreed that villagers did axe some trees has been confirmed and a team in further examining the claims made by them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/claim-of-axing-2-25l-trees-by-villagers-doubtful-cops/articleshow/80317782.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Ludhiana||Auto parts manufacturers look up to Budget for relief||Ludhiana: There are thousands of auto parts manufacturing units and traders in the city which deal in components for both commercial and passenger vehicles and are supplying to both original equipment manufacturers (OEM) and traders across the country and other nations. The progress of Ludhiana’s auto parts industry, which was once on number one spot, has been derailed during the last few years due to multiple reasons and their cost of production has risen and sales too have taken a hit. Local businessmen once again are eagerly awaiting the Union Budget, hoping that it will have something for them which will help auto parts industry regain the lost space. Speaking to TOI, Gurpargat Singh Kahlon, president of the Auto Parts Manufacturers Association, Ludhiana, “There are several reasons why the auto parts manufacturing industry is lagging behind other sectors and is still not being able to come out of the 2019 auto sector meltdown till now. A lot needs to be done by the central government in this regard. But the high rate of GST of 28% on our products is the biggest roadblock in the progress of our industry and if the central government in this Budget reduces the GST to 18% or 12%, it will be prove to be a game changer for us.” He added that, “Not only the demand of the products will get a push, but also a huge amount of our money which gets blocked as GST with the taxation departments will also be reduced and we will get more capital to invest in our business. We are hopeful that finance minister Nirmala Seetharaman will definitely accept this demand of ours and already several memorandums have been sent to her from the auto parts manufacturers and automotive companies as well to finish the 28% GST slab applicable on the auto industry.” According to Gurpreet Singh, member of National Board for Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), “These are testing times for our industry as after being impacted by the slowdown due to coronavirus, along with low domestic sales, auto parts exports business from Ludhiana was hit very hard. We need a lot of support from the government and as of now the biggest support could be reducing the rate of interest on loans and special concession of at least 2-3% should be given to the auto parts industry, so that they can get credit at less cost and make efforts to expand their businesses. In addition to this, the duty drawback on the export of auto parts should also be enhanced so as to promote auto parts exports from India. The cluster scheme of the central government should be revamped and the formalities required for formation of a cluster of industry should be reduced, so that time and money of businessmen is saved.” Nitin Sharma, another leading auto parts manufacturer, said, “High rate of GST is the biggest hurdle in our progress and it should definitely be brought down to nominal levels. If this is done, then our cost of doing business will largely reduce and we will come on a par with other manufacturers like cycle parts and sewing machine parts manufacturers, where the GST rate is at least 10-16% less than what is applicable on us. Besides this, the finance minister in this Budget should consider reducing the income tax rate applicable on the individuals and partnership firms to a maximum of 15% from current levels. We are hoping that this Budget will definitely have something for our industry and in case none of our demands is met, then the outcome will be very disastrous for our industry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/auto-parts-manufacturers-look-up-to-budget-for-relief/articleshow/80317813.cms||Mohit Behl
January 18, 2021||Meerut||Woman dies , hubby critical in poisoning case||Bijnor: A woman died during treatment while her husband was referred to a Meerut hospital, where he is battling for life. The man’s family claimed that both had taken poison but the woman’s kin alleged that she was killed by her in-laws for dowry. The incident took place at Chhachhri Teep village in Bijnor’s under Himpur police station area. Police said Gulishta and Khaleel were married one-and-a-half years ago but could not get along. Gulishta moved back to her maternal house at Sabarpur Bitara village Her husband had brought her to his house five days ago. But, the two could not resolve their differences. It was alleged that both took poison early on Sunday. Rejecting claims of suicide, Gulista’s family said her in-laws had been demanding a bike and cash as dowry. When they failed to fulfill their demands, her in laws killed her. Dharamveer Singh, Bijnor superintendent of police, said a probe is on. A case is being registered against the accused under relevant sections of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/woman-dies-hubby-critical-in-poisoning-case/articleshow/80316970.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid patient jumps to death from Hyderabad hospital building||HYDERABAD: A 77-year-old Covid-19 patient jumped from the second floor of a private hospital in Hyderabad, the third such suicide in recent months. Police said K Narayana jumped from KIMS hospital in Kondapur around 9.50 am when the nursing staff was getting ready for his daily medication. Hospital said that Narayana had consulted them earlier for depression and was admitted on January 13 after testing positive. Narayana, a trader from Vemulavada lived in Kondapur along with his two sons. “Hospital staff rushed him to the emergency ward to resurrect but in vain. The body was handed over to the family as per GHMC protocol for final rites,” read an official statement from the hospital. Several similar suicide attempts have been foiled at the state-run Gandhi hospital where all Covid-19 positive patients were lodged during the initial months of the pandemic. On August 11, a 60-year-old male patient hanged himself in the bathroom of another corporate hospital in the city. Experts say Covid-19 has triggered depression and anxiety in many patients and has worsened in patients already suffering from depression. While about 50% of post-Covid patients have moderate to severe psychological symptoms, even three months after recovery psychiatrists at the state-run Gandhi hospital say that a marked increase in substance abuse has also been seen among such patients, primarily to cope with the stress of having tested positive. “A diagnosis of Covid-19 and subsequent need for physical distancing has been associated with feelings of isolation and loneliness. Covid-related stigma has also become pervasive and can result in a sense of hopelessness,” said a senior doctor treating novel coronavirus patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-patient-jumps-to-death-from-hospital/articleshow/80319837.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 18, 2021||Jaipur||PM-Kisan scheme: 22.70L women beneficiaries in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: After Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan has the highest number of women beneficiaries under PM-KISAN scheme, over 22.70 lakh, in the country (as of September 7, 2020), revealed an RTI reply obtained from the department of agriculture, cooperation & farmers welfare. Meanwhile, Other Backward Classes (OBCs) account for the single largest segment of beneficiaries in Rajasthan at 48.74%. Moreover, Jaipur is among the lowest covered districts under PM-Kisan at a little more than 5% (of the population covered in the district), the response revealed. Uttar Pradesh has the highest number of women beneficiaries, at 42.72 lakh. Rajasthan is followed by states like Bihar (21.52 lakh women beneficiaries), Maharashtra (19.87 lakh) and Andhra Pradesh (18.45 lakh). In Rajasthan, Mizoram, Puducherry, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Andhra Pradesh, women constitute more than 1/3rd of the total number beneficiaries, reveals the response to an RTI plea filed by Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative’s (CHRI) Venkatesh Nayak. If the number of beneficiaries is taken as a proportion of the population covered in the district, among the top 100 districts that report the highest number of PM-KISAN beneficiaries, the lowest coverage is in Pune, at 4.93%. In Salem (Tamil Nadu) and Jaipur, the coverage is a little more than 5%. In Gaya and Madhubani districts of Bihar, the coverage is under 7% each. The RTI response also states that while Uttar Pradesh has the largest number of beneficiaries from the Scheduled Caste category (43.94 lakh), Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh have more than 9.5 lakh beneficiaries each in the same category. Bihar (8.23 lakh) and Maharashtra (7.19 lakh) are at 4th and 5th positions, respectively, in the SC category followed by Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu which have between 6-5 lakh beneficiaries from the SC category. SC category beneficiaries account for more than 15% of total beneficiaries in Rajasthan, it revealed. Also, Madhya Pradesh accounted for the largest number of PM-KISAN beneficiaries belonging to ST communities (16.52 lakh) followed by Odisha (10.57 lakh), Gujarat (9.59 lakh), Rajasthan (8.61 lakh), Chhattisgarh (8.16 lakh) and Maharashtra (7.03 lakh).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pm-kisan-scheme-22-70l-women-beneficiaries-in-raj/articleshow/80317790.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Private schools in Telangana want sanitation fee to ward off Covid||HYDERABAD: The budget private schools in Telangana may charge a sanitation fee to maintain Covid-19 precautions and clean their premises. They said that the state should evaluate and see how much it would cost per child and fix an amount as the sanitation fee, which either government or parents should bear as the managements are facing severe financial stress. “We have already asked the state to help budget private schools by directing local bodies to take care of sanitation work at our schools but there was no response. We will be meeting the education minister and other officials again on Tuesday to put forth some of our demands,” said Y Shekar Rao, president, Telangana Recognised School Managements Association (TRSMA). He said as class 9 and class 10 students will be hardly 10% to 15% of total strength, it will not be feasible for managements to bear the sanitation cost. The managements also demanded that the state should extend the current academic year until July 2021 so that students will have at least 100 to 120 days. “We are demanding for assessment based promotion instead of promoting all students like last year. If all students are promoted without having any assessment, there will be an increase in the number of dropouts in the coming years. Students will not understand anything in the next academic year as they have not reached their learning outcomes this year and in the academic year 2019-20,” said S Madhusudhan Reddy, general secretary, TRSMA. They asked the state to reopen schools for students of class 6 to class 8 in a phase-wise manner. To begin with, the state should permit students of all classes to attend school for doubts clearance and submission of assignments, they added. The managements said state should immediately release the academic calendar and assessment dates for 2020-21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvt-schools-want-sanitation-fee-to-ward-off-covid/articleshow/80318966.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 18, 2021||Meerut||Cop demands bribe from farmer, suspended||Amroha: A sub-inspector (SI) was suspended for allegedly accepting a bribe from a local farmer in Amroha district.The accused SI Vipin Kumar had seized a tractor and later demanded bribe from the farmer to release it.The farmer then approached the superintendent of police (SP) and narrated the incident following which departmental action was taken.According to Amroha SP Suniti, the farmer complained against the SI two days ago. "I have suspended him and set a probe in this matter," the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cop-demands-bribe-from-farmer-suspended/articleshow/80316977.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 18, 2021||Kolhapur||Marathi actress found dead in Satara||Kolhapur: Jaya Patil, a 65-year-old Marathi actress best known for her role in the web series titled ‘Tatatut, was found with her throat slit at her house in the Krishna Nagar area of Satara city on Saturday morning. Top district police officers visited the scene and asked Satara city police to expedite the investigation. However, the police are yet to have a breakthrough. The incident came to light after Patil’s neighbours found her lying in a pool of blood. She had reportedly just returned from a TV serial shoot. Police inspector A R Manjare said, “We are investigating all angles and have collected evidence. Some jewellery is missing from her house. However, there is no evidence of a house break-in. The door had been opened from the inside.” Patil, who was a home-maker most her life, found her passion in acting in recent years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/marathi-actress-found-dead-in-satara/articleshow/80317842.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Ludhiana||Vaccinate factory workers also, demand businessmen||Ludhiana: A day after launch of the coronavirus vaccination programme, city businessmen are demanding that in addition to the frontline workers, factory workers be administered the shot of vaccine. According to businessmen, they are ready to organise special camps in industrial areas and they are also demanding that the government should ensure that the dose is given free to the workers. Businessmen are of the view that factory workers face huge risks of contracting coronavirus and when infected, a worker can prove to be a spreader because of the high number of persons he comes in contact with, therefore there is urgent need of vaccinating them first. Giving more information, Narinder Bhamra, president of the Fasteners Manufacturers Association of India, said, “We congratulate the Centre and state government for the launch of the vaccination programme in Punjab and the entire business community is wishing that this deadly pandemic is uprooted from our country and state at the earliest. But at the same time there is a dire need for giving vaccination shots to the most vulnerable groups like factory workers who cannot afford the costly treatment for coronavirus and also are at high risk of spreading the virus to others due to their lifestyle like living in groups in ‘vehras’ and other factors. The state government should announce a special programme for covering factory workers at the earliest and also make sure that the vaccine shot is given free of cost to them. Also, instead of getting their vaccination done at hospitals, which can be very time consuming and not all workers will get covered, special camps should be organised in industrial areas and factories just like the coronavirus testing camps, which were of great success.” According to Jagbir Singh Sokhi, president of the Sewing Machine Development Club, “Like frontline workers and senior citizens, factory workers and migrant labourers too need to be given preference in the coronavirus vaccine dose. We have been very fortunate that the till now no case of mass contraction of coronavirus among industrial workers surfaced in the city, but we cannot take chances of not getting them vaccinated timely. We, therefore, request the state government and district administration to chalk out a programme for timely vaccination of our workers as Ludhiana has the biggest number of workers and migrants in the state and it will take months to cover majority of them even if the program has to start today.” Sokhi added that, “The best solution of vaccinating factory workers will be by organising special camps and mobile vans in the industrial areas by way of which the workers can be vaccinated in large numbers daily. Moreover, if their vaccination is carried out in hospitals, it will be very difficult to keep a proper check on whether or not all from a factory have been vaccinated or not. Also, there will be several challenges like their transportation and compliance with the timings fixed by the medical team.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/vaccinate-factory-workers-also-demand-businessmen/articleshow/80317840.cms||Mohit Behl
January 18, 2021||Aurangabad||MSEDCL sends disconnection notices||Aurangabad: The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has started sending power disconnection notices to consumers who have pending dues. Some consumers have been taken aback by the notices — being sent on their registered mobile numbers under section 56 of the Electricity Act, 2003 — as they were expecting concessions following the Covid outbreak. Aasha Washikar, a consumer, said the disconnection notice was a shocker for those who were hoping for a partial or full waiver of bills during the lockdown period. “The state government kept vacillating on the power bill waiver issue. Which led to confusion among consumers. While the ministers are yet to declare their final stand, the MSEDCL has warned us of power cut in case of non-payment of dues,” she said. Civic activist Rajendra Datey-Patil, who has been following up on the demand for power bill waiver, said it was inappropriate for the MSEDCL to send the disconnection notices. “The chief minister’s office had told us that the demand for waiver or concession was forwarded to the energy department for necessary consideration. While society is gradually recovering from the pandemic, it is harsh of the MSEDCL to threaten people with power supply disconnection over non-payment of dues,” he said. By mid-June, when the pandemic situation was at its peak, people in the eight districts of Marathwada (which has over 21.9 lakh registered consumers) owed the MSEDCL more than Rs 2,800 crore. While the latest recovery figures could not be ascertained, MSEDCL authorities said the process had picked up pace since October. Bhujang Khandare, the MSEDCL chief engineer for Aurangabad zone, on Sunday said the consumers could pay the dues in three instalments among other recovery measures. “We made calls to the consumers and paid door-to-door visits seeking the payment of dues. Such measures yielded results as a considerable number of consumers have now cleared their dues. If any formal announcement of relief in the power bills comes from the government, we will pass on the benefits to the consumers, but now they have to pay,” he said. Maharashtra energy minister Nitin Raut could not be reached for a comment despite several attempts to contact him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/msedcl-sends-disconnection-notices/articleshow/80316967.cms||Prasad Joshi
January 18, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana artist’s painting enters India Book of Records||Ludhiana: Vikas Joshi, a 44-year-old investor by profession, is a passionate artist whose painting has made an entry in the India Book of Records. The painting named, ‘Parineeti’, which took him four months to complete, received the title of a ‘ Realistic beautiful oil painting of a small girl’ on Sunday. Joshi, a resident of Sukhmani Enclave adjoining Barewal Road here, had sent his entry back in November and the formalities took almost one and half months to be completed. He received the mail in December 2020 about the confirmation of the title and he received a kit, which included a certificate, medal, book, batch, stickers and an ID card on Sunday. Sharing details of the painting, Joshi said, “The painting is on a 30x30 canvas. The painting features a girl child, who is the daughter of Sanjay Thakur based in Barot, Himachal Pradesh. I had visited Barot back in June 2019 and I stayed in the hotel owned by Sanjay Thakur. The intricate detail work on the knitwear had made it one big contender to be in the record books of India.” Joshi started painting in the month of February 2020 and the process was really slow in the beginning. He said, “During lockdown, I sped it up and the lockdown gave me a chance to complete it faster. The painting took more than four months to be completed. Else, it would have taken me over a year to paint it as I am working and generally get free time in the evenings and at weekends.” Highlighting the minute details, he said, “The sweater of the subject has more than 3,500 knits individually and precisely painted with brush and paint. The hair of the subject, the wooden background, the denim texture and all other elements of the artwork have been created hyper realistically, and together the painting is believably the most realistic artwork. Individually, painting every knit of a dress with each column and row precisely matched has never been attempted before in such depth of realism.” While giving a message, he said, “ I believe passion is most important for progressing and excelling in any field. I consider creating art as a kind of meditation, where the total focus shifts towards creating detailed artwork and that helps me control the various stresses in life.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-artists-painting-enters-india-book-of-records/articleshow/80317856.cms||Mehak Jain
January 18, 2021||Kolhapur||Kolhapur dist gets 8 new cases||Kolhapur: As many as eight new cases of Covid-19 were reported across the Kolhapur district on Sunday, taking the number of active cases to 89. Also, according to the daily bulletin, no death was reported in Kolhapur due to the contagion. A total of six people were also discharged from various hospitals across the district.  The total number of Covid cases across Kolhapur district has gone up to 49,757, out of which 1,712 have succumbed to infection while 47,956 have been cured. 2 deaths in Sangli In Sangli district, 16 fresh cases were reported along with two deaths. The active cases in the district have come down to 196. So far, the district has reported 47,923 cases out of which 1,745 have succumbed to the infection while 45,982 have recovered. 72 cases in Satara Meanwhile, Satara district reported 72 fresh cases and one death due to coronavirus. Currently the district has 799 active patients and so far 1,805 patients have succumbed to infection. The district has reported 55,550 cases of Covid-19 since the start of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-dist-gets-8-new-cases/articleshow/80317853.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Meerut||Woman booked for thrashing nonagenarian mom-in-law||Agra: A 90-year-old woman, Maya Devi, was allegedly beaten up by her 60-year-old daughter-in-law with a broom and a stick in Agra’s Bah area for going out of the house without informing. A video of the incident, that went viral on social media, purportedly shows Maya Devi lying on a cot crying and screaming for help as her daughter-in-law, Munni Devi, thrashes her. Taking cognisance of the video, Agra police has registered an FIR against Munni Devi under section 151 of CrPC (arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences). The woman was produced in the court of SDM and later released on a bail. K Ventak Ashok, SP (East) told TOI that both are widows and stay together at Bhaupura village. Munni Devi told police that she was upset as her mother-in-law has a habit of going out without informing and she has to search for her across the village. The SP said Munni Devi was instructed not to misbehave with the nonagenarian woman and respect her. Police gave food to Maya Devi and assured her help||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/woman-booked-for-thrashing-nonagenarian-mom-in-law/articleshow/80317010.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Meerut||One killed, many injured in accidents on e-ways||Agra: One person was killed and several others were left injured when a Volvo bus carrying 38 passengers lost control and fell into a ditch after it rammed into a truck on Lucknow Expressway in Agra’s Dauki area on Sunday. The accident was caused by low visibility due to dense fog.The bus was heading towards Delhi from Lucknow.The deceased was identified as the bus driver, Ramnath, and the injured were admitted to the hospital, police said.According to SP (East) K Venkatesh Ashok, the accident took place around 9:30 am. He said the body of the deceased has been sent for postmortem.Earlier, eight vehicles were involved in a pile up near milestone 127 on Yamuna Expressway in Mathura due to low visibility around 5am. No fatalities were reported, the injured were admitted to hospital, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/one-killed-many-injured-in-accidents-on-e-ways/articleshow/80317014.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Kolhapur||Active cases almost tripled in Kolhapur district in a week||Kolhapur: The number of active Covid cases in Kolhapur district has almost tripled — from 31 to 89 — in just a week due to a marginal rise in the number of cases reported daily and the drop in the number of recoveries. With 40 cases, the Kolhapur city has the highest number of active patients in the district. Of the 89 active patients, 37 are in home isolation while the rest are undergoing treatment in the Covid centres and private hospitals. The Chhatrapati Pramila Raje civil hospital has the highest number of Covid patients (15), followed by a private multi-speciality hospital that has 14 patients. Kadambari Balkawade, the civic chief of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC), has asked the health authorities to speed up contact tracings in localities from where the fresh Covid cases are reported to contain the spread of the infection. She has sought more teams for contact tracing. Currently, the city health department conducts 500 throat swab tests every day. When compared to the number of tests done, the number of swabs testing positive remains low. Sandip Gharge, the assistant commissioner of KMC, said: “Currently, the recovery rate stands at 97%, which has increased significantly when compared to the recovery rate a couple of months ago. At present, 1% of the throat swabs test positive. Most of the active patients are asymptomatic.” Over the past couple of weeks, the number of cases found daily has been in double digits while those recovering are in single digits. There was a reverse trend earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/active-cases-almost-tripled-in-kolhapur-district-in-a-week/articleshow/80317848.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Kolhapur||CM seeks Mahabaleshwar tourism development plan||Kolhapur: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked the Satara district administration to prepare a proposal to give a tourism boost to Mahabaleshwar within a month. Thackeray has instructed the officials to prepare the plan with focus on eco-friendly aspects of tourism, development of the Venna lake and a shopping area. He conducted a meeting at his official residence in Mumbai, which was attended by environment minister Aditya Thackeray, chief secretary Sanjay Kumar and district collector Shekhar Singh. Thackeray suggested the proposed plan should stress on increasing drinking water in Mahabaleshwar. For this, the height of Venna lake should be increased. The plan should cover short-term and long-term requirements of the hill station. The proposals of the short-term works should be sent to the government immediately for which, the financial allocation would be done. All the development works should be undertaken by taking the locals into confidence. He said three departments — tourism, environment and forest — should work in coordination. Thackeray said the Venna lake should be renovated and beautified by January 31. The CM also said the municipal council should take initiative for the proposed polo ground as it needs permission from the Centre. Aditya Thackeray said the plan should be made sensitively considering the natural features of Mahabaleshwar. The development should have an integrated approach in preparing all the facilities, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cm-seeks-mahabaleshwar-tourism-development-plan/articleshow/80317859.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Ludhiana||Biz assns donate 1950 PPE kits||Ludhiana: The Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) with Central Tools Room (CTR) and GIZ (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit) Germany have donated 1,950 PPE (personal protective equipment) kits to local health authorities to fight the menace of coronavirus. Giving more information about the initiative, Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of CICU, said, “Our association is working closely with GIZ and we have recently established an innovation centre at our association office to jointly work together in several verticals. The main aim of GIZ is to work as a service provider in the field of international cooperation for sustainable development and international education work and generate and implement ideas for political, social and economic change. Today’s donation of the PPE kits in association with GIZ and CTR was a very small initiative aimed at safeguarding our frontline workers, who are putting their lives at risk to treat coronavirus patients. In the coming days too similar initiatives will continue to be done by us jointly.” According to Honey Sethi, joint secretary of CICU, “Responding to the Covid-19 pandemic these kits have been donated, which include body cover, shoe covers, bouffant caps, 3-ply mask, pairs of sterilized gloves, hand sanitiser, face-shield and disposable bag to Dr Gulshan Rai Mehta, senior medical officer (administration), civil hospital, Ludhiana, for the health frontline warriors. During the occasion, prominent businessmen, officials of CTR and other personalities too were present.” Meanwhile, AP Sharma, general manager, CTR Ludhiana, urged the city businessmen to avail of the tooling related services from the CTR, which can help in starting the manufacturing of the surgical instruments locally and can help in achieving the ‘atam nirbhar Bharat’ call given by the government of India. Others present on this occasion included RR Sharma, Sharnpal Singh, Jagdeep Saini, Mrinankush Datta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/biz-assns-donate-1950-ppe-kits/articleshow/80317861.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Aurangabad||Maha allies Shiv Sena and Congress spar over renaming Aurangabad city||MUMBAI: The war of words between the Shiv Sena and the Congress, both part of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), resumed on Sunday. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut in his weekly Sunday column in the party mouthpiece Saamna stated that “secular” parties like the Congress were not in favour of renaming certain cities for fear of offending minorities who are their vote bank. Revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat of the Congress, while hitting back at the Shiv Sena, asked why the Shiv Sena and BJP had not renamed Aurangabad in the five years when they were in power together.  “Our ruling partner Shiv Sena is worried about its vote bank, which is the reason behind starting a ‘saamna’ ( a competition”) for renaming,” Thorat said, adding that there was no threat to the MVA government in the state. Raut, executive editor of Saamna, in his weekly column Rokhthok taunted the Congress for not supporting the Shiv Sena for the renaming of Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar. He raised questions over the “secular image” of the Congress. “Aurangzeb was not secular but a very cruel administrator. He had restrictions on Hindu festivals, religious ceremonies, worships. He was a fanatic. He wanted to make India a Muslim country,” the daily newspaper said. Saamna, while coming down heavily on the Congress, said: “Those opposing the renaming have raised questions, asking whether renaming would solve the people’s problems or the development issues. Whatever it is, there is a large section of people who do not want any sign left behind of Aurangzeb, at least in Maharashtra. One can call it Shiv bhakti (devotion to Shivaji Maharaj), Maharashtra’s self-esteem or the sense of history.” A statement issued by Thorat on social media stated: “Our ruling partner Sena is worried about its votes, hence it has started Saamna for renaming.” “Sambhaji Maharaj is our deity and we will oppose if one would try to use his name for vote politics,” Thorat said. Slamming the BJP, he said that people treat statements by BJP as a form of entertainment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/our-ruling-ally-is-in-a-renaming-contest-cong/articleshow/80321552.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||Maha allies Shiv Sena and Congress spar over renaming Aurangabad city||MUMBAI: The war of words between the Shiv Sena and the Congress, both part of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), resumed on Sunday. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut in his weekly Sunday column in the party mouthpiece Saamna stated that “secular” parties like the Congress were not in favour of renaming certain cities for fear of offending minorities who are their vote bank. Revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat of the Congress, while hitting back at the Shiv Sena, asked why the Shiv Sena and BJP had not renamed Aurangabad in the five years when they were in power together.  “Our ruling partner Shiv Sena is worried about its vote bank, which is the reason behind starting a ‘saamna’ ( a competition”) for renaming,” Thorat said, adding that there was no threat to the MVA government in the state. Raut, executive editor of Saamna, in his weekly column Rokhthok taunted the Congress for not supporting the Shiv Sena for the renaming of Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar. He raised questions over the “secular image” of the Congress. “Aurangzeb was not secular but a very cruel administrator. He had restrictions on Hindu festivals, religious ceremonies, worships. He was a fanatic. He wanted to make India a Muslim country,” the daily newspaper said. Saamna, while coming down heavily on the Congress, said: “Those opposing the renaming have raised questions, asking whether renaming would solve the people’s problems or the development issues. Whatever it is, there is a large section of people who do not want any sign left behind of Aurangzeb, at least in Maharashtra. One can call it Shiv bhakti (devotion to Shivaji Maharaj), Maharashtra’s self-esteem or the sense of history.” A statement issued by Thorat on social media stated: “Our ruling partner Sena is worried about its votes, hence it has started Saamna for renaming.” “Sambhaji Maharaj is our deity and we will oppose if one would try to use his name for vote politics,” Thorat said. Slamming the BJP, he said that people treat statements by BJP as a form of entertainment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/our-ruling-ally-is-in-a-renaming-contest-cong/articleshow/80319846.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 18, 2021||Nagpur||Several bulls injured in illegal Maharashtra event||NAGPUR: An illegal bull fighting event was organized near Kinhimohi village in Ashti taluka of Wardha on Saturday when at least 150 bulls were brought to participate. Several animals were left injured and unattended after the fight. An eyewitness narrated that around 50,000 enthusiasts cheered as the bulls gored each other. Even though bull fighting is banned by the state government, the event was held as police took no action. It’s learnt that the bulls were specially prepared for the event by injecting medicines and also after administering intoxicating substances through their feed. “The bulls were brought from Yavatmal, Washim, Amravati, Warud and other places. The winner was to get a cash prize of Rs50,000, runner-up Rs30,000 and 3rd place Rs10,000,” said a source who was present at the spot. Organizers had chosen an open land in a forested area for the bullfighting. To make it easy for spectators to identify the bulls and place bets, they were painted red and blue. Videos that went viral showed that the bulls were being pushed into a fight and lathi-wielding bouncers were monitoring the unruly crowd. SP Prashant Holkar said an offence would be registered against the organizers for cruelty to animals. “We would initiate action against the perpetrators and also investigate if there was any dereliction of duty,” he said. Animal activist Smita Mire of the Save Speechless Organization, who had received the information from animal lover Abhijit Zade, said such a massive event could not have taken place without police having any information about it. “It’s also a matter of surprise how the bulls were ferried from across Vidarbha without any police intervention on the way or at the nakabandi points,” she said. Holding bull fights is a custom in some tribal-dominated villages of Ashti. Some villagers had sought police permission for the event. It was denied yet they went ahead with it. Sources from Ashti said the Chavan brothers were the main organizers of the event. “Such events are not publicized, the message goes through word of mouth,” said the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/illegal-bullfight-held-in-ashti-severl-injured/articleshow/80319041.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 18, 2021||Meerut||Two killed in separate road accidents in Firozabad||Agra: Two people were killed in two different road accidents in Firozabad district on Sunday.A UP roadways bus collided with a tractor on NH-2 under the Sirsaganj police station. The tractor driver died on the spot. In another accident, a truck lost control and crashed into a roadside divider resulting in the driver's death and leaving the helper critically injured. The accident took place under Narkhi police station.According to the police, poor visibility caused by dense fog during early morning hours resulted in both the accidents.Mainpuri resident, Kamlesh, 38, had gone to Sirsaganj mandi with potatoes. While returning, his tractor collided with the bus. The bus driver and passengers suffered minor injuries. Sirsaganj SHO Girish Chand Gautam said, “Dense fog resulted in the accident. We have not received any formal complaint yet." In the second accident, Ambedkar Nagar resident, Pappu Pandey (30), the truck driver, died on the way to hospital. Besides, helper Monu Pandey, 18, was injured. Narkhi SHO KK Tiwari said, “The truck was travelling from Allahabad to Delhi in dense fog. The driver lost control over the vehicle and collided into a divider. His family has been informed. The condition of the injured helper is said to be stable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-killed-in-separate-road-accidents-in-firozabad/articleshow/80317019.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Aurangabad||Used tyres, rubble to reduce expenses of cycle tracks||Aurangabad: While the first bicycle track in the city has become a reality, the four other dedicated lanes coming up across the city will not only be cost-effective, but also durable in nature. Deputy CEO of Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Limited (ASCDCL) Pushkal Shivam on Sunday said the remaining tracks would have used tyres and left over rubble from construction sites during construction. “We will be using these material as a cost-cutting measure without compromising with the durability. The upcoming tracks will be unique in nature due to modern and sustainable construction technologies,” he said. While the maiden bicycle track from Kranti Chowk to railway station was formally inaugurated on Sunday, the city is set to get other such tracks from CIDCO bus stand to Harsul T-Point, Harsul T-Point to Dilli Gate, Dilli Gate to Bibi ka Maqbara, Hotel Taj to Seven Hills via Central Naka and Kranti Chowk to Airport. The ASCDCL authorities said all these tracks had a financial outlay of Rs 5 crore, but could be constructed at a lower cost. “The use of old tyres and rubble would bring down the overall cost. We hope maximum saving if all goes as per plan,” Shivam said. Elaborating further, he said the bicycle tracks are planned in such a way that they would cover maximum tourist spots in Aurangabad. “The work of laying down a bicycle track between CIDCO bus stand and Harsul T-Point will be taken up next, followed by other tracks. Some of these tracks can be speedily constructed as there are no hurdles on the roads concerned. We have set end of March as the deadline for finishing all the tracks,” Shivam said. The ASCDCL has resolved to create a 20-km bicycle track in the city as a part of Cycles4Change Challenge introduced under the Smart City Mission of the central government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/used-tyres-rubble-to-reduce-expenses-of-cycle-tracks/articleshow/80317867.cms||Prasad Joshi
January 18, 2021||Mumbai||In rare case, stalker pleads guilty after doing jail term||MUMBAI: In a rare instance under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Posco) Act, after spending almost three years in jail — that’s the maximum sentence that the crime of stalking a minor child attracts — a 33-year-old pavement dweller, whose trial had been stalled due to the Covid-19 pandemic, pleaded guilty to the charges. When an accused pleads guilty, he forfeits his right to a trial and is directly convicted by the court. Mejbauddin Khan’s latest stance was in sharp contrast to the time prior to the pandemic, when he had pleaded not guilty to the same charges. Finding now that Khan had made the recent decision voluntarily, the special POCSO Act court last week sentenced him to the time already spent in jail. A penalty of Rs 100 was also imposed on Khan. “The accused is in jail since March 18, 2018, which is more than two years and the trial may not be concluded within the reasonable time due to the Covid pandemic and thus the pleading guilty by the accused from jail is voluntary without any coercion, misunderstanding and with free consent and needs to be accepted by imposing reasonable sentence...” the court said. A complaint had been registered by the 14-year-old girl’s mother. The mother had told the police that Khan used to talk on the phone outside their home and keep a watch on them. The other had further alleged that the accused pursued the teenage girl about four to five times when she had left home to buy household articles. The mother also said that the child informed her on March 18, 2018, that whenever she would leave the house, the accused would follow her and ask her for her name. The mother then complained to the child’s father. When the girl’s father confronted the accused and asked him the reason for his behaviour, he had replied saying that he wanted to marry the child. A crowd had then gathered at the spot and they had beaten up the accused. The girl’s mother went to the police and lodged a complaint against him . The accused was subsequently arrested. Khan was found guilty for the offences of stalking under Indian Penal Code and sexual harassment under Pocso Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-rare-case-stalker-pleads-guilty-after-doing-jail-term/articleshow/80306183.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 18, 2021||Dehradun||In a first in 5 months, no new Covid-19 cases in five dist||Dehradun: For the first time in the last five months, five districts — Almora, Bageshwar, Pauri, Tehri and Pithoragarh — recorded no new cases of Covid-19. In all, the state reported 112 new infections on Sunday. This is the lowest single-day count of cases in several months. The Covid-19 case tally in Uttarakhand stood at 94,803 on Sunday. The health department tested around 8,625 samples on Sunday. Among the positive cases recorded, the maximum of 59 infections were reported from Dehradun, followed by 16 from Nainital, and 13 from Udham Singh Nagar, six from Chamoli, three cases each from Champawat and Rudraprayag, and one case from Uttarkashi. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, said, “Five more coronavirus-related deaths on Sunday took the toll of the virus to 1,611 in the state. The death rate remains 1.7%. Also, 98 more people recovered from Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the recovery rate to 94.5% in the state. Till Sunday, Uttarakhand had 2,354 active cases of coronavirus.” Meanwhile, Dr KK Tamta, medical superintendent of Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH), who was given a shot of Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday, had to be shifted to the hospital on Sunday after he fell sick. The doctors, however, maintained that his illness was “the outcome of alcohol consumption and not any adverse vaccine reaction.” “We have conducted all tests and it was found that his electrolyte level got imbalanced, possibly due to alcohol consumption. He is doing fine now and would be discharged from the hospital soon,” said Dr NS Khatri, additional superintendent at GDMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-a-first-in-5-months-no-new-covid-19-cases-in-five-dist/articleshow/80317041.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 18, 2021||Ludhiana||Youth body takes out bike rally in farmers’ support||Ludhiana: Members of Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha Youth Organisation took out a motorcycle rally in support of farmers here on Sunday. The participants in the rally comprised youths from various parts of the city. Ajay Daronch, Rinku and Angad, members of the organisation, which is based in Basti Jodhewal, said that more than 100 members of their organisation took part in the bike rally, which started from Basti Jodhewal and then passed through Jalandhar bypass, Ghanta Ghar, Jagraon bridge and reached new courts, where they spent some time with persons sitting in support of farmers. They added that after that they returned to Basti Jodhewal via Mall Road, Mata Rani Chowk, Chhawni Mohalla and Shivpuri. The members of the organisation said that they had around 200 youths associated with their group and they belong to Ludhiana and surrounding areas. The participants who were having flags supporting farmers on their bikes were raising slogans in favour of farmers and against Modi government. They also had placards with “No Farmer, No Food”. “Kisan Mazdoor Ekta Zindabad” etc. written on those. Gurpreet Kataria, a member of the group, said that the farmers’ agitation was not linked to them only but with middle class families as well. He added that contract farming in the USA and Canada had shown that if such laws were implemented, then how corporate would charge more from middle class for food articles, etc. Gurpreet alleged that it would be for the corporates to decide what to pick and what not to pick from farmers and they would bargain with them as well. He added that people should think about the impact of these laws on them as well. The protesters demanded repealing of the three farming laws passed by the Union government and also vouched to support the farmers in the agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/youth-body-takes-out-bike-rally-in-farmers-support/articleshow/80317876.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Goa||Kalasa valley home to diverse species of butterflies||Keri: The Kalasa rivulet that flows through the forested border areas of Karnataka and Goa, has a vivid diversity of butterfly species, which make for a most soothing and colourful sight for the nature lovers. Recently, during a trek organised by Vivekanand Environment Awareness Brigade, volunteers got an opportunity to enjoy the sighting of some of the most attractive and endemic butterflies of the Western Ghats. “Inside the river valley, while trekking, we saw mostly forested species of butterflies engrossed in mud pudding on the bank or the Malabar tree nymph, an endemic butterfly to the Western Ghats, hovering over tree canopy. The evergreen forest and cool climate help the butterflies to thrive freely in the area,” Subodh Naik, a wildlifer from Bicholim said. Suryakant Gaonkar from Bhuipal, Sattari, who has studied wild flowers of the region said, “One can get glimpses of butterflies from the largest swallow tailed butterflies of India and the Southern Birdwing, to the smallest among the butterflies, the Grass Jewel, in the forest.” During the trek, wildlifers saw the Paris Peacock butterfly, which has bright metallic peacock green and metallic blue wings and a series of crimson spots. The endemic Malabar Raven butterfly with dark black wings and white spots on the fore wing was also spotted. Ramesh Zarmekar from Surla, Sattari, said, “Though the October-November period is the most favourable season for butterfly sighting, one can sight butterflies in the Kalasa river valley throughout the year because the climate is conducive for these insects.” “The area also offers sighting of the Lime butterfly with wings of shades of yellow and red and the Blue Mormon, a forest species with pale blue markings on the hind wings,” he added. The area is in the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary of Sattari and is the natural habitat for numerous butterfly species.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kalasa-valley-home-to-diverse-species-of-butterflies/articleshow/80319009.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
January 18, 2021||Aurangabad||Beware of job fraudsters: SCR||Aurangabad: The South Central Railway (SCR) officials have sounded an alarm and warned railway job aspirants to be wary of fraudulent elements duping innocent candidates by promising jobs at different railway offices. Chief public relations officer of SCR Ch Rakesh said the job aspirants must not fall prey to such fraudsters. “It is reiterated that railway jobs are offered only after candidates pass the exams conducted by the Railway Recruitment Board (RRB) and the Railway Recruitment Cell (RRC) after well-publicised notifications. All aspirants of railway jobs are cautioned against criminals who might lure them with false promises in exchange for money,” he said. Rakesh said that all relevant information about vacancies in the Indian Railways is available on official RRB and RRC websites. “Candidates are requested to access the details from authorized online platforms from time-to-time for genuine information,” he added. The RRB looks after recruitment for group-C posts whereas RRC takes care of posts to be filled under group-D. The group-A and group-B posts are filled through UPSC and Indian Engineering Services (IES) among other exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beware-of-job-fraudsters-scr/articleshow/80317875.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Ranchi||Those vaccinated don influencer’s hat, urge people to take shots||Ranchi: Many of the healthcare workers who were vaccinated on Day 1 of the vaccination drive have now become influencers and are encouraging other beneficiaries to get themselves immunized. Noted surgeon Dr Ravishankar Das, who is in his mid-sixties, said the vaccination process was completely smooth and no one should have any apprehension about the programme. “The vaccine is completely safe and I do not think there are major side-effects,” he said. The former head of the ENT department at Rims, octogenarian Dr Raghav Sharan, too, received the vaccine and encouraged others to not miss their turn. “If I can take the vaccine at my age, then I guess no one should have any problem with the vaccine. The vaccination programme will help us defeat the pandemic.” On being asked how he was feeling after getting immunised, Dr Sharan said: “I did not experience any adverse reaction. Having said that, there are always a few people who scare others. It seems that if the vaccine costed a few thousand rupees and was manufactured in a foreign country, everyone would have wanted a dose of it.” Meanwhile, Ranchi DC Chhavi Ranjan posted a video. In the video, Ranjan said the vaccine was completely safe and it was approved after proper tests and trials. “We are doing everything possible to ensure that no beneficiary faces any inconvenience at the centres and I would like to appeal to one and all that they should come forward and get themselves inoculated,” the DC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/those-vaccinated-don-influencers-hat-urge-people-to-take-shots/articleshow/80317499.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 18, 2021||Goa||More Indian short films, fewer documentaries: Jury member||Panaji: Head of jury for non-feature films in the Indian Panorama section, Haobam Paban Kumar, on Sunday said that the number of documentary films that entered the race were far fewer this year as compared to the previous years. Paban Kumar said that there were more short films and less of documentaries. Paban Kumar said that documentaries form a very important segment of films, but most of the entries were of longer duration this year, putting them in the short film or feature film segment. He suggested Iffi organisers can consider renaming the non-feature film category under Indian Panorama as ‘documentary and short films’ so more entries qualify for selection. Under non-feature film section, 20 of 143 films were selected for screening. The head of the feature film category under Indian Panorama lauded the information and broadcasting ministry for going ahead with organising Iffi in a year when many film festivals across the world were not held. “There were 180 films (of which 20 films were selected under feature films and it was an enormous task for every jury member. However the films were selected unanimously without any dispute,” said John Mathew Matthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/more-indian-short-films-fewer-documentaries-jury-member/articleshow/80318992.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara: Man dies after falling into 150 feet deep well||VADODARA: A 24-year-old man, who accidentally fell in over 150 feet deep well at Methi village in Karjan taluka on Sunday afternoon. Firemen took three hours to bring him out and was unconscious and was profusely bleeding due to head injury. He was declared dead at the hospital. Fire officials said that Bhavesh Patanwadiya fell in the well at around 2.30 pm and not having any resources locally to bring him out, the villagers sought help from Vadodara Fire and Emergency Services as the well was too deep. “We had to send our men several times inside until we could reach the bottom. It took us three hours to bring him out,” said station officer Nikunj Azad. The well was dry due to which Patanwadiya had suffered injury on his head. After he was brought out, cops took him to hospital for treatment. “We are still trying to figure it out how he fell as he was alone,” said Soma Patel, sarpanch of Methi village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-dies-after-falling-into-150-ft-deep-well/articleshow/80316843.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Ranchi||Banna seeks free vaccine for Jharkhand||Ranchi: State health minister Banna Gupta on Sunday said the Covishield vaccine should be provided free of cost to poor states like Jharkhand. “In the run-up to Bihar assembly polls last year, the BJP-led Union government had promised to give vaccines free of cost but now they seem to have backtracked,” Gupta said, adding, “I demand that the vaccines gradually be made free of cost.” Earlier, chief minister Hemant Soren had asked for free vaccines for Jharkhand as well. Gupta criticised BJP and its ministers for glorying Prime Minister Narendra Modi and for giving him all the credit for the vaccine, “when it is the scientists that deserve all the accolades for developing it”. He said, “The scientists should be given the Bharat Ratna for they deserve it and no one else should take credit for it.” He added, “I would have lauded the Prime Minister had he come forward and taken the first shot to build confidence among the people. In other countries where the inoculation drive was kicked off, the high-ranking officials were the first ones to take the jab in order to instil confidence among the public. In fact, even I was ready to take the shot but didn’t get permission from the Centre.” Meanwhile, the state-wide roll-out of the vaccination programme was conducted successfully on Saturday with none of the beneficiaries coming across any health-related complications, Gupta said. He demanded that Jharkhand be allowed to increase the number of vaccination centres so that remote areas can be covered. “Against our proposal for 129 centres, we were only allotted 48 centres. During our video conferencing session with the Union health minister (Dr Harsh Vardhan) on Sunday, I urged him to approve our initial proposal for 129 centres,” he said. In the recent past, the state government had accused the Centre of not disbursing funds – meant for fighting the viral outbreak — on time. Gupta hoped that the supply of vaccine doses will not meet a similar fate and the state will continue to receive the supplies uninterrupted, “I hope the Centre will not be partial towards the BJP-ruled states. Vaccine distribution should be above any political considerations,” he said. So far, Jharkhand has received 1,62,000 doses of Covishield. As per government estimates, a total of 99.89 people, which is one third of Jharkhand’s population, have been identified as beneficiaries of the Covid-19 vaccine. Over 1.25 lakh frontline staff are scheduled to get the jab in the first phase, which was rolled out on Saturday. Meanwhile, reacting to the demands, BJP asked the ruling dispensation to stop politicising every issue and shifting the blame on Centre. Party spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said, “While the state government has been claiming that they have not received any funds for fighting Covid-19, the Centre has already given around Rs 270 crore to Jharkhand in this regard. However, the Union government has not yet received the utility certificate from the state despite several reminders. As far as free vaccine is concerned, Banna-Ji shouldn’t worry so much. Centre is committed towards public welfare, especially when it comes to the needy.” Criticising Gupta for ‘unnecessarily raising a demand to get vaccinated’, Shahdeo said, “Why was he interested in wasting a previous vaccine? He is not a frontline worker anyway. The Union government is committed to first safeguard those who attend to the Covid patients 24/7.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/banna-seeks-free-vaccine-for-jharkhand/articleshow/80317682.cms||ASRP Mukesh
January 18, 2021||Ranchi||Seraikela to counsel beneficiaries who missed Cov jabs on Day 1||Jamshedpur: The health department in Seraikela-Kharsawan district will do another round of counselling to motivate those registered beneficiaries who did not turn for the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday. Of the 200 beneficiaries who were scheduled to turn up on the first day of the inoculation drive, as many as 120 took the vaccine shot in Seraikela. The district surveillance officer, Jhujar Majhi, said the counselling session will be kicked off this week. Prior to the statewide initiation of the inoculation drive on Sunday, Seraikela, like other districts, had conducted several rounds of counselling to remove any misgivings the health workers and other frontline staff may have had about taking the Covidshield vaccine shot. “Counselling is an effective tool to remove doubts from the beneficiaries’ minds. Moreover, those that took the jab on Saturday did not complain about any complications, which will further help in removing doubts,” Majhi said. He added, “We cannot cover all the beneficiaries in the counselling session but we plan to include several of them so that they can be ready to take the shot any day this week.” Chandan Karua, a cleanliness worker at sadar hospital who was the first in the district to receive the vaccine, urged the health workers to cooperate with the administration in combating the virus and take the shot. “I did not come across any health issues after taking the vaccine. I appeal to the health workers to shed their doubts regarding the vaccine, take the jab and help the society in its fight against coronavirus,” he said. In East Singbhum, the health officials have issued a fresh appeal to the registered beneficiaries to come forward and take the vaccine once the drive resumes on Monday. “There’s is no need for a counselling session but we have appealed to the health workers to take the vaccine as they are in direct contact with Covid patients,” additional chief medical officer Sahir Pall said. He added, “When the vaccine for fighting this deadly virus was yet to be developed, everyone, including the frontline staff, was yearning for it and now that it has arrived, the beneficiaries should not hesitate in taking it.” As many as 160 took the jab on the inaugural day out of the 200 registered beneficiaries in East Singhbhum. MGM hospital superintendent Dr Sanjay Kumar said that despite repeated counselling, some of the hospital staff, including the health workers, did not turn up at the vaccination centre out of fear. “Hopefully their fear would subside once they see that other beneficiaries are safe after taking the shot,” he added. Incidentally, East Singhbhhum reported one Covid-related death on Saturday after a gap of eight days. A total of 375 persons have died in the district out of the 17,883 patients so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/seraikela-to-counsel-beneficiaries-who-missed-cov-jabs-on-day-1/articleshow/80317541.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Ranchi||Political meetings, rallies banned at Albert Ekka Chowk||Ranchi: The district administration here put an indefinite ban on political meetings, demonstrations and rallies at Albert Ekka Chowk, the heart of the city which has witnessed several protests and movements over the years, and its surrounding areas to ensure smooth implementation of the Covid-19 vaccination programme at Ranchi sadar hospital. The order, issued by SDO (sadar), came into effect from 7am on Saturday. It bans the assembly of more than five people (who are not a part of the emergency services) within an area which comes under 500 metre radius of the hospital. It states, “The assembly of five or more people, except government personnel and people involved in government work, management, medical work, ambulance services and devotees headed to their places of worship and funeral processions, is not allowed until further orders.” “No forms of meetings and mass gatherings will be allowed until further orders. Except for personnel employed in government duty, no one will be allowed in the area with weapons such as pistols, revolvers, lathis, bows and arrows, spears and other weapons,” the order states. The use of public address systems have also been banned indefinitely. Albert Ekka Chowk, also referred by its former name Firayalal Chowk, is a hotspot of political activities in the state capital along with Morhabadi Ground. The order, the administration said, was enforced to ensure social distancing and avoiding chaos and commotion near Ranchi sadar hospital premises. While the focus is on ensuring a smooth vaccination, the administration will also be up against the challenge of erring denizens who give Covid 19 protocols a slip with the arrival of vaccines. A day after the nationwide inoculation drive began, several commuters were spotted on Ranchi’s streets without face masks. When asked, Ranchi deputy commissioner Chavi Ranjan said, “We are appealing to the people through our awareness campaigns to comply with the Covid-19 protocols. While vaccines have arrived, it will take months before targeted beneficiaries will be inoculated.” Ranjan added that specialised teams will continue to raid shops and other commercial establishments to check their compliance with the social distancing protocols. “There will be no let-up in these drives,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/political-meetings-rallies-banned-at-albert-ekka-chowk/articleshow/80317629.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Rajkot||Temple donation sparks riots in Kutch villages||RAJKOT: Rioting broke out between mobs of two communities in villages close to port town Gandhidham in Kutch as a rally brought out to collect funds for building the grand Ram temple at Ayodhya turned violent on Sunday evening. While the situation first turned tense in Sadau village of Mundra taluka, the tension spread to Kidana village adjoining Gandhidham where mobs turned violent and resorted to arson too. Official sources said the rally was organized by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP). Some altercation over fund collection suddenly snowballed into rioting. A curfew-like situation prevailed in Kidana village where prohibitory orders were clamped under section 144 of IPC due to heavy rioting. Sources said that some persons attacked people in the rally that led to escalation of violation. "A huge mob had gathered during the rath yatra and there was stone pelting. We also lobbed tear gas shells and the situation is under control now," said JR Mothaliya, range inspector general of police (IGP), Kutch. "Some people have been detained also," Mothaliya added. There was heavy stone pelting on the police which led to injuries to some cops, said sources. Local community leaders were roped into ensure peace in the village. "We request people from both faiths not to heed to any rumours that may escalate the tension," said Juma Raima, a local community leader. Tension also spread to villages near Anjar, which houses units of several big companies whose employees use the road to travel from home to office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/temple-donation-sparks-riots-in-kutch-villages/articleshow/80317723.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 246 Covid cases in a day, lowest in 253 days||NEW DELHI: The capital reported 246 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the lowest in 253 days and with an all-time low positivity rate of 0.3%. With consistently low number of cases and positivity rate remaining below 0.5%, health minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said it can now be comfortably said that the third wave of Covid-19 in the capital was on its way out. Sunday was also the eighth consecutive day when the daily figure of Covid cases stood below the 400-mark and the 14th time this month that the daily count stood below the 500-mark. "The positivity rate has been below 0.5% for the last few days and we can comfortably say that the third wave is on the wane. However, I would still want to say that everyone should take precautions and always wear a mask," the health minister told reporters on Sunday. "For the past one and a half months, people have followed this and thanks to their cooperation, the number of cases has come down," he added. A total of 67,463 tests took place in the past 24 hours, including 40,102 RT-PCR tests - with a positivity rate of 0.3%. Delhi had recorded 299 fresh Covid cases on January 16 and 295 on January 15. On January 14, there were 340 new cases and four deaths as the daily fatality count had dropped to single digits after several months. On Sunday, Covid-19 claimed eight more lives in Delhi, while the death toll reached 10,746. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases reached the figure of 6,32,429 on Sunday and with 385 patients recovering from the disease in the past 24 hours, the total number of those who have recovered stood at 6,19,139 - a recovery rate of 97.9%. Meanwhile, the number of active Covid-19 cases on Sunday was 2,544, of which most patients - 1,154 - are under home isolation, while 1,101 are admitted in hospitals, apart from 34 in Covid Care Centres and nine in Covid health centres. Of the 11,088 Covid-19 beds in hospitals, 9,987 currently lie vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-246-covid-cases-in-a-day-lowest-in-253-days/articleshow/80320481.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Gurgaon||Illegal road is ruining natural green cover of Aravalis, say DLF residents||GURUGRAM: The encroachment in Aravali continues but the civic agency is yet to take any action, residents of DLF-3 have claimed. A group of residents have also approached the Punjab and Haryana high court regarding the illegal construction. TOI visited the area and found that an illegal road has been built from DLF-3 into the MCG area where farmhouses and dairies have been constructed and slums have come up, destroying the natural green cover with construction and demolition (C&D) waste. The illegal road that has been created from the colony road of DLF-3 V-10 is behind the Aravali Biodiversity Park. "The DLF internal road is being used as a thoroughfare with massive movement of tractors, cars, autos, bikes and trucks. This road is being used to dump construction waste into the green belt. Several times the villagers have also tried to capture the land in the Aravali Biodiversity Park," said Rohan Singh, a resident. Another resident, Sunny, said, "The civic body has issued a tender to construct a wall at the end of V-10 road that will secure the Aravali area from getting encroached. The 200-acre green cover does not have any other access point other than the illegal road which has been paved by the villagers connecting DLF-3. We have approached the high court and the hearing is on January 19." The residents also alleged that some people were chopping off the trees and damaging the nearby areas by dumping construction and demolition waste into the open green area adjoining the biodiversity park. The guard of the park also said this had taken place. "I have been witnessing violations on a daily basis. People also try to cut through the boundary wires of the park and venture into it. They sometimes try to dump C&D waste. These are all attempts to grab land in the park," said Latika Thukral of IAmGurgaon, which is taking care of the biodiversity park. Meanwhile, an MCG official said that they are aware of the issue. "We had received the complaint and it was examined by the civic body. The site was inspected and we had decided to create a wall to block the passage from DLF-3. A tender was also issued regarding this. We will look into the matter," said Hari Om Atri, joint commissioner, MCG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/illegal-road-is-ruining-natural-green-cover-of-aravalis-say-dlf-residents/articleshow/80319412.cms||Ipsita Pati
January 18, 2021||India||Day 1: Wastage of precious vax below permissible 10%||NEW DELHI: The euphoric success of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has been somewhat blemished with disappointing reports of dosage waste, though not above the permissible limit of 10%, which is always a general possibility. As per Chennai’s Saturday numbers, at least 192 vaccine doses out of 3,400 have been be wasted, health department officials said, adding the number “may be even higher”. A senior doctor said, “On Saturday, in Perambulur, only two vaccine doses were administered, which means that absenteeism led to wastage of the other eight doses in a vial, as each vial contains 10 doses. In Kallakurichi district, 21 doses were administered, which implies that nine doses are wasted.” Vaccine wastage on Sunday, too, will be well over 100 as per 6pm figures. “The vaccine can be stored for a limited period of time. We expect up to 10% wastage. So, we have allotted 10% extra at each centre. We are trying to decrease wastage as we know this vaccine is precious,” said joint director (immunisation), Dr Vinay Kumar. In Nagpur district, Covid-19 vaccine doses enough for 51 people have reportedly gone waste in the district on Day-1 of vaccination programme mainly due to lower turnout. The wastage was 6%. In Karnataka’s Dakshina Kannada district, while vaccinating 229 persons on the first day, 25 vials of Covishield were used. Though 25 vials are sufficient to vaccinate 250 persons, only 229 could be inoculated, logging a wastage of 21 doses. Dr B V Rajesh, who is the in-charge of vaccines in the district, told TOI that small quantity of vaccine was wasted on the first day of vaccination drive held in the district on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/day-1-wastage-of-precious-vax-below-permissible-10/articleshow/80320484.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Delhi||Covid-19 vaccination drive: Delhi to work the phones, avoid empty slots||NEW DELHI: As the massive Covid-19 vaccination drive began on Saturday, out of the 8,117 healthcare workers targeted to be inoculated on day one, only 4,319 or 53.2% of the beneficiaries turned up at the 81 designated centres. Measures are now under way to improve the tally from Monday onwards, which would include counselling and a communication outreach programme, reports Sidhartha Roy. "The vaccination exercise involves giving information to registered beneficiaries through SMS via Co-WIN digital platform. However, many hospitals had informed their registered healthcare workers through calls too," a Delhi government official said. "Now, we are planning to call healthcare workers at least two day in advance and in case it appears they are hesitant to take the vaccine, we would call people in the next batch so that resources are used in optimum fashion and 100 beneficiaries are administered vaccine," he said. Clearing doubts part of vaccine drive, says docA Delhi government official said those who stayed away, will now have to wait for their turn but they would be called to understand their apprehensions, which would also help in firming up a communication strategy. Health minister Satyendar Jain said while the vaccination drive was successful on day one and even though some of the registered beneficiaries didn’t turn up on Saturday, no one can be coaxed to get inoculated. “Some people decided not to turn up at the last moment. The vaccination programme is completely voluntary. We cannot ask anyone that they have to take the shot even if the person has registered for it,” he said. “Vaccination in the entire county has been around 50% and it has been the same in Delhi. The trend is across the country and it is the same reason everywhere,” he told reporters on Sunday, without elaborating on the likely reasons. He said that experts have said that the vaccines are safe and the Centre has also given permission after rigorous checks. “We are all humans and everybody has the right to analyse whether they want to get vaccinated and take which vaccine. We are not forcing anybody,” Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital's Medical director Dr BL Sherwal said. “Apprehensions are bound to happen and individuals have to take a call. All hospitals will need to talk to their healthcare workers regularly and clear their doubts, which is part of the drive,” he said, adding that even around 50% turnout on first day is an encouraging number. Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of LNJP Hospital, said that the vaccination drive on day one was smooth and similar arrangements would be provided on Monday. He said the hospital would talk to those who stayed away on the first day. “Compared with government-run hospitals, the turnout at private hospitals was better and one reason for it is also the layout of the facility,” one government official reasoned. “For instance, Max in Saket has an enclosed campus and it saw 100 out of 100 vaccinations. On the other hand, LNJP has a sprawling campus with an amalgamation of buildings. It could be a reason that many turned away at the last moment and the hospital saw 32 beneficiaries getting vaccinated,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-to-work-the-phones-avoid-empty-slots/articleshow/80320488.cms||---
January 18, 2021||India||Government lens on ‘offensive’ content of web series||NEW DELHI: The information & broadcasting ministry has decided to seek an explanation from Amazon Prime over “objectionable” content in the recently launched web series ‘Tandav’. The ministry, sources said, was seized of the matter and decided to take action on the back of complaints by BJP legislators who alleged the series’ content had “insulted Hindu gods and goddesses”. Online content, as yet unregulated, was brought under the purview of the I&B ministry last month and a mechanism to regulate OTT content is being worked on. While this is not the first time OTT content has drawn the ire of the public and legislators for showing “offensive” content, this is one of the first instances where the government has taken cognisance of complaints against a series and decided to seek an explanation from the OTT platform hosting the programme. BJP MLA Ram Kadam is learnt to have referred to scenes that “mocked” Lord Shiva and demanded that they be deleted. He also sought an unconditional apology from Mohammed Zeeshan Ayyub, an actor in the series, who plays a character called Shiva. Kadam also asked I&B minister Prakash Javadekar to set up a “censor board” to review content streamed by Over The Top (OTT) platforms such as Amazon Prime, Netflix and Disney Hotstar, among others. BJP MP Manoj Kotak also wrote to Javadekar, seeking regulation of OTT platforms, which he said tended to be “full of sex, violence, drugs, abuse and hate (and) sometimes also hurt sentiments of Hindus”. Amazon declined to respond to media queries on the subject.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-lens-on-offensive-content-of-web-series/articleshow/80320493.cms||Swati Mathur
January 18, 2021||India||Congress is misleading people on safety of indigenous vaccine, says Amit Shah||BELAGAVI/BAGALKOT: Union home minister Amit Shah has once again hit back at Congress for raising concerns about the safety of indigenously-produced Covid-19 vaccines and said the party is trying to mislead people, even as the whole world is waiting for India to manufacture more vaccines. “I appeal to people to get vaccinated and not to heed the claims of Congress as vaccines are very safe,” he said on Sunday. After inaugurating an ethanol plant, set up in Bagalkot by the MRN Group headed by Murugesh Nirani who was inducted last week into the cabinet, he told a gathering that the Union government is promoting ethanol to decrease oil imports from Arab nations and cut fuel prices. Shah spoke at Bagalkot and Belagavi, highlighting the achievements of the Modi government and its commitment to protect the interests of farmers. A day after exuding confidence on the BJP government in Karnataka completing its full term, Shah said PM Modi and CM BS Yediyurappa are the “double engines” of development in the state. Hailing Modi’s pro-poor policies, Shah said the duo has been working tirelessly towards developing the state. The statement is being read by Yediyurappa loyalists as continued reaffirmation of the central leadership’s confidence in the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-is-misleading-people-on-safety-of-indigenous-vaccine-says-amit-shah/articleshow/80320500.cms||Shreyas HS
January 18, 2021||Vadodara||ASHA workers complain of dizziness after taking vaccines||VADODARA: Two accredited social health activists (ASHA) workers complained of dizziness after they were administered Covid-19 vaccines in Chhota Udepur on Saturday. Neela Rathwa, 42, complained of dizziness within 20 minutes of taking vaccine at Suskal health centre at 1.10 pm in Pavi Jetpur taluka. Similarly, 35-year-old Radha Bariya complained of stomach ache and dizziness three hours after she was administered the vaccine at health centre in Suryaghoda village in Bodeli taluka. She was brought to the health centre at 6pm after she complained. Health department officials said that both ASHA workers were administered glucose and discharged immediately as their health recovered. “It is too early to say that they felt dizzy because of the vaccine. It could also be because of anxiety due to the vaccine drive,” said a health department official. On Saturday, 64 health workers were administered the vaccine in Chhota Udepur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/asha-workers-complain-of-dizziness-after-taking-vaccines/articleshow/80316862.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Vijayawada||Liquor sales in Andhra Pradesh see big jump in past four months||VIJAYAWADA: Liquor sales in Andhra Pradesh have witnessed a spike over the last four months. While the value of liquor sales increased by 45 per cent in the month of September, the growth rate was over 79 per cent in October compared on a year-on-year basis. Liquor sales had plummeted by around 40 per cent when the new excise policy was brought in by the state government. Sales had gone down further during the lockdown period as bars remained closed until the unlock 5.0 guidelines were issued. When bars opened in September, there was a clear jump in sales. While sale numbers continued to increase in subsequent months when compared year-on-year basis a mixed pattern was observed in month-on-month comparison. But growth in sales was back in the month of December with nearly 20 per cent increase over November sales and 17 per cent higher than December 2019. Interestingly, sale volumes are on the lower side this year when compared to previous year sales except for the month of October. But the value of sales went up indicating higher revenue for the government as all liquor stores are maintained by the Andhra Pradesh State Beverages Corporation Limited (APSBCL). The state government is also getting higher returns from liquor supplied to bars because of the additional retail tax (ART) imposed on liquor supplied to bars by APSBCL. Another reason for increase in sales, according to the bar owners’ association, was reduction of prices. The state government has revised prices of liquor to contain the menace of non-duty paid liquor (NDPL) coming to the state. After reduction in prices, illegal liquor transportation cases have come down in the last four months. The sales pattern suggests that liquor consumption in the state seems more or less the same. Reduction in number of liquor outlets and increase in prices have not yielded the desired results so far in achieving complete liquor prohibition in a phased manner, said a senior official of the excise department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-witnesses-increase-in-liquor-sales-over-4-months/articleshow/80316729.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 18, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Day 1 glitches ironed out, vaccination centres ready for next||NEW DELHI: On Saturday, when the Covid-19 vaccination drive started, 4,319 out of 8,117 beneficiaries got inoculated at 81 centres. On Monday, day two of the drive, the number of vaccinators and centres will remain the same, but, apart from the vaccine doses, the authorities are also armed with valuable lessons learnt on the first day. "Though the exercise was streamlined on Saturday and there were no major problems at any centre, glitches were faced in the Co-WIN app. Thankfully, backup hard copies of all records were available and technical glitches didn't derail the exercise," said a government official. "The problems have been rectified and, hopefully, there won't be any glitches Monday onwards," he added. Another area that might see further enhancement are the observation booths at the centres. "There were 52 instances of adverse events following immunisation. Except one, all were minor effects, but more infrastructure for medical emergencies may be added to tackle such events, even though the centres are currently in hospitals," said the official. "Only one 22-year-old, who is in security work, was admitted in the ICU at AIIMS, while the other 51 were discharged after monitoring for sometime," said health minister Satyendar Jain. The patient was discharged from AIIMS on Sunday. Jain added that the number of vaccination centres would be increased from 81 to 175 soon and then to 1,000. "There were more vaccination sites earlier, but the numbers everywhere were reduced by the central government. In Delhi, it was reduced to 81. Gradually, all agencies that provide healthcare will be involved in the vaccination drive as the number of centres is being scaled up. Every healthcare worker in the capital will get vaccinated," said the minister. Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital said the arrangements on Monday would be on the same lines as the first day. The hospital was visited by CM Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday during the launch of the vaccination drive. In all, 32 healthcare personnel were vaccinated there. Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital's medical director Dr BL Sherwal said that arrangements there would be similar on Monday, except that unlike Saturday, when the facility saw a celebratory atmosphere with the launch of the drive, no mementos would be given to those getting inoculated. Out of the 81 centres, West and North West districts have the highest number of vaccination points (11) where arrangements have been made for inoculation of 1,100 beneficiaries each. They are followed by South and Central districts with nine centres each with the target of inoculating 935 and 891 beneficiaries, respectively. With just two vaccination centres, North East district plans to inoculate 200 beneficiaries, the lowest in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-day-1-glitches-ironed-out-vaccination-centres-ready-for-next/articleshow/80320506.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 18, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Over 1,300 driving licences suspended in Vizag last year||VISAKHAPATNAM: Of the 1,386 motorists who got their driving licences suspended last year, nearly 60 per cent were accused of either rash driving or driving under the influence of alcohol. Using cell phones while driving, overloading, and being involved in fatal accidents were other reasons that led to suspension of licences. The total number of suspensions came down significantly from 3,000 in 2019. The Vizag city police booked around 14 lakh cases under the Motor Vehicles (MV) Act in 2020 and collected fine to the tune of Rs 77 lakh from violators. Police said that traffic violations, including incidences of drunk and rash driving, came down significantly in 2020 due to the pandemic-induced lockdown among other reasons. Ch Adinarayana, ADCP (traffic), said that over 4,000 licences were recommended for suspension in 2020. The regional transport officials than took a decision on appeal using their discretion. Deputy transport commissioner GC Raja Ratnam said that all licences cancelled were those of men and rash, negligent and tipsy driving were the main reasons for suspension. According to norms, if a motorist is booked for a major traffic violation, their licence can be suspended for three to six months. Post suspension, the offence gets recorded on the RTO website and the information is passed on to the city traffic police. After the suspension period, the motorist has to visit the RTO office to collect their licence. If a motorist’s driving licence is suspended more than twice, officials have the power to cancel the driving license. In most cases, motorists accused of endangering lives of others have their licences cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/over-1300-driving-licences-suspended-in-vizag-last-year/articleshow/80316792.cms||Nalla.Babu
January 18, 2021||India||Will the poor get vaccine for free, Congress asks government||NEW DELHI: Congress on Sunday slammed the Modi government for not putting in place a plan to provide free vaccines to the poor and the underprivileged, reminding BJP that a vast majority of Indians lived on subsidised rations and needed government support. Stating that BJP had promised free vaccines in the Bihar election campaign, Congress spokesman Randeep Surjewala asked, “Is the government not aware that 81.3 crore people are eligible for subsidised ration under the Food Security Act? Will the SC, ST, BC, BPL, APL, the poor and the underprivileged get the vaccine for free or not? If yes, what is the rollout plan and by when will the government ensure free vaccination? PM Modi and the BJP government need to answer... Who will get free corona vaccine? How many people will get it?” Alleging overpricing of the two vaccines — Covaxin and Covishield — Surjewala asked why the government had not put them in the National List of Essential Medicines. He said a Covishield vaccine was selling for Rs 158 in Belgium while the Modi government was paying Rs 200 and Covaxin was being bought by the government for Rs 295. He said Covishield was being sold for Rs 1,000 in the open market. “Why should the Modi government pay Rs 95 more to Bharat Biotech for a vaccine that has been developed with the expertise and experience of scientists of government-owned ICMR, and which has only been tested on 755 individuals and is yet to be cleared after phase 3 trials?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/will-the-poor-get-vaccine-for-free-congress-asks-government/articleshow/80320537.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Vijayawada||Chadar found burnt at dargah in Chittoor||Tirupati: The ‘chadar’ covered over the grave of a saint at a dargah in the outskirts of Nagireddipalli village in Chittoor district was found burnt on Sunday morning leading to tension in the area. The police launched a probe into the incident. It is not clear if the chadar caught fire accidentally or some miscreants set it on fire. Chittoor SB DSP Sudhakar Reddy, who confirmed the development, said the chadar was found burnt inside the dargah. He said local police immediately reached the spot and took up investigation to find out if any foul play was involved. Later, a peace meet was organized at the village involving representatives of various religions. Chittoor district police denied social media rumours that religious books were burnt. They said penal action will be taken against people spreading fake news and rumours to create trouble.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chadar-found-burnt-at-dargah-in-chittoor/articleshow/80316796.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 18, 2021||Delhi||NGT committee asks Haryana to fast-track Yamuna plans||NEW DELHI: After a recent spike in ammonia levels in the Yamuna, the National Green Tribunal-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee has asked the chief secretary of Haryana that projects in the state be fast-tracked for stopping sewage and industrial effluents, which are polluting the river. In its letter to the chief secretary, the YMC said: "Ammonia (Ammoniacal Nitrogen) content in the water reaching Delhi at Wazirabad had been found by experts from CPCB and the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute to be largely attributable to heavy pollution emanating from specific drains in Haryana. The root causes of the pollution resulting in high ammoniacal content are well known, but the action taken does not commensurate with the seriousness of the situation." YMC said repeated assurances were not leading to any tangible improvement, and allegedly creating huge problems in the operation of water treatment plants in the capital. The committee said following its 2018 order, CPCB and NEERI had conducted a joint survey and submitted recommendations on the matter. The major recommendations were embankment or construction of dividing wall between drain number 6 and 8 to be expedited, so that any possibility of mixing of wastewater with fresh water could be eliminated. The survey also recommended that all industries in Panipat and Sonipat operate their ETPs efficiently to meet the standards laid down and that the State Pollution Control Board should ensure that no industrial unit discharges its untreated effluent either the river or the drains. It recommended that STPs and common effluent treatment plants at Yamuna Nagar, Panipat and Sonepat, be made operational and optimally utilised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ngt-committee-asks-haryana-to-fast-track-yamuna-plans/articleshow/80320539.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Festive season drives up liquor sale in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: The excise department has earned a whopping Rs 150 crore since the beginning of the New Year. According to excise authorities, rise in liquor consumption during the festival season has driven up revenues. “This year, Sankranti fell on Thursday. The next day was Kanuma. Many people took holiday for four days from Sankranti till Sunday. This is one of the reasons for the increase in sale of liquor,” a senior excise official told TOI. Visakhapatnam district has 263 liquor stores, including 70 in Vizag city. The district has 113 bars, of which 80 are in the city. “This time, we saw liquor sale rise in rural areas. Nearly 50 per cent of liquor sale happened from rural shops which generally contribute to 20 per cent sale on ordinary days,” the excise official added. Visakhapatnam district’s average liquor sale per day ranges between Rs 8–10 crore. During the festive season going up to the weekend, sale rose to Rs 15 crore a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/festive-season-drives-up-liquor-sale-in-vizag/articleshow/80316820.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 18, 2021||India||‘Depressed’, Covid patient jumps to death in hospital||HYDERABAD: A 77-year-old Covid-19 patient jumped from the second floor of a private hospital in Hyderabad, the third such suicide in recent months. Police said the man committed suicide at privately run KIMS hospital in Kondapur, when the nursing staff was just getting ready for his daily medication. The hospital officials said, he had consulted them for depression and was admitted on January 13 after testing positive for Covid-19. On Sunday around 9.50am, he slipped out of his bed and climbed a large window on the second floor and jumped to his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/depressed-covid-patient-jumps-to-death-in-hospital/articleshow/80320540.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 18, 2021||Visakhapatnam||25-year-old history-sheeter murdered in Rajahmundry||RAJAHMUNDRY: A 25-year-old history-sheeter named Kanchipati Satish was killed near his residence at Ademma Dibba area in Rajahmundry on Saturday night. Three Town police have booked a case against six persons. According to Three Town inspector Durga Prasad, Satish had taken a bike from his associate Buddha on January 15 and was refusing to return it. A quarrel broke out between the two. On Saturday morning, Buddha went to Satish’s house and quarrelled with his family members about the bike. Upon coming to know of this, Satish went to confront Buddha about why he ‘verbally abused’ his family members. Later that night, Buddha, along with five others, went to Satish’s home again and asked him to come out. When Satish came out of his house, Buddha and his associates attacked him with knives. Satish, who sustained multiple stab injuries, was being taken to the Rajahmundry government hospital when he passed away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/25-year-old-history-sheeter-murdered-in-rajahmundry/articleshow/80316837.cms||Samson Raj
January 18, 2021||Vijayawada||Call to restore 16th century mandapam||Tirupati: Noted archaeologist E Sivanagireddy, the CEO of the Cultural Centre of Vijayawada and Amaravati, has urged the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) and the state archaeology department to restore and preserve a 400-year-old mandapam at Mangalam near Tirupati. ‘Dongala mandapam’ — a 16th century structure used to provide shelter to devotees going to Tirumala from the Srikalahasti route in the past. “This mandapam, built during the days of the Vijayanagara empire, is now in a dilapidated state. We appeal to TTD and the state archaeology department to protect the heritage monument for posterity,” Sivanagireddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/call-to-restore-16th-century-mandapam/articleshow/80316856.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 18, 2021||India||Six pilgrims killed as bus touches high-tension wire||JAIPUR/AJMER: Six pilgrims were charred to death and more than 30 others sustained burns after their bus came in contact with a high-tension live wire in Jalore district late Saturday while returning from Nakodaji temple. A preliminary investigation indicated that the bus conductor went up to the roof during the journey when he came in contact with the live wire, which led to the passing of current into the bus near Jalore’s Maheshpura area. Among the deceased were three women from Beawar — including a mother and daughter — and an equal number of men from Ajmer. Their bodies were taken to their native places on Sunday. On Friday evening, two buses from Beawar left for the Jain shrine. One of the buses took the highway route but the driver of the ill-fated bus, who was following the digital map, lost its way and got into single road areas of the rural pockets in Jalore. “Since high vehicles don’t pass through these areas, the height of electrical wires are lower compared to those passing through national and state highways,” said a cop. On spotting an obstacle on the path, the conductor went to the roof which led to the electrocution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/six-pilgrims-killed-as-bus-touches-high-tension-wire/articleshow/80320547.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Visakhapatnam||BJP plans protests, yatra to vandalised temples||VISAKHAPATNAM: The BJP is planning to organise protests all over the state and take out a yatra to all the temples that were vandalised recently. The BJP core committee met here on Sunday and discussed about strengthening the party in AP. It also discussed the recent incidents in temples and decided to hold a yatra. The party also decided to contest the by-election to Tirupati Lok Sabha seat. The core committee meeting was held at the residence of former union minister Daggubati Purandeswari here on Sunday. AP BJP affairs incharge and Union minister of state for external affairs V Muralidharan, national secretaries Sunil Deodhar and Satya Kumar, Rajya Sabha member GVL Narasimha Rao, BJP state president Somu Veeraju, former state president Kanna Lakshminarayana, and former MP K Haribabu attended. According to sources, the national leaders discussed the attacks on the temples including the demand to seek probe by central investigation agencies. They also discussed the police cases registered against the BJP workers across the state. Sources said that the meeting discussed the DGP Gautam Sawang’s comments over the desecration of idols. Somu Veerraju demanded that the DGP offer apologies for making “political comments” against the BJP by January 20. He said otherwise BJP would launch an agitation. He said BJP would take up a yatra from February 4 from Kapilateertham to Ramatheertham by covering all temples where idols were desecrated by unidentified persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/bjp-plans-protests-yatra-to-vandalised-temples/articleshow/80316874.cms||Siva G
January 18, 2021||India||Soon, one-time annual fee for national permit of tourist vehicles||NEW DELHI: The road transport ministry is likely to roll out a new policy this week that will allow tourist passenger vehicles to pay a one-time annual fee for seamless travel across the country on the lines of the national permit fee paid by trucks. The fare would also reduce because of the unifor m per mit fee. The All India Tourist Vehicles Authorisation and Permit Rules may be announced on Tuesday, sources said. “No state has objected to the policy after we published the draft notification. The policy will be out soon and it will provide more options to people for comfortable travel rather than using their private vehicles for inter-city journeys,” said a ministry official. The current tax regime, which is different from state to state, is a big roadblock for point-to-point tourist bus service. Sources said the proposed permit fee is likely to fall by more than 50% of what the operators currently pay to state governments such as in Gujarat, Karnataka, Telangana and Andhra, once the National Permit rules for such buses and other vehicles are notified. In this policy, there will be a uniform authorisation fee which will be charged for all states based on the passenger capacity of the vehicle. The yearly permit fee for an AC bus carrying more than 23 passengers would be around Rs 3 lakh and Rs 75,000 for an AC mini bus with 10 to 23 passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/soon-one-time-annual-fee-for-national-permit-of-tourist-vehicles/articleshow/80320553.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 18, 2021||India||Up to Rs 10 crore fine on firms in case of defective roads causing accidents||NEW DELHI: For the first time, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has issued a policy of graded penalty, including high fine and ban on contractors to bid for future projects for accidents and deaths caused by structural collapse or defects in design, construction or maintenance of the stretches. These agencies are now liable to pay a fine of Rs 1 crore to Rs 10 crore and they will not be allowed to bid for any NH project for three years for such failures claiming any human life. The company concerned has to bear the expenses for carrying out rectification. Even the consultants engaged in such works will have to cough up penalties and face debarment. In case of major failure causing death/s, the consultancy firms will have to pay Rs 40 lakh as fine and they won’t be allowed to bid for two years. Their key personnel will not be engaged for any NHAI work for three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-to-rs-10-crore-fine-on-firms-in-case-of-defective-roads-causing-accidents/articleshow/80320561.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 18, 2021||Goa||Late intimation, ‘vaccine hesitancy’ keep health workers from taking jab||Panaji: An official attributed the low turnout at Goa Medical College for the vaccination to the government releasing the names of 100 beneficiaries only late on Friday night. A senior health official, however, attributed the low numbers to “vaccine hesitancy”. The state’s tertiary medical institution with around 5,500 healthcare workers reported a low turnout of 42% on Day 1 of the vaccination drive. The hospital vaccinated 38 healthcare workers before lunchtime with only four more showing up after that. “Some are waiting for others to get vaccinated first. Others shy away when their colleagues have also shied away,” the senior health official said. “It's a known fact that people will stay away in the beginning,” the senior health official added. Despite making calls and sending messages late night and on Saturday morning, healthcare workers preferred to stay away, the official said. The list of 100 names and numbers of beneficiaries released didn’t have their designation or department mentioned making it difficult to trace them, the official said. The hospital was also under the impression that the 100 names couldn’t be substituted with any spot registrations and by the time they realized it, it was a Saturday evening and too late, the official said. “Healthcare workers working at GMC come from across the state and many couldn’t come at the last minute. Plus it’s a voluntary vaccine and we couldn’t force anyone. People have a right to say no and we have to respect that,” said a healthcare worker assisting in the vaccination. In contrast, the South Goa District Hospital in Margao received a turnout of 83% with hospital staff, senior doctors and the vaccinator staying back late and giving other healthcare workers an opportunity to be vaccinated when many on the list of 100 beneficiaries didn’t show up. “We made calls late Friday night and right through Saturday as many healthcare workers hadn’t received the SMS. We asked the doctors what time they would prefer to get vaccinated and then accommodated them accordingly, because we didn’t want a rush,” a healthcare worker who assisted in the vaccination at TB Hospital, Margao, said. They waited till those interested in taking the vaccine finished their duty for the day and then got them vaccinated. The hospital staff and senior doctors led from the front taking the vaccine themselves and then were seen making phone calls encouraging their staff not to hesitate to take it and answering queries and counselling them. The South Goa district hospital vaccinated a total of 52 doctors, 19 nurses and 12 technicians, the highest among government hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/late-intimation-vaccine-hesitancy-keep-health-workers-from-taking-jab/articleshow/80318943.cms||Lisa Monteiro
January 18, 2021||Goa||Goa reports 60 new Covid cases, zero deaths on Sunday||PANAJI: There were no Covid deaths for the seventh day this month. Sunday saw a total of 60 new cases. The positivity rate stood at 4.9%. Thirty-four new patients were hospitalised and 23 opted for home isolation.  There were 59 recoveries taking the recovery rate to 96.88%. The death rate and active cases have been on the decline. Health officials said they had expected a spike in cases post the festive season with tourists coming in, but were relieved this didn't happen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/60-new-cases-zero-deaths-on-sunday/articleshow/80318950.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Goa||Air cargo rising, but UK flight ban hits exports||Panaji: Cargo movement at Goa International Airport continued to show a steady rise in December with the airport handling 576 tonnes of freight. Domestic cargo in December stood at 509 tonne, while international freight stood at 67 tonne. Exports to England stopped once the Centre banned flights to the UK during mid-December because of a new Covid-19 strain. Goa used to export perishable items such as fruits and vegetables to the UK on Goa London weekly flights, according to information shared by the Airports Authority of India (AAI). Domestic cargo included electrical machinery and pharmaceuticals. CONCOR stopped handling cargo operations in March 2020 and the responsibility for import and export of cargo through Goa International Airport is being handled by AAI’s subsidiary, AAI Cargo Logistics and Allied Services (AAICLAS). “Regardless of the prevailing Covid 19 situation, AAI’s Goa airport handled 162 tonnes of freight in July 2020, while the highest in December is 576 tonnes. With the dedication of AAI staff, Goa Airport aims to continue to keep on delivering,” said AAI in a tweet. Goa airport director Gagan Malik said that for domestic cargo operations, the major destinations are Delhi, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Kolkata and Chennai. “The commodities are engineering goods, machinery parts, electrical goods and pharmaceuticals,” Malik said. Goan exporters, particularly from the pharmaceutical sector and manufacturing sector, say that the lack of regular cargo flights to international destinations forces companies to export via Mumbai, Bengaluru and other major hubs. Most of the cargo handled at the airport is outbound, shows the data. Goa International Airport has begun round the clock cargo operations as against the earlier norm of handling cargo in two shifts during the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/air-cargo-rising-but-uk-flight-ban-hits-exports/articleshow/80318963.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Goa||State considering renewable energy to meet power needs||Panaji: The state government has approached the Union ministry of new and renewable energy (MNRE) to undertake a feasibility study and provide technical assistance to assess potential, availability of technologies and financial viability to set up power generation projects from new and renewable energy sources. A senior official said that the study will find out if Goa can generate power from renewable energy source to meet all its power needs. The government has proposed to generate power from renewable sources in the state to the extent possible by assessing the potential to generate power from sources like solar, wind, hydro, biomass, wave and tidal and storage of solar power etc. Goa requires approximately 540MW of power during the day time and 640MW during peak hours from 6pm to 11pm. The official said that the state generates approximately between 80 and 282MW through waste, to heat recovery boilers of M/s Vedanta and M/s Goa Sponge and Power Ltd, while the balance power is drawn from the national grid which includes thermal as well as power from renewable sources. The official added that the solid waste management facility generates about 0.37MW of power from biogas. The government notified a solar policy with 50% subsidy on the benchmark cost. However, till date only about 15MW installations have been completed. The national institute of wind energy has carried out mapping of potential for generation of power from wind in Goa. The official also pointed out challenges faced by the state to generate power from new and renewable energy sources including, technology and financial viability for storage of the power generated through solar, the technology itself as well as financial liability to generate power from biogas, biomass as well as from small hydro power points at various dams of the water resources department, from windmills and from wave and tidal sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-considering-renewable-energy-to-meet-power-needs/articleshow/80318970.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Goa||Apply for EBC scholarships by Jan 31||Panaji: The directorate of social welfare is implementing the centrally-sponsored pre-matric, post-matric scholarship schemes for students belonging to the scheduled caste and other backward communities and the Dr Ambedkar Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme for students belonging to economically backward classes (EBC). These students can apply through online mode on the state scholarship portal www.swportal.goa.gov.in by January 31. For technical assistance in uploading applications, institutes can contact the technical officer of ITG on 9607963089.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/apply-for-ebc-scholarships-by-jan-31/articleshow/80318975.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Goa||Film fest to honour Italian filmmaker Vittorio Storaro||Panaji: Renowned Italian cinematographer Vittorio Storaro will be honoured with the prestigious lifetime achievement award at the 51st edition of Iffi in Goa. Best known for his work in the films like The Bird with the Crystal Plumage (1970), The Conformist (1970), Last Tango in Paris (1972), 1900 (1976), Apocalypse Now (1979), Reds (1981), The Last Emperor (1987), Dick Tracy (1990), Café Society (2016) and Wonder Wheel (2017), Storaro is the recipient of three Academy Awards for best cinematography for the films Apocalypse Now, Reds and The Last Emperor. He is, in fact, one of three living persons who has won the award three times. The 51st Iffi will also pay homage to stalwarts of cinema who passed away in 2020 by celebrating their contributions to the film industry. Movies of these stalwarts will be featured as tributes. These are Chadwick Boseman starrer 42 by Brian Helgeland, Cutter’s Way by Ivan Passer, Dev Bhoomi by Goran Paskaljevic, Allen Daviau in The Extra-Terrestrial by Steven Spielberg, Max Von Sydow in Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close by Stephen Daldry, Midnight Express by Alan Parker, Kirk Douglas in Paths of Glory by Stanley Kubrick, Ennio Morricone in The Hateful Eight by Quentin Tarantino and Olivia De Havilland in The Heiress by William Wyler. Homage will also be paid to 19 Indian personalities like Sushant Singh Rajput, Rishi Kapoor, Irrfan Khan, Saroj Khan, Wajid Khan and others by featuring films they have been a part of.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/film-fest-to-honour-italian-filmmaker-vittorio-storaro/articleshow/80318979.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Goa||India aiding Bangladesh set up film city, to launch joint film together||Panaji: Mohammad Imran, high commissioner of Bangladesh to India, on Sunday said that single screen theatres are declining in his home country at a pace and that quality films and those on diverse content are a need of the hour in Bangladesh. Imran said that India is helping Bangladesh in establishing a film city and he hoped that this effort will help uplift the content of films in his country. The high commissioner of Bangladesh was speaking after opening the Country Focus section at the 51st International Film Festival of India (Iffi), being hosted in Goa. Bangladesh is the country of focus at this year’s festival. Imran said he is happy Bangladesh is the Country of focus at Iffi as it shows the healthy diplomatic ties between the two friendly nations. “We are happy that a joint film by India and Bangladesh will be launched soon on the father of Bangladesh, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. The effort was taken up earlier too, but it did not take off. I am glad that a new filmmaker has been chosen to take the project forward and we are looking forward to it,” Imran said. Four films from Bangladesh are being shown at Iffi under the Country Focus section. The section opened with the film by Bangladesh’s veteran filmmaker Tanvir Mokammel. ‘Rupsa Nodir Banke’ or ‘Quiet Flows the River Rupsa’, is a fictional biopic based on the life of a left wing leader. “We are happy that Bangladesh is the country of focus this year in IFFI and we would like to thank the organisers immensely for that. It’s a befitting year, as this year marks the 50th anniversary of liberation of Bangladesh as well as the diplomatic relations between India and Bangladesh,” said Mokammel. The Country of Focus is a special segment that recognises a country’s cinematic excellence and contributions. Speaking of the influence of Indian filmmakers like Satyajit Ray on the filmmakers from Bangladesh, Mokammel said, “People like Ray come once in an age. If one follows his method of working, they will never make any mistake as each shot would be well designed. But, unfortunately these days it’s not a fashion to follow Ray’s kind of film making.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/india-aiding-bangladesh-set-up-film-city-to-launch-joint-film-together/articleshow/80318989.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Kolkata||Fence-sitters in Bengal more eager to receive Covid shots||KOLKATA: Encouraged by the fact that few of the first batch of healthcare workers who took the Covid vaccine on Saturday reported side-effects, a number of those who had initially opted out, or had been reluctant on the first day, have started calling up nodal officers at hospitals, enquiring about their turn. Several hospitals reported a spike in queries, especially from those who had initially sought a few days before taking a decision on whether to get vaccinated. The first day’s reluctance was evident, as around 5,000 health workers — out of 20,700 listed for the first day of immunization — skipped the shot, dragging down Bengal’s percentage to 75.9%. In Kolkata hospitals, the attendance was 92%. Since Saturday evening, we have received a number of requests from healthcare workers asking us to get their names enrolled in the lists of Monday and Tuesday. We are having a tough time making them understand that the lists for these days have already been prepared. But they are insistent,” said a senior official of SSKM Medical College and Hospital. Until the Co-WIN platform is up and running, hospital authorities will continue to make their own lists, choosing different categories of healthcare workers among the list of beneficiaries for a day. “I had some queries and doubts before the vaccination began,” said Sunil Mondal, a group D worker at SSKM. “I had read on some forwarded messages that people were having complications after being administered the vaccines. But after I learnt from some of my colleagues that they were safe and sound several hours after taking the vaccine, I have regained confidence, and have approached the authorities to include my name at the earliest.” Several doctors and nurses, who were also initially reluctant to take the vaccine, have also readily come forward for the next dose scheduled through the four days of the week. “I wasn’t comfortable taking the vaccine on the first day itself and hence had requested the authorities to omit my name from the list when they called me. But seeing my colleagues’ initial feedback, I am now ready to take the shot,” said a young nurse at Medical College and Hospital, Kolkata. Several senior officials had stepped in on Saturday to boost the confidence of junior doctors and nurses. That has helped the vaccination cause, said state health department officials. At Bangur Institute of Neurosciences, nursing superintendent Indrani Mitra, 60, said she had a tough time to even convince six of the 90-odd nurses at the hospital to take the vaccine on the first day. “I then suggested that I would take the first shot. Two other nurses agreed to come with me on Saturday. Seeing me take the vaccine and that I was perfectly fine even the day after, the other nurses got confidence and are now coming forward to get themselves enrolled for the next day,” said Mitra. Hospital officials added that there was also a sharp decline in the number of refusals on Saturday evening and Sunday, when the authorities called the second batch of beneficiaries, asking them to be present at the respective venues for Monday’s vaccination drive. “Almost everyone we called to appear for Monday’s vaccination readily agreed. This was not the same response we had on Friday, when we were calling people from the first list of 100 beneficiaries,” said a senior official of MR Bangur Hospital, the state’s largest Covid care unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fence-sitters-more-eager-to-receive-shots/articleshow/80319951.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 18, 2021||Kolkata||BJP to hold rally on TMC’s south Kolkata turf today||KOLKATA: Bengal BJP leaders, led by Dilip Ghosh and Suvendu Adhikari, will lead a rally on Trinamool Congress’ turf in south Kolkata on Monday. Former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee, however, will not be part of this rally that will start from Tollygunge tram depot at 2.30pm and end at Rashbehari Avenue. The BJP will hold a public meeting there. Sovan, BJP’s Kolkata zone observer, will be present at the Diamond Harbour rally on Monday. “The Diamond Harbour rally is pre-scheduled and there is no scope to read too much into his absence,” said a state BJP leader. According to sources, Sovan, who had been quite active in Diamond Harbour when Trinamool leader Abhishek Banerjee won from that parliamentary constituency in 2014, has been tasked with reclaiming the seat from Trinamool. “He was the man behind Abhishek’s victory then. He will lead the siege now. (BJP president J P) Nadda ji was attacked there and we will stage a protest at the same spot,” said Baisakhi Banerjee, BJP co-convenor of Kolkata zone. Trinamool leader Saugata Roy felt Sovan should concentrate more on his Behala turf. “People have chosen Abhishek and voted for him. Sovan should start by winning an assembly segment first,” Roy said. On Sunday, BJP held an organizational meeting to chalk out a strategy for the five ‘yatras’ it is planning from February. “We are planning Parivartan rallies in the state as part of our mass contact programme. The state government did not allow us to hold rallies before Lok Sabha polls,” Ghosh said. While Ghosh did not comment on the schedule, state BJP leaders indicated the first rally would be held some time in February. During a meeting in Delhi, Union home minister Amit Shah had asked the zones to prepare routes for rallies. Once rallies are finalized, leaders from the Centre would be asked to join in for a week. The BJP is also restricting the flow of inductions from other parties after recent developments. “Any member inducted in BJP will have to go through stricter scrutiny now. We will induct some more leaders and workers but it will not be the same any more,” a Bengal unit leader said. At the meeting, BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya asked Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan to restrain his comments. While top BJP leaders such as Shah had said the party would not project a chief ministerial candidate, Khan had a few days back said Ghosh would be made CM if BJP was voted to office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-to-hold-rally-on-tmcs-south-kolkata-turf-today/articleshow/80319492.cms||Rohit Khanna
January 18, 2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram today; old hand returns to TMC||KOLKATA/NANDIGRAM: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will address a Trinamool Congress rally at Nandigram on Monday, almost a month after Suvendu Adhikari defected to BJP. Just 24 hours before the meeting, TMC got a shot in the arm after Siraj Khan, a zilla parishad functionary in East Midnapore who had joined BJP in November, made a comeback. It also coincided with reports that none from the Adhikari family — Sisir the Contai MP and son Dibyendu, the Tamluk MP — would share the dais with Banerjee. The chief minister will be in Nandigram after a gap of almost 5 years; she last visited there in December, 2015. The rally was initially planned on January 7, but was postponed after Akhil Giri, the Ramnagar MLA and main organizer of the event, contracted Covid-19. Soumen Mahapatra, the new district president who has replaced Sisir, said: “As Sisirda is the district chairman, how can I invite him to attend the rally? He is supposed to coordinate the entire show.” Mahapatra did not say if Dibyendu will be present, but added that there will be around 3 lakh people at the venue. While Dibyendu refused to comment on his attendance, he added that he would speak only after Monday. Sisir said he had not been informed anything about Monday’s rally. “I had been given a post, but I do not know its utility. Hope my supporters will be able to follow the message,” he said. Khan, a zilla parishad karmadhakhsya of food, was handed over the party flag at a programme at Trinamool Bhawan on Sunday by party secretary general Partha Chatterjee and Mahapatra, also the water resources minister. Chatterjee welcomed the re-joining of Khan, who said he returned to Trinamool as BJP was a party of outsiders and was here to destroy the social fabric of Bengal. He added that CM Banerjee was the only true leader working for the progress of Bengal. “I understood that I would not be able to work in BJP because those who did not allow me to work in Trinamool are now in BJP. So I returned to Trinamool,” Khan said. Khan, a fish merchant, had earlier contested from the Nandakumar assembly seat in East Midnapore as an independent, but lost. Chatterjee said, “Khan is a very adept organiser. He had a misunderstanding and joined BJP. He is back with us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didi-in-nandigram-today-old-hand-returns-to-tmc/articleshow/80319560.cms||Suman Mondal
January 18, 2021||Ranchi||Cong forms panel to implement 20-point prog of coalition govt||Ranchi: Congress, a part of the ruling alliance in Jharkhand, on Sunday formed a four-member panel for the implementation of the coalition government’s 20-point programme and smooth functioning of the regime. The party’s Jharkhand affair’s in-charge, RPN Singh said, “The panel will have Rameshwar Oraon (party president), Alamgir Alam (leader of legislative party), and two co-working presidents Rajesh Thakur and Keshav Mahto Kamlesh who will strike coordination with chief minister Hemant Soren and JMM for proper rollout of the agendas enshrined in our 20-point programme.” The executive committee for the 20-point programme at the state level is already in place under the chairmanship of Hemant. JMM’s Maheshpur MLA and party veteran Stephen Marandi is its vice-chairman. However, similar committees are pending at district and block levels for proper execution of government programmes and welfare schemes and for collecting feedback about the government’s performances. Boasting about the good works of the grand alliance government in the state, Singh said despite the pandemic, they managed to fulfil many of the key promises made to electorates in their poll manifestos and common minimum programme under the 20-point programme. “For example, we rolled out the farm loan waivers, passed a resolution for a separate Sarna code, began distribution of 15 lakh new ration cards to those who were out of the ambit of PDS etc,” he said. Thakur said the panel will soon begin coordination with their alliance partners to shape up pending works on the ground. “We shall try to prepare a joint roadmap for setting up of executive committees for the 20-point programme at the grassroot level by the end of this month in consultation with our alliance partners,” he said, adding the party has also initiated works for setting up of vigilance panels on the ground to keep a tab on PDS to ensure no eligible beneficiary goes without ration. Singh on the other hand stressed that the incumbent regime will complete its full five-year term. “The public gave us a mandate for five years and this government will complete it no matter what tricks the opposition adopts to destabilise us. All alliance partners are united and there is no tussle,” he said. Two ministerial berths in the 12-member cabinet are currently vacant in Jharkhand after the demise of minority affairs minister and Madhupur MLA Haji Hussain Ansari last year. Singh said that a decision on the vacant portfolios will be taken at an appropriate time through mutual consensus. “Currently, no one is in a hurry for any cabinet berth,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-forms-panel-to-implement-20-point-prog-of-coalition-govt/articleshow/80317166.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Ranchi||Cop found dead at Ranchi police station||Ranchi: A police constable posted at Ranchi's Burmu police station was found dead in the premise of the police station on Sunday. The personnel, identified as Devesh Prasad, had gone to the terrace of the police station for his duty and suddenly a sound of firing was heard, following which, others present in the police station rushed and found him lying in a pool of blood with his Insas rifle by his side. On receiving information about the incident, Khalari DSP Manoj Kumar reached the spot to investigate the incident. Prasad hailed from Hisri village of Ratu police station area. His elder brother Nand Kishore Prasad said he was to get married on May 21. SP (rural) Naushad Alam said, “Whether it was a suicide or some sort of a foul play is being investigated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cop-found-dead-at-ranchi-police-station/articleshow/80317221.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal ramps up week’s vaccine target, aims to jab nearly 1 lakh health workers||KOLKATA: Bengal, this week, will attempt its biggest-ever mass vaccination, taking aim at a scaled-up target: inoculating nearly one lakh healthcare workers against Covid-19, the more ambitious target coinciding with the Centre “informally” conveying to the state government on Sunday that it is likely to get its second lot of Covishield by this week, and the realisation that some of the vials contain more than 10 doses. In fact, the state health department issued a circular, directing hospitals to administer the vaccine to more than 10 people if there are extra doses, so that nothing is wasted. The state on Sunday asked all 202 vaccination sites in government facilities to increase the beneficiary list from 100 to 120. The five vaccination sites at private facilities will, however, continue to vaccinate a minimum of 100 healthcare workers a day. The vaccination drive will continue for four days this week at most facilities, with a few even planning a five-day vaccination schedule. On Sunday, each vaccination point in Bengal reached out to nearly 4,000 more beneficiaries to be present at the sites on Monday. Most officials appeared confident that the stepped-up drive would go smoothly. “There is an instruction to take in 120 beneficiaries on Monday’s vaccination programme, and we have enlisted the required number accordingly,” said Saibal Mukherjee, principal, NRS Medical College and Hospital. Indranil Biswas, medical superintendent and vice-principal, Medical College Hospital, Kolkata, said: “Apart from glitches in the Co-WIN application, the vaccination went smoothly, with 100% attendance in our hospital. We are confident of the same performance on Monday, with 20 more beneficiaries.” South 24 Parganas CMOH Somnath Mukherjee said his district “would target 960 beneficiaries on Monday from across eight sites.” Private hospitals will continue to target 100 beneficiaries from Monday. But, unlike government facilities, they can continue with the vaccination drives even on Wednesday, a day reserved for routine immunisation of children. “So far the health department has given us a list of 240 beneficiaries, out of which we have already vaccinated 101. Our target for Monday is 100,” said Sudipta Mitra, CEO, Peerless Hospital. While the state is gearing up for the second round of Covid-19 vaccinations on Monday, sources at the state health department indicated the next lot of Covishield may arrive in the city this week. Bengal has already got 6,89,000 Covishield doses, enough to cover the first dose of close to 6 lakh healthcare workers who are being vaccinated in the first phase. “We are expecting the next consignment of vaccines by this week,” said a source at Swasthya Bhavan. “But, in the absence of written communication, we are not sure yet about the exact day or the quantity. All discussions have been verbal,” said a source at Swasthya Bhawan. “At the health department’s Central Family Welfare Stores in Bagbazar, the warehouse is ready to take the next consignment as and when it comes. In fact, half of Kolkata’s share of undistributed vaccines was shifted to the District Vaccine Stores (DVS) on Ballygunge Circular Road a few days ago so that the central depot could be spared for the next lot from Pune.” The health department has also decided to equip vaccine vans with GPS when the second consignment comes, in order to enable remote-tracking of the vehicles during transportation. There are 50 such vans with the department. The two at the vaccine depot at Bagbazar have are already GPS-fitted. The rest will be ready by the time the next lot of vaccines arrive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-ramps-up-weeks-vaccine-target-aims-to-jab-nearly-1-lakh-health-workers/articleshow/80319967.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 18, 2021||Kolkata||Satabdi Roy appointed Trinamool’s Bengal vice-president||KOLKATA: Actor-turned-Trinamool Congress MP Satabdi Roy was on Sunday given a greater say in the party’s affairs after she was made its state vice-president. The appointment was made within 48 hours of Roy’s meeting with party MP Abhishek Banerjee after she alleged that she was being “left out of party programmes” and “finding it difficult to work”. Two other TMC leaders were also appointed vice-presidents. Moazeem Hossain, who was recently removed from the post of Malda Trinamool district chairman and replaced with former minister Krishnendu Choudhury, and former PWD minister Shankar Chakraborty from South Dinajpur also found a place in the party’s state leadership. Biplab Mitra, a former Trinamool MLA who had defected to BJP and returned to TMC in July 2020, was appointed South Dinajpur district chairman. Though several rebel leaders found importance in Trinamool afresh, it was not the same with MLA Jitendra Tiwari. The former Asansol mayor had resigned from the post of Trinamool district president of West Burdwan and also from the post of chairman of the board of administrators of Asansol. Tiwari was not given any post as the TMC district committee was restructured and law minister Moloy Ghatak was posted as chairman of the district. Apurba Mukherjee was appointed president, while Ashok Rudra and Tapas Banerjee were named as district spokespersons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/satabdi-appointed-trinamools-state-vice-prez/articleshow/80319520.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Kolkata||GRSE bags $12.7 million deal to build ferry for Guyana||KOLKATA: It has been over a 100 years since indentured labourers set sail from Kolkata for countries like Guyana and Suriname. Now, Kolkata-based shipyard Garden Reach Shipbuilders & Engineers (GRSE) has bagged the contract to build a sea-going ferry for Guyana that may also sail to Suriname with passengers and vehicles. The Guyana-Suriname ferry is quite well known among people who travel to the Carribean. This is the first time that an Indian shipyard has bagged such a contract. “GRSE is the only shipyard in the country to have built 106 ships for the Indian Navy and Coast Guard. It is also the only shipyard to have delivered a warship to Mauritius. Now, a lot of stress is being paid on exports and the order for the ferry in Guyana was bagged after the shipyard participated in a global tender. The 1,700-tonne-vessel will be used by Guyana in its coastal and riverine areas. It will be equipped with two Caterpillar marine diesel engines coupled with twin-disc reduction gearboxes to achieve speeds of 15 knots,” an official said. GRSE had been in talks with the government in Guyana after being shortlisted. On Wednesday, the Harbour Department, Ministry of Public Works, Government of Guyana, signed the contract with GRSE to build the ocean-going vessel at a cost of US $12.7 million. It can carry both passengers and cargo, including vehicles. The Moleson Creek crossing between Guyana and Suriname is extremely popular. According to a source, the ferry used for the crossing is fairly old and a replacement was on the cards for quite some time now. “The ferry service has been suspended for some time now due to the pandemic and a refugee crisis from Cuba. GRSE may also deliver a vessel to the Seychelles as part of a government-to-government deal. The vessel handed over to Mauritius may return to the shipyard soon for a refit,” the official added. Apart from ships, GRSE also builds Bailey bridges used by defence forces and engineers in India as well as countries like Nepal and Bhutan. The company also wants to pitch this product in countries in South America and elsewhere where there is a demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/grse-bags-12-7m-deal-to-build-ferry-for-guyana/articleshow/80319319.cms||Jayanta Gupta
January 18, 2021||Ranchi||40-yr-old NREGA worker killed in Latehar||Daltonganj: A 40-year-old casual worker engaged in facilitation of MGNREGA works in Latehar district was on Saturday late night shot dead by unidentified criminals, police said on Sunday. The man, identified as Saryu Ganjhu, was killed in Kali Kurmi Tola area under Chandwa police station. Officer in-charge of Chandwa police station Madan Sharma said Ganjhu was shot in the head. “His head bore three holes, but the post-mortem report will confirm the cause of death. It looks like a planned murder. Two persons were said to have come on a bike to shoot him,” said the official, adding the deceased had two wives and the second one is below 20 years of age. Police said Ganjhu had a habit of picking up quarrels on petty issues when he would be inebriated. “Police are probing into the incident to ascertain the cause of murder and whether it has anything to do with martial relations or some rivalry,” Sharma said, adding no arrests have been made so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/40-yr-old-nrega-worker-killed-in-latehar/articleshow/80317185.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 18, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal: TMC, BJP in war of words over vaccine||KOLKATA: A day after Covid-19 inoculations kicked off, political slugfest took centre stage in Bengal over allegations of inadequate supply of vaccines. While Trinamool Congress blamed the Centre for not supplying enough vaccines, BJP trained its guns over TMC leaders getting vaccinated first. “There is not enough supply of vaccines for the state. They are purchasing the vaccines from the taxpayers’ money. People are waiting for it, but we are getting much less vials,” TMC leader Firhad Hakim said. On Saturday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had expressed dissatisfaction over Bengal receiving lesser number of vials. Hakim, who was a volunteer for the trial, on Sunday said the Centre was not doing any favour to the people of Bengal. BJP, on the other hand, raised questions after TMC lawmakers like Katwa MLA Rabindranath Chattopadhyay, Bhatar MLA Subhas Mandal and Barrackpore leader Uttam Das were vaccinated on Day 1 itself. BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya pointed at favours being given to TMC lawmakers. “The Prime Minister has earmarked the first lot of vaccines for Covid-19 frontline workers. The Centre has provided the vaccine apart from the syringe and cold-pod. But CM Mamata Banerjee claimed her government is supplying the vaccine. Evidently, they are now trying to steal vaccines from people as well,” he said. TMC leader Kunal Ghosh reasoned that lawmakers had been part of the frontline worker teams. “Any lawmaker, who is chairman of the patient welfare committee of a hospital, has already been earmarked for being vaccinated,” he said. Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh also lashed out at TMC. “Even before they could open the boxes, MLAs queued up at centers to receive the vaccine,” he said. Alleging indiscriminate vaccination for Trinamool leaders, Ghosh added: “It seems they don’t care if others are getting a vaccine or not. If MLAs and leaders are getting vaccinated first, there will definitely be a shortage.” Union minister Babul Supriyo felt BJP lawmakers in Parliament had set an example by not getting immunized first. “A lawmaker of my age will have to wait for long before he is earmarked for vaccination. The government is providing the first lot of vaccines to those who are fighting the disease on a day-to-day basis. It is unfortunate to see TMC leaders queuing up for the vaccine,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-bjp-in-war-of-words-over-vaccine/articleshow/80319259.cms||Rohit Khanna
January 18, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara man cheated of Rs 25 lakh with seat in medical||VADODARA: Promising a seat at the coveted GMERS Medical College and Hospital in Gotri, a history-sheeter took a civil contractor for a costly ride of Rs 25 lakh. However, he was booked for cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy after Satya Raghu filed a police complaint. Raghu told the police that in August 2017, accused Harshil Limbachiya had assured seat for his daughter in MBBS course at GMERS Medical College and Hospital, while she had already secured a seat in Ahmedabad. The parents wanted her to study in Vadodara and so, Raghu met Limbachiya through an employee. During the first meeting at the hospital in Gotri, Limbachiya told Raghu that he is a senate member of MS University and knows several influential people so he will be able to get admission for the girl under NRI quota. Raghu paid Rs 5.1 lakh to Limbachiya on August 14 in 2017 for admission procedure. But the next day, he met Raghu at his office asking for more money, as admission was available in management quota. Until August 2017, Raghu paid another amount of Rs 12.8 lakh to Limbachiya as asked by him. To make Raghu trust him, Limbachiya showed his daughter’s name and other admission details on a fake MSU website. As the admission was getting delayed, Limbachiya sent him a provisional admission letter to Raghu. A month later, Raghu paid Rs 6.1 lakh as asked by Limbachiya, but there was no word about admission. When Raghu kept asking Limbachiya, the accused stopped responding due to which the contractor realized that Limbachiya was only making false promises. Raghu then asked Limbachiya to return his money. It was only after making repeated calls, Limbachiya returned Rs 15 lakh of Rs 25 lakh which he had taken. But when the remaining amount was not returned, Raghu gave a complaint to Manjalpur police station, based on which an offence was registered on Saturday. Limbachiya was booked in the past as well for conning several youths by promising them jobs in Madhya Gujarat Vij Company Ltd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-cheated-of-rs-25l-with-seat-in-medical/articleshow/80316897.cms||---
January 18, 2021||India||As privacy becomes a hot topic, this week’s debate centres around the Data Protection Bill. Will it do enough to protect your digital data?||Bill based on privacy principles most modern democracies subscribe toI try to avoid debates, like this one, on the pros and cons of the draft Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019 (PDP Bill, 2019) — because right now it is just that — a draft. Having witnessed our two previous attempts at creating a data protection framework fail, I am reluctant to count my chickens before they hatch. That said, the Joint Parliamentary Committee seems on the verge of issuing a final report, so we might be closer to seeing light at the end of this tunnel, than ever before. It is a fact the PDP Bill is based on privacy principles that most modern democracies subscribe to. It is firmly grounded in the notion of consent, requiring all entities that collect personal data to provide notice of the purpose for which the data that is being collected will be used as well as a whole host of other information essential for informed consent. It requires those who collect data to adhere to principles of collection, purpose and use limitation as well as limits their ability to retain data for only so long as is absolutely necessary to achieve the purpose. In my experience, these are the provisions that most data businesses engage regularly — frequently referring to them to evaluate whether a new line of business is viable from a privacy perspective as well in dealing with circumstances not previously encountered. That our privacy law is globally consistent in this regard gives businesses the confidence that they can process data the same way in India as they do everywhere else in the world. This is not to say, for a moment, that the draft law cleaves perfectly to international norms. If passed in its current form, it will be the first privacy law anywhere in the world to impose explicit data localisation obligations on the processing of certain classes of data and to offer broad exemptions to the State. And by attempting to extend its reach beyond personal data — into the realm of nonpersonal data — it re-defines the regulation of data itself. These might appear to be significant departures from the norm but if you really get into the weeds you need to ask yourself how much the Indian law really differs from the rest of the world in all these aspects? Take localisation for example. I would argue that localisation is implicit in any cross-border data transfer restriction. Every country stipulates certain thresholds have to be met before data can be transferred outside its borders. In doing so they are actually saying that the failure to meet these thresholds would require data to be processed domestically. Recently, in the second Schrems decision, the EU showed just how far it could go in this direction by upending its data transfer arrangement with the US on the ground that the data of EU nationals was not adequately protected. What is this if not localisation by another name? Exemptions for law enforcement purposes are not only commonplace in privacy laws around the world, they are almost part of the standard playbook. Granted, the Indian draft law goes further than even I would prefer, but my disagreement in this regard is with the degree and not the substance. I would like to see exemptions toned down but there isn’t a data protection statute anywhere in the world that has eliminated these exemptions in their entirety and I don’t expect India would — or should. Finally, non-personal data. There is no doubt that the attempt to regulate non-personal data is a new frontier. If India goes down this path it could well be the first country anywhere in the world to even try and do something like this. But just because no other country is going down this path is no reason to balk. Judging by the growing international interest in India’s non-personal data framework, it is becoming clear that India is more likely to be a pioneer than the outlier in the field. One of the specific concerns that has been raised is in relation to specific language referring to non-personal data in the PDP Bill 2019 that could interfere with the more detailed regulatory framework being conceptualised by an entirely different committee headed by Kris Gopalakrishnan. Thankfully, in its latest report, the non-personal data committee has described the manner in which its proposed regime will interplay with the provisions of the forthcoming privacy law attempting to resolve any anticipated overlaps by clearly clarifying the scope of each regulator. No law is ever perfect. Every legislative endeavour is an exercise in arriving at an optimal trade-off between competing interests. The PDP Bill 2019 is no different. But this is, for the most part, a good law — particularly in the areas that count. We are already 10 years late. Let’s not make perfect be the enemy of good and allow another decade to slip by. Matthan is a partner with Trilegal and specialises in technology, media and telecommunications law in IndiaMeant to ensure privacy, but gives state control over our personal dataHere’s a prediction for 2022: India’s Personal Data Protection (PDP) Act, which will be in the infancy of its implementation then, will be the subject of several lawsuits in courts. There is bound to be a strong challenge to the most egregious of the bill’s provisions: the wholesale exemptions given to the Indian government to access the personal data of citizens, including from private entities. A law that was meant to herald an era of privacy will be seen as violating this fundamental right. There will be calls for surveillance reform, and greater scrutiny on the activities of intelligence agencies. The Government of India would do well to define narrow and proportionate exceptions for state access to data, and limit it to situations where necessary: namely, attacks on critical infrastructure and investigations into terrorist attacks and credible national security threats. These should have the sanction of a highlevel government committee, and be open to scrutiny by a bipartisan Parliamentary committee. This is emphatically not the same as accessing data for day-to-day law enforcement purposes. Ideally, the bill should enable a separate law on reforming state surveillance. The implementation of facial recognition systems and drones for policing, especially in Delhi and Telangana, invites legal challenge. There are other issues with the bill: the localisation of data, based on the idea of segmentation of data into personal data, sensitive personal data and critical personal data. This cumbersome exercise is not always practical to implement. For example, if someone puts their caste information in a resume uploaded on a global job platform, how will that be segmented as sensitive personal data? For small businesses and startups, including health and financial apps, such segmentation and localisation will lead to disproportionate costs, because of which they might choose not to service the Indian market. India should embrace the global nature of the internet, look to apply its jurisdiction to the data of Indian citizens irrespective of where the data is stored, and seek adequacy arrangements with jurisdictions with a similar approach to data. Age-gating is another point of concern in the PDP bill. The Covid-19 Pandemic has sped up the adoption of digital services for education and entertainment, especially among children. Mandating a guardian’s consent for anyone below the age of 18 creates a situation where some data fiduciaries will end up inadvertently breaking the law, or disenfranchise a vast majority of teenagers. In a country with shared mobile devices, the requirement of consent for teenage girls to use internet-enabled devices will end up further disenfranchising them. Maturity levels differ vastly between 13 and 16-year-olds. The PDP Bill should require consent of a guardian for only those below the age of 14 in order to enable oversight for young children without disabling Internet access for those transitioning to adulthood. Ensuring compliance even for a guardian’s consent is difficult without the mass collection of ID cards, which will create privacy harms. The collection of parental consent should be on a best-efforts basis, to avoid onerous liability. Frankly, decisions regarding how the bill governs children’s data, are best left for further consultation by the Data Protection Authority. In the same way, the governance of inferred data as personal calls for further consultation. It has implications on the ability of businesses to provide services, especially with potential transience of such data, and automated generation by machine learning algorithms. Also, one of the strangest parts of the bill is the inclusion of “non-personal data”: why a law concerning personal data would have a clause governing data that is explicitly defined as non-personal, is hard to understand or justify. Even the committee that MEITY has created for governing non-personal data has recommended that his clause be dropped. Lastly, for a regulation as significant as this, the Personal Data Protection Authority must be independent and empowered. In the current form, it depends on the central government for its appointments and its powers, which leaves scope for the government to influence its functioning. The government of India is the largest collector and processor of data in this country, and one only has to look at its handling of Aadhaar data or the flawed implementation of the Aarogya Setu protocol to understand why negligence by government departments cannot be allowed to fester. Appointments to the Data Protection Authority must be done by a committee comprising the Chief Justice of India (or their nominee) as chairperson, and the cabinet secretary, and the Authority must work with domain experts who may advise it on matters of data protection, artificial intelligence, technology, and other aspects. The Data Protection Authority must inspire trust in citizens, to be truly effective: it should serve as an organisation that works for citizens’ privacy, even if that means holding government agencies, departments and officials accountable. Pahwa is the founder of MediaNama||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-privacy-becomes-a-hot-topic-this-weeks-debate-centres-around-the-data-protection-bill-will-it-do-enough-to-protect-your-digital-data/articleshow/80320583.cms||---
January 18, 2021||India||Parts of Bhopal under curfew after order in favour of RSS-linked trust||BHOPAL: Residents of Madhya Pradesh’s capital woke up to news of curfew in three police station areas — Teela Jamalpura, Hanumanganj and Gautam Nagar — and prohibitory orders under CrPC 144 in 11 other localities on Sunday. DM Avinash Lavania imposed the curfew and prohibitory orders as a precaution after a trust identified with RSS started building a boundary wall on a piece of land, following an SDM’s order in its favour. The land is claimed to be a graveyard by the MP Waqf Board. However, neither RSS nor MP Waqf Board were directly involved in the decades-long legal feud over possession of the 20,000 sqft plot. Armed policemen patrolled parts of Old City, which were barricaded off. The curfew came into effect at 9am on Sunday, and will remain in force till further orders. Those engaged in essential services, government employees and candidates appearing in competitive exams are exempted. So are those facing medical emergencies. They can show their ID/admit cards and pass through. DIG Irshad Wali, collector Lavania and other senior police officers remained at the construction site, ‘Kunjilal ka Bag’, where the boundary wall was being built. In the morning, some people started gathering in Hanumanganj area, but police immediately counselled them, explained the land order, and pacified the situation. The police’s social media monitoring team kept a close watch. Prohibitory order is in force in Shahjehanabad, Chhola Mandir, Talaiya, Nishatpura, Mangalwara, Ashoka Garden, Aishbagh, Jehangirabad, Station Bajaria, Berasia and Nazirabad. A force of around 5,000 policemen were deployed across the city. As many 2,200 police personnel were deployed in curfew zones and 1,500 cops were deployed in the 11 other locations. Riot control vehicles, tear-gas squads, two water cannons and camera-fitted vehicles were deployed, along with medical teams and ambulances. Police barricaded off 100 spots, including major traffic junctions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/parts-of-bhopal-under-curfew-after-order-in-favour-of-rss-linked-trust/articleshow/80320650.cms||---
January 18, 2021||India||Rioting in Kutch as rally to raise funds for Ayodhya Ram temple turns violent||RAJKOT: Rioting broke out between mobs of two communities in villages close to Gandhidham in Kutch, as a rally brought out to collect funds for building the grand Ram temple at Ayodhya turned violent on Sunday. While the situation first turned tense in Sadau village, the ripples swept to Kidana village adjoining Gandhidham where mobs turned violent and resorted to arson. Official sources said the rally was organised by VHP and that altercation over fund collection suddenly snowballed into rioting. A curfew-like situation prevailed in Kidana village where prohibitory orders were clamped under Section 144 of the IPC due to heavy rioting. Sources said some miscreants attacked people in the rally, which led to escalation of violation. “A huge mob had gathered during the rath yatra and there was stone pelting. We also lobbed tear gas shells and the situation is under control now,” JR Mothaliya, range IGP, Kutch, said. “Some people have been detained also,” he added. There was heavy stone pelting on police personnel in which some cops got injured, said sources. Local community members were roped in to ensure peace in the village. “We request people from both faiths not to heed to any rumours that may escalate the tension,” Juma Raima, a local community leader, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rioting-in-kutch-as-rally-to-raise-funds-for-ayodhya-ram-temple-turns-violent/articleshow/80320656.cms||---
January 18, 2021||India||MP hooch tragedy: Kingpin held, house razed||BHOPAL: Mukesh Kirar, prime accused in the Morena hooch tragedy that claimed 24 lives and blinded three persons, was arrested in Chennai on Sunday. Police were looking for him for the past five days and had announced a reward of Rs 10,000 for his arrest. DGP Vivek Johri confirmed the arrest and said Kirar was nabbed by MP police with assistance from Chennai cops. On the same day, the Madhya Pradesh government razed Kirar’s house in Chera village, the epicentre of the hooch tragedy. “Villagers undergoing treatment in hospital have said that they had got the liquor from three persons. When the trio was questioned, they named Mukesh Kirar as the main supplier,” said Kailaras subdivisional police officer Sashi Bushan Raghuvanshi. The other three suspects are in custody. The deadly liquor affected people in four hamlets of Morena — Manpur Prithvi, Chera, Paoli and Bilaiyapura in Jaura tehsil. At least a dozen men are still in hospital. A special investigation team (SIT), headed by additional chief secretary (home) Rajesh Rajora, has investigated the hooch tragedy and is expected to submit its report to the government on Sunday, sources say. ADGCID A Sai Manohar and DIG Mithilesh Shukla were part of the probe team. The incident triggered an administrative shakeup. The collector and SP were transferred on chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s orders. The entire staff of Baghchini police station was removed on charges of negligence, and its officer in charge Avinash Singh Rathore and two beat constables suspended. Morena subdivisional police officer Sujit Bhadira and excise officer Javed Khan were suspended as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mp-hooch-tragedy-kingpin-held-house-razed/articleshow/80320661.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Vadodara||Faced harassment? SHE team is here to help you out||VADODARA: Faced sexual harassment but reluctant to approach the cops? Don’t panic, as the cops will now be at your doorsteps to ensure your safety. The city police on Sunday launched SHE – specialized teams that will deal with the complaints from women as well as senior citizens. “Every year, we get thousands of calls from women who face harassment or other problems. The SHE team has been formed to help such women swiftly. Our motto is sensitivity towards the complainant and quick reaction to the complaint. If we act quickly on complaints by women, then the perpetrators will fear the law,” said Shamsher Singh, city police commissioner. He added that 90 per cent of crimes that happen with women are committed by some person known to them. “But many women are hesitant to file complaint which in turn encourages the perpetrators. Our SHE teams will talk to such women and help them in filing complaints,” Singh told TOI. Each of the 22 police stations has one SHE team and the Mahila police station has been given two additional squads. “Women feel comfortable to open up and file complaints in presence of female cops. So our teams have more of women police,” Singh added. After Ahmedabad, Vadodara is the second city to have the SHE teams that were flagged off by state home minister Pradeepsinh Jadeja on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/faced-harassment-she-team-is-here-to-help-you-out/articleshow/80317298.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Business||Finance ministry looks at holding company for PSB recap||NEW DELHI: The finance ministry is looking at other avenues for affordable capital infusion, including setting up of a Bank Investment Company (BIC), as the RBI has raised concern over the issuance of zero coupon bonds for recapitalisation of public sector banks (PSBs), sources said. Setting up BIC as a holding company or a core investment company was suggested by the P J Nayak Committee in its report on 'Governance of Boards of Banks in India'. The report recommended transferring shares of the government in the banks to the BIC which would become the parent holding company of all these banks, as a result of this, all the PSBs would become 'limited' banks. BIC will be autonomous and it will have the power to appoint the board of directors and make other policy decisions about subsidiaries. The idea of BIC, which will serve as a super holding company, was also discussed at the first Gyan Sangam bankers' retreat organised in 2014, the sources said. They added that it was proposed that the holding company would look into the capital needs of banks and arrange funds for them without government support. It would also look at alternative ways of raising capital such as the sale of non-voting shares in a bid to garner affordable capital. With this in place, the dependence of PSBs on government support would also come down and ease fiscal pressure. To save interest burden and ease the fiscal pressure, the government decided to issue zero coupon bonds for meeting the capital needs of the banks. The first test case of the new mechanism was a capital infusion of Rs 5,500 crore into Punjab & Sind Bank by issuing zero-coupon bonds of six different maturities last year. These special securities with tenure of 10-15 years are non-interest bearing and valued at par. However, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) expressed concerns over zero-coupon bonds for the recapitalisation of PSBs. The RBI has raised some issues with regard to calculation of an effective capital infusion made in any bank through this instrument issued at par, the sources said. Since such bonds usually are non-interest bearing but issued at a deep discount to the face value, it is difficult to ascertain net present value, they added. As these special bonds are non-interest bearing and issued at par to a bank, it would be an investment, which would not earn any return but rather depreciate with each passing year. Parliament had in September 2020 approved Rs 20,000 crore to be made available for the recapitalisation of PSBs. Of this, Rs 5,500 crore was issued to Punjab & Sind Bank and the finance ministry will take a call on the remaining Rs 14,500 crore during this quarter. With mounting capital requirement owing to rising NPAs, the government resorted to recapitalisation bonds with a coupon rate for capital infusion into PSBs during 2017-18 and interest payment to banks for holding such bonds started from the next financial year. This mechanism helped the government from making capital infusion from its own resources rather utilised banks' money for the financial assistance. However, the mechanism had a cost of interest payment towards the recapitalisation bonds for PSBs. During 2018-19, the government paid Rs 5,800.55 crore as interest on such bonds issued to public sector banks for pumping in the capital so that they could meet the regulatory norms under the Basel-III guidelines. In the subsequent year, according to the official document, the interest payment by the government surged three times to Rs 16,285.99 crore to PSBs as they have been holding these papers. Under this mechanism, the government issues recapitalisation bonds to a public sector bank which needs capital. The said bank subscribes to the paper against which the government receives the money. Now, the money received goes as equity capital of the bank. So the government doesn't have to pay anything from its pocket. However, the money invested by banks in recapitalisation bonds is classified as an investment which earns them an interest. In all, the government has issued about Rs 2.5 lakh crore recapitalisation in the last three financial years. In the first year, the government issued Rs 80,000 crore recapitalisation bonds, followed by Rs 1.06 lakh crore in 2018-19. During the last financial year, the capital infusion through bonds was Rs 65,443 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/finance-ministry-looks-at-holding-co-for-psb-recap/articleshow/80320684.cms||---
January 18, 2021||Business||New WhatsApp policy worries even companies||BENGALURU: It’s not just consumers who are worried about WhatsApp’s policy changes. Businesses that use WhatsApp’s application programming interface, or API, to reach customers and deliver sensitive documents are also concerned about the changes, which would see deeper integration of the messaging platform with Facebook. These businesses want to take a closer look at the new policy as they regularly use WhatsApp to transmit private data like health test results and financial statements, or even personal information like travel and hotel bookings. At least two large digital platforms that use WhatsApp Business in India told TOI they plan to take the matter up with the company. They will then evaluate if they want to continue using the channel for communicating with their users. E-pharmacy platform 1MG, for instance, sends its lab test results to consumers’ WhatsApp accounts if the user is fine with that. There are several other large platforms that send booking and other relevant details on WhatsApp, if a customer opts for it. These include movie ticketing firm BookMyShow, travel-booking companies MakeMyTrip & Ixigo, and home services platform Urban Company. This has been seen as offering convenience, since WhatsApp is the preferred messaging platform for many users. With the proposed changes — now postponed to mid-May — businesses are anxious about the way this information will be treated and how it will impact their customers. “We are glad that WhatsApp has postponed the proposed datasharing plans. We have been concerned and are evaluating its impact on the privacy of our users, given that any health-related conversation should not be used by the communication platform. As WhatsApp moves from being a communication platform to a datagathering and analysis platform, we would certainly like to engage in a deeper conversation to ensure user privacy is maintained,” 1MG co-founder and CEO Prashant Tandon told TOI. A senior executive at a ticketing platform said, “WhatsApp is used as a convenient medium to send tickets. These messages are easy to find, to track updates on certain orders. So far, many users have used it, but now there are concerns how this will play out. People might not be comfortable using it for certain cases.” WhatsApp has said that direct messages and group chats will remain encrypted, and that its new changes are related to chats with a business on WhatsApp. While announcing the move to delay by three months the implementation of the privacy changes, WhatsApp added in its post, “If you choose to interact with Shops, we will let you know in WhatsApp how your data is being shared with Facebook.” WhatsApp has not communicated with Tandon’s company about the proposed changes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/new-whatsapp-policy-worries-even-companies/articleshow/80320696.cms||Digbijay Mishra
January 18, 2021||Business||Hardly any finished goods incur anti-dumping duties||NEW DELHI: Nearly 85% of all the anti-dumping and countervailing duties imposed by India are on intermediate products, with only a minuscule proportion of the actions on final products. Data collated by government agencies showed that around 7% of the products that face trade remedies against cheap, subsidised imports that cause injury to the domestic industry are capital goods. In contrast, only 2% of the finished products face these levies. Several industries complain of dumping, but have been either unable to prove it or have joined the bandwagon through production facilities in other countries, which are often accused of selling cheap stuff in India. “With intermediate products and capital goods facing these levies, the overall cost goes up for the finished products, which may not be a great thing when you are looking to be competitive,” a government source told TOI. Studies also indicate that the levies, meant to protect Indian producers against unfair trade practices, have yielded little revenue. According to official estimates, the trade remedy measures yielded around Rs 3,000 crore by way of revenue during 2019-20, which was a small fraction of the Centres’ gross tax revenue of Rs 20 lakh crore. India is among the biggest users of the anti-dumping tool permitted by the World Trade Organization, having initiated 972 of the 5,944 global actions up to 2019, data on the multilateral agency’s website showed. But when it comes to countervailing duty, imposed against subsidies, the US is the largest user of the weapon. For years, India has been accused by China of targeting it with action. Internationally, the biggest recipient of such action is China, which is accused of dumping commodities, from steel to chemicals, while also subsidising exports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hardly-any-finished-goods-incur-anti-dumping-duties/articleshow/80320715.cms||Surojit Gupta
January 18, 2021||Business||GM union moves HC over ‘closure’||MUMBAI: The General Motors Employees Union has filed a petition before the Bombay high court seeking directions to ensure that the Maharashtra government passes an order by January 19 (to avoid deemed approval) to either clear or reject the closure application filed by General Motors (GM). The petition said the main ground for challenging the closure is that GM’s application states it was made because an MoU was signed to sell its business to China’s Great Wall Motors — thus it is not a closure but rather a transfer of undertaking under the Industrial Disputes Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gm-union-moves-hc-over-closure/articleshow/80320737.cms||Swati Deshpande
