January 19, 2021||Business||Government may keep Rs 7,500 crore outlay for IT hardware manufacturing under PLI scheme||NEW DELHI: The government may keep an outlay of Rs 7,500 crore under the production linked incentive scheme for IT hardware products like personal computers, laptops, tablets and servers, according to a source aware of the development. Foreign companies looking for incentives under the scheme may have to invest Rs 500 crore over four years, while the threshold for domestic firms is likely to be around Rs 20 crore for five years, the source who did not wish to be named said. "Meity (ministry of electronics and information technology) will take the Cabinet approval of the detailed guidelines soon and is hopeful of rolling out the scheme from next financial year. The incentive outlay is likely to be around Rs 7,500 crore," the source said. The government has announced a cumulative production linked incentive of Rs 2 lakh crore for 10 sectors to encourage domestic manufacturing after seeing traction of global giants like Apple's contract manufacturers, Samsung etc for the scheme in the mobile devices segment. According to mobile devices industry body ICEA, India has the potential to scale up its cumulative laptop and tablet manufacturing capacity to over Rs 7 lakh crore by 2025 through policy interventions. Scaling up laptop and tablet PC manufacturing can take the share of India in the global market to 26 per cent from 1 per cent at present. Besides, it will generate 5 lakh new jobs and lead to a cumulative inflow of foreign exchange to the tune of Rs 5.5 lakh crore and investment of over Rs 7,300 crore by 2025.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/government-may-keep-rs-7500-crore-outlay-for-it-hardware-manufacturing-under-pli-scheme/articleshow/80335504.cms||---
January 19, 2021||India||Terror module busted in Jammu and Kashmir||JAMMU: Police on Monday claimed to have busted a terror module with the arrest of two Kashmir-based Jaish-e-Mohammad operatives and seized a huge haul of arms and ammunition in J&K’s Ramban district. “Initial investigation revealed that the duo — Umar Ahmed Malik and Suhail Ahmed Malik, both residents of Semthan — were part of a terror plot conspired by Kashmir-based terrorists and their Pakistan-based handler Aqib alias Alfa had clandestinely travelled from Kashmir to the international border at Vijaypur in Samba district and received a weapon consignment air-dropped by Pakistan,” IGP (Jammu Range) Mukesh Singh said. The recovery included two AK-74s, one pistol, 16 grenades, nine AK magazines, 269 live bullets and two magazines. Earlier, security forces had arrested three Kashmir-based Lashkar-e-Taiba ultras with a huge cache of arms and ammunition besides cash during an operation along the LoC in Rajouri district where the trio had come to collect a weapon consignment. On December 27-28, three terror operatives of J&K Ghaznavi Force were arrested in Balakote area near the LoC with six hand grenades and posters of the outfit. While investigating the Ghaznavi Force module, police had made another recovery of arms and ammunition from Balakote’s Dabbi village bordering the LoC on January 3. The total recovery of arms and ammunition made so far based on the disclosures of arrested terror associates include 13 grenades, three pistols, five pistol magazines, 105 pistol bullets, four Pakistan-made balloons, one flag of Tehreek-ul-Mujahideen and 18 posters of J&K Ghaznavi Force, police said. Meanwhile, J&K DGP Dilbag Singh on Monday chaired a high-level meeting to review security in Jammu zone and arrangements for the Republic Day with senior officers of police, Army, BSF, CRPF and intelligence agencies. Underlining that there is a need to consolidate peace in 2021, the DGP said the new year will have its own challenges as novel strategies have been adopted by Pakistan with new terror operatives emerging on the ground. The DGP complimented the officers for excellent work done during the previous year. He said 2020 was very good as far as maintenance of peace, law & order and counter-insurgency operations were concerned. He said there were inputs about terrorists trying to carry out mischief to disturb communal harmony, peace and order and asked the officers to take care of vulnerable persons and places to thwart nefarious designs of the enemies. He hailed the proactive approach and preventive measures of J&K Police and other security forces which led to the recovery of huge arms and ammunition in 2020, besides eliminating 225 terrorists. Well-coordinated surveillance systems must be ensured to undo the nefarious plans of Pakistan, the DGP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/terror-module-busted-in-jammu-and-kashmir/articleshow/80335694.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
January 19, 2021||India||Slain Lawaypora trio were terrorists: IGP Kashmir||SRINAGAR: The three youths killed in an anti-terror operation at Lawaypora on Srinagar’s outskirts on December 30 were “active terrorists” and police would soon provide concrete evidence of their involvement in subversive activities to disprove their kin’s claim that they were shot dead in a “fake encounter”, IGP (Kashmir Range) Vijay Kumar said on Monday. Aijaz Maqbool Ganai of Pulwama and Ather Mushtaq Wani and Zubair Ahmad Lone from Shopian were shot dead by security forces during the course of a two-day encounter. While police identified them as Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists, their families accused security forces of stage-managing the operation and claimed the three were “innocent”. “We have gathered 60% evidence, and in the next 10 days, will collect more proof including technical data to establish that the three were active terrorists and had provided logistic support to other terrorists,” the IGP said on the sidelines of a road safety function in Srinagar, adding that bodies of slain terrorists weren’t being handed over to their families in the wake of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic to avoid gathering of mourners in violation of norms. IGP Kumar said Kashmiri youths were being lured into taking up arms as overground workers after being provided with pistols and hand grenades. “Yesterday (January 17), we arrested a youth from Anantnag with a pistol and grenade, who was tasked to kill someone. We are alert and will counter the trend through surveillance,” he said, adding terrorists might attempt to create unrest on January 26 but police will foil all their bids.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/slain-lawaypora-trio-were-terrorists-igp-kashmir/articleshow/80335741.cms||M Saleem Pandit
January 19, 2021||Bengaluru||New ministers yet to get portfolios; Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa says soon||BENGALURU: Five days after they were sworn in, the seven new ministers in BS Yediyurappa’s cabinet have still not been assigned portfolios. Yediyurappa has indicated that he might allocate portfolios on Wednesday after holding consultations with senior ministers. “I am going to Udupi today (Monday) and will return on Tuesday evening. After that, I will speak to senior cabinet colleagues and allocate portfolios,” he said. Two senior BJP functionaries said that there was pressure on the chief minister to ensure key portfolios went to the right people and this was probably delaying the exercise. Union home minister Amit Shah’s two-day visit to Karnataka also affected the timeline. Shah reportedly asked Yediyurappa to not give opposition parties a chance to tarnish BJP’s image after the cabinet expansion. On January 13, Yediyurappa inducted legislators Umesh Katti, Aravind Limbavali, MTB Nagaraj, CP Yogeshwar, R Shankar, S Nagara and Murugesh Nirani into his cabinet. Energy and Bengaluru development are among the most coveted portfolios, with even some senior ministers lobbying for them. “Their strategy is: ‘If I don’t get it, no one should get it,” alleged a new inductee. According to BJP functionaries, Yediyurappa is considering reshuffling responsibilities of senior ministers such as Basavaraj Bommai, who currently heads the home department, and R Ashoka, who is in charge of revenue. Ashoka reportedly wants to become the Bengaluru development minister ahead of the BBMP elections. Deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan and Limbavali are also contenders for this portfolio. Industries minister Jagadish Shettar may get a new role as Nirani has sought his department, the BJP functionaries said. Nirani was the industries minister from 2008 to 2013. Meanwhile, a number of BJP MLAs, who didn’t get a cabinet look-in, are expected to meet in a day or two to decide their next steps despite Shah’s warning against dissidence. MP Renukacharya, the chief minister’s political secretary, is among the MLAs trying to organise a meeting. “We have been contacting like-minded MLAs and will soon hold a meeting to chart our next course of action, which includes approaching national BJP president JP Nadda. A clear picture will emerge in a day or two,” said an MLA from Kalyana Karnataka region. The group is trying to enlist the support of at least 20 MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/new-ministers-yet-to-get-portfolios/articleshow/80335746.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mangaluru||New ministers yet to get portfolios; Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa says soon||BENGALURU: Five days after they were sworn in, the seven new ministers in BS Yediyurappa’s cabinet have still not been assigned portfolios. Yediyurappa has indicated that he might allocate portfolios on Wednesday after holding consultations with senior ministers. “I am going to Udupi today (Monday) and will return on Tuesday evening. After that, I will speak to senior cabinet colleagues and allocate portfolios,” he said. Two senior BJP functionaries said that there was pressure on the chief minister to ensure key portfolios went to the right people and this was probably delaying the exercise. Union home minister Amit Shah’s two-day visit to Karnataka also affected the timeline. Shah reportedly asked Yediyurappa to not give opposition parties a chance to tarnish BJP’s image after the cabinet expansion. On January 13, Yediyurappa inducted legislators Umesh Katti, Aravind Limbavali, MTB Nagaraj, CP Yogeshwar, R Shankar, S Nagara and Murugesh Nirani into his cabinet. Energy and Bengaluru development are among the most coveted portfolios, with even some senior ministers lobbying for them. “Their strategy is: ‘If I don’t get it, no one should get it,” alleged a new inductee. According to BJP functionaries, Yediyurappa is considering reshuffling responsibilities of senior ministers such as Basavaraj Bommai, who currently heads the home department, and R Ashoka, who is in charge of revenue. Ashoka reportedly wants to become the Bengaluru development minister ahead of the BBMP elections. Deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan and Limbavali are also contenders for this portfolio. Industries minister Jagadish Shettar may get a new role as Nirani has sought his department, the BJP functionaries said. Nirani was the industries minister from 2008 to 2013. Meanwhile, a number of BJP MLAs, who didn’t get a cabinet look-in, are expected to meet in a day or two to decide their next steps despite Shah’s warning against dissidence. MP Renukacharya, the chief minister’s political secretary, is among the MLAs trying to organise a meeting. “We have been contacting like-minded MLAs and will soon hold a meeting to chart our next course of action, which includes approaching national BJP president JP Nadda. A clear picture will emerge in a day or two,” said an MLA from Kalyana Karnataka region. The group is trying to enlist the support of at least 20 MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/new-ministers-yet-to-get-portfolios/articleshow/80342607.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Bengaluru||Only 158 of 239 vaccination sites operate in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Huge disruptions on Monday marked Day 3 of the Covid-19 vaccination drive in Bengaluru, with only 158 of the intended 239 sites inoculating beneficiaries. BBMP officials said glitches in the CoWIN portal on Sunday night hindered registration of Monday’s beneficiaries, resulting in a delay in distributing vaccine vials. Protocol issued by the central government states a schedule, with a list of beneficiaries, must be uploaded on the CoWIN portal. Only then can vaccine vials be distributed – in this case from Dasappa hospital, off SJP Road, where they are stored. “Sixteen thousand were to be vaccinated today at 239 sites, but things fell apart while preparing the schedule,” said Manjunatha Prasad, BBMP commissioner. “Uploading the schedule took a while because the entire country was using the portal.” The delay had a ripple effect. Vaccine doses, which were to reach PHCs a day before the actual vaccination date, arrived only by mid-afternoon at several PHCs. The commissioner himself visited Dasappa hospital to sort things out. “On the first two days, we added 50 names in less than 20 minutes, but on Sunday it took nearly 20 minutes to add just five names,” a senior BBMP health official said. While officials in BBMP’s War Room worked till 5am, trying to fix things, they eventually could upload the schedule for only 158 sites. “We thought of distributing a hard copy of the schedule, but we could not,” said Rajendra Cholan, special commissioner health and IT, BBMP. “The message to distribute the vaccine can only be sent through CoWIN and the delay affected things.” Besides, some PHCs got the wrong list of beneficiaries. A PHC in RR Nagar got beneficiary details of a PHC in Yeshwantpur. “Because of the wrong schedule, only 23 of the 60 beneficiaries were inoculated,” said a senior medical official from RR Nagar zone. Asked about the mix up, Prasad said, “This is surprising and we will look into it. Once a schedule is made, a permanent list is prepared. Hospitals cannot have a separate, special list.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/only-158-of-239-bbmp-vax-sites-work-co-win-glitches-blamed/articleshow/80335750.cms||Nithya Mandyam
January 19, 2021||World||Imran Khan fires Balakot gun from TRP scam shoulder||ISLAMABAD: Branding India a "rogue state" and Balakot a symbol of the Narendra Modi government's "brinkmanship", Pakistan PM Imran Khan on Monday held up the purported WhatsApp conversations between Republic TV co-founder Arnab Goswami and former Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) CEO Partho Dasgupta as further evidence of BJP using the February 2019 airstrike "for domestic electoral gains". In a series of tweets, Imran said he had first informed the international community about this during his speech at the United Nations General Assembly in 2019. "Latest revelations from the communication of an Indian journalist, known for his warmongering, reveal the unholy nexus between the Modi govt and Indian media that led to a dangerous military adventurism to win an election in utter disregard for the consequences of destabilising the entire region," he tweeted. He claimed that Pakistan, on the other hand, "averted a larger crisis by a responsible, measured response to Balakot". He said India’s alleged sponsorship of terrorism in Pakistan, human rights abuse by the armed forces in Kashmir and a 15-year-long disinformation campaign to discredit nations in conflict with New Delhi, particularly Pakistan, now stands exposed through the leaked chats involving Goswami. "India’s own media has revealed the dirty nexus that is pushing our nuclearised region to the brink of a conflict it cannot afford," Imran said. "I want to reiterate that my government will continue to expose India’s belligerent designs towards Pakistan and the Modi government’s fascism. International community must stop India from its reckless, militarist agenda before the Modi government’s brinkmanship pushes our region into a conflict it cannot control." Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, too, tweeted about how the latest revelations in India's TRP scam had unwittingly exposed the truth about Balakot. He termed it a "staggering new low". "Staging ‘false flag’ ops, stoking hyper-nationalism, unholy BJP-crony media nexus and endangering regional security. RSS-BJP rogue regime has no credibility...going to any lengths to get to and stay in power," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/imran-khan-fires-balakot-gun-from-trp-scam-shoulder/articleshow/80335773.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
January 19, 2021||India||Covaxin company warns people with medical conditions not to take jab||NEW DELHI: People who are immuno-compromised or are on medicines that affect the immune system are advised not to take the anti-Covid vaccine Covaxin, a detailed factsheet released by its manufacturer Bharat Biotech said. Earlier, the government had said patients on immuno-suppressants or suffering from immune deficiency could take the vaccine though the response was expected to be less effective in such individuals. Usually, cancer patients on chemotherapy, HIV-positive people and those on steroids are immune-suppressed. While the risk of infection is higher in such patients, doctors also say efficiency of vaccines is often very low in such groups. Bharat Biotech has advised people with bleeding disorders or who are on blood thinners to avoid the shot. Also, those who are acutely ill, have fever or have any history of allergy, besides pregnant or lactating mothers were also advised against taking the jab. The factsheet suggested that if any recipient developed Covid-19 symptoms, it should be recorded as an adverse event with RT-PCR test results as proof. Doctors said the factsheet could be in the light of adverse events, most of them mild, reported from across the country. Advice intended to be precautionary: BiotechExperts have said that though a vaccinated person can catch Covid-19, the infection is likely to be mild. The company said the advice was intended to be precautionary. “There is a remote chance that the Bharat Biotech Covid-19 vaccine (Covaxin) could cause a severe allergic reaction… may very rarely occur,” the company said. It added that signs of severe allergic reaction could include difficulty in breathing, swelling of face and throat, fast heart beat, rashes all over the body, dizziness and weakness. “Tell the vaccinator/officer about all your medical conditions, including: Are you on regular medication for any illness? If yes, for how long and for which condition,” the factsheet said. A health ministry advisory to states before the rollout of the vaccination programme on January 16 had listed history of allergy, pregnancy and lactation as contraindications. As provisional measures, it had suggested delaying vaccination by 4-8 weeks after recovery among acutely unwell or hospitalised patients along with those infected with Covid-19 and patients who had been treated with convalescent plasma. The clinical efficacy of Covaxin is yet to be established and it is still being studied in Phase 3 trials. “Hence, it was important to appreciate that receiving the vaccine does not mean that other precautions related to Covid-19 need not be followed,” the factsheet said. The government has procured 55 lakh doses of Covaxin, which have been distributed among 12 states and UTs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covaxin-company-warns-people-with-medical-conditions-not-to-take-jab/articleshow/80337257.cms||Sushmi Dey
January 19, 2021||India||Police, not court, to decide on nod for tractor rally: Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday lobbed the ball into the court of Delhi police when the Centre sought a direction to restrain a proposed Republic Day ‘tractor rally’ in the Capital by farmers who are protesting against the three new farm laws at Delhi’s Singhu border for the last 50 days. The court told the Centre that the issue of maintaining law and order was exclusively the domain of Delhi Police and that the constitutional court could not be the authority to deal with situations that could arise from the tractor march. “The question of entry into Delhi is a law and order issue which will be dealt with by the police,” a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices L Nageswara Rao and Vineet Saran said. The Centre’s keenness to get a judicial order to prevent farmers from attempting to enter Delhi with a tractor march on January 26 was palpable as it was anxious to minimise possible political fallout in case the police were required to use force. Attorney General K K Venugopal said the Centre and the Delhi Police thought it fit to apprise the SC of the ground situation as the court has taken charge of the farmers’ agitation. However, the bench clarified that it was a mistake to think in these terms when it had intervened on a very limited issue, that is adjudication on the legality of the farm laws. The bench said, “We are in session of one issue (legality of the three farm laws). And the court’s intervention is wholly misunderstood.” It decided to take up the main issue on Wednesday, when it probably needs to find a substitute for B S Mann, who recused himself from the four-member committee set up by the SC to hear grievances of protesting farmers and all stakeholders. Venugopal said it would be wholly illegal on the part of thousands of farmers to enter Delhi on Republic Day with tractors, which could create chaos and law and order problems. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said the court must ensure the dignity attached to constitutional functions like Republic Day. Delhi Police have filed an application seeking to restrain farmers from entering Delhi with tractors. The CJI-led bench said, “We as a constitutional court are not the first authority to grant or refuse permission for tractor rally entering Delhi. Who should be allowed to enter Delhi, how many people and under what conditions is for the police to decide." When the AG and the SG pressed for an order on Delhi Police’s application, the bench asked, “Does the Centre need the Supreme Court to tell that all these issues are within the police power to decide?" On January 12, the SC had suspended implementation of the three contentious farm laws and set up a four-member committee to examine the laws to determine which provisions were in farmers’ welfare and give a report to the court in two months. The CJI-led bench had said, “We are suspending implementation of the three farm laws — Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.” It also ordered, "The Minimum Support Price (MSP) system in existence before the enactment of the farm laws shall be maintained until further orders. In addition, the farmers’ land holdings shall be protected, no farmer shall be dispossessed or deprived of his title as a result of any action taken under the farm laws."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/police-not-court-to-decide-on-nod-for-tractor-rally-sc/articleshow/80337410.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 19, 2021||India||Vaccine mission: Co-WIN app slips up again, some states waive its use||NEW DELHI: Designed to be the digital nerve centre of India’s Covid-19 vaccination programme, glitch-prone Co-WIN failed to inject integration efficiency into the massive nationwide exercise for the second consecutive day. Some states faced minor glitches on Monday that were quickly fixed, but most struggled to get going in the face of data lag, erroneous communication or total system failure. Like Punjab did on Sunday, Haryana eased the rule that requires mandatory use of the Co-WIN mobile app to schedule vaccination and record recipient data. The health department can now carry out vaccination without pre-registering recipients. System administrators have been asked to manually upload data later. Read AlsoCovaxin company warns people with medical conditions not to take jabEarlier, the government had said patients on immuno-suppressants or suffering from immune deficiency could take the vaccine though the response was expected to be less effective in such individuals. Usually, cancer patients on chemotherapy, HIV-positive people and those on steroids areHealth department officials in Gurgaon said the app wasn’t working properly right from the start. Co-WIN, which automates the process of sending pre-vaccination intimation to recipients, failed to send advance texts to many registered users. Many of those who got their shots on Saturday received “prior intimation” of their appointments through SMS the next day. Read AlsoVaccine drive hits hurdle as CoWIN app sees glitchesThe Covid-19 vaccination drive in Gurugram and other districts hit a hurdle on the first day as health officials faced difficulties in operating the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (CoWIN) application developed by the centre to monitor and track the inoculation process.In Assam, just over 2,000 health care workers could be vaccinated on Monday against the targeted figure of 6,500. The shortfall was because of a major technical glitch in the Co-WIN server that forced the state to stall vaccination at 24 sites across 12 districts. Vaccination coverage on the second day was just above 49%, around 5% below Saturday’s figure. Read AlsoMinor glitches in Co-WIN but drive completed successfully, says government“No major glitches were noticed. Almost all functions were smooth. We are constantly looking at the operations to ensure that the platform is ready to bear a major user-load that will be there once it opens up for others,” an official said.Telangana health workers administering the Covid-19 vaccine at the Government Chest Hospital in Hyderabad’s SR Nagar had to manually verify and record data after the Co-WIN app failed to update the names of the beneficiaries. “The app is still not functioning to its full capacity. The manual process is taking a little time, but I guess we have no choice but to follow this method until the technical glitches are fixed,” said R Mary Premila, a vaccinator at the hospital. Informing vaccine recipients about their appointments in advance proved the primary challenge in the absence of reliable automated communication. Instead of getting automated texts on their phones, the recipients received phone calls from the centres. Officials in Maharashtra, where the vaccination drive is scheduled to resume on Tuesday, said the Co-WIN snags they had flagged on Saturday had been fixed and the rectified system now appeared to be stable. Session sites for almost 50% of the 285 vaccination centres were created without a hitch on Monday. Watch Co-WIN buckles under pressure, faces glitches in use||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/co-win-buckles-under-jab-pressure/articleshow/80337507.cms||---
January 19, 2021||India||China building infrastructure along border areas, says government||NEW DELHI: Reacting to reports based on satellite images of construction activities by China in an area claimed to be Indian territory, the government said Beijing has undertaken infrastructure construction along border areas in the past several years and that Delhi has also built border roads and bridges to improve local connectivity. The ministry of external affair’s comments came in the wake of reports based on photographs put out by US-based imaging company Planet Labs, which claimed a village with 101 houses had come up along the river Tsari Chu in Upper Subansiri district in Arunachal Pradesh where there was no construction in August 2019. The photographs of the village are said to be of November 2020 — at a time when the Ladakh standoff was on. “We have seen recent reports on China undertaking construction work along the border areas with India. China has undertaken such infrastructure construction activity in the past several years,” the MEA said. In its comments to NDTV which ran the report, the government said, “Our government too has stepped up border infrastructure including construction of roads, bridges which has provided much needed connectivity to the local population along the border.” The issue was swiftly taken up by Congress with former minister Manish Tewari seeking a response from the PM. “This is very, very serious. Not troops but a whole village. For god’s sake. PMO or Rajnath Singh should tell the nation as to whether this is true or false,” he said. The government statement appears to indicate that Chinese activity has been on for some time. Defence analyst Abhijit Iyer Mitra tweeted, “This village, 5km inside the Indian border, was built in November 2020 at least and entirely without opposition or challenge from India. All pucca buildings house up to 2,000 people — full-blown occupation of Indian land.” The MEA asserted that the Indian government “remains committed to the objective of creating infrastructure along the border areas for the improvement of livelihood of its citizens”, including in Arunachal Pradesh. “The government keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on India’s security and takes all necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity,” it added. The report said the village is located in an area disputed by India and China. BJP’s Arunachal Pradesh MP Tapir Gao has previously spoken of incursions in border areas of the state. The village was built by the Chinese in apparently less than a year. India and China have been locked in an armed standoff in eastern Ladakh as well as other points on the LAC since May 2020. The satellite images, therefore, show that China was constructing the village in the midst of the standoff. Tapir Gao told a TV channel on Monday, “Construction is still going on. China has entered more than 60-70km inside the Upper Subansiri district if you follow the path along the river. They are constructing a road along the river known locally as the Lensi as it flows in the direction of the Subansiri river.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-building-infrastructure-along-border-areas-says-government/articleshow/80337589.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||WhatsApp chats prove Arnab Goswami-ex-BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta collusion to rig ratings, says NBA||NEW DELHI: Expressing its “shock” over the “hundreds of WhatsApp messages that clearly establish collusion and power play” between Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami and ex-BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta in “manipulating viewership ratings to give Republic TV an unfair advantage” and cause “huge financial losses” to other news channels, the National Broadcasters Association on Monday demanded that BARC “expunge the data of the erring broadcaster and restate the real position of rankings of all news channels from the beginning”. “The messages exchanged go on to refer to the appointment of secretaries, Cabinet reshuffle, access to the PMO, and the workings of the ministry of information and broadcasting. This only confirms the many and continuous allegations made by NBA in the last four years that ratings were being manipulated by a non-NBA member broadcaster in connivance with BARC’s top management officials,” the association said. Read AlsoTRP scam: Shock, outrage on social media over Arnab Goswami and ex-BARC CEO's WhatsApp chatsNEW DELHI: The leaked WhatsApp conversations between Republic TV executive editor Arnab Goswami and former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) Partho Dasgupta has brought to the fore evidence of alleged collusion to influence TV ratings. The purported WhatsApp conversations between theNBA also demanded that Republic TV’s membership of the Indian Broadcasters’ Association “be suspended with immediate effect” while the ratings manipulation case is pending in court. “The NBA board is also of the view that the manipulation of ratings by Republic TV has immensely damaged the reputation of the broadcast industry and therefore it should be kept out of BARC rating system till final court order,” it said. Read AlsoTRP scam: Ex-CEO of BARC Partho Dasgupta hospitalisedFormer CEO of ratings agency BARC, Partho Dasgupta, who was arrested in the alleged fake TRP case, has been admitted in the ICU. Dasgupta, a diabetic, was rushed to the hospital from the Taloja Central Prison in Navi Mumbaiin the early hours of Saturday after his blood sugar levels went up on FridayThe association said that the collusion between Goswami and Dasgupta had led to Republic TV’s viewership numbers being boosted while “fraudulently manually reducing ratings of other channels”. Read AlsoArnab Goswami &amp; ex-BARC CEO chats go viralThe chats document a constant flow of communication between Dasgupta and Goswami and chats between former BARC’s chief operating officer Romil Ramgarhia and Republic TV CEO Vikas Khanchandani. Dasgupta is in judicial custody, while Ramgarhia and Khanchandani are out on bail.“NBA’s board also wants to place on record that the corrupt data released month after month has not only led to reputation loss but has also caused huge financial losses to news broadcasters for which BARC is duty-bound to give an explanation,” the association said. Arnab Goswami, Partho Dasgupta nexus exposed in whatsapp chat:Full details“NBA has already conveyed to BARC that the ratings are unreliable as far as we can see and should continue to be suspended in light of the recent revelations which shows the arbitrary nature of functioning at BARC. It shows that there are no checks and balances, and the ability of a few within BARC to easily change the ratings as they deem fit, making the system subjective to the whims and fancy of the management versus being an objective transparent system. The Oversight Committee with no representation of broadcasters and just consultants paid by BARC is an eyewash to show autonomy. NBA strongly demands that action should be taken by BARC against these dubious actors. Legal and police action should also be taken against those who are responsible for ruining the credibility of BARC and threatening to damage the credibility of the news broadcast business,” the association added. “It is indeed with dismay that NBA notes the fact that in spite of having a damning verdict in its possession since July 2020, BARC sat on the forensic report for several months, which brought to light these manipulations. This is a glaring example of the systemic lack of transparency that has prevailed right since the inception of BARC. Not only did BARC not share the data with NBA on grounds of confidentiality, but no action was also taken against the erring broadcaster, no penalty and no Discom proceedings were initiated. In fact, even after the new management took charge, widescale manipulation has continued,” the association said. NBA demanded that BARC make “a clear statement about the veracity of its ratings” in the period under audit and conduct an audit of the Hindi news genre. It should also “explain the concrete steps that have been taken in the last three months to secure the ratings,” it said, adding that “ratings of news channels remain suspended till such time all details of such actions taken by BARC are shared with stakeholders”. BARC must “explain what penal actions are provided for in the BARC constitution against broadcasters who have indulged in manipulation of ratings of this magnitude and what action will be taken in the current case”, NBA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/whatsapp-chats-prove-goswami-dasgupta-collusion-to-rig-ratings-says-nba/articleshow/80337677.cms||---
January 19, 2021||India||Lowest daily Covid deaths in 245 days||NEW DELHI: India recorded 131 Covid-19 fatalities on Monday, which was the lowest in 245 days. Fresh daily cases — at 10,009 — too were the lowest in 225 days, in keeping with the continuing decline in the pandemic which is seen in the last few months. Ironically, the low numbers came on a day when Lakshadweep — which had remained unaffected by the pandemic so far — reported its first Covid-19 case. With this, all states and Union territories of the country have reported Covid-19 cases. India had recorded identical casualties — 131 — on May 18, four months before the pandemic reached its peak on September 17. Before that, the country had recorded the lowest daily casualty — 118 — on May 16. Similarly, the lowest tally of daily cases was recorded on June 8 when 9,395 patients had tested positive for the virus. Fresh cases on Mondays have been lower than other days of the week throughout the pandemic because of lower testing during the weekend. According to covid19.org, just 5.48 lakh tests were done on Sunday (January 17), resulting in just about 10,000 new cases the next day. This testing figure in the country was the lowest since August 9 last year, when just 4.77 lakh tests were conducted. The number of tests on Sunday was a steep drop of 2.3 lakh from the previous day’s count. The Lakshadweep islands reported the UT’s first positive case from Kavaratti island, a sources said, adding that he has been moved to a Covid care hospital. However, the Dweep administration refused to officially declare the first Covid case saying that the same was yet to be validated by the health ministry. All the primary contacts will be put on home quarantine if they do not have any symptoms. As per the new SOP, all people who wished to come to Lakshadweep had to carry a negative test report of RT-PCR obtained 48 hours before the travel. The island was one among the few parts in the world where there were no positive cases. Meanwhile, in the week gone by (January 11-17), Kerala was the only major state which registered a week-on-week rise in fresh Covid cases. The state recorded 36,701 fresh infections in the week, up from 35,296 in the previous week. The only other states/UTs where cases rose marginally were Nagaland (a rise of 32 over the previous week) A&N Islands (+11) and Dadra, Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu (+6). In Maharashtra, the number of fresh cases dipped by 5,333, the highest drop in any state during the week. Maharashtra logged 21,645 new cases, its lowest weekly tally since late May-early June. Yet, Maharashtra’s weekly case count was the second highest in the country, well ahead of third-placed Bengal, where just 4,563 new cases were detected. Together, Kerala and Maharashtra accounted for 55% of all cases recorded in India during the week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lowest-daily-covid-deaths-in-245-days/articleshow/80337704.cms||Disney Tom
January 19, 2021||India||Seven-day monitoring for Covaxin shot recipients||BENGALURU: The National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research (NCDIR), a Bengaluru-based branch of ICMR, has been identified as the nodal centre to monitor Covaxin’s Phase 3 clinical trials. In a video conference last week, state governments were directed to call and monitor the health of all Covaxin recipients for seven days from the day of immunisation. A report on their condition must also be sent to NCDIR. A site each in Chamarajanagar, Davanagere, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga and Ballari districts have been chosen to administer Covaxin. Bharat BioTech, manufacturers of the vaccine, has said the common side effects include fever and abdominal pain, body ache, nausea and vomiting. The less common adverse effects are giddiness, tremors, cold, swelling around the injection site and sweating. Dr Prashanth Mathur, director, NCDIR, said: “We are working out modalities with the state government to avoid duplication of efforts while monitoring Covaxin beneficiaries. We are planning work distribution to ensure the vaccine recipient is not burdened with multiple calls from different agencies. Covaxin beneficiaries are part of the trials.” Mathur said no beneficiary has reported side effects so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/seven-day-monitoring-for-covaxin-shot-recipients/articleshow/80337791.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 19, 2021||India||9-year-old legal war hots up: Government authorises Antrix to file winding up plea against Devas in tribunal||NEW DELHI: The nearly-decade-long Antrix-Devas war is hotting up. The Central government, in an extraordinary move, on Monday authorised Indian Space Research Organisation’s (Isro’s) commercial wing Antrix Corporation and its CMD to file a winding up petition in the national company law tribunal (NCLT) against Devas Multimedia Pvt Ltd. The Centre’s move came in the wake of a US court order last year awarding the Bengaluru-based startup $1.2 billion compensation in the 2005 satellite deal cancellation case and the Supreme Court later staying the US court order. A notification in the official gazette issued on Monday stated, "In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (c) of sub-section (1) of Section 272 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), the Union government hereby authorises Rakesh Sasibhushan, CMD, Antrix Corporation Ltd, to present a petition before the tribunal for winding up of Devas Multimedia Private Ltd on the grounds specified under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of Section 271 of the Companies Act." Antrix CMD Rakesh SasibhushanThe petition for winding up a company under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of Sec 272 of the Companies Act means NCLT can wind up a company if an application is made by the Union government and that the tribunal is satisfied that "affairs of a company have been conducted in a fraudulent manner or it was formed for fraudulent or unlawful purpose". On being contacted by TOI, Antrix CMD Rakesh Sasibhushan refused to comment on the issue. On October 30 last year, US district judge Thomas S Zilly in Seattle had ruled that Antrix should pay a compensation of $562.5 million to Devas and related interest rate amounting to a total $1.2 billion. However, on November 11, the Supreme Court kept in abeyance the effect of the US court order. The startup had first moved the international arbitration court against the deal cancellation in June 2011. The case thereafter witnessed the court of arbitration tribunal ruling in favour of Devas and the CBI chargesheeting senior Antrix and Isro officials, including the then Isro chairman G Madhavan Nair, for providing "wrongful gains to Devas." The controversy led to an early exit of Nair as Isro chairman since he was the head of Antrix governing council when the deal was finalised in 2005.  As per the January 2005 agreement, Antrix had agreed to build, launch and operate two satellites — Gsat-6 and Gsat-6A — and lease out 90% of the satellite transponder capacity to Devas, which had planned to use it to offer hybrid satellite and terrestrial communication services throughout India. In its lawsuit filed in the US court in September 2018, Devas said three separate international tribunals and nine different arbitrators had found the deal termination to be wrongful. Antrix, on its part, told the court that the deal was terminated based on a Cabinet decision on February 17, 2011. The Manmohan Singh-led CCS had concluded that because of the “strategic requirements” for S-Band spectrum, the UPA government would not be able to provide Antrix with an orbital slot for commercial activities, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/9-year-old-legal-war-hots-up-government-authorises-antrix-to-file-winding-up-plea-against-devas-in-tribunal/articleshow/80337886.cms||Surendra Singh
January 19, 2021||India||UP death not tied to vaccine, one in K’taka being probed: Health ministry||NEW DELHI: Two deaths among those vaccinated against Covid-19 were reported till Monday — one in UP’s Moradabad and the other in Bellary, Karnataka. “The death of the UP resident is not related to vaccination while a postmortem is planned today (Monday) for the second person,” additional health secretary Manohar Agnani said. A total of 580 adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) have been reported so far from across the country, of which seven were hospitalised. “No case of serious or severe AEFI reported till date,” Agnani added In the Moradabad case, the 46-year-male was vaccinated on Saturday and he died on Sunday. Death was caused due to cardiopulmonary disease, the health ministry said . The Bellary case involved a 43-year-old male who was vaccinated on Saturday. He died on Monday. “The cause of death is anterior wall infarction with cardiopulmonary failure. The post mortem is scheduled today (Monday) at Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences, Bellary, Karnataka,” the health ministry’s statement said. On Monday, around 1,48,266 beneficiaries were vaccinated, according to provisional data compiled by the health ministry till early evening, taking the total number of vaccinated health and frontline workers to 3,81,305 in the first three days. Of the 1,48,266 beneficiaries vaccinated on Monday, 8,656 were from Bihar, 1,822 from Assam, 36,888 from Karnataka, 7,070 from Kerala, 6,665 from Madhya Pradesh, 7,628 from Tamil Nadu, 10,352 from Telangana, 11,588 from West Bengal and 311 were from Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-death-not-tied-to-vaccine-one-in-ktaka-being-probed-health-ministry/articleshow/80337913.cms||---
January 19, 2021||India||Mamata Banerjee to fight election from Suvendu’s turf||NANDIGRAM (EAST MIDNAPORE): Trinamool Congress chief and Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Monday decided to contest the assembly election from Nandigram and Bhowanipore, which she described as her “mejo bon (middle sister)” and “boro bon (elder sister)”, respectively. Banerjee’s decision indicates TMC’s willingness to take the fight into areas that have seen high-profile defections in the recent past. Monday’s event, where she made this declaration, was also Banerjee’s first pre-poll rally in Nandigram since Suvendu Adhikari’s defection to BJP last month. The Bengal CM, in her speech, talked about her “kinship” with Nandigram and recalled the role that this town — about 125 km from Kolkata — played in the TMC’s unseating of the Left Front in 2011. “I cannot forget Nandigram martyrs just like I cannot forget Singur’s Tapasi Malik,” she said, referring to the 2007 Nandigram police firing that claimed 14 lives and the 2006 rape-and-murder of the 16-year-old in Singur. The two incidents — when the Left was in office — contributed to its growing unpopularity, which Banerjee harnessed to wrest Bengal. “Nandigram is the luckiest place for me. I launched my poll campaign from here in 2016. I will start my campaign from Nandigram again this time,” said Banerjee. The CM said that she would not leave her home turf, Bhowanipore, which she won in 2011 and 2016. “Bhowanipore, too, is a place I love,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mamata-banerjee-to-fight-election-from-suvendus-turf/articleshow/80337968.cms||Suman Mandal
January 19, 2021||India||No UK timeline yet on Vijay Mallya’s extradition, Centre tells SC||NEW DELHI: The uncertainty over the extradition of Vijay Mallya still continues with the Centre on Monday informing the Supreme Court that the UK government has refrained from giving any timeline to resolve all legal issues to pave the way for sending the fugitive businessman back to India. Appearing before a bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ashok Bhushan, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said the government is doing its best and making all-out efforts to bring Mallya back to the country to face the legal proceedings pending against him. Mallya will also be made to appear in the apex court which has already convicted him for contempt of court and punishment would be awarded once he appears in person. Mehta said that the ministry of external affairs had been informed by the UK government that there was further legal issue that needs to be resolved before Mallya could be extradited. “Under UK law, extradition can’t take place until it is resolved. As it is judicial in nature, the issue is confidential and you will understand the government can’t provide any more details. We also cannot estimate how long this issue will take to resolve,” said the UK government in its response to the Centre. The bench adjourned the case for March 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-uk-timeline-yet-on-vijay-mallyas-extradition-centre-tells-sc/articleshow/80337975.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Business||Times Power of Print back with 4th edition||NEW DELHI: Infiniti Retail, a subsidiary of the Tata Group that runs Croma stores across India has continued its association with Times Power of Print (PoP) for the second consecutive year. PoP, a unique initiative by the Times Group, which has entered its fourth edition, invites creative minds across agencies to build impactful print campaigns that can make a big difference. It won a gold at Abby’s in its first year and has witnessed overwhelming participation. The winning team not only stands a chance to win the coveted Power of Print trophy, but also see their campaign released in the pages of the Times of India group publications supported by a multi-crore budget. This year, Croma’s brief is imperative in the current scenario. The brief is to design a campaign that will get people to accept ‘The Mask’ as the most logical solution to the pandemic. “Till date, India as a society has achieved limited success in persuading people to wear masks in public. A false sense of invincibility combined with the mistaken belief that the mask is intended to protect the wearer from the world has led to compliance only by some people and some of the time,” said Ritesh Ghosal, CMO at Infiniti Retail. “Croma which started serving customers in its physical stores since early June has witnessed this reluctance to comply among customers.” The primary objective of the campaign will be to shift the thinking of the people from “I need to wear a mask to protect myself” to “a mask is essential to protect the world from me”. The detailed brief can be downloaded from www.timespowerofprint.com. This year, PoP brief will also be open for entries in regional languages (Hindi, Marathi, Kannada and Bengali) through the language publications of the Times Group. “There is no better medium than print to influence change, opinions and behaviour. It is also a medium that enables the highest level of innovation and messaging that can be put forth in a very compelling manner,” said Partha P Sinha, president at Times Response. The contest will be open to all communication agencies – creative, media, digital, PR and students above the age of 16. Students will stand a chance to win an internship and vouchers from Croma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/times-power-of-print-back-with-4th-edition/articleshow/80337982.cms||---
January 19, 2021||India||Maharashtra probing Arnab’s sensitive Balakot chat||MUMBAI: Even as the NCP joined Congress on Monday to demand a Joint Parliamentary Committee to probe the purported WhatsApp chats between Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami and former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta which raised questions whether Goswami was privy to India’s Balakot air strikes in advance, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said the state government was “gathering information about the leaked chats”. “Some highly sensitive things including the Balakot air strikes and the Pulwama attack have been mentioned in the chats. We are looking as to how Arnab Goswami got access to such sensitive information. We have called a meeting on Tuesday to decide our next course of action,” Deshmukh, who belongs to NCP, said. The Pulwama attack, in which 40 CRPF (Central Reserve Police Force) personnel were killed, took place on February 14, 2019. In the midst of a WhatsApp conversation late in the evening of February 23, 2019, Goswami purportedly told Dasgupta, “On another note, something big will happen.” To Dasgupta’s “Dawood?” message, Goswami replied, “No sir, Pakistan. Something major will be done this time.” When Dasgupta further inquired, “Strike? Or bigger,” Goswami answered, “Bigger than a normal strike.” Details of the WhatsApp chats have triggered a political controversy over whether Goswami shared sensitive information with Dasgupta on the government’s plans for a retaliatory strike in the wake of the Pulwama attack. The conversation between the two purportedly took place on February 23, 2019 — three days before the air strikes in Balakot in Pakistan. The chats are part of Mumbai police’s 3,600-page supplementary chargesheet filed in the TRP manipulation case. Goswami went on to add after the Balakot reference, “And also, on the same time, something major on Kashmir. On Pakistan, the government is confident of striking in a way that people will be elated. Exact words used.” Ever since the transcripts emerged in the public domain last weekend, the opposition has accused Goswami of leaking sensitive information related to national security, and questioned how and why he got hold of such information beforehand — when even the political opposition was in the dark. Congress leaders accused the Modi government of exploiting a defence-related issue to drum up popular support during the May 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The opposition has also demanded an inquiry into the matter, saying leak of such information was tantamount to endangering the lives of India’s security personnel. In Chandrapur, the National Students’ Union of India, the students’ wing of Congress, on Monday lodged a complaint against Goswami for leaking sensitive information three days before the air strikes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maharashtra-probing-arnabs-sensitive-balakot-chat/articleshow/80337998.cms||---
January 19, 2021||India||Senior health ministry official’s brother found dead in UP||MEERUT: Ankur Agarwal (42), brother of a senior IAS officer who is posted in the Union health and family welfare ministry, was found dead close to his factory in Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur district on Monday evening, reports Piyush Rai. According to sources, Ankur had left for his factory in the morning and his body with a bullet injury was found at around 5 pm the same day. “There was one entry and exit bullet wound on his body. His licensed pistol with six more rounds in the magazine and cartridge was recovered from the spot,” Upendra Agrawal, DIG, Saharanpur range, said. Senior officials said the body was found in a deserted field near his factory in Pilakhni industrial area. Prima facie, police said, Agarwal had “killed himself”. Sources added he was under financial debt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/senior-health-ministry-officials-brother-found-dead-in-up/articleshow/80338005.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Business||‘Public spends will help boost eco recovery’||Shilpa.Phadnis@timesgroup.com An industry veteran with 30 years of experience in the tech sector, Mindtree CEO & MD Debashis Chatterjee talks about how his company has switched to a new no-shore delivery model from the traditional onshore/offshore one… How far has your business returned to normal? With digital transformation becoming the core focus of various industry sectors, technology companies are helping businesses to navigate the pandemic by redefining their models. Though few segments were more impacted, they are on a recovery trajectory. Contactless services for the travel, transportation and hospitality (TTH) segment is one such example. We have been able to ensure growth despite all odds. What challenges does the new normal pose? A few of the important shifts that we’ve seen in these times include: A 100% transition to work-from-home, which meant finding new ways of doing business while ensuring client satisfaction; switch to a new no-shore delivery model from the traditional onshore/offshore one. A strategy refresh we rolled out helped us to remain focused on the target markets, including winning multi-year deals. Our approach of redefining possibilities — digital resilience and business continuity programme — for clients in the new normal enabled us to deliver a balanced performance over the last few quarters. Companies that were more digitised appear to have dealt with the pandemic better… The pandemic accelerated the demand for digital transformation and it will continue to be the key driver for growth. We are seeing increased traction in cloud adoption, data & analytics, and collaborative tools to enhance workplace automation, cybersecurity, e-commerce, digital marketing, etc. The opportunities are manifold in this space as digital transformation is a journey that is constantly evolving and needs steady evaluation to remain viable as a strategy. Should govt have bigger public investments? Public investments will aid the broad economy revival. Key thrust areas are healthcare, infrastructure, and digital delivery of services to citizens. The pandemic has underscored the importance of having a robust supply chain, especially essentials. Digital investments are key to building a scalable supply chain for the country. Forward planning and preparedness will go a long way to ensure we are well equipped to manage such situations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/public-spends-will-help-boost-eco-recovery/articleshow/80327036.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
January 19, 2021||Business||Metropolis Healthcare acquires Hitech Diagnostic||Chennai: To strengthen its network in the south, Metropolis Healthcare has acquired diagnostics laboratory chain Hitech Diagnostic Centre in a cash and stock deal.Metropolis said it would pay Rs 511 crore in cash and issue up to 4,95,000 equity shares of Metropolis of face value Rs 2 each on preferential basis (subject to shareholders approval) to Hitech's promoter group as consideration.Metropolis will fund the cash consideration through internal accruals and debt of up to Rs 300 crore, and the acquisition will be completed in three months, it said.The combined entity is expected to hold around 30% of the market share in Chennai. S P Ganesan, Hitech’s promoter and founder, would be part of the leadership team for the next few years to enable a smooth transition and integration, Metropolis said.“Our objective with the acquisition is to increase our market share in focus cities of Chennai and Bengaluru and become leaders in some tier-2 towns in south India. We will capture the mid-segment of the market, increase our B2C revenue contribution and leverage scale benefits through cost synergies,” Ameera Shah, MD, Metropolis Healthcare, said.Established in 1986, Hitech Diagnostic Centre has a network of 31 laboratories including 3 NABL (National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories) and ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) accredited laboratories and 68 collection centres across Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Puducherry. Hitech reported a turnover of Rs 83.3 crore in the financial year 2019-20 as per exchange filings, and is the second largest diagnostics player in Chennai after Metropolis.“We share similar business ethos as Metropolis and focus on quality, accuracy, and highest level of customer service,” S P Ganesan, promoter, Hitech Diagnostic Centre, said. Metropolis’ shares closed the trading day up around 1% on the BSE at Rs 2,186.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/metropolis-healthcare-acquires-hitech-diagnostic/articleshow/80335755.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 19, 2021||Patna||Min: Dispose all pending mutation cases by March||GAYA: A uniform rate would be fixed across the state for measurement of land and its demarcation, state revenue and land reforms minister Ram Surat Kumar said here on Monday. “Online mutation process would be expedited to ensure disposal of all pending cases by March. The process for appointment of 4,000 revenue staff and 3,883 IT managers and data entry operators has been started. Vehicles would be made available to the revenue officers and commissioner level officer will be appointed in each division to ensure quick disposal of land and revenue related problems,” the minister said after holding a division level review meeting. The minister directed the revenue staff and the amins to visit their respective areas at least five days in a week and announced a reward of Rs1.11 lakh to 12 revenue officers and the staff from his salary for doing commendable work. He also directed circle officers and the revenue staff to carry a map of the area from the office, while going for measurement and demarcation of land, to avoid any dispute. Additional chief secretary Vivek Kumar Singh said digitized land records had been uploaded to the common portal in 2017. “Special survey of land is being done across the state to ensure legal ownership right. FIR would be lodged against those found involved in tampering of land-related data. The chowkidar would inform about land disputes in their respective areas to the circle officer and the station house officer (SHO) every Saturday,” he said. Directions were issued to assistant settlement officers and the circle amins to ensure at least 80% form 5 entry in the software in January. Salary of the assistant settlement officers would be deducted and the staff dismissed from service for any slackness. Magadh division commissioner Mayank Warwade, DMs of Gaya, Jehanabad, Nawada, Aurangabad and Arwal attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/min-dispose-all-pending-mutation-cases-by-march/articleshow/80335081.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Patna||Conserving oil, petrol products is need of hour: Deputy CM||PATNA: Deputy chief minister (CM) Tarkishore Prasad inaugurated an oil and gas conservation awareness drive, christened ‘Saksham’, at Maulana Mazharul Haq auditorium on Monday. Various mass awareness programmes on the conservation of oil and gas will be organized as part of the monthlong drive till February 15. The theme of ‘Saksham’ is ‘Green and Clean Energy’ this year. In his inaugural address, the deputy CM emphasized on the need for conservation of petroleum products. “The conservation of oil and petroleum products is the need of the hour as they are non-renewable,” he said, adding that increase in demand for energy had led to a huge pressure on foreign currency reserves and the Indian economy. Executive director and state head of the Indian Oil Corporation Limited, Vibhash Kumar, urged everyone to adopt a simple and eco-friendly lifestyle in order to conserve petroleum resources. He also talked about the mass awareness activities to be organized as part of ‘Saksham’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/conserving-oil-petrol-products-is-need-of-hour-deputy-cm/articleshow/80335319.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Business||Daicel to set up auto airbag unit near Mahabalipuram||Chennai: Osaka headquartered Japanese company Daicel Corporation will set up an airbag inflator manufacturing plant in Chennai with a planned investment of around Rs 230 crore in the first phase. The plant will be housed at CapitaLand’s OneHub Chennai, an industrial township located on the Old Mahabalipuram Road. This will be Daicel Corporation’s first airbag inflator manufacturing plant in India and is scheduled to start operations in December 2023.Daicel set up a sales office for marketing and local research — Daicel Safety System India — in Gurugram, Haryana in October 2018 “in response to growth in the Indian automobile market and the tightening of safety regulations,” the Japanese company said in a statement.Takase Yoshifumi, MD, India Operations, Daicel Corporation, said, “Until now, we have been supplying products to the Indian market from our production site in Thailand and other countries. However, due to the growth potential of the Indian automobile market and the need to strengthen automobile manufacturer and airbag module manufacturer supply chains in India, we have decided to establish a local production site at OneHub Chennai. We will further strengthen our presence in the Indian market through stable production and supply of products, contributing to the development of the Indian economy through both inflator production and parts’ procurement in the country.” The 1250-acre OneHub Chennai (OHC) was developed by CapitaLand in a joint venture with IREO and Japanese Consortium comprising Mizuho Bank and JGC Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/daicel-to-set-up-auto-airbag-unit-near-mahabalipuram/articleshow/80335711.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Business||Sensex slips 470 pts on new infections in China||MUMBAI: Dalal Street saw some strong selling in IT and financial stocks on Monday after news emerged of fresh Covid cases in China, which increased concerns about recovery of the global economy. This pulled the sensex down by 470 points, or 1%, to 48,564 at close. The recent decision by the RBI to revert to a regular liquidity management system, which market players interpreted as going back to pre-pandemic levels, also left investors on the back foot. At Monday’s close, the sensex was down a little over 1,200 points from its all-time intraday high of 49,795 points reached on January 13. As a result of the recent selloff, investors’ wealth — as measured by BSE’s market capitalisation — has dropped by Rs 4.9 lakh crore from the recent high of Rs 197.4 lakh crore on January 14 to Rs 192.5 lakh crore at Monday’s close, BSE data showed. One of the reasons for the recent selling could also be attributed to some moderation in the pace of foreign fund buying of Indian stocks, dealers said. According to CDSL data, from an average of about Rs 2,800 crore net inflows per trading session during November and December, it has now almost halved to around Rs 1,450 crore. On Monday, markets fell across most of Asia following a decline in initial trades on Wall Street, but benchmarks in Hong Kong and Shanghai rose after data showed the Chinese economy grew a solid 2.3% in 2020, said HDFC Securities head (retail research) Deepak Jasani. “European equity markets struggled for direction on Monday as strong economic data from China competed with concerns over a double-dip recession in the UK and the Eurozone.” In Monday’s market, Infosys, HDFC and ICICI Bank contributed the most in the sensex’s selloff, while buying in Reliance Industries and HDFC Bank cushioned the fall to some extent. With the US markets closed on Monday, Tuesday’s trading on Dalal Street would depend on local cues like corporate results and trends in Asian markets, dealers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-slips-470-pts-on-new-infections-in-china/articleshow/80337139.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Kolkata||120km cycle track planned across Kolkata||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) has drafted a cycle mobility masterplan that has charted out the possibility of a dedicated corridor criss-crossing the city. Covering 14 major roads and aggregating 120km in length, the 2m-wide tracks will connect 114 wards. Based on surveys carried out during the lockdown, and unlock thereafter, by a Delhi-based agency engaged by KMDA, the blueprint has the potential to alter the dynamics of mobility in the city. But it also faces pragmatic issues on safety that Kolkata Police have raised and has made the argument to ban cycling on 64 roads. Cyclists, though, have questioned the ban on a non-motorized and eco-friendly mode of transport. The ban notwithstanding, one out of 10 vehicles on the road is a cycle. According to the KMDA study, dedicated tracks will lead to a huge population embracing it and creating a cycle culture. During lockdown, the cyclist count grew by 400% and nearly 85% cycle trips were less than km. The survey took into account the road width, median, pavement, tram line, bus stop, street light, major attractions, transit nodes and land-use pattern to chart out five north-south corridors totalling 76.3km and nine east-west corridors totalling 44.4km. Significantly, at least a 7.5m motor-vehicle carriageway, 2m pavement and 2m cycle track will be maintained. However, roadside car parking will need to be done away with on these stretches. “The idea is to cover all major transit nodes without conflict with motorized transport,” said a KMDA official at a sustainable urban mobility consultation organized by SwitchON Foundation. Urban mobility expert and Centre for Science and Environment executive director Anumita Roychowdhury has called the cycle an essential component of the resilient transport system and said this mode is important to prevent Kolkata’s roads from getting choked by motorized vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/120km-cycle-track-planned-across-kolkata/articleshow/80336390.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Business||HDFC Bank signals IT issues may not be fixed by March||MUMBAI: HDFC Bank has indicated in its conference call with analysts that the lender might not complete fixing its back-end IT issues during the current fiscal. The bank said that its action plan relating to disaster recovery would take 12-18 months, while its immediate plans would take 10-12 weeks. The country’s largest private bank had reported its Q3 results on Saturday — the first after the RBI pulled up the lender for repeated problems faced by customers in accessing digital banking. The bank had reported an 18% year-on-year growth in earnings. The bank’s share price rose by over 1% after the results on a day the sensex fell by nearly 1% after its record profit of Rs 8,758 crore. According to Macquarie research analyst Suresh Ganapathy, the tech resolution will take time and could spill over to end of June 2021. “They want to be very sure everything is in place, ramp up capacity and then call the RBI for due diligence … As of now, inability to give credit cards has not affected account openings … But if this continues beyond June, we can see some impact coming in the near term… Meanwhile, for others like ICICI and Axis, this is an opportunity to ramp up their credit card base,” said Ganapathy. The RBI has barred the bank from launching digital initiatives and issuing credit cards until it fixes issues with its IT system and ensures that multiple outages of online services that happened in the past do not repeat. According to analysts, though it would take time to fix the issues, the bank was optimistic of getting permission from the RBI for a digital lending platform for auto loans. According to Siji Philip of Axis Securities, the bank has made a representation to the regulator for digital lending for four-wheelers and two-wheeler loans. “On the restrictions imposed by the RBI on December 2, the bank has made progress according to the plan provided to the regulator. The bank expects to complete the process in 10–12 weeks, which will then be subject to RBI inspection,” a note by Edelweiss said. It added that the bank aims to introduce a digital platform for auto loans in 90 days. ICICI Securities said that the bank’s credit card portfolio was up 9% quarter-on-quarter despite the ban on acquiring new customers coming into effect from mid-December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-bank-signals-it-issues-may-not-be-fixed-by-march/articleshow/80337148.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 19, 2021||Patna||Vax turnout better in Nalanda and Bhojpur on second day||BIHARSHARIF/ARA: The vaccination drive against Covid-19 was carried out successfully on the second day in Nalanda and Bhojpur districts. Altogether 590 beneficiaries were administered the vaccine at 10 centres in Nalanda district, including Vardhman Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) and Biharsharif sadar hospital. The turn-up of recipients in Nalanda on Monday was 2% higher than the inaugural day on January 16, when 570 healthcare workers were vaccinated against 1,000 scheduled recipients in the district that day. Besides, 280 beneficiaries were successfully administered the vaccine in Sheikhpura district on Saturday. Nalanda civil surgeon Ram Singh, who along with several other medical officers, received the shots on Monday, said the low turnout of the registered beneficiaries seemed to be because of some apprehensions in their minds about the side effects of the vaccine. He said the vaccine is quite safe as none of the recipients on the first day or on Monday complained of any complications. He said the percentage of the beneficiaries would increase in the coming days. In Bhojpur, 300 beneficiaries were inoculated at seven centres, including Ara sadar hospital, Barhara primary health centre (PHC), Koilwar middle school, Sunilam hospital, Ara, Piro CHC, Referral hospital Sandesh and sub-divisional hospital, Jagdishpur. District immunization officer Dr Sanjay Kumar Sinha told this newspaper that 384 beneficiaries were given the shots on the first day of the vaccination drive. “Thus, a total of 684 beneficiaries have been inoculated in Bhojpur district so far,” he said. Talking about adverse effect after the administering of the vaccine, Sinha said only one beneficiary complained of mild fever on the first day of the drive, though he was cured after getting paracetamol. Two other beneficiaries showed some sign of nervousness but soon they calmed down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vax-turnout-better-in-nalanda-and-bhojpur-on-second-day/articleshow/80334927.cms||Farrukh Nadim
January 19, 2021||Patna||Prabhat pheri marks beginningof Prakashotsava celebrations||PATNA: Thousands of devotees participated in ‘Badi Prabhat Pheri’ (procession), which marked the beginning of Prakashotsava celebrations to commemorate the 354th birth anniversary of tenth Sikh Guru Gobind Singh. The procession started from Takht Shri Harmandir Sahib in Patna City at 4am and reached Patna Saheb station via Chandoriya. It returned to the place from where it originated at 8am, by covering places like Shikarpur, Mangal Talab and Chowk. Reciting sacred songs with musical instruments, devotees participated in the procession led by the ‘Panj Pyare’, holding the ‘Nishan Sahib’. During the prabhat pheri, devotees recited the ‘Gurbaani’ from the Guru Granth Sahib. Takht Sri Harmandir Ji Patna Sahib Prabandhak Committee general secretary M S Dillon told this newspaper that a prayer service and cultural events like bhajan, kirtan, storytelling took place at the gurdwara after the procession. “Nagar kirtan, palki and ‘akhand path’ would be organized on Tuesday. Nagar kirtan, which is commonly known as shobha yatra, will start at 1pm and conclude at 6pm. Gatka (martial arts of the Sikh) was also performed by the youths during the yatra. The 48-hour-long akhand path will start from Tuesday midnight,” he said.Langar has been arranged at the gurdwara, Kangan Ghat gurdwara, Guru Gobind Singh Girl’s School and near Kachori Gali,” he said. In the evening, a kavi darbar was also organized in which people from Delhi, Punjab and Ludhiana participated. Satnam Singh from Golden Temple, Giani Pinderpal Singh and Rajinder Singh from Ludhiana have been invited for kirtan. The celebration will conclude on January 20 with path, bhajan and kirtan. All the gurdwaras in the city, including Gurdwara Sri Gai Ghat Sahib, Guru Ka Bagh gurdwara and Bal Leela gurdwara, have been decked up with flowers and illuminated with lights on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/prabhat-pheri-marks-beginningof-prakashotsava-celebrations/articleshow/80334616.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 19, 2021||Kolkata||Bird-flu measures: Kolkata civic body to mount vigil on chicken sale||KOLKATA: A bird-flu scare has prompted the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) to conduct a drive against sale of dead or sick chickens at the city’s major markets. Acting on a state health department guideline, the KMC has formed a team of food inspectors who will pay surprise visits to the major markets, including the wholesale ones, and check the health of chickens being sold. Under special circumstances, these inspectors working under the civic body’s anti-adulteration squad will collect specimens of dressed chicken and test the quality of the meat at specified laboratories. “Another civic team of inspectors from the market department will visit chicken stalls at all municipal markets and warn traders against sale of dead or sick chickens,” said a KMC market department official. “We have asked superintendents of municipal markets across the city to keep a vigil on the sale of sick or dead chickens. Anyone found guilty may lose their trade licence,” the civic official added. In case the birds die in large numbers without an apparent reason, it will be reported to the state animal resources development (ARD) department or the state health department, said a KMC health department official. Sources in the KMC health department said that special vigil was being maintained over several wholesale chicken markets and some major municipal markets. According to a KMC market department official, the civic body will conduct special drives at Baithakkhana market in Sealdah, New Market, Kankurgachhi Market, College Street Market, Behala Market, Kudghat Market and Jadavpur Market. “We have received complaints that sick or even dead chickens are being sold at some wholesale chicken markets. These chickens are being bought by retail traders and sold at local markets. We will send our inspectors to such places for first-hand knowledge about the health of the chickens being sold at a time when citizens are expressing their concerns,” a KMC market department official said. A KMC health department official said talks were on with state officials to check the quality of chicken at several hatcheries located in Basirhat and Barasat in north 24 Parganas and Baruipur and Sonarpur in South 24 Parganas. “Traders in our city are mostly dependent on supply of chickens from hatcheries in the adjoining districts. We have taken the matter up with the ARD department officials so that supply of sick or dead chickens is prevented from entering the city,” the KMC official said on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bird-flu-measures-kmc-to-mount-vigil-on-chicken-sale/articleshow/80336360.cms||Saikat Ray
January 19, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Beneficiaries who missed Covid vaccine shots will get one more chance||PATNA: Nearly 25,000 registered beneficiaries, who missed their shots in the two days of Covid-19 vaccination, will be given one more chance to get themselves inoculated. State health department special secretary Manoj Kumar said as per the information they received, the names of those who missed their vaccination on day one will continue to appear on CoWIN portal and will be slotted for another day. “They will get the date and time in the second plan. But if they miss that chance, then their names will disappear from the portal. However, further procedure has not been clarified to us about what next they have to do if they missed both the chances,” said Manoj. For instance, in Patna district, 1735 people have got vaccinated against 3,008 registered. This shows that 42% of those registered have missed their vaccine shots. Patna district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh said a fresh date will be given to them. “There will be a mop-up round for such people at the end,” he said. The data shared with the health department shows total 58,031 people were registered for vaccination on Saturday and Monday, out of which 33,252 have got the jab and 24,778 missed. Some could not reach as they received the message late and others avoided out of hesitation. Officials said the process to give the second dose to those who have got the first one has also begun and several of them have received their schedule. There will be no pick-and-choose for the second dose as it has to be given in a particular time period. “The place will be the same where they have got the first shot and the vaccine will also be the same,” said a health department official. Sources said since the second shot has to be taken after 28 days, the district magistrates are ensuring people do not miss them. “Though beneficiaries are getting auto-generated messages, even we will be reminding them personally, so that they do not miss it,” said a DM posted in north Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/beneficiaries-who-missed-covid-vax-shots-will-get-one-more-chance/articleshow/80334980.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 19, 2021||Lucknow||‘Vande Matram’ from Lucknow to echo at Cambridge University on Republic Day||LUCKNOW: The University of Cambridge, United Kingdom, will echo with ‘Vande Matram’ on Republic Day – a red letter day for India – when poet Pankaj Prasun will recite his poem at the Cambridge University International poetic symposium. Renowned poets from Poland, Israel and UK will read out their works while poet Pankaj Prasun, a technical officer at the CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute, will represent India in the symposium organised by the Cambridge University India Society. “I am blessed that on Republic Day I will be reading out my poem ‘Vande Matram’ virtually on foreign land. This poem is all about secular India, its unity in diversity and love for the nation,” said Prasun. “I feel privileged that I will be reciting my work in front of noted poets like Alicja Kuberska from Poland, Ludmilla Chebotarev from Israel and Prof Padmesh Gupta, who is also a professor at the Oxford Business College,” he added. Prasun’s poem ‘Vande Matram nahi Hindu ka na Musalman ka, bhartiyata ki pehchan... Vande Matram Hinduon ki Ram-Ram me hai, Allah ke bandey ki azaan me…’ highlights India and its culture. He said the poems would be translated into English for the people to understand. “I will read poems both in Hindi and English during my 20-minute presentation. The symposium will be held at 10.30pm according to Indian time and will be conducted by Prof Aishwarj Kumar who is a faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies at the University,” Prasun added. “I am thankful to Cambridge University India Society, one of the largest cultural societies at the University of Cambridge which facilitates a greater understanding of Indian culture within Cambridge and serves as a dynamic social platform for both Indian and non-Indian students,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vande-matram-from-city-to-echo-at-cambridge-university-on-r-day/articleshow/80337398.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Patna||Dense fog and poor visibility hamper movement of trains||PATNA: Dense fog and poor visibility on the Kanpur-Prayagraj-Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Junction-Patna mainline route hampered the movement of several special passenger trains on Monday. While the Delhi-Rajendra Nagar Terminal Rajdhani Express (02310) arrived at Patna 180 minutes behind schedule, the Delhi-Rajgir Shramjeevi Express (02392) was delayed by 80 minutes and Delhi-Rajendra Nagar Terminal Sampoorna Kranti Express (02394) by 150 minutes. The Delhi-Howrah Poorva Express (02304), Bengaluru-Danapur Sanghamitra Express (02296), Delhi-Bhagalpur Vikramshila Express (02368) and other trains were also delayed on Monday. Meanwhile, the frequency of many trains originating from or passing through the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway has been reduced till January 31. Some of them include the Patna-Howrah Janshatabdi Express, Rajgir-Delhi Shramjeevi Express and Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Delhi Sampoorna Kranti Express. The frequency of the Saharsa-Delhi Express, Jaynagar-Delhi Express, Raxaul-Anand Vihar Express, Muzaffarpur-Anand Vihar Express, Dhanbad-Firozpur Cantt Express, Gaya-Delhi Express, Jaynagar-Amritsar Express, Sitamarhi-Anand Vihar Express, Dibrugarh-Lalgarh Express and Bhagalpur-Anand Vihar Express has also been reduced due to dense fog prevailing on the Delhi-Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Junction-Patna-Jhajha-Howrah route. PATCH Trains cancelled The railways has cancelled six pairs of special passenger trains — Sealdah-Ajmer Express, Delhi-Malda Express, Danapur-Anand Vihar Express, Kamakhya-Anand Vihar Express, Dibrugarh-Amritsar Express and Alipurduar-Delhi Express — till February 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dense-fog-and-poor-visibility-hamper-movement-of-trains/articleshow/80334635.cms||Kumod Verma
January 19, 2021||Patna||Bihar reports 144 new Covid-19 cases||PATNA: Altogether 144 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Monday, taking the tally to 2,58,883. Three deaths were also reported after which the toll reached 1,460. The state witnessed 344 recoveries in the past 24 hours. With altogether 2,53,913 recoveries, there are 3,508 active cases now. During the same period, 73,259 samples were tested. According to the data shared by the state health department, one death each was reported from Patna, Nalanda and Darbhanga. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) reported three deaths, including those of two 70-year-olds from Patna and a 74-year-old from Buxar. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, told TOI that one patient was admitted to the hospital and five were discharged. “There are 116 Covid patients in the hospital,” Kumar added. There were five corona patients at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital on Monday. Of the 144 new Covid-19 cases, 53 were from Patna, taking the district’s tally to 51,551. However, with 49,666 recoveries and 402 deaths, there are 1,483 active cases here. Fresh cases were also reported from other districts like Arwal (11), Gaya (10) and Saran (9).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-reports-144-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/80334958.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Lucknow||Independent queers election pitch, but not likely to pass muster||Lucknow: The filing of nomination for Vidhan Parishad elections by independent candidate Mahesh Sharma on Monday appeared to have queered the poll pitch, but the bid, it seems, won’t pass the muster as his candidature did not have the backing of required proposers, nor did he deposit the mandatory Rs 10,000 fee. The results of the battle for the 12 seats of legislative council now appear to be quite obvious and the victory of 10 candidates of BJP and two from Samajwadi Party seems to be a foregone conclusion. The ruling party, BJP, played it safe and fielded only 10 candidates, who are likely to coast to an easy victory, and did not put up a fight for the 11th seat as it didn’t want any cross voting by party MLAs to dent its image at a time when state assembly elections are only a year away, though insiders said attempts for political management were made but didn’t assure certainty. Bahujan Samaj Party had also purchased two nomination forms, but did not field any candidate as it is far short of the minimum 32 MLAs required to send a member to the Council. The party had suspended over half a dozen MLAs after they had supported Samajwadi Party in the Rajya Sabha elections. The election officials in the legislative council told TOI that Mahesh Sharma filed the nomination, but chances are that his candidature would be rejected during scrutiny on Tuesday as he has neither deposited the fee nor does he have adequate MLAs backing him. It will be a shot in the arm for Samajwadi Party if both its candidates are declared winners and will signal success of its political strategy despite not having required a number of MLAs to ensure victory of its second candidate. The victory will also boost the morale of Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav in the run up to the 2022 assembly elections, though the party held six of the 12 seats going to polls and its tally in Vidhan Parishad will go down by four.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/independent-queers-election-pitch-but-not-likely-to-pass-muster/articleshow/80337287.cms||Subhash Mishra
January 19, 2021||Patna||20-year-old youth lynched in Bihar's Samastipur district||PATNA: An irate mob lynched one Sonu Kumar (20) and critically injured Mithilesh Kumar (18) on the suspicion of their involvement in the killing of a 14-year-boy at Boriadih village under the Bibhutipur police station area in Samastipur district on Monday. Police said the villagers attacked their houses at Boriadih and held them captive soon after the body of Sonu Raj, a Class VII student, was found on the banks of the Budhi Gandak on Monday. The victim had been missing from the village since January 14. His father Mahesh Mahto had suspected the involvement of three people of the same village . Rosera SDPO Shahrayar Akhtar said the mob turned furious after the recovery of the body and thrashed the two mercilessly, causing grievous injuries. While Sonu, son of Ram Pravesh Rai, died on the spot, the police rescued Mithilesh and admitted him to a hospital in Samastipur town where his condition is stated to be critical. The SDPO said one of the three suspects, Krishna alias Farzi, was detained for interrogation. He said two separate FIRs — one related to the mob lynching and another pertaining to the missing of the boy — have been lodged with the Bibhutipur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/20-yr-old-youth-lynched-in-samastipur-dist/articleshow/80334736.cms||Ramashankar
January 19, 2021||Kolhapur||Vaccine drive to resume in Kolhapur dist today||KOLHAPUR: The health administration of the Kolhapur district will resume the vaccination drive from Tuesday at the 11 centres. The authorities, however, had to convince the registered beneficiaries to turn up for vaccination. On Saturday, the first day of the drive, only 52% of the beneficiaries turned up to get the vaccine. Most of the beneficiaries are healthcare workers including doctors and nurses.  The health staff called up the registered beneficiaries on Monday to get a confirmation on whether they will take the vaccine or not when the drive resumes. Amol Mane, the health officer of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) said: “We are trying to convince the beneficiaries that there is no harm in taking the shot. No one in the city has developed any adverse effects after taking the vaccine. We have also asked the healthcare workers, who have already taken the jab, to convince their colleagues. A greater turnout is expected on Tuesday as the confidence among the beneficences has increased after the first day and the reports across the state suggest not many had developed significany side effects.” Not many private doctors and nurses have registered for the drive. On Saturday, 104 private doctors and nurses were called, of whom, only 44 turned up. Apart from the senior doctors of the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Civil Hospital, not many prominent doctors turned up. “We are sending text messages and also calling up the beneficiaries. Though we have limited to 100 beneficiaries for each centre, we are calling more so that the quota can be achieved,” added Mane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/vaccine-drive-to-resume-in-kolhapur-dist-today/articleshow/80334439.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Patna||Tejashwi submits memo to governor||PATNA: Upping the ante against the Nitish Kumar government on the issue of crime, leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Monday called upon governor Phagu Chauhan and submitted a memorandum with regard to ‘deteriorating’ law and order in the state. “We have briefed the governor on the spate in crime, including loot, murder, rape and most recently Rupesh Singh (IndiGo’s Patna station manager) murder and the rape case in MuzaffarpurWe have substantiated our claims with related statistics on recent spate in crime,” Tejashwi told reporters. The RJD, in its memorandum, cited the official data on Bihar police website and claimed that 1,15,216 cases were registered in 2004 when RJD was in power, and the number increased to 2,69, 096 in 2019. The RJD also quoted figures from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). “People across the state are afraid and feeling unsafe even inside homes,” Tejashwi said and added: “There has been a surge in crime irrespective of the review meetings on the same being convened by Nitish Kumar Ji. Even routine policing, like night patrolling, is not happening in Patna.” The son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad reiterated that the “tired” CM was unable to control crime in the state. On Rupesh’s murder, he said police failed to make any breakthrough in the case so far. “Like Muzaffarpur shelter home scandal, we have been repeatedly saying that people in the government are involved in this murder,” he alleged and demanded a CBI probe into it. Ruling JD(U), however, mocked Tejashwi’s claims. “He has no moral right to raise question on law and order. The darkest era after independence in Bihar was in Lalu-Rabri rule and the honourable high court had compared that to ‘jungleraj’. People from elsewhere used to be scared to come to Bihar during Lalu-Rabri era. Nitish established the rule of law and Bihar ranked 23rd in crime in the country as per the latest NCRB reportSpeedy trial is conducted for ensuring prompt action against criminals. Rather than questioning the rule of law, RJD should apologize for the dark era of jungleraj,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-submits-memo-to-governor/articleshow/80335043.cms||Piyush Tripathi
January 19, 2021||Patna||No bird flu cases found in Bihar: AHD||PATNA: Officials of the state animal husbandry department said here on Monday that avian influenza or bird flu has not been reported from any poultry farm in the state. However, owners of poultry farm have been asked to report if there is any unusual deaths of chickens are found. Assistant director, animal husbandry (information and extension), Dr Diwakar Prasad said altogether 7,500 avian influenza samples have been sent to Regional Diseases Diagnostic Laboratory (RDDL), Kolkata, since April 2020, while 531 samples were sent in January 2021 including samples from Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, commonly known as Patna zoo. All the samples have tested negative, he said. Dr Diwakar said as a precautionary measure, more random samples will be sent to the RDDL as the other states have reported the cases of bird flu. “Officials of the department have been directed to inform the Institute of Animal Health and Production (IAHP)- Patna any unusual death of birds. Poultry farm owners can inform unusual deaths to IAHP on 0162-2226049,” he said. The department has also asked the owners of poultry farms in the state to timely vaccinate chickens, sanitised their premises and maintain cleanliness and hygiene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-bird-flu-cases-found-in-state-ahd/articleshow/80334647.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Mystery over abduction and release of businessman, son||KOLKATA: A Kolkata-based businessman’s son has returned home several months after allegedly being abducted and taken to Punjab days after the businessman — who also had earlier been abducted — lodged an FIR at Kasba. The detective department said they were trying to nab a “scientist”, the mastermind, from North 24 Parganas who allegedly executed the plot over months. Before the lockdown, the businessman had met a man who claimed he was a senior scientist of DRDO and an expert on radioactive elements and their commercial use. He reportedly proposed to the businessman to invest in the business. On October 5, 2020, the scientist reportedly took the businessman to the Kolkata airport area where they met three persons from Punjab. The businessman was convinced to travel with them to Bathinda in Punjab. However, after reaching Bathinda, the businessman was allegedly confined and assaulted. The accused allegedly compelled him to provide his ATM card and sign blank cheques to withdraw Rs 75,000. A few days later, the accused called the businessman’s son in Kolkata and instructed him to reach Bathinda. When he reached, he was also abducted. The businessman was then released and instructed to pay Rs 1.2 crore as ransom. On January 6, an FIR was initiated on the basis of the businessman’s complaint. “The son returned last week. The case is still under investigation,” an officer said, refusing to ascertain if any ransom was paid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mystery-over-abduction-and-release-of-bizman-son/articleshow/80336431.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 19, 2021||Patna||Private hospitals beat govt facilities in Covid vax turnout, AIIMS exception||PATNA: Even though the vaccination process is the same, private hospitals in the state capital are witnessing a higher turnout of beneficiaries for Covid-19 vaccine as compared to government hospitals. The vaccination figures provided by the Patna district administration for two days of the drive so far show that the three designated private hospitals saw 78.6% of turn out, compared to 52.7% at 14 government sites. However, AIIMS-Patna, which is a central institution, was the exception with a 100% turn-out, including on Monday. The average turnout for the district was pegged at 58% as compared to the statewide average of 56.6%. As per data shared by the state health department, six big medical colleges and hospitals have been sent Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and they include PMCH, NMCH, AIIMS-Patna, Shri Krishna Medical College and Hospital in Muzaffarpur, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital in Bhagalpur and Anugraha Narayan Medical College and Hospital in Gaya. At the rest of the 295 centres in Bihar, Serum Institute of India’s Covishield has been sent. The Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) recorded the second-highest turnout among government hospitals at 82%, unlike other government medical colleges and hospitals in the state where health workers are reportedly hesitating from taking the vaccine. For instance, the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital figured in the bottom two in Patna district. The data shows only 31% of the total number of the registered beneficiaries came for vaccination on the two days. At the Fatuha Community health centres, it was the least with 26% of the registered beneficiaries opting to get vaccinated. Masaurhi Sadar hospital and Guru Gobind Singh hospital were at the third and fourth positions with 33% and 38% turnout respectively. The Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), where the vaccination drive was officially launched, recorded an average 69% turnout in the two days of the drive. A doctor at NMCH, who is skipping the vaccination said, “Our institute has got Covaxin, which is still in the trial phase. Also, the long-term effects of both the vaccines are not known yet, so I decided to skip.” Even a senior doctor associated with the IMA Bihar chapter said during his discussion with his colleagues, he found a majority of them preferring Covishield. “Both the vaccines have similar safety and efficacy, but the discussion with my friends show they are preferring Covishield.” When asked whether health workers were hesitant in taking any particular vaccine, Patna DM Chandrashekhar Singh said, “Nothing is known as such. These things will be assessed by the health department.” Even the health department special secretary Manoj Kumar denied any such development. “Both PMCH and AIIMS-Patna have got Covaxin and they have a very good performance.” The AIIMS-Patna Covid-19 nodal incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said people should not get into such controversies and added, “All doctors in our institute are taking Covaxin. Safety and efficacy of both the vaccines are the same, only the method of production is different. Covaxin has been made with the killed virus and hence the chances of a reaction are even less. Also, it contains both nucleic acid and protein part of the virus and can fight with other problems. He added, “Covishield on the other hand is vector medicated. It has passed phase three trials in Brazil and the United Kingdom but not in India. Why indulge in controversy when the highest authorities of our country have approved both the vaccines.” He further said while several senior doctors received the shot on Saturday, even on Monday 14 faculty members took the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/private-hospitals-beat-govt-facilities-in-covid-vax-turnout-aiims-exception/articleshow/80334810.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 19, 2021||Patna||Rlys makes special arrangements for Sikh pilgrims||PATNA: Railways has made special arrangements for safe arrival and interim stay of pilgrims visiting the city from Punjab and other parts of the country for the three-day ‘Prakashotsava’, which commenced at Takht Sri Harmandir Sahib in Patna City on Monday. Arrangements have been made for the pilgrims at Patna Sahib, Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Patna Junction and Danapur. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said that instructions have been issued to station managers to ensure proper cleanliness and all possible interim stay facilities for the pilgrims at these stations. “Railways has coordinated with the Harmandir Sahib Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee to transport the pilgrims and visitors safely to gurdwara premises during the three-day festivity,” the DRM said. Recently, a joint meeting of senior officials of railway security personnel and GRP was held to chalk out a safety plan for the pilgrims, especially women coming here. “Additional security forces have been deployed at these stations to carry out intensive security check and allow only those who have confirmed tickets to enter the station premises,” the DRM said. The DRM also said that railways has opened additional counters for issuing computerized journey tickets during the ‘Prakashotsava’ till the end of this month. Patna Sahib station has been tastefully illuminated with colourful lights. Railways has taken possession of the state tourist department office at the Patna Sahib and furnished it with comforts for interim stay of pilgrims on their arrival. “Though the railways has given stoppages of 14 pairs of special trains at Patna Sahib, there are 44 pairs of other special passenger trains which have stoppages at Patna Sahib. Railways is running several special passenger trains to bring pilgrims from Punjab and other places across the country on the occasion of ‘Prakashotsava’ to mark the 354th birth anniversary of Shri Guru Gobind Singh Ji,” Sunil said. According to the DRM , railways has made functional two ‘May I Help You’, booths at Patna Sahib, while one each is functioning at Rajendra Nagar Terminal , Patna Junction and Danapur station. A railway official of Danapur has been assigned the responsibility to remain in regular touch with the Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee and extend assistance to pilgrims during their visit. Of the 14 pairs of special passenger trains which have been given temporary stoppages at the Patna Sahib station are Madhupur–Anand Vihar special (02465/02466), Howrah–Prayagraj Rambagh special (02333/02334), Kolkata–Gazipur special (03121/03132), Rajgir–New Delhi special (03391/03392), New Delhi – Howrah superfast special (02303/02304), Bhagalpur-Surat special (09147/09148), Banka–Rajendra Nagar Terminal special (03241/03242), Raxaul-Lokmanya Tilak special (02545/02546), Puri–Badrinathdham special (08449/08450), Jayanagar–Udhana special (05563/ 05564), Darbhanga–Mysore special (02577/02578), Saharsa–Patna special (02567/02568), Saharsa–Bandra Terminal special (02913/02914) and Shalimar–Patna Junction special (02213/02214) , the DRM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rlys-makes-special-arrangements-for-sikh-pilgrims/articleshow/80334724.cms||Kumod Verma
January 19, 2021||Dehradun||‘U'khand vehicular density increases by 26L in 20 yrs’||Police Kicks-Off Road Safety Month in Dehradun on MondayDehradun: “From four lakh vehicles in 2000, the vehicular density has increased to 30 lakh in Uttarakhand in 20 years, thus seeing a rise of 650%,” Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar said on Monday. He added that traffic management over the years has become one of the biggest challenges before them. Kumar while inaugurating the Road Safety Month here highlighted the need to curb traffic violations as they are the leading cause of death among children and young adults. “Drinking and driving, overspeeding and overloading are some of the major factors leading to road accidents. Action will be taken against traffic cops who fail to curb traffic violations, which also includes stunts on bikes,” added Kumar. Meanwhile, head of the traffic directorate, Kewal Khurana, explained about Traffic Eyes mobile application and how it can be used for filing traffic complaints and getting a quicker response. Khurana added that traffic directorate is in the process of introducing technology-based traffic management on Uttarakhand roads. As part of the same, 1,200 e-challan machines have been introduced across districts. "The traffic directorate has also identified accident-prone sites across the state and has installed concave mirrors to mitigate the chances of an accident," he said. The event organized at Dehradun Police Lines also saw crushing of hundreds of pressure horns and modified silencers seized during a 15-day special drive by a road-roller.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-vehicular-density-increases-by-26l-in-20-yrs/articleshow/80334454.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 19, 2021||Patna||‘Identify 5 parking areas in Patna’||PATNA: Chairman of Smart City board of directors-cum-principal secretary of urban development and housing department, Anand Kishor, on Monday directed the officials of Patna Smart City Limited (PSCL) to complete 70% of the work in two months and 100 per cent in four months to improve the city ranking in the country. The 16th board meeting of PSCL was attended by mayor Sita Sahu, municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma and BUIDCo managing director Raman Kumar. Kishor asked the officials to identify the five locations in the city for mechanized parking, puzzle parking and robotic shuttle dolly parking system to regularize parking of vehicles in the state capital. He directed the officials to develop Anta Ghat vegetable market into a modern vending zone and provide the vendors proper space to sell their vegetable by maintaining hygiene. The board approved the selection of agency to prepare the DPR for constructing road on the Bakarganj drain. “A road will be constructed on the drain for the movement of light vehicles from Uma Cinema to Anta Ghat under the Bakarganj Nallah Renovation Project,” Kishor said. He also reviewed the construction work of Jan Seva Kendra in nine wards. The project has been almost completed. The principal secretary directed the officials to prepare a detailed standard operating procedure by coordinating with various departments and agencies such as PMC, electricity department, income tax department, transport, public engineering among others, so that people can get all services under one roof. “Under the project, all government buildings located in the Gandhi Maidan area, such as Gol Ghar, Gyan Bhawan and Shri Krishna Memorial Hall, will have theme-based lighting system to beautify the surroundings along with a mega screen and Happy Street,” Kishor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/identify-5-parking-areas-in-patna/articleshow/80334991.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 19, 2021||Business||Times Power of Print back in version 4.0||New Delhi: Infiniti Retail, a subsidiary of the Tata Group that runs Croma stores across India, has continued its association with Times Power of Print (PoP) for the second consecutive year. PoP, a unique initiative by the Times Group, which has entered its fourth edition, invites creative minds across agencies to build impactful print campaigns that can make a big difference. It won a gold at the Abbys in its first year and has witnessed overwhelming participation. The winning team not only stands a chance to win the coveted Power of Print trophy, but also see their campaign released in the pages of the Times of India Group publications supported by a multi-crore budget. This year, Croma’s brief is imperative in the current scenario. The brief is to design a campaign that will get people to accept ‘The Mask’ as the most logical solution to the pandemic. “Till date, India as a society has achieved limited success in persuading people to wear masks in public. A false sense of invincibility combined with the mistaken belief that the mask is intended to protect the wearer from the world has led to compliance only by some people and some of the time,” said Ritesh Ghosal, CMO at Infiniti Retail. “Croma, which started serving customers in its physical stores since early June, has witnessed this reluctance to comply among customers.” The primary objective of the campaign will be to shift the thinking of the people from “I need to wear a mask to protect myself” to “a mask is essential to protect the world from me”. The detailed brief can be downloaded from www.timespowerofprint.com. This year, the PoP brief will also be open for entries in regional languages (Hindi, Marathi, Kannada and Bengali) through the language publications of the Times Group. “There is no better medium than print to influence change, opinions and behaviour. It is also a medium that enables the highest level of innovation and messaging that can be put forth in a very compelling manner,” said Partha P Sinha, president at Times Response. The contest will be open to all communication agencies — creative, media, digital, PR and students above the age of 16. Students will stand a chance to win an internship and vouchers from Croma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/times-power-of-print-back-in-version-4-0/articleshow/80337191.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Business||Arun Alagappan, MD of Chola Investment and Finance, resigns||Chennai: Cholamandalam Investment and Finance Company has announced that its MD Arun Alagappan, has resigned inorder to assume a larger role in the Murugappa Group. His tenure with the company was to end effective February 14, 2021.In a statement to exchanges, the non-banking finance company said Alagappan has tendered his resignation to the Board of (directors) as he wishes to move ahead to assume larger responsibilities within the group. The company’s Board said it has accordingly considered and accepted his resignation. He worked with another subsidiary of the Group, TI Cycles of India between 2006-2017, and stepped down as its chairman. After which, he joined the Cholamandalam Investment and Finance Company as an executive director in 2017, and took over as its managing director in 2019. Alagappan is an alumnus of University of Madras, Cardiff University and Harvard Business School and has served in the Murugappa Group for over a decade. The company has not announced who will replace Alagappan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/arun-alagappan-md-of-chola-investment-and-finance-resigns/articleshow/80335778.cms||Mamtha Asokan
January 19, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: 10 BJP candidates file nomination for legislative council elections||LUCKNOW: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s trusted bureaucrat Arvind Kumar Sharma and deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma were among 10 BJP candidates who filed their nomination papers on Monday for legislative council polls in the presence of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and other senior leaders. Monday was the last day for the filing of nominations for legislative council elections for 12 seats. The party put up a show of strength as the cavalcade of BJP nominees drove from party office to Vidhan Bhawan amid sloganeering by workers. Besides AK Sharma and Dinesh Sharma, the other party candidates include state unit chief Swatantra Dev Singh, BJP state vice-presidents Salil Bishnoi and Laxman Acharya, state general secretaries Govind Shukla and Ashwini Tyagi, member of state executive Surendra Chaudhary, chairman of Mati Kala Board Dharamveer Prajapati and ex-working chairman of Vidhan Parishad Kunwar Manvendra Singh. With this, it became clear that the party is unwilling to field an additional candidate and intends to play safe to avoid any setback ahead of panchayat elections and state assembly polls due next year. BJP and its ally Apna Dal together have a strength of 319 legislators which is just enough for the election of 10 candidates only as each candidate requires 32 votes to sail through. This is in sharp contrast to the Samajwadi Party which has fielded two candidates, Ahmad Hasan and Rajendra Chaudhary, despite not having adequate numbers. SP has 49 MLAs, which means that the party would need 17 votes, even though it is unsure of the support from two of its MLAs – Shivpal Yadav, who has formed his own political outfit Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia), and Nitin Agarwal, who is hobnobbing with the saffron party after his father and former SP national general secretary Naresh Agarwal switched over to the BJP. The Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), which has a strength of 18 MLAs, has decided not to field any candidate for the council election. Of the 18 MLAs, six were suspended by Mayawati on charges of rebellion and consorting with the SP during Rajya Sabha elections last year. According to political analysts, SP is confident of support from six BSP MLAs to send both its nominees to Vidhan Parishad. This potentially leads to a situation where all the 12 candidates could be elected unopposed and declared winner on January 21, the last day of withdrawal of candidature. A senior BJP leader said the party was not in a position to take risk at this point of time and give leverage to the opposition, especially the SP. Twelve candidates scheduled to retire later this month include council chairman Ramesh Yadav, five legislators from SP, three from BSP and three from BJP. Currently, SP has the maximum strength of 55 MLCs, followed by BJP’s 25. The BSP has eight MLCs, while Congress has two, of whom Dinesh Pratap Singh has already walked into the BJP camp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/10-bjp-candidates-file-nominationfor-legislative-council-elections/articleshow/80337300.cms||Pankaj Shah
January 19, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Syed Shahnawaz Hussain, Mukesh Sahani to be elected MLCs unopposed||PATNA: Former Union minister and national spokesperson of BJP Syed Shahnawaz Hussain and VIP chief and state animal husbandry and fisheries minister Mukesh Sahani on Monday filed their nominations for bye-election to the state legislative council. CM Nitish Kumar and BJP Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Kumar Modi were present on the occasion. The two seats of the legislative council fell vacant after former deputy CM S K Modi was elected to the Rajya Sabha and Vinod Narayan Jha to the state legislative assembly last year. Both candidates are set to be elected unopposed as no nominations were filed against them. Both the seats in the council belonged to BJP. Monday was the last date of filing of nominations. The notification was issued on January 11 and the election is scheduled to be held on January 28. “As nominations have not been filed against the two candidates of the NDA, they are likely to be declared unopposed on the last date of withdrawal of nominations January 21,” a senior official of the legislative council said. The CM Nitish congratulated both the candidates on the occasion and said all four constituents of the NDA have been working in coordination and would continue to do so in future too. Nitish, however, evaded questions on the expansion of the state cabinet. Earlier, the Patna divisional commissioner was designated as the returning officer by the Election Commission. Usually, the nominations are filed before the secretary of the state assembly but the current secretary Bateshwar Nath Pandey is scheduled to retire within six months. According to authoritative sources, Shahnawaz will serve as MLC till May 6, 2024, while Sahani’s tenure will come to an end on July 21, 2022. While Shahnawaz will replace S K Modi, the post vacated by Vinod Narayan Jha will be filled by Sahani, who earlier took oath as state animal husbandry and fisheries minister on November 16 last year. Both deputy CMs—Tar Kishore Prasad and Renu Devi, state president of BJP Dr Sanjay Jaiswal and MLC and media cell in-charge Sanjay Mayukh were present at the office of the divisional commissioner during the filing of nominations of the two NDA candidates. Talking to reporters, Shahnawaz said, “I am a true soldier of the party. I will serve in whatever position the party considers fit for me.” Earlier, SuMo said Shahanwaz’s return to state politics will boost the party’s support base in Seemanchal. Sources said Shahnawaz may be given a berth in the Nitish Kumar cabinet during the next expansion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shahnawaz-sahani-to-be-elected-mlcs-unopposed/articleshow/80334682.cms||Ramashankar
January 19, 2021||Patna||Target to reduce road accidents by 50% in 10 years: Bihar minister||PATNA: State transport minister Sheela Kumari said on Monday the department has set a vision 2020-2030 to reduce the road accidents in Bihar by 50% in the next 10 years. Speaking at the launch of a monthlong ‘Road Safety’ programme aimed at raising awareness among people about the traffic rules, she said people between 15 and 64 years are the most affected by road accidents. “According to a World Bank report, road safety is not only related to traffic but also to public health and economy. The road fatalities have a devastating impact on the victims and their families,” she said. Sheela said the department has plans to incorporate road safety in the syllabus of classes IX and X, so that schoolchildren learn about the traffic rules and regulations. She said nukad natak, drawing competition, health check-up and refresher course among other programmes will be held during the road safety programme. Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said the Motor Vehicles (amendment) Act, 2019 has been strictly enforced in Bihar, leading to reduction in road accidents and causalities. “In last 2-3 years, the helmet coverage in Patna has increased to above 90% and in other districts up to 80% from previous 10% only,” he said. Agarwal also stressed that the department is to increase the helmet coverage in the state, because most of the road accident victims are two-wheeler or three-wheeler drivers. He also said a driving training school will be opened in every district of Bihar. The department also released a road safety analysis data showing 13.73% and 7.9% decline in road accidents and deaths respectively between January and December last year compared to the same period in 2019. Altogether 8,633 accidents and 6,634 deaths were reported in 2020 against 10,007 accidents and 7,205 deaths in 2019. As per the report, most of the road causalities took place on highways — NH (3,436) and SH (1,449) — in 2019 while 62% accidents and 59% fatalities were reported from rural areas. Of the total accident deaths in 2019, 41% (4,060) involved two-wheelers, 633 autorickshaws, 1,693 buses, 1,332 four-wheelers, 897 pedestrians and 659 cyclists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/min-target-to-reduce-road-accidents-by-50-in-10-yrs/articleshow/80335215.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 19, 2021||Patna||SIT visits various Bihar govt departments||PATNA: The SIT constituted by the state police headquarters to crack the IndiGo airlines executive Rupesh Kumar Singh murder case on Monday inquired about the contract of different development works allotted to his close relatives, investigating officers said. A police team led by City SP (central) Binay Tiwari visited the offices of different government departments, including minor irrigation department, water resources department and public health and engineering department and inquired about the contract of works. During investigation, it came to the fore that contracts upto Rs.3.5 crore were allotted to Rupesh’s brother and his brother-in-law allegedly at the behest of the senior officers of the department concerned. The members of the probe team obtained some relevant documents from the senior executives of the departments.Sources said that Rupesh used to hobnob with the senior executives of the government departments to ensure that contracts were awarded to his close relatives. IG, central range, Sanjay Singh said that have so far quizzed about three dozen suspects in connection with the case. Another team of the SIT interrogated some female staff of the IndiGo airlines to get a clue about the murder of the station manager of the private airlines. However, nothing substantial came out from their hour long interrogation, an investigating officer confided. The SIT is also probing the role of some shooters from Begusarai district, who were suspected to be involved in the executive’s killing. “We are probing the case from different angles and have quizzed over three dozen suspects. Yet the police have not got any substantial lead in the case. The family members have also not confided anything,” a senior police officer associated with the probe told this newspaper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sit-visits-various-state-govt-departments/articleshow/80335091.cms||Ramashankar
January 19, 2021||Varanasi||UP: Charge sheet filed against two Vikas Dubey aides||KANPUR: The police have filed a chargesheet in the court against Jaikant Bajpai, financier of alleged slain gangster Vikas Dubey, and one Rahul Singh for using fake secretariat pass on a vehicle. Jaikant is currently in jail for allegedly conspiring the Bikru ambush with gangster Vikas Dubey, while his aide Rahul Singh of Chakarpur Mandi area is currently on the run. The police had booked Jaikant and his accomplice Rahul Singh for using a fake secretariat pass with MLA written on it. An FIR in this regard was lodged at Kakadeo police station under section 420/467/468/471 and 120 B against Jaikant Bajpai and Rahul Singh. As many as eight cops including a deputy SP rank officer were shot dead allegedly by Vikas Dubey and his henchmen in an encounter held at Bikru village on the night of July 2 & 3, 2020. It might be noted that the police soon after the Bikru incident had seized three luxury vehicles, which did not have registration number plates on them, in the Kakadeo area of the city. Investigation however had later revealed that the vehicles including an Audi car and a Fortuner, were purchased by a local businessman Jaikant Bajpai but registered under different names. The seized Fortuner vehicle, registered in the name Rahul Singh of Chakarpur Mandi area, had a fake secretariat pass with MLA written on it. Police had informed that during investigation, it came to fore that the pass was fake and procured using computer software and the same was pasted on the windscreen of the Fortuner vehicle. “We have submitted a chargesheet on Friday (January 15) in the court against Jaikant Bajpai and his aide Rahul Singh in connection with a fake secretariat vehicle pass case. Besides, a warrant had already been issued against Rahul and searches are underway to make his arrest possible. If he continues to evade arrest, we would attach his property,” said SP (West) Dr Anil Kumar on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/charge-sheet-filed-against-2-vikas-aides/articleshow/80335364.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Surat||Surat: Dead woman’s kin suspect foul play in road accident||SURAT: Ten days after a 21-year-old woman died mysteriously in a road accident, the city police have begun detailed investigation to the incident after her family member alleged foul play by her husband and in-laws, reportedly to get her Rs 63 lakh insurance claim. On January 8, the victim Shalini Yadav’s husband Anuj had lodged a complaint stating that she was knocked down by some unidentified vehicle when they were both on a morning walk on Puna-Kumbhariya Road. Anuj had claimed that he was slightly ahead of Shalini and did not see the vehicle. When he checked, Shalini’s body was lying on the service road near Raghuvir Celeum. Her father Dhaniram, however, said in his application to the police commissioner that at 4.45am there was no traffic on the main road and chances of a vehicle speeding on the service road were nil. He also claimed that Anuj and his family members were awake till 2am on January 8 and were in Yogi Chowk area. “If he was awake till late and present in another area, how did he wake up so early for morning walk?,” Dhaniram, a resident of Jafarpur village in Barnahal in Uttar Pradesh stated. Dhaniram alleged that his daughter was killed by Anuj alias Monu Yadav, his father Sohansinh, sister-in-law Puja alias Niru and other relatives - Gopal Yadav and Gangaram Yadav. “My daughter’s husband and in-laws had recently purchased life insurance for my daughter for Rs 63 lakh. I suspect that they killed my daughter to get the insurance claim,” Dhaniram alleged, while talking to TOI. Dhaniram also alleged that Shalini had been harassed for dowry since marriage in 2017. She had also gone away to stay with her father due to harassment in the recent past. “Her husband does not do anything and there is a possibility that he along with his family hatched the plan to earn money from my daughter’s death,” he claimed. “Preliminary postmortem shows that she died of head injury. We are also probing allegations made by her father,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dead-womans-kin-suspect-foul-play-in-road-accident/articleshow/80335564.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Goa||‘Satyajit Ray’s cinema is timeless and contemporary’||Panaji: Satyajit Ray’s cinema is timeless, relevant and contemporary, said Bengali actor Dhritiman Chatterjee, who began his film career in 1970 as the protagonist in Ray’s ‘Pratidwandi’. “Ray was the master of all the crafts associated with film making,” Chatterjee said after inaugurating a retrospective of the legendary filmmaker at the 51st edition of Iffi. He spoke about the filmmaker’s simplicity in making economical, but world class films. He also commended Ray’s humanism, and the ability to look at any human situation with sympathy and without any form of condemnation. Iffi will showcase five of Ray’s films as part of the tribute. Charulata (1964), which is a critically acclaimed film based on Rabindranth Tagore’s classic work and tells the story of a lonely young wife. Ghare Baire (1984), a romantic drama set against the backdrop of Bengal’s partition, in which the female protagonist is caught between the two opposing ideologies. Pather Panchali (1955), the first in the Apu trilogy, is a poignant tale of childhood based on a novel written by Bibhutibhushan Bandyopadhyay. Shatranj Ke Khilari (1977), which is adapted from Premchand’s short story and is set on the eve of the 1857 mutiny and Sonar Kella (1974), which won the national film award, is one of the earliest adventures of Ray’s detective, Feluda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/satyajit-rays-cinema-is-timeless-and-contemporary/articleshow/80336972.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man sets son ablaze for delay in getting beedis||HYDERABAD: A man allegedly set his 10-year-old son ablaze on Sunday night because he returned home late from an errand. The boy had been sent to the Kukatpally Housing Board Colony to get beedis for his father and returned later than expected. According to the police, the man was upset also because the boy was not paying attention to is studies. R Charan, a class VI student, suffered 90% burns and is in a critical condition. He is undergoing treatment at Gandhi Hospital. Cops said that Charan was in the past forced into child labour by his father Balu, a labourer. The boy was rescued by a team of women and child welfare department officials during Operation Smile after he was found working as a helper at a mechanic's shop. On Sunday, Balu sent Charan out to buy beedis around 9.30pm. When Charan returned late, an angry Balu thrashed him while shouting at him for not studying well and missing his tuitions. Charan’s mother tried to intervene, but Balu did not listen to her, police said. Police officials said that an upset Balu took turpentine oil kept near a school building where Balu’s family resides in a hut and doused the boy. He then struck a match, lit his beedi and flung the burning stick at his son. Within seconds, the boy was engulfed in flames. Unable to bear the pain, he started to run and fell in a nearby ditch. Locals came to the boy’s rescue and poured water on him to douse the flames. They shifted him to Gandhi Hospital and alerted police. Police took Balu, who they suspect was in an inebriated condition, into custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-sets-son-ablaze-for-delay-in-getting-beedis/articleshow/80337703.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal: Two hospitalized with mild side effects after jab, nurse still under observation||KOLKATA: Fourteen healthcare workers complained of uneasiness after taking the Covishield shot on Monday. While 12 were sent home after they felt better, two women were hospitalized with mild side effects so that their condition could be monitored. “While a 34-year-old woman complained of shivering and vomiting, a 46-year-old woman reported respiratory symptoms and nausea. Both are under hospital care, first one at Diamond Harbour Medical College and the second one at Falakata Multi Specialty Hospital. Today’s adverse event following immunization (AEFI) ratio is about one in 1,000, which is expected for any vaccination,” said Ajay Chakraborty, director of health services (DHS). Pinki Sur (36), the nurse admitted to NRS Medical College after she complained of shivering on taking the vaccine on Saturday, is recuperating well though she will be under further observation. “She is responding well to treatment but will have to be in hospital for some other investigation,” said the DHS. Sources said Sur had chronic asthma and was allergic to certain medications. “An AEFI is any untoward medical occurrence following immunization, and it does not have a causal relationship with the vaccine. It can be a result of the vaccine or a coincidental event, which is not due to immunization but temporally associated with it,” said clinical trial expert Santanu Tripathi, former head of clinical and experimental pharmacology at School of Tropical Medicine. In addition to the AEFI management teams at vaccination sites, the health department has set up a nodal team to monitor all adverse events across the state. According to experts, the adverse events can be categorized as minor, severe or serious. Minor effects do not warrant medical attention, while severe ones are disabling and need medical care. The recipients respond to treatment, recover early and do not require hospitalization. Serious effects lead to the patient’s hospitalization, and can turn fatal. “The currently approved Covid vaccines in India, granted ‘restricted emergency approval’, have limited safety data, and so, it is important to monitor their safety. A robust AEFI surveillance system will help better understand the safety profile. AEFIs must be promptly responded to, or else it can undermine confidence in the exercise,” said Tripathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-hospitalized-with-mild-side-effects-after-jab-nurse-still-under-observation/articleshow/80335591.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Vaccine wastage still to be determined in Mumbai||MUMBAI: While health officials have not yet begun computing wastage per vaccine vial, BMC’s nurse vaccinators have found there is extra liquid in each vial. “We need 0.5ml dosage per vaccination, and each vial’s quantity is 5ml,’’ said BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare. Thus, a vial helps vaccinate 10 people. “But our vaccinators have found that there is some left even after vaccinating 10 people per vial,’’ she said. Incidentally, health officials have not yet started computing wastage per vial. A BMC official said most centres were given seven-day stock of vaccine and wastage would be looked at the end of the period. “But 10% wastage is known to occur,’’ said Dr Gomare. The issue with Covid-19 vaccine is that once a vial is opened, it cannot be stored. So, if there are odd number of beneficiaries, some may go to waste at the end of the day, said a senior state government doctor. At times, it’s difficult to suction out all liquid from a vial. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/vaccine-wastage-still-to-be-determined/articleshow/80335782.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Chennai||To woo young voters, Tamil Nadu poll panel launches online campaign||CHENNAI: Ahead of the assembly election in Tamil Nadu, it is not just political parties that are channelizing resources to canvas for votes on the internet. The office of chief electoral officer, Tamil Nadu, has come up with ideas — including a virtual reality campaign — to attract young voters. TN Elections CEO has appointed an agency, Ontwikkel Corp, to handle the digital awareness programme and keep young voters engaged on social media. This comes at a time when there are more than six crore registered voters in the state but the official Facebook page of TN elections CEO has only 1.2 lakh likes and its Twitter handle has 53,000 followers. The plans include bringing in film-stars to shoot videos urging youngsters to make a pledge to vote. Stands at malls and shopping complexes will have QR codes, which when scanned will directly take the user to the Election Commission’s social media pages. VR is a key part of the agency’s outreach plan for the Election Commission. One of the hashtags used prominently in the campaign is #WeAreForVR, where the VR stands for voting rights apart from virtual reality, said Ramalingam Muthusamy, managing director and CEO of the agency. “The social media pages will give information on how to register as a voter. We are trying to reach out to as many youngsters as possible in a language they like and relate to,” Ramalingam said.  The campaigns incorporate popular movie titles — for instance the hit ‘Vinnaithandi Varuvaya’ is converted to ‘ Vaakuchavadi ku Varuvaya’ (will you come to the polling booth), ‘Enga Veetu Pillai’ is ‘Namma Veetu Vote-u’ (our household’s vote) and ‘Naanum Rowdy Thaan’ is Naanum Voter Thaan (I am also a voter).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/to-woo-young-voters-state-poll-panel-launches-online-campaign/articleshow/80335557.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
January 19, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body bags award for centralised transport operations||NAVI MUMBAI: The Navi Mumbai Municipal Transport (NMMT) has bagged the second runner-up Janaagraha City Governance Award-2020 as the best civic agency for its Integrated Intelligent Transport Management System (IITMS). The entire operation of NMMT is monitored by this system and has a centralised command and control centre located at NMMC headquarters in Belapur. This is the fourth national level award of the civic body for the IITMS. “We are happy to have received the national level award yet again for the commuter-friendly IITMS. It has given us the impetus to further improve transport services,” said NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar. Passengers can get a real time running schedule and also locate NMMT buses through the NMMT bus tracker and mobile app. Besides, the app also provides a facility to set reminders for arrivals, book tickets, recharge smart cards and online pass approval system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/award-for-nmmt-for-centrally-integrated-transport-ops/articleshow/80337710.cms||B B Nayak
January 19, 2021||Dehradun||Bribery case: CBI recovers Rs 60L from house of railway official accused of graft||Dehradun: A day after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested a senior official of the Indian Railways in connection with a Rs 1 crore bribery case, the investigation body on Monday recovered Rs 60 lakh from the Dehradun-based residence of the accused. On Sunday, Mahendra Singh Chauhan, chief administrative officer with Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR), was held for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 1 crore to favor a company. Chauhan, a native of Chakrata in Dehradun district, was arrested from Maligaon in Assam. Prior to his arrest, raids were conducted at 26 locations in different states, including Uttarakhand (in Chakrata and in Dehradun). Speaking to TOI, a senior CBI officer who didn’t wish to be named, said, “The searches were conducted by CBI teams from Delhi. We only provided logistical and manpower support. The searches were conducted late on Sunday night.” According to CBI sources, a total of Rs 2.39 crore has been recovered from different premises of Mahendra Singh Chauhan, a 1985 batch officer. Besides, a relative of Chauhan, identified as Indra Singh, was arrested from Dehradun on charges of accepting a bribe amount on behalf of the accused officer. “The CBI, on Sunday, busted a major corruption racket. Some contractors were allegedly being facilitated in awarding of contracts, processing of subsequent bills, and release of payments, among others, by public officials in lieu of illegal gratifications,” said another CBI official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bribery-case-cbi-recovers-rs-60l-from-house-of-railway-official-accused-of-graft/articleshow/80334517.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 19, 2021||Thane||Rs 1.3 crore jewellery shop robbery: Five from Jharkhand involved, suspect Thane police||THANE: Cops investigating Rs 1.3 crore jewellery shop robbery case in Thane’s Vartak Nagar revealed that there were five people involved in the robbery. They suspect that the robbers could be a part of Jharkhand’s Sahebganj gang, that has been using similar modus operandi for robberies. The police have identified all the accused involved in the crime. A senior police official said, there were five people involved in the robbery. While three of them used to be inside the fruit shop, two would be outside on the road selling fruits on handcarts. They all worked in shifts so that nobody suspected them. The officer added, “This robbery looks like a part of Jharkhand Sahebganj gang who has robbed shops by drilling holes in the walls and made use of gas cutters to open safes and lockers in the past. It is possible that the gang may have experts who have knowledge of using gas cutters.” The gang members rented a shop in November last year to start a fruit business and kept an eye on the jeweller’s daily routine. On Sunday, they drilled a hole in the common wall and gained access inside the jewellery shop and escaped with valuables worth Rs 1.3 crore. — Nishikant Karlikar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/rs-1-3cr-jewellery-shop-robbery-5-from-jharkhand-involved-suspect-police/articleshow/80337021.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
January 19, 2021||Rajkot||Yoga psychotherapy on international stage||RAJKOT: Yoga psychotherapy will be discussed in the 20th World Congress of Psychiatry to be held virtually between March 10 and 13 . Kutch-based Dr Pandit Devjyoti Sharma will give a presentation about how yoga can be developed as therapy to treat mentally ill patients in this prestigious event to be organized by World Psychiatric Association (WPA). Initially, the event was scheduled to be held in Bangkok. Sharma has been practising yoga therapy since long in Kutch. He had first presided over a workshop on ‘Yoga psychotherapy for anxiety disorder, depression, stress management and suicide prevention’ in January 2019 organized by the Indian Psychiatric Society in Kolkata. He has not only been promoting this therapy but also has provided training to mental health professionals comprising 25 doctors and 60 nurses in Ahmedabad in June 2019. “Many western theory of psychotherapy has been in practice for ages. Yoga psychotherapy is an Indian concept, which can heal anxiety, depression, negative emotions, impulsiveness, and many other form of mental illness,” said Sharma, even claiming that psychotherapy also reduces need for medication for patients with common psychological ailments. The bio-psychosocial model, which is used in treating patients with psychological disorder advocates yoga psychotherapy. It has added ‘spiritual word’ in this model and rechristened the therapy as ‘bio-psychosocial spiritual model’. “This is the first time the yoga psychotherapy model will be discussed at an international forum. After we had gained recognition of Indian psychiatric society, the challenge is now to make the concept understood at the global level. WPA is an independent agency comprising senior international doctors and psychiatrists from across the world are attached to this organization. They found my therapy interesting and allotted me a time,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/yoga-psychotherapy-on-international-stage/articleshow/80335597.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
January 19, 2021||Lucknow||Autopsy rules out vax link in Moradabad ward boy’s death||LUCKNOW: The death of the 46-year-old ward boy Mahipal posted at Moradabad district hospital — about 24 hours after getting the Covid-19 vaccine shot — was not linked to any kind of vaccine-related adverse event, said state health officials here on Monday. Mahipal died in a Moradabad hospital on Sunday evening. Citing Mahipal’s postmortem report, additional chief secretary information, Navneet Sehgal, said cardiac arrest was the cause of death. Mahipal’s postmortem was conducted by a panel of three doctors. Heart attack was cause of death: PanelThe autopsy report said that Mahipal went through "cardiogenic shock (when the heart can't pump enough blood for the body) with septicemic shock because of cardio-pulmonary disease". It added: "Left ventricle of the heart was enlarged. There were several blood clots in the aorta artery that carries blood to the heart... the weight of the heart was nearly 500 gm (much more than the normal). Both lungs also show pus pockets." However, chief medical officer Dr MC Garg said Mahipal Singh's death can't be related to the vaccine shot he got on Saturday. "There are no side-effects (of the Covid vaccine)," Garg said. The viscera has been preserved for further lab tests. The ward boy was given the Covishield vaccine during the inaugural round on January 16. He was rushed to the hospital on Sunday evening on complaints of ‘breathlessness, discomfort and chestpain’. However, he was declared dead upon arrival. The panel which conducted the autopsy included Dr Shasi Bhushan, medical officer, CHC Moodhapandey, Dr Nirmal Ojha radiologist, district hospital, Moradabad and Dr RP Mishra, radiologist, district women hospital Moradabad. In their report submitted to the state health department, the panel concluded heart attack as the cause of death and cardio pulmonary disease as the underlying cause of the heart attack. They also noted that Mahipal’s death was not linked to vaccine side effects. Mahipal's son-in-law Sachin Kumar said, “He felt unwell after the vaccination and was taking rest at home. He didn’t work on Saturday night. We cannot rely on the autopsy report alone as it doesn’t tell the reason that led to the heart attack. He was quite fit and never had any heart-related problems in the past. We will discuss with family members and take necessary steps thereafter." TOI contacted one of the doctors in the panel and asked if it was possible to ascertain the exact reason that triggered the cardiogenic shock without the viscera report? He replied: “Only the lab report of viscera can confirm the exact factors that triggered it." Asked about the possibility of the vaccine's sideeffects in the case, he said, “We have shared our opinion with the CMO but the official version can only be given by him.” Dr Garg added, “We had asked people, who were sick, to skip the vaccination but he (Mahipal) didn’t share the information then. After his death we came to know that he was suffering from Pneumonia a few days ago. The autopsy has indicated the reason behind his death and we will get full confirmation once the viscera reports are available...91staff members were vaccinated with Mahipal and nearly 480 in the entire district. All of them are fine. Yes, few had fever and a few vomited but that is normal."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/autopsy-rules-out-vax-link-in-moradabad-ward-boys-death/articleshow/80337531.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 19, 2021||Lucknow||Covid vaccination in UP on Thursday & Friday from next week||LUCKNOW: Covid-19 vaccination will take place twice a week—every Thursday and Friday—in Uttar Pradesh. The move is a part of a specific strategy drafted to ensure smooth operation of different health programmes and activities in the state, say state health officials. “The next round of Covid-19 vaccination will take place on January 22 and from next week, vaccination will be held every Thursday and Friday. In the sessions of January, health workers will be covered,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. Detailed orders were issued to districts in this regard by Aparna U, Mission Director, National Health Mission, UP. The state has prepared a list of around nine lakh health workers to be inoculated of which about 22,000 were covered in the first round. On why UP did not conduct the three-day long vaccination campaign like other states, officials engaged in planning said: “January 17 was a pre-declared pulse polio immunization day which is a massive exercise in UP. However, later, the date was rescheduled by the health ministry for January 31. Sundays are reserved for Mukhyamantri Jan Aarogya Mela. And above all, states have been given the liberty to tweak the roll out as per local needs.” Several states are conducting Covid-19 vaccination three days a week unlike UP. When asked to comment, a senior officer said: “Wednesdays and Saturdays are reserved for routine immunization activity. Sundays are booked for Aarogya Mela while health teams need one day as off and another day to plan and review the work. This left the state with two days, Thursday and Friday.” On how UP would cover the massive target with two days a week, the team said: “The state will increase the number of sessions and sites slowly to achieve the goal.” Earlier, additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal, had said that the first round of vaccination passed off smoothly. “We appeal to people to not have apprehensions about the vaccination drive,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-vaccination-in-up-on-thu-fri-from-next-week/articleshow/80337477.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 19, 2021||Lucknow||Ali Zafir's century guides LCA to win||Lucknow: Powered by stellar performances by Ali Zafir Mohsin, who scored 186 off just 98 deliveries, LCA registered an astounding 180-run victory over TS XI Cricket Club during the league match of LCA U-17 Friendship Cricket tournament at Chowk Stadium here on Monday. Electing to bat first, LCA scored 305 runs at the loss of 8 wickets in the stipulated 35 overs. In reply, TS XI could garner only 125 runs at the loss of nine wickets. LCA's Ali Zafir hit 22 fours and seven sixes in his innings of 186 and also claimed a wicket, to be adjudged the man of the match. Brief Scores: LCA 305/8 (Arhan 66, Ali Zafir 51, Satvik 46); TS XI 125/9 (Rishu 28, Shreyash 26). Belt Exam results declared: A Belt Exam was organized on January 16 at Raj Bhawan, Lucknow, for the girls training in Judo from November 2020. It was started at the directive of the Governor Anandiben Patel. A yellow belt exam was conducted by the UP Judo Association in which the following were declared passed : Anamta, Simran, Ambika Pandey, Mansi, Apeksha, Sanchita, Arushi, Mini, Adya, Nisha, Aradhya, Santosh Mourya, Awantika, Janvi, Ayushi, Pallavi, Bhumika, Roslin, Ipshita, Vanshika, Ridam Yadav, Ruvella, Khushi Mourya, Ramanjeet, Radha||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ali-zafirs-century-guides-lca-to-win/articleshow/80337530.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Lucknow||Action taken against organisers for obscene dance at tent in Mela area||Prayagraj: As pilgrims in their thousands are arriving at Magh Mela-2021 to take a holy dip at Sangam and spend their day in prayers and religious rituals, organisers at a stall stall in the tent city have been accused of staging allegedly obscene dance by girls. The Magh Mela authorities have issued a notice to the organisers and a fine has also been imposed on the owners. Objectionable activities were going on in the tent for many years and TOI has reported the same in its earlier reports in the past, but no concrete action was initiated by the mela administration. However, this year district magistrate, Bhanu Chandra Goswami, has taken cognizance of the inputs he received on running of this stall. On his instructions, the Magh Mela authorities have given a notice to the organisers of the show and levied monetary fine of Rs 2 lakhs and given strict warning not to present such obscene dance in future. As one arrives in the mela area and takes a stroll on the Fort road, a stall, loudly playing double meaning Bhojpuri songs, could be spotted easily. The posters outside this stall were giving the message of magic performance but things were entirely different when one gets inside. The customers were presented with obscene dance on hit numbers of Bhojpuri and Hindi films. In fact, to attract the customers, the entrance of the tent is kept half opened so that people could see the dance from outside and feel tempted. While the obscene dance of the girls continues within the tent, one of the youth at the entrance keeps on announcing the highlight of the show. Interestingly, the show was being shown quite close to the offices of the mela administration. DM Prayagraj said, “We have imposed monetary penalty on the organisers and would make sure that such obscene dance is not repeated in the mela area which is only for religious activities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/action-taken-against-organisers-for-obscene-dance-at-tent-in-mela-area/articleshow/80335498.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Expect a better turnout on Tuesday, chinks ironed out: Maharashtra officials||MUMBAI: State officials said messages would be sent to the beneficiaries for Day Two of the vaccination drive via the Co-WIN app, but most civic bodies would also make manual calls to the beneficiaries. Officials also said more than 100 beneficiaries would be assigned to each centre as, if some don’t turn up, others could be vaccinated. “People who did not turn up at their scheduled time and date will be given two more chances. If they do not turn up after the third chance, their name will be taken off the list,” said the official. On the eve of the first day of vaccination on January 16, glitches in the Co-WIN app resulted in healthcare workers getting messages late into the night, which in turn resulted in low turnout. While 64% of the shortlisted healthcare workers got vaccinated across the state on Saturday, the corresponding number for Mumbai was 48%. No vaccination was carried out in the state on Sunday and Monday as a result of the glitches that were ironed out in the two-day break, said an official. On Monday, Ramaswami said messages had been sent out to shortlisted healthcare workers via Co-WIN. “We expect a better turnout on Tuesday,” he said, adding that Maharashtra had one of the best turnouts across the country even on the first day of vaccination. At Thackeray’s meeting, a review of the preparation for the four days of vaccination due on Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday was carried out. Thackeray also reviewed the functioning of the Co-WIN app and asked district collectors for their feedback on the application. Many collectors were of the opinion that the app slowed down the process and, in many places, there were still some connectivity issues. However, in Mumbai, TOI spoke to senior officials of a couple of wards, who stated they had not yet received the list of people they needed to call for vaccination. An officer said, “Once we get the list, we start calling like last time. It is not difficult to call because there are few people on the list. But once the number of people scheduled for vaccination starts to increase, it will be not possible for the war room to call all of them.” The official said the Co-WIN app needs to be strengthened at the earliest. A medical health official of a ward in the western suburbs said, “Last time we got a list of 100 people in our ward listed for scheduled vaccination. We had eight phone lines and till Saturday morning, we communicated to all 100. There were no difficulties as most of them are health workers from BMC hospitals/facilities who are aware about the vaccination process and don’t require much explanation over the phone.” The BMC has set up war rooms in each of its 24 administrative wards, where they have deployed teachers and doctors for bed management and counselling of Covid-19 patients. The war room experts contact a person after they test Covid-19-positive and guide them for the required process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/expect-a-better-turnout-on-tuesday-chinks-ironed-out/articleshow/80337047.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 19, 2021||Lucknow||Mayawati wades into ‘Tandav’ row, seeks removal of offensive scenes||LUCKNOW: As the row over web series ‘Tandav’ heats up, BSP chief Mayawati said on Monday that scenes to which objections have been raised, should be removed to maintain peace in the country. She, however, did not state whether she too had objections to any scene or the series itself. “Objections have been raised against some scenes in the web series ‘Tandav’ which have hurt religious, caste and other feelings. It would be appropriate if such scenes are deleted so that the environment of peace and brotherhood in the country is not disturbed,” she said. Sources in BSP said the former UP CM’s remarks are crucial in the context of UP assembly polls in 2022, in which, if Mayawati wants to return to power, will require the support of all communities and castes. “This is a matter which concerns all Hindus, across all communities. This statement is in solidarity with them,” said a senior party member. Dalit scholar Badri Narayan also weighed in on her statement, saying that it is likely that Mayawati is seeking the support of ‘sarva samaj’ for the Dalit movement. “The Hindu identity is bigger than Dalits or any single caste. It is possible that she is trying to bring everyone together and seeking the support of sarva samaj while also appealing for peace,” he said. This social engineering is crucial for Mayawati ahead of the 2022 polls. BSP has already lost a crucial segment of the Dalit vote, a large part of which moved to BJP in the previous elections. She recently appointed most backward caste person to head the party in UP, hoping to reach out to the community which even people within her party claim has been feeling isolated from BSP with several OBC leaders having left the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mayawati-wades-into-tandav-row-seeks-removal-of-offensive-scenes/articleshow/80337467.cms||Neha Lalchandani
January 19, 2021||Lucknow||Classroom pre-boards will help us prepare for finals, say students||Lucknow: Pre-board examination for classes X and XII began at many schools of the city Monday. This is for the first time since the Covid-19 outbreak that students are appearing for on-campus examinations. Many students shared that after studying in the online mode for a year, they were not confident of scoring well in offline mode, hence pre-boards on the school campus would be helpful for good performance in boards. Class X student Aman Bellani of Cathedral Senior Secondary School said, “With online classes and one pre-board examination also in online mode, I was stressed about performing well in the offline final board examination. But my writing speed and comprehension were good today. Now, I am feeling confident.” “I am happy that offline examination has resumed as it will prepare us better. Time management and working well under pressure is something that one can only get in a classroom,” said Ayushi Agarwal, a class XII student of CMS Gomtinagar Extension. “Online examinations are always easy as we don’t have to write for three hours; offline examination actually tests our knowledge completely,” said class X student Akansha Singh from Stella Maris Inter College, Aashiana. In Spring Dale College, St Joseph College and Delhi Public School, Eldeco, revision and problem solving classes have begun to prepare students for pre-boards to be held in February and for the upcoming final board examinations. (With inputs from Yashita Arora and Pragati Shukla)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/classroom-pre-boards-will-help-us-prepare-for-finals-say-students/articleshow/80337483.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 19, 2021||Pune||Podcast for awareness||The 11th edition of Lokjagar, a podcast available on multiple streaming platforms and produced by the regional outreach bureau of the ministry of information and broadcasting, was dedicated to dispelling myths about the Covid-19 vaccine, and Khandeshi folk artists were part of it. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/podcast-for-awareness/articleshow/80337952.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
January 19, 2021||Kanpur||UP go down to Karnataka by 5 wickets||KANPUR: UP once again let down their fans when they lost to Karnataka by 5 wickets in their last elite Group-A league match of Syed Mushtaq Ali T-20 cricket tournament being held at Alur cricket stadium in Bangalore on Monday. UP could win just one out of 5 matches and collected only 4 points. On the other hand, Punjab continued its winning spree defeating Tripura by 22 runs. They collected the highest 20 points in the pool. Despite a fine start given by Abhishek Goswami and Karan Sharma, UP could muster only 132 runs for the loss of 8 wickets after being invited to bat first. Karnataka after initial shocks not only recovered but also recorded a win. Abhishek and Karan Sharma gave a sound start to their team scoring 69 runs in 8.2 overs. Their union broke when Abhishek was stumped by Shrijith of Suchith. He contributed 47 runs in 32 balls plundering 5 boundaries and 2 sixes. Karan too displayed aggressive batting and scored 41 runs in 29 balls hammering 2 hits to the fender and three sixes. He too fell prey to Suchith. Thereafter batting collapsed and no one from the rest of the batsmen could reach double figures. Suresh Raina, Priyam Garg, Hardeep all failed to produce a good score. Suchith J and Pravin Dubey both picked 3 wickets each. Contrary to UP inning’s beginning, Karnataka lost its top three batsmen for just 49 runs. But Devdutt Padikkal (34) and Shreyas Gopal repaired the damage and pushed their side to register a victory. Shreyas in middle order took the cue from senior batsman Karaun Nair (21) and returned with unbeaten 47 runs in 28 deliveries. Anirudha, a slow starter, also contributed 21 runs in 32 balls. For UP, Karan Sharma bagged 2 wickets and Moshin Khan, Aaquib Khan and Suresh Raina all picked one wicket each. Bhuvaneshwar Kumar failed to impress as he conceded 22 runs with out having any wicket. UP coach Gyanendra Pandey said, “Batting has failed once again. Lower order batsmen could not capitalize the fine start.” Brief score: UP-132 for 8 (Abhishek Goswami 47, Karan Sharma 41, Pravin Dubey 3 for 15, Suchith J 3 for 21, Koushik V 1 for 20, Shreyas Gopal 1 for 22). Karnataka – 136 for 5 (Devdutt Padikkal 34, Karun Nair 21, Anirudha 21, Shreyas Gopal 47no, Mohsin Khan 1 for 41, Karan Sharma 2 for 23, Aaquib Khan 1 for 19, Suresh Raina 1 for 15)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/up-go-down-to-karnataka-by-5-wickets/articleshow/80335437.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
January 19, 2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav doesn’t rule out tie-up with Shivpal Yadav for UP elections||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday dropped hints that his party was open to further discussions with estranged uncle Shivpal Yadav’s Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L) for adjustments on seats ahead of 2022 UP assembly elections. He said SP will not field a candidate against Shivpal and talk to PSP-L in case the two form a winning combination on other seats. Responding to a media query over possibility of joining hands with the PSP-L ahead of UP elections, Akhilesh said SP will offer Shivpal respectable position in the cabinet if it forms the next government. On possibilities of adjustment on any other seat, Akhilesh said: “Agar koi jeetne wali rajnitik paristithiyan hongi to vichar karenge (We can consider adjustment on other seats in case there is a winning combination). He was interacting with the media in Shravasti during the closing ceremony of a three-day training camp for party cadres. This was the first time that Akhilesh spoke of seat adjustment with PSP-L beyond uncle Shivpal’s seat. Till now, he has maintained that SP will not field a candidate against Shivpal from his traditional Jaswantnagar seat and offer him a respectable post in the cabinet thereafter. Such statements had irked PSP-L founder and president Shivpal Yadav to the extent that he had described SP’s preposition as “a joke”, putting a question mark over chacha-bhatija’s coming together ahead of the assembly polls. However, Akhilesh's latest statements have once again triggered possibilities of a broader ‘tie-up” between the two parties which may go beyond Jaswantnagar. Earlier, SP had withdrawn its petition filed before the Assembly Speaker seeking disqualification of Shivpal as SP MLA, giving rise to speculations that the two were set to bury the hatchet in the run up to the assembly elections. Thereafter, Shivpal returned the gesture and called Akhilesh to thank him for withdrawing the disqualification petition. Akhilesh questioned the BJP over its silence on providing free Covid-19 vaccine to the poor. “BJP should tell the people when they will start Covid-19 vaccination free of cost for the poor. When SP government is formed, we will ensure free vaccination for the poor across the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/akhilesh-doesnt-rule-out-tie-up-with-shivpal-for-up-elections/articleshow/80337427.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
January 19, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath to issue job letters to 436 teachers||LUCKNOW: Under the ‘Mission Rozgar’, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will distribute appointment letters among 436 candidates selected for posts of assistant and associate teachers and lecturers in government secondary schools virtually from his official residence here on Tuesday. The CM will also interact with newly appointed staff. The programme will be held at the CM’s residence. The candidates will be issued online appointment letters and posting orders containing photographs through the website developed in collaboration with the National Informatics Centre. According to secondary education director Vinay Kumar Pandey, 114 female and 24 male candidates have been selected for the post of assistant teacher for arts stream in government schools. Apart from this, 298 candidates, 189 women and 109 men have been chosen as lecturers. Among this, highest of 55 lecturers are appointed for Hindi subject followed by 45 in English subject. As many as 26 teachers are appointed for history, 24 each for economics and civics, 23 for chemistry and 22 for physics. Pandey informed newspersons that for the first time on the CM’s order newly appointed teachers are being given the facility to select options of schools in order of their online preferences. Online appointment letters will be issued to selected teachers based on their choice of order of preference. In the recruitment process, the first preference is being given to the selected candidates in the physically disabled category. Such candidates will get appointments in the highest priority schools. Similarly, married women candidates whose children are autistic or are 40% disabled and whose spouse is posted in defence services (Indian Army/Air Force/Navy or Central Paramilitary Forces), or widowed women/widower who have not remarried, and are single parents and whose spouses are employed in state or aided schools, council schools, state or central universities and state or semi-government services falling under basic, secondary and higher education will also be given preference in the posting. On the occasion, the CM will interact with newly appointed teachers through video-conferencing in the presence of deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma and state minister for secondary education Gulab Devi. In all, 3,317 teachers were given job offers for secondary schools by the CM on October 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-to-issue-job-letters-to-436-teachers/articleshow/80337380.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Lucknow||Khadi board gives Rs 81cr financial aid to startups||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh Khadi and Village Industries Board has achieved 106% target in the current fiscal year for providing financial aid to new start-ups under the Prime Minister Employment Generation Programme. The data on distribution of margin money is till January 16. “An amount of Rs 81,77,000 crore has been given as margin money to 2,376 units. At the same time, it has also succeeded in providing employment to over 21,000 youth. As against this, the average achievement of institutions associated with PMEGP is 48.33%. They have distributed Rs 1,106.70 crore among 35,432 units,” said a board official. He added that over the past three years, the board had worked not only to popularise Khadi, but also to provide employment. In this period, the board has given direct and indirect employment to 21,751 persons, he added. As per data given by the board, 77% of the margin money has been used by District Industries Centre, while 36% of the margin money has been used by Khadi and Village Industries Commission. To avail margin money under PMEGP one can make an online application. Each application is assessed on the basis of a prescribed scorecard. Applications which secure 50 or more out of 100 marks are sent to banks for approval by the District Village Industries Officers. In addition to this, units which have been operational for at least three years can avail Rs 25 lakh for the growth of the enterprise and Rs 1 crore for production units through the second loan banks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/khadi-board-gives-rs-81cr-financial-aid-to-startups/articleshow/80337461.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 19, 2021||Lucknow||Flying during Covid: Amausi airport soars high with top global safety tag||LUCKNOW: Lucknow’s Chaudhari Charan Singh international airport (Amausi), which is operated by Adani Group, has been accredited as ‘safe for travel’. The rating was given in the Airports Council International (ACI)’s airport health accreditation programme. The global recognition was given after ACI reviewed the parameters based on 118 checks points. The ACI assessment covered the health and safety measures undertaken by the airport for passengers and staff in all the terminal areas including departures, arrivals and transfers, transportation services, food and beverage services, escalators and elevators, lounges, facilities and baggage claim area among others. The accreditation is valid for 12 months. Behnad Zandi, CEO of Adani Airports, said, “This accreditation is a significant step in the pursuit of reinvigorating air traffic in the wake of Covid-19 and the ensuing vaccination drive. It instils trust in health and safety standards practised at Lucknow airport amid the spread and control of the global pandemic. We remain committed to reinforce our preparedness with global best practices and thus ensure a safe pre- and post-flight experience for flyers.” Apart from Lucknow, airports of Ahmedabad and Mangaluru have also been accredited as safe for travel. Adani Group has been given the project to modernize and operate six airports — Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Mangaluru, Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram for 50 years. Of these, it took over the operations of Ahmedabad, Lucknow and Mangaluru in 2020. The company is also in the process of acquiring majority stakes in the Mumbai International Airport Limited with rights to develop the Navi Mumbai International Airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/flying-during-covid-amausi-airport-soars-high-with-top-global-safety-tag/articleshow/80337524.cms||Arvind Chauhan
January 19, 2021||Lucknow||Jaggery fest to showcasegur candies, chocolates||Lucknow: The state government is likely to organise a Gur Mahotsav (jaggery festival) in Lucknow on February 13-14 for promotion and branding of sugarcane products with medicinal value. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will inaugurate the programme. The Mahotsav was scheduled to be organised last year but had to be cancelled in view of coronavirus pandemic. The cane development department has already held a preliminary round of meeting to get the event organised next month. Officials said the state government would invite farmers and agriculture and horticulture experts from various parts of the state. According to a government spokesperson, the Mahotsav would give a platform for marketing of jaggery and its associated products like sweets, candy and ‘kheer’. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research and Cane Research Institute have already joined hands to produce chocolate and other products. The spokesperson said that the cane growers would also get to know about a number of products prepared from gur, especially in districts like Muzaffarnagar. ‘Gur’ happens to be the key product of Muzzaffarnagar and Ayodhya and is proposed to be given a fillip under state government’s ‘One District, One Product’ scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jaggery-fest-to-showcasegur-candies-chocolates/articleshow/80337554.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Kanpur||Kanpur: Bus falls into canal, one killed||KANPUR: One person was killed and nine others injured when a private bus fell into a canal in Jhinjhak area of Kanpur Dehat district on Monday. Senior district and police officials including district magistrate Dr Dinesh Chandra and SP Keshav Kumar Choudhary rushed to the mishap site and supervised rescue operation. A 32-year-old woman, Aasma, a resident of Bidhuna in Auraiya district, died and nine others injured when the bus, heading to Rura from Jhinjhak with around 30 passengers, fell into the Juria canal at 2.15 pm, police said. “One person has died in the accident and nine others are being treated at a CHC in Jhinjhak. Six of the nine injured were discharged after the preliminary treatment. We have shifted the body of the deceased woman to mortuary and apprised her family members. She was travelling with her minor daughter, who was one among the injured,” said SP Kanpur Dehat Keshav Kumar Choudhary. Nobody was arrested in connection with the incident and the police were looking for the driver and attendant, who were on run since the incident had occurred, the police added. “Forensic experts have collected samples from the accident site. They are trying to find out whether it was a technical fault or driver’s laxity. If found guilty, action would be initiated againstthe driver,” the SP said. According to locals, as there was not much water in the canal, and major eventuality was averted.The vehicle was pulled out of the canal with the help of a crane in a couple of hours after the accident. Preliminary reports suggest that the driver lost control of the vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bus-falls-into-canal-one-killed/articleshow/80335429.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Allahabad||Akhara Parishad demands ban on web series ‘Tandav’||PRAYAGRAJ: The Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) has demanded a ban on the web series ‘Tandav’ for insulting Hindu gods and goddesses. ABAP president Mahant Narendra Giri issued a statement on Monday stating that Hindu gods and goddesses have been insulted in the web series ‘Tandav’ and it should be banned. If the government does not stop streaming of this web series, then saints will protest on the roads.” The makers of this series should keep in mind that all religions have to be equally respected in the country, he added. ‘Tandav’, starring actors Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia, Sunil Grover, Tigmanshu Dhulia, Dino Morea, Kumud Mishra, Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub, Gauhar Khan and Kritika Kamra, had premiered on the OTT platform on Friday and drew criticism. “It has become a habit of the filmmakers in our country to insult Hindu gods and goddesses. Those making such films and web series are taking the saints and devotees of gods and goddesses too lightly. They have to be reminded that saints and people will now not tolerate this act of making mockery of their religion and deities,” the Mahant said. Giri demanded that the government should ban the web series failing which the saints would come on the roads. On Sunday, an FIR was registered against Amazon Prime’s India head of original content Aparna Purohit at Hazratganj Kotwali in Lucknow over the ‘Tandav’controversy. Its director Ali Abbas Zafar, producer Himanshu Krishna Mehra, writer Gaurav Solanki and others have also been named in the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/akhara-parishad-demands-ban-on-web-series-tandav/articleshow/80335480.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Varanasi||Gorakhpur girl to see Republic Day parade from PM’s box||GORAKHPUR: Divyangi Tripathi of Gorakhpur, who topped the district in Class XII CBSE exam last year by scoring 99.6% marks and had bagged second rank in the country in Biology group, is on cloud nine as she has been invited to witness the Republic Day parade from the PM’s Box in Delhi with other meritorious students from across the country. Divyangi’s father Umesh Nath Tripathi, a professor in the chemistry department of DDU Gorakhpur University, said, “It is a matter of pride for us and we are very happy.” Her mother Usha Tripathi said they got the invitation from the Union government on January 13. Divyangi said, “It is like a dream come true for me to watch the Republic Day parade with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is my favorite leader. I am very happy.” She aims to become a doctor and is preparing for the NEET exam, “I want to serve the country as a doctor,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gkp-girl-to-see-r-day-parade-from-pms-box/articleshow/80335263.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Kolkata||Mixed bag for private hospitals: 2 cross target, 2 let down by support staff absence||KOLKATA: Two private hospitals failed to reach their target of 100 vaccinations on Monday, while two others squeezed in a few extra recipients as their quota of vials had some additional volume. While Peerless Hospital could vaccinate 73 people, Apollo Gleneagles, which could inoculate more than 100 on the first day, could give the shot on only 74 on Monday. Confusion prevailed across four private hospitals on Monday as each received 12 vials, instead of the scheduled 10, and were later asked to return the two extra ampoules. Since each had been asked to line up at least 120 recipients, some initially felt the number had been scaled up and got ready to inoculate more. By noon they went back to the original target of 100. But with several support staff at Peerless declining to turn up for inoculation, the hospital had to return three-and-a-half vials, along with the two extra ones. “While our doctors, nurses and technical staff have been enthusiastic, some support staff members have been reluctant. Since we have lined up more doctors for Tuesday, the attendance should be better,” said Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra. Similarly, an Apollo doctor called Monday’s performance “poor”. “There could be several reasons behind this, including a communication gap. All the recipients might not have been intimated on time,” he said. But at AMRI, the target exceeded, with 110 receiving the shot. “Everything went according to the plan and we used all the vials. The two extra vials were returned and we will continue to have 120 recipients lined up on subsequent days,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. A private hospital chief said while doctors and nurses were eager, Group D staff had been evading the shot. “They seem to be unsure, even scared. It will take time to convince them,” he said. RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences vaccinated 105 people on Monday. While on the first day, the authorities had to persuade some people , it was far more spontaneous on Monday, said zonal director R Venkatesh. “As the inoculation continues and people see others taking the shot without any adverse effect, the enthusiasm will rise,” said Venkatesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mixed-bag-for-pvt-hosps-2-cross-target-2-let-down-by-support-staff-absence/articleshow/80335651.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
January 19, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Schools buzz with activity, but students miss pre-Covid times||LUCKNOW: Schools were abuzz with activity after a gap of almost a year as students from classes IX to XII spent a full day in the campus on Monday, just like during pre-Covid times, now referred to as the BC (Before Corona) era. Only 25 students were allowed to sit in one classroom as per protocol. Students said they missed the fun of sharing tiffins and pouncing on food of classmates in the lunch break, as physical distancing had to be followed. “We felt the old rush when the bell for the lunch break rang, but were restricted to our seats. The fun of sharing food with friends, hiding tiffins or running away with them to tease was missing,” said a student of a school in Aliganj who did not wish to be named. Many students said the school timings should be increased so that full syllabus is covered. “It will give us more time for problem-solving, practicals and completing assignments,” said a student. Class IX student Ankit Singh of Spring Dale College, Indiranagar, said, “Regular classes with one period after another seemed exciting after this long break forced on us by the pandemic.” Prashant Srivastava, a Class XII student of a school in Mahanagar, said the syllabus has been slashed because pandemic derailed the session, but he will have to cover every topic for competitive examinations. “Now, finally we can discuss topics at length in school,” he added. Akshay Mishra, class XI student of St Joseph College, Jankipuram, said, “The teaching in regular classes and discussion with friends helps us understand concepts in a much better way.” “In school, we can get our doubts cleared by the teacher instantly and chat with friends after a period to relax,” said Rishabh Pant, student of Class X, CMS Gomtinagar Extension. Schools were closed after the pandemic hit the city in March. Classes resumed in the online mode later. Offline classes in two three-hour shifts for classes IX to XII were allowed in October. Now, a five-hour schedule has been implemented with maximum 25 students in a classroom. The rest of the classes are still continuing in the online mode. (With inputs from Niharika Ranjan and Anahita Chauhan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/schools-buzz-with-activity-butstudents-miss-pre-covid-times/articleshow/80337506.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Dehradun||Kumbh to start on Feb 27, first ‘shahi snan’ of Kumbh on Mahashivratri||The tents set up on bank of Ganga by akhada seers for KumbhDehradun: The Kumbh Mela would formally commence from the auspicious occasion of Magh Purnima on February 27 after a notification is issued in this regard in the third week of February. The first ‘shahi snan’ of Kumbh would be held on the occasion of Mahashivratri, which is due on March 11 this year. Due to Covid-19 outbreak and the threat of its contamination, the notification this time has been delayed to February. Usually, it is issued in the month of December and the Kumbh starts from Makar Sankranti. Taking into account the pandemic scenario, it was recommended to hold Kumbh for a period of 48 days. However, the government has now decided that the Kumbh would continue for two months – from February 27 to April 27. The mela, which has now been cut to a duration of almost two months from the original four months, would have four ‘shahi snans’ — on March 11 (Mahashivratri), April 12 (Somwati Amavasya), April 14 (Baisakhi Kumbh), and April 27 (Chaitra Poornima). Besides, there are also six Parv snans, which commenced with Makar Sankranti (January 14) this year. The other five Parv snan dates are – February 11 (Mauni Amawasya), February 16 (Basant Panchami), February 27 (Magh Poornima), April 13 (Navsamvratsar), and April 21, (Ramnavmi). Urban development minister Madan Kaushik said, “We are committed to holding a divine and grand Kumbh Mela and it has been made clear the format of it would be decided in February on the basis of the situation at that time. Most of our works are of permanent nature and are almost complete and the remaining ones would be over by January end.” He did not fail to mention that dozens of meetings have taken place to keep an eye on the updates and ongoing projects. “We have met Akhada members and saints and taken note of their suggestions,” added the minister. The entire Kumbh area is spread across 150 square kilometres, covering four districts of Uttarakhand. For the extensive exercise, the media centre, police line, traffic line, radio line, cultural tents, homeguard line, entertainment park, helipad, and Ayush and Wellness centres would be made within the Kumbh area. For physically-challenged persons, eco-friendly low floor buses would be arranged. A separate ghat would also be arranged for them. For women devotees, the state would start pink e-Rickshaw and auto service, which would be driven by women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumbh-to-start-on-feb-27-first-shahi-snan-of-kumbh-on-mahashivratri/articleshow/80334533.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 19, 2021||Kanpur||13 injured as four vehicles crash on Agra-Lucknow expressway||KANPUR: Thirteen people were injured when four vehicles were caught in a pile-up on the Agra-Lucknow expressway in Kannauj district due to low visibility following dense fog on late Sunday night. Two of the piled-up vehicles including a car and a DCM truck also caught fire. Kotwali police station in charge Shailendra Mishra said collisions took place on Agra-Lucknow side of the expressway at 190 milestone near the Pachor village. Four vehicles on their way to Lucknow collided on the Expressway, he said. “The driver of a Tata Tiago car which was heading towards Lucknow probably could not see the stationary DCM truck parked by the road side near the 190 milestone due to low visibility following dense fog in the region and rammed the vehicle into it. Minutes later, a Tata Safari crashed into the car. Six occupants of Tata Tiago car and five occupants of Tata Safari were injured. Thereafter, two more persons sustained wounds after their Ecosport car collided with Tata Safari. Two vehicles including Tata Tiago car and a DCM truck also caught fire, which was later doused with the help of a fire tender requisitioned immediately from the district fire department,” he added. The Inspector further said in total 13 people received injuries and were shifted to Tirwa Medical college where few among them were discharged after first aid. Only a few persons have received serious wounds. “All the four vehicles were later removed from the spot. Heavy cranes were pressed into service to move them away,” he said. Police said they have taken cognizance of the matter. “We will ensure immediate removal of vehicles that developed snag, besides round the clock patrolling by PRV at the accident prone spots across the Expressway, besides also ask responsible agencies to install more reflectors to avoid such accidents in future,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/13-injured-as-four-vehicles-crash-on-agra-lko-e-way/articleshow/80335455.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Varanasi||Youth arrested for indecent post against PM Mod, UP CM Yogi Adityanath||GORAKHPUR: A youth studying law in Gorakhpur University landed himself behind the bars by posting a vulgar post against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath on social media. Gorakhpur police arrested the accused, Arun Yadav, LLB first year student of Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gorakhpur University on Sunday and sent him to jail. The university administration also suspended Yadav. “The youth has been arrested and jailed under Sections 153A (Promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language), 469 (Whoever commits forgery, intending that the document or electronic record forged shall harm the reputation of any party) of the IPC and under Section 66 (Punishment for sending offensive messages through communication service) of the IT Act,” said circle officer, Cantt, Sumit Shukla. LLB student Arun Yadav, son of Gulab Yadav, a resident of Panditpura village under Chauri Chaura police station of the district had posted vulgar visual content on social media and wrote an objectionable remark a few days ago, said police officials. DDU Gorakhpur University officials said a disciplinary committee has been constituted to probe the incident and will submit its report soon. The university has also issued a notice against Yadav, telling him to present his side otherwise strict action would be taken against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/youth-arrested-for-indecent-post-against-pm-cm/articleshow/80335302.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||HC notice to Centre, regulator on plea for extending insurance to school buses||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday issued notice to the Union government and the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDA) on a plea seeking extension of insurance policies of school buses which could not operate this year on account of Covid-19 pandemic. Justice Lisa Gill has issued the notice after taking cognizance of a petition filed by Federation of Private Schools and Associations of Punjab, a Mohali-based registered body related to private schools of the state. The petitioner has sought directions to IRDA to extend the validity of insurance policy of vehicles owned by members of petitioner federation from the date on which lockdown was declared by Union government till the institution/schools are permitted to be opened with full strength. The petitioner association submitted that school buses owned by members of the federation had not been in use since March 23, 2020, on account of various orders passed by the state government as well as the Centre owing to the global outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. It also pleaded to direct the insurance regulatory authority to follow guidelines/provisions/general regulations of India Motor Tariff and give the concession to federation members. Directions have also been sought to the Centre and the IRDA to grant extension to members of the petitioner federation of their insurance policies of the year 2019-20 and 2020-21 on account of pandemic till the pandemic is over only to the extent of the time came between the lockdown. According to the federation, the petition is an outcome of the Covid-19 pandemic that has ravaged the whole world and as a consequence thereof, citizens of almost every country in the world, including India, are facing unprecedented challenges. “Not only the World Health Organisation (WHO), but even the government of India has declared Covid-19 pandemic as a force majeure (latin phrase meaning a superior force) and in order to avoid its spread took various stringent measure, including imposition of lockdown,” argued the federation. It has also been submitted that the federation’s request was genuine as even the policy of the Centre and IRDA allowed exemption for insurance when the vehicle was not used and its owner was only supposed to pay a minimum amount for fire and theft risk, which the members of the federation were ready to pay. The matter will now come up for hearing on March 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-notice-to-centre-regulator-on-plea-for-extending-insurance-to-school-buses/articleshow/80337053.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Four minutes for a Covishield jab; consent form, checkup double Covaxin time||MUMBAI: If it takes around four minutes to check the documents and administer the Covishield vaccine, it takes double the time for the Covaxin vaccine. The time associated with Covaxin vaccine is longer because the recipient, unlike the takers of the Covishield vaccine, has to sign a consent form as per the requirement of its Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) clearance. “Also, readings of the recipient’s blood pressure, temperature and oxygen saturation have to be taken,” said Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, acting dean of state-run JJ Hospital, Byculla. JJ Hospital is one of the six centres where the Covaxin is available. The recipient of the Covaxin vaccine is also asked a series of questions, such as contact with people who travelled. “Also, a three-page document is given to the recipient in which he or she has to insert a tick mark if they develop any symptoms over the next seven days,” said a doctor; the document has to be later handed over to the vaccinators. Recipients for the Serum Institute of India’s Covishield vaccine, on the other hand, are not asked any questions. Only their identity proof is verified. Many doctors, however, advise people to consult their family physician for a thorough evaluation of any possible allergic reaction. All vaccine recipients have to wait for 30 minutes after the vaccination for observation. Dr S Nikam, the civil surgeon at Amravati district hospital, said that it takes a minimum of 40 minutes—including 10 minutes for the pre-vaccine work and the vaccine—for each recipient getting the Covaxin. Covishield and Covaxin are different types of vaccines. While Covaxin is made from an inactivated or dead virus, Covishield uses a replication-deficient chimpanzee viral vector that is a weakened version of a common cold virus (adenovirus). “Covaxin is safe because it is based on an inactivated virus and has very low to zero side-effects,” said state department of medical education’s chief Dr T P Lahane, who, as a kidney transplant patient, has been advised to take Covaxin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/4-mins-for-a-covishield-jab-consent-form-checkup-double-covaxin-time/articleshow/80337086.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||E-Sewa Kendra for courts opens in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court (HC) justices Sadhna Jadhav and Prakash Naik on Monday inaugurated the E-Sewa Kendra for all metropolitan magistrate courts in the city. The inauguration was done in the presence of chief metropolitan magistrate Saylee Dande and other metropolitan magistrates and registrar Dinesh Hegde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/e-sewa-kendra-for-courts-opens-in-city/articleshow/80337767.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Kolkata||Calcutta University reopens chemistry PG labs on campus||KOLKATA: Even as practical classes for third semester post-graduate chemistry students of Calcutta University commenced on the Rajabazar campus on Monday, its affiliated colleges have been allowed to do the same. The chemistry Board of Studies of the university has sent a letter to colleges, allowing them to start physical sessions at their respective chemistry PG laboratories, ensuring Covid norms. “I had written a letter to the director of public institutions in the higher education department, seeking clarity over the commencement of physical practical classes for their PG students. Though we are still waiting for a response from the government, the chemistry department’s Board of Studies has sent a letter to us saying that PG laboratory classes can begin by maintaining all Covid norms. Accordingly, we shall invite students in batches to attend practical classes on campus,” said the principal of Lady Brabourne College, Siuli Sarkar. Sources in CU said a similar decision is likely for other science departments, including microbiology and physics, among others. “The Board of Studies of individual departments shall communicate with the affiliated colleges where the programmes are run,” said a CU official. On Monday, as the third-semester practical classes resumed at the chemistry labs, students were elated. “I attended the lab for the analytical chemistry specialization. The experience was smooth. While entering the campus, our temperature was scanned with a thermal gun, our bags were sanitized along with our palms. The students who have opted for the specialization were divided into two groups to maintain social distancing. Similarly, other students were also distributed in slots,” said Sreshtha Ganguly, a third-semester student of the department. She added: “Mask was mandatory and sanitizers were installed even within the laboratory. The next practical class is on Tuesday.” Another student said studies were incomplete without practical classes. “Without hands-on experiments, it will be difficult to go for higher studies and research. On Monday, I realized that we must brush up our previous lessons. In these 10 months, much have been lost. Virtual laboratories can never compensate for physical classes.” “From Monday, we had decided to hold a laboratory session for the third-semester students. There are four specializations and each had 24, 18, 18 and 10 candidates. These students were equally divided into batches. Each batch was given a scheduled time and date to attend practical classes,” said a chemistry department teacher of CU on the Rajabazar campus. On Sunday, another teacher had pointed out that the first semester PG students of chemistry cannot be brought back to the laboratories because the strength of the class is approximately 70. “They follow the same syllabus. Thus, it is difficult to hold such a huge number of students, even in batches at the laboratory,” the chemistry department faculty member had explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cu-reopens-chem-pg-labs-on-campus/articleshow/80335652.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Dead poultry birds found in Pb, sample reports awaited||Patiala: A number of poultry birds have been found dead in Sanaur block of Patiala district in last one-week, following which the animal husbandry department have collected its samples and sent for testing. A few days ago, nearly 600 poultry birds were found lying dead in Rakhra village of Patiala district following which samples were sent for testing. But the reports were found to be negative, according to animal husbandry officials. Similarly, on Saturday again some poultry birds were found dead in Sanaur, but less in number than previous time. The samples of the dead birds were sent for testing. Rajinder Goyal, deputy director of animal husbandry, Patiala said, “On Saturday, around 25 poultry birds were found lying dead and we have sent the samples for testing. The reports of these samples were supposed to reach by Monday evening, but it has been delayed somehow. We are expecting to receive the reports by Tuesday.” According to Goyal it may be possible that poultry birds are dying due to improper care by the poultry farm owners. “The feed for the birds cost Rs 32 per kilo. Due to a decline in the demand, the birds may not have been fed well and are dying. None of these dead birds had avian flu case so far,” added Goyal. Kuljinder Singh Aulakh of Nogavan village in Patiala said, “After Covid-19 lockdown, the poultry farm has faced severe losses and now again they are losing out due to avian flu fear, though no case has been reported positive in Punjab so far. Earlier, the poultry birds were being sold at Rs 90 to 160 per kg but now the prices have come down to Rs 60 to 120 per kg. We guess, this slump will go away soon and the demand of our birds will increase as no case has been reported in Punjab.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dead-poultry-birds-found-in-pb-sample-reports-awaited/articleshow/80337065.cms||Bharat Khanna
January 19, 2021||Kolkata||Covid impact: Feb date for Dover Lane Music Conference but no night-long performance||KOLKATA: The physical edition of the Dover Lane Music Conference is all set to happen this year. However, due to the Covid-19 protocol, there will be no night-long concerts. The West Bengal State Music Academy and the Uttarpara Sangeet Chakra are also hosting physical editions of their conferences. They, too, are sticking to afternoon and evening sessions only. Bappa Sen, one of the organizers of the 69th Dover Lane Music Conference, said the classical music festival will be held between February 13 and 16 at Nazrul Manch. “This year, the audience will not be able to stay up all night to enjoy the recitals. Due to the pandemic, we have decided to abandon the night-long soirees. We are going ahead with the afternoon and evening sessions only,” he said. Covid-19 protocols will be followed and alternate seating arrangements will be done. The exact number of seats and the artist line-up are yet to be announced. “We will be having artistes from Kolkata as well as those from outside the state,” Sen said. Anish Mukhopadhyay, joint secretary of 65th Uttarpara Sangeet Chakra Festival, said the physical edition will take place this year at the Joykrishna Public Library. “After much deliberation, the dates have been finalised on March 13 and 14. We are deciding on the line-up now. Earlier on, we used to have two whole night and one half-night sessions in the three days of the conference. This year, we will begin the concerts in the afternoon and end by 9pm,” he said. Meanwhile, the Shastriya Sangeet Sammellan of West Bengal State Music Academy is hosting the physical edition of a five-day-long conference at Rabindra Sadan. The conference, which has been held for over three decades in the city, will begin on February 3. Some 23 items have been lined up. However, no outstation artistes will be performing this year. “Keeping in mind the advice of CM Mamata Banerjee, we are also giving a platform to a number of artistes from the districts,” said Munmun Hore, executive officer of the West Bengal State Music Academy. Accompanied by Pt Bickram Ghosh, Pt Tejendra Narayan Majumdar will be presenting a sarod recital on February 7 at the event. Majumdar’s son, Indrayuddh Majumder, will also be in performance. “Solo concerts have also begun in theatres. On January 19, which is Soumitra Chatterjee’s 86th birth anniversary, I will be performing at Rabindra Sadan to pay a musical tribute to him at the Academy of Fine Arts,” Majumdar said. Another interesting feature of this festival will be the parampara segment which will feature artistes performing duets. Pt Subhankar Banerjee will be performing a tabla duet with son Aarchik. “Our concert is on February 5. Organisers will ensure that all health protocols are followed. I am expecting a good turnout, especially since those listening/watching virtual concerts are now eager to attend physical editions,” he said. According to him, the news of the arrival of the vaccine is “the icing on the cake”. He is expecting this to “inject confidence” among viewers who want to listen to classical music.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-impact-feb-date-for-dover-lane-music-conference-but-no-night-long-performance/articleshow/80335662.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Universities, colleges in Punjab to open from Jan 21||Chandigarh: The Punjab government on Monday announced to reopen all government, aided and non-aided colleges including all government and private universities from January 21. All higher educational institutes have been directed to follow the guidelines issued by the state government regarding Covid-19 from time to time. The higher education department issued detailed instructions to all universities and colleges in this regard. The official spokesperson has said that as per the guidelines, the institutions have been asked to conduct classes through both offline and online medium and conduct semester/annual examinations through offline medium only. Students would be allowed to take classes as per their choice and no institute should compel them to attend the classes physically. The spokesperson further said that university and college hostels should be opened following the instructions. Hostel rooms should be allotted per student or according to the size of the room keeping in view the required distance/safety of students and priority should be given to final year students at the time of allotment. Mess/canteen should be opened as per the instructions of the health department taking all necessary safety measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/universities-colleges-in-punjab-to-open-from-jan-21/articleshow/80337049.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: 8,000 workers to be vaccinated on January 22||LUCKNOW: Over 8,500 health care workers will be inoculated in the second round of vaccination drive scheduled on Friday. The exercise will be carried in 85 booths at 32 centres in the city. District immunization officer Dr MK Singh said, "The third and fourth rounds will be held on January 28 and January 29 in which 8,500 health workers will be vaccinated in each session." Around 840 beneficiaries, out of 1,200 enlisted for vaccination on Day 1 on January 16, had reported to get their first dose. Those absent on Day 1 will also get a second chance on Friday. Every beneficiary will be given two shots of vaccine in a gap of 28 days for full immunity. Over 51,000 health care workers are being vaccinated in the first phase, while frontline workers like police and civic personnel will be given shots in the second phase followed by elderly and those with comorbidities. “The names of centres for the second round has not been finalised yet, but 12 centres that participated in the first round will be the part of the next as well,” said chief medical officer, Lucknow, Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar. “At each booth, 100 recipients will be vaccinated in two shifts of 50 health workers each. The drive will start at 10am. Vaccinators, security, emergency health staff will reach the respective vaccination centre at 9am,” he added. The vaccines kept in cold carriers will be transported from the cold storage to the cold chain points nearest to the centres on Thursday and will be transported to the centres an hour before the start of the drive on Friday morning, the CMO said Asked how recipients will be informed, Dr Bhatnagar said, “We have decided to send SMSes in bulk to beneficiaries selected for the jab. However, if there are technical issues in the Co-WIN application as it was on the opening day, we will carry out the work manually by calling each beneficiary and informing them about their vaccination schedule. Though there are 61 vaccine centres with 180 booths in the city, all have not been made functional at one go. Authorities are making centres operational gradually in phases to avoid chaos and to make necessary changes based on the experiences of initial rounds.. Biggest vaccination centre is KGMU with 33 booths, followed by Era’s Lucknow Medical College with 17, RMLIMS nine and SGPGIMS eight. The 12 centres that were part of the inaugural day are — KGMU, SGPGI, RMLIMS, Balrampur Hospital, Avanti Bai Hospital, Era’s Lucknow Medical Colege, TS Mishra hospital, Sahara Hospital, Medanta Hospital, and community health centres of Chinhat, Maal and Mohanlalganj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/8000-workers-to-be-vaccinated-on-jan-22/articleshow/80337508.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Bengaluru||Maharashtra CM’s Belagavi claim against national unity: BS Yediyurappa||BENGALURU: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray’s remarks reiterating claim over Belagavi triggered angry reactions across the political spectrum here, with CM BS Yediyurappa rejecting them as “childish” and “detrimental to the unity of the country”. Former CM HD Kumaraswamy called the statements “anti-national”. “I am pained at Uddhav’s remarks that threaten to vitiate the prevailing harmonious atmosphere in border districts... As a true Indian, he should show his commitment and respect to the principles of federalism in letter and spirit,” Yediyurappa said, adding there is no question of ceding even “an inch of land” to Maharashtra. TNN Belagavi integral part of K’taka: SiddaramaiahHonouring martyrs of border hostilities, Thackeray said bringing back Marathi-speaking areas of Karnataka into Maharashtra was the only fitting tribute to be paid to them. Congress veteran Siddaramaiah sought to remind Thackeray that he is not just a Shiv Sena activist but also a CM and should refrain from making inflammatory statements. “Belagavi is an integral part of Karnataka. Don’t try to instigate us by bringing up the issue which is already resolved,” he said. Former CM HD Kumaraswamy said Thackeray’s “earlier statement that ‘Karnataka-occupied territories will be annexed to Maharashtra’ also sounded like Chinese expansionism. Such expansionism will jeopardise the harmony among states formed on linguistic grounds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bsy-maha-cms-belagavi-claim-against-national-unity/articleshow/80338103.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Hubballi||Maharashtra CM’s Belagavi claim against national unity: BS Yediyurappa||BENGALURU: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray’s remarks reiterating claim over Belagavi triggered angry reactions across the political spectrum here, with CM BS Yediyurappa rejecting them as “childish” and “detrimental to the unity of the country”. Former CM HD Kumaraswamy called the statements “anti-national”. “I am pained at Uddhav’s remarks that threaten to vitiate the prevailing harmonious atmosphere in border districts... As a true Indian, he should show his commitment and respect to the principles of federalism in letter and spirit,” Yediyurappa said, adding there is no question of ceding even “an inch of land” to Maharashtra. TNN Belagavi integral part of K’taka: SiddaramaiahHonouring martyrs of border hostilities, Thackeray said bringing back Marathi-speaking areas of Karnataka into Maharashtra was the only fitting tribute to be paid to them. Congress veteran Siddaramaiah sought to remind Thackeray that he is not just a Shiv Sena activist but also a CM and should refrain from making inflammatory statements. “Belagavi is an integral part of Karnataka. Don’t try to instigate us by bringing up the issue which is already resolved,” he said. Former CM HD Kumaraswamy said Thackeray’s “earlier statement that ‘Karnataka-occupied territories will be annexed to Maharashtra’ also sounded like Chinese expansionism. Such expansionism will jeopardise the harmony among states formed on linguistic grounds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bsy-maha-cms-belagavi-claim-against-national-unity/articleshow/80338357.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Pune||5,840 birds culled at 2 villages in district||Pune: As many as 5,840 infected birds, all from two backyard poultries in a village each in Mulshi and Daund talukas of the district, were culled on Sunday after sample test reports confirmed them as positive for bird flu, state animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh said on Monday. “Of these, 5,140 birds were culled in the Mulshi village and 700 in the Daund village,” he said. “An area within 1km radius of these backyard poultries has been declared as infected zones and all precautionary measures, including spraying of disinfectants, are being taken to check the spread of the infection,” Singh told TOI. “A two-member Central government team visited the bird flu-infected places in Pune and Raigad districts on Monday to take stock of the situation. Infected crows are seen as the primary source of spread of the flu among birds. Backyard poultries have been affected as the birds come in contact with infected crows. The flu cases in Mulshi and Daund are a case in point,” he said. Ever since the first confirmation of bird flu case in the state, the samples of suspect bird death cases are being sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal for confirmation. The animal husbandry department has urged all to intimate it on 18002330418, a toll-free number, or the nearest veterinary dispensary in case of any unusual mortality of birds in commercial farms and backyard poultry. “Properly cooked poultry meat and boiled eggs are safe for consumption. People should not spread misconceptions based on unscientific information,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5840-birds-culled-at-2-villages-in-district/articleshow/80337050.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Man arrested for rape of minor girl||BATHINDA: Moga police have arrested a 30-year-old man for allegedly raping an eight-year-old girl. In her police complaint, the girl’s mother stated that the accused commited the crime when there was a marriage function going on in the neighbourhood and that the accused fled when she rushed to her daughter’s rescue after hearing her shrieks. Moga SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill said, “The girl has been medically examined and police have booked the accused under the IPC and POSCO sections after arresting him. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-arrested-for-rape-of-minor-girl/articleshow/80337091.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh: Ban on import of poultry products extended by another week||SHIMLA: Amid the bird flu scare, ban on import of poultry products in Himachal Pradesh has been extended by a week. Reviewing measures being undertaken by the wildlife wing of the forest department to contain Avian Influenza outbreak in Pong dam lake wildlife sanctuary, forest minister Rakesh Pathania expressed satisfaction over the sharp decline in mortality of birds over the last few days. Animal husbandry minister Virender Kanwar said in view of public health considerations, the state government has temporarily extended the ban on entry of poultry and poultry products into the state from neighbouring states for another week. He said a notification to this effect was issued by the government on Monday. The minister said bird flu in migratory birds was notified in Pong Dam wetland of Kangra on January 6. Recently, dead poultry birds were dumped in border areas of the state. The state government collected samples from the carcasses and disposed of the remaining in accordance with protocol. Later, the area was sanitised. NIHSAD Lab, Bhopal confirmed Avian Influenza-H5N8 in the dumped birds. At present, Kanwar said, mortality among migratory birds was on the decline. On January 17, only 21 migratory birds died in the Pong Dam wetland area. Forest minister Rakesh Pathania has directed officers to continue with strict vigil and active surveillance on all wintering habitats of migratory birds in the state and to deal with any unusual mortality in wild birds as per recommended protocols. He said 10 rapid response teams (RRTs) of the wildlife wing would continue to work in the wetland for collection and safe disposal of dead birds in accordance with protocol till no mortality was recorded. Total mortality count in Pong Dam Lake wildlife sanctuary till date was 4,936, he said. Kanwar also lauded the efforts of the wildlife wing and field officers for taking timely and effective action in containing the outbreak and preventing its spread to domestic poultry. He advised the personnel involved in these operations to ensure that all bio-safety measures were taken for protection against the Avian Influenza virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ban-on-import-of-poultry-products-extended-by-another-week/articleshow/80337087.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Pune||State mulls slashing new traffic fines||Pune: The state government is still having second thoughts about implementing the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019, about one-and-a-half years after it was passed in Parliament. State transport minister Anil Parab told TOI on Monday that the government was mulling reducing some of the penalties. “There is pressure for implementing the new act. While the state government agrees that penalties for offences like drunk driving and driving without fitness certificates should be high, people in general shouldn’t face problems. For example, while it is mandatory that two-wheeler drivers’ wear helmets while on the highway, people shouldn’t be paying the same penalty if they are caught not wearing helmets while driving in their locality. There can be a case where a person has just gone out in the neighbourhood to buy something and is not wearing a helmet. ‘Logon ko takleef nahi honi chahiye’ (People shouldn’t be facing problems),” he said, hinting that the government was studying to slash penalties for some offences. Parab added that a decision was expected in the next fortnight.  Senior officials said the government needed to consider the economic impact of the pandemic on people before fixing the fines. Sujit Patwardhan, convener, Parisar, an NGO, said, “This is very irresponsible statement by the minister, and it seems that he is taking side of the law breakers. The state government must clear its stand rather than indulge in populist politics,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-mulls-slashing-new-traffic-fines/articleshow/80337060.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 19, 2021||Kolkata||No more e-pass, Kolkata Metro returns to pre-Covid days||KOLKATA: Metro started its first e-pass-free journey on Monday, operating the services somewhat like it did in the pre-Covid days. Trains plied at 6-minute frequencies during peak hours as 12 more daily services were added, taking the total to 240. North-south Metro’s passenger count on Monday was 1,92,007. Also, more gates were kept open at the different north-south stations. As per the SOP in Covid times, customized entry and exit were allowed at each station to control footfalls ever since Metro resumed operations on September 14 after a 176-day hiatus. Since e-passes were required to be booked in advance, only single entry gates were opened initially. Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi told TOI last week, “Now that the Covid situation has improved, we can completely operate without e-passes. Our ridership is only 25% of the pre-pandemic times. We are still not issuing tokens. Schools and colleges haven’t reopened. So, we can continue to follow distancing norms inside trains.” Joshi added, “Commuters, especially those living in the suburbs, who have stayed away from the Metro because they would find it difficult to download digital passes, may avail of the service.”  A K Ghosh, a 50-year-old central government employee, took his first Metro ride on Monday in Covid times. “Since there were no e-passes to be downloaded, I can travel to my office in CR Avenue from Dum Dum. My office hours are 11am to 5pm. All these days, e-passes were required during these times.” The colour-coded e-passes, generated from a URL and booked in advance to access the north-south line, were key to controlling crowd. But Metro Railway eased e-pass rules gradually, allowing senior citizens, women and children to board without them. Since January 4, e-pass hours were reduced to two in the morning and two in the evening on weekdays (Monday to Friday). To make sure that the city’s transport lifeline was safely back in action during the pandemic, the state government appointed Ideation Technology, a technology partner with the state transport department for a three-month contract to develop the e-passes. In December, the contract was extended for another month. On January 6, Sanjay Chatterjee, who heads Ideation Technology, was told that the last day for issuing e-passes would be January 15. Metro already exempted weekends from the purview of e-passes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-more-e-pass-metro-returns-to-pre-cov-days/articleshow/80335679.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
January 19, 2021||Kolkata||After getting shot, health workers in Bengal return to work within an hour||KOLKATA: Alok Kumar Pal was the first person to take the Covid-19 vaccination at Bidhannagar State General Hospital on Saturday, the day the inoculation programme was rolled out. The paediatrician, who is on the emergency response team at the vaccination centre, was back to monitoring others within 45 minutes, once his observation period got over. On Monday, too, he was back at the vaccination centre since morning. So was Indira Ghosh, a Kolkata Police security personnel at Medical College and Hospital. After taking the jab on Saturday, she was back at her desk shortly, verifying the credentials of other recipients. Prioritising their call of duty, healthcare workers, once vaccinated, were back to their duties at their vaccination centres, after spending the mandatory 30 minutes at the observation room. Many among them were first to give their consent to receive the Covid vaccine at a time, when several people were apprehensive about it. As the vaccination drive started across the country on Saturday, senior doctors to ward boys, security personnel at the facilities to the administrative staff, all those associated with the healthcare sector queued up for the shot, allaying fears of side effects among the common man. “Almost all of those who took the vaccine were back to work within an hour. The list included some of the very senior and aged doctors as well as young security and administrative personnel. Their enthusiasm and dedication are commendable,” said a senior health official at SSKM Hospital. “I am perfectly fine and doing my regular duties,” said Ghosh, as she scanned the list of beneficiaries outside the Academic Building at Medical College and Hospital. “When seniors at the hospital asked if we wanted to take the vaccine, I immediately gave my consent. I worked closely with doctors, patients and the administration of the hospital when the virus spread had peaked. Having seen the situation closely, I want people to come forward and get vaccinated, instead of fearing it.” Pal at Bidhannagar State General Hospital wanted to set an example. “On seeing me back at work immediately after the vaccination, several others got encouraged and reported to the vaccination site. I feel good I could inspire the trust,” said Pal, who works at the hospital, where several healthcare workers were administered the shot on Monday, too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-getting-shot-health-workers-return-to-work-within-an-hour/articleshow/80335693.cms||Zeeshan Javed
January 19, 2021||Pune||All political parties claim victory in Pune gram panchayat polls||PUNE: Most senior leaders of all political parties emerged victorious in the gram panchayat polls in Pune district on Monday. However, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MLA Ashok Pawar from Shirur tehsil failed to retain his village gram panchayat of Wadgaon Rasai, losing to Shiv Sena and BJP-backed panels. Similarly, former Zilla Parishad member Mangaldas Bandal-supported panel lost to NCP panels in Shikrapur. Although the NCP’s Pune district president Pradip Garatkar claimed to have won in 518 villages, the party lost Hinjewadi gram panchayat to a new panel. The Shiva Sena, Congress and BJP leaders fought together against the NCP panel. But the party won 15 seats out of 17 in in neighbouring Maan village. Senior Sena leader and former MP Shivajirao Adhalrao Patil said, “We have managed to clinch major gram panchayat in Junnar, Ambegaon, Shirur and to some extent in Khed tehsil. We fought separately in many villages in Junnar and Ambegaon tehsils and the results are in our favour.” Ganesh Bhegade, BJP president for Pune district, claimed that the party sponsors panels have won in about 200 gram panchayats, mainly in Maval, Indapur, Shirur and Khed tehsil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/all-political-parties-claim-victory-in-pune-gram-panchayat-polls/articleshow/80337067.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 19, 2021||Pune||Pune: Woman donates husband’s organs||PUNE: The pregnant wife of a 27-year-old brain-dead man donated his liver and kidneys for the benefit of three patients, who were suffering from end-stage diseases, in the city and Nashik on Monday. This is the fourth organ donation in Pune since the beginning of this year. The donor, a labourer originally from Beed district, was on his way to meet his wife (21) in Chakan on his motorcycle when he met with an accident on January 14. He suffered grievous head injuries and was rushed to Sahyadri hospital in Deccan. He was declared brain-dead on Sunday. “One of his harvested kidneys was transported in preservation box to Apollo hospital in Nashik. His liver and another kidney benefited two others enrolled for organ transplant at Sahyadri hospital in Pune on Monday,” said Aarti Gokhale, transplant coordinator of Zonal Transplant Coordination Committe. The committee oversees allocations of donated organs as per the norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-donates-husbands-organs/articleshow/80337083.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Daily Covid case count in Maharashtra is lowest since May 16||MUMBAI: Maharashtra and Mumbai on Monday reported a significant drop in cases. The state reported 1,924 cases, lowest in 247 days; the state had reported 1,606 cases on May 16. It also reported 35 fatalities on Monday. With this, the total caseload of the state reached 19,92,683, and the total fatalities stood at 50,473. Mumbai also reported its lowest cases in 265 days. A total of 395 cases and 7 fatalities were added in the city on Monday, the lowest since April 28 when the city had added 393 cases. With this, the total cases in the city were 3,03,152 and the fatalities stood at 11,251. Officials attributed the dip in daily detections to the ‘Monday effect.’ The ‘Monday effect’ is essentially a low count after the weekend when due to fewer staff, fewer tests are conducted, leading to lower detections. The number of tests done on Sunday were 12,140 as against the usual average of over 16,000, said a civic official. Of the seven victims, six patients were over 60 years of age and five had comorbidities. On the bright side, the city’s recovery rate climbed to 94% and the doubling rate improved to 392 days. Senior state officials said that with the vaccination drive starting in the state, people are bound to let their guard down. “We must still create awareness regarding the need to use a mask and to follow Covid- appropriate behaviour at all times,” said an official. There was a dip in active cases in the state and city. The active cases in the state stood at 50,680, of which 6,678 were in Mumbai. A total of 3,854 people were discharged on Monday, taking the total discharges to over 18.9 lakh and the rate of recovery to 95%. The Kalyan-Dombivli municipal corporation area on Monday reported 55 fresh patients, but zero deaths. The total number of patients from this region has increased to 59,216, while deaths are at 1,119. On Monday, only 969 patients were receiving treatment in various hospitals in the area. In Thane, 57 new cases were reported, taking the tally of infected people in the city to 57,400. With one Covid death, the virus toll there has risen to 1,285. The recovery rate in Thane is 96%, with 55,107 people recovered and 1,008 still under treatment. In Navi Mumbai, there were 37 fresh cases -- the lowest in 8 months, taking the total count there to 52,237. Of these, 96% of the patients have recovered so far. With no death reported for the second consecutive day on Monday, the total toll remained at 1,075. The PCMC areas reported 44 fresh cases on Monday. (With inputs from Pradeep Gupta, Manoj Badgeri and B B Nayak)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/daily-case-count-in-maha-is-lowest-since-may-16/articleshow/80337130.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 19, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Face smashed, man found dead on EM Bypass||KOLKATA: An unidentified man was found dead under mysterious circumstances near Bengal Chemical Metro station on EM Bypass on Monday. Cops patrolling in the area found the body of the man, aged around 30 years, was lying on the service road adjacent to the Metro station near the entrance of a private hospital around 4am on Monday. Cops said that his face was smashed in a stoneman style. Prima facie, cops suspect that the man was murdered. However, they did not rule out the possibility of the man’s being an accident victim as the injury marks on his body indicated that he had been dragged after being hit by a vehicle. “The autopsy surgeon has reserved his comments till now,” said a police officer. “We have informed all nearby police stations about the incident and are trying to ascertain the identity of the man. We hope the Bidhannagar police can help us in this regard,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/face-smashed-man-found-dead-on-bypass/articleshow/80335691.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 19, 2021||Pune||Tri-services exercise reviewed||Pune: Southern Army commander Lt Gen CP Mohanty reviewed the concluding session of the two-day tri-services training exercise at the Eastern Naval Command at Visakhapatnam (Vizag) in Andhra Pradesh on Monday. The visit assumes significance as the Indian defence forces are shifting towards integration of all components into theatre specific commands. Vice Admiral Atul Kumar Jain, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Eastern Naval Command, discussed the complete spectrum of security issues Lt Gen Mohanty, a defence release stated. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tri-services-exercise-reviewed/articleshow/80337076.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Patna||Bihar: DGP S K Singhal’s tenure extended till December 2022||PATNA: DGP S K Singhal has got extension till December 19, 2022. Singhal, a 1988 batch IPS officer, was scheduled to retire from service on August 31, 2021. According to a notification issued by the home department on Monday, Singhal’s service has been extended for a period of two years from the date of his appointment as DGP. Therefore, he will continue to serve as the state police chief till December 19, 2022. Singhal was appointed a full-fledged DGP on December 20, 2020. Earlier, he was holding the additional charge of the state police chief after Gupteshwar Pandey opted for voluntary retirement ahead of the state assembly polls. Pandey was scheduled to retire from service in February 2021. However, his decision to opt for VRS to join politics prompted the state government to promote a 1990-batch IPS officer Shoba Ohatker to the rank of DG. As per the home department notification, the empanelment committee of the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) has fixed the tenure of the state’s DGP for two years from the date of his/her appointment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dgp-singhals-tenure-extended-till-dec-2022/articleshow/80335696.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab launches month-long national road safety awareness drive||Chandigarh: Punjab on Monday launched a month-long national road safety awareness campaign to make the roads safer for commuters in the state. During this period, various departments of the government would hold health check-up camps for drivers, checking of driving test tracks, awareness camps, seminars and lectures for students and would carry out checking traffic and street lights, transport minister Razia Sultana said, launching ther drive. The transport department officials apprised the minister that 50% of the compounding fees or penalties collected by the police and the transport department had been replaced with a non-lapsable road safety fund to properly implement the required measures. So far, over Rs 40 crore have been added fund for the procurement of road safety equipment and implement various road safety measures. The breath analyzers, barricades, laser speed guns, CCTV cameras and car body cutters would be procured and supplied to enforcement agencies from this fund. The minister said as many as 391 black spots had been identified on national and state highways so far, out of which 32 black spots had been inspected by the chief engineer of the Punjab Roads and Bridge Development Board (PRBDB), who had also been appointed as the chief engineer road safety. Sultan also prioritised the works and activities to be done by the police department, local government department, health and family welfare department, PWD, Punjab mandi board, higher education department, school education department, SDMs and RTAs across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-launches-month-long-national-road-safety-awareness-drive/articleshow/80337124.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Jaipur||Vaccination turnout falls by 5% on Day 2 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Even as glitches in Co-WIN app continued to affect the vaccination drive, the second day of the inoculation programme saw 11,288 health workers or 68.7% of the targeted beneficiaries receiving the anti-virus shot on Monday. This is 5% less than the first day when 12,258 or 73.8% of the beneficiaries were vaccinated. A total of 23,546 persons have so far been vaccinated across the state on the first two days of the drive. Many centres reported problems with the Co-WIN app online. Some beneficiaries, who did not receive the message on time where the the app was not functioning properly, were called over the phone and asked to complete the vaccination. “At some places, Co-WIN glitches were reported, but overall the vaccination drive was conducted on Day 2 without much hiccups with Jaipur reporting a significant increase in target achieved compared to Day 1,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, nodal officer (immunisation), health department. The department is administering Covishield and Covaxin to healthcare workers. For Covaxin, six hospitals have been identified, while for Covishield, the vaccination is being done at 161 sites. On Day 1, the target achieved for Covaxin was just 50.3%, which increased to 73% as more healthcare workers came forward to sign the consent form for the vaccine. While on Day 1, 302 persons received Covaxin against the target of 600, on Day 2, it increased to 438.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/vaccination-turnout-falls-by-5-on-day-2-in-state/articleshow/80337102.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Nagpur||Garbage collection worsens as BVG staff strike enters 3rd day||Nagpur: Door-to-door garbage lifting remained affected for the third consecutive day in the five zones following a strike by workers of BVG India after it sacked 113 employees. Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s solid waste management department deployed 500 sanitary workers and used 13 tippers for door-to-door garbage collection in Gandhibagh, Satranjipura, Lakadganj, Ashi Nagar and Mangalwari zones. Employees of BVG India — one of the firms entrusted with lifting garbage in the city — are on strike for the past three days. They are seeking reinstatement of 113 sacked employees. Due to the strike, heaps of garbage could be seen scattered across streets and lanes, turning many localities in the five zones into a stinking dumping ground. Stench emanating from the garbage dumps is turning out to be a health hazard for the general public in these zones. BVG employees gheraoed municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B on Monday. Youth Congress activists, who are backing the agitated BVG employees, organized a sit-in in front of the NMC’s new administrative building. Later, Sadar police detained the agitating activists. Senior corporators, including Congress’s Praful Gudadhe and Manoj Sangole and independent Abha Pande met the civic chief and sought his intervention to end the stir. They urged him to direct BVG to reinstate the sacked employees. The civic chief, however, turned down their demand. He clarified that the civic body is not the principal employer and that it is concerned only with the door-to-door lifting of garbage from the designated five zones. Earlier in the day, the civic chief also convened a meeting with the representative of BVG India and warned of action if door-to-door garbage collection work does not resume on Tuesday morning. “The BVG India representative claimed that they will resume door-to-door garbage collection from Tuesday morning,” said deputy municipal commissioner Dr Pradip Dasarwar, he added that the SWM department is ready with plan B which is to deploy its own sanitary workers and machinery to continue door-to-door garbage collection. It started the exercise on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/garbage-collection-worsens-as-bvg-staff-strike-enters-3rd-day/articleshow/80337794.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Nagpur||400 new Covid beds added, but GMCH non-Covid wards running short of beds||Nagpur: In a reversal of trends, the Government Medical College and Hospital’s (GMCH) medicine department is facing an acute shortage of beds for non-Covid patients. This is despite the tertiary care centre having recently added 400 new beds, with nearly 1,400 existing earlier. The department caters to patients of head injuries, mainly from road accidents, and common illnesses like high fever, vomiting, blood pressure, as well as for post-operative care. In August-September last year, GMCH had run short of Covid beds though it had committed 600 beds. It was not the only hospital but the Covid peak had resulted in all dedicated Covid hospitals running full during that phase in the city. Since Covid infection spread in the city in March last year, the medicine department is left with just five wards (three male and two female) while it had total nine (six male and three female) earlier. While the workload has spiked to pre-Covid times, four wards of the department remain blocked for Covid patients. The 400 new beds came up following high court orders. These 400 were beds meant for Covid but GMCH’s Dedicated Covid Hospital has plenty of vacant beds as patients needing admission have declined since September. On Monday, TOI visited Ward Number 48, 47, 23, 36 and 27 to find almost all beds full. In a couple of wards, some vacant beds were seen. The on-duty staff told TOI that the wards get new admissions on alternate days and the scene becomes chaotic. Ward Number 48 had around 7 vacant beds but the staff said that double the number of patients would be needing admission on Tuesday, which is one of the three days when it takes in patients. “Somehow patients are accommodated but they don’t get a bed easily. If the ward number changes, the doctor too has to be changed. Doctors work under a unit and accordingly their patients are admitted on a specific day of the week to a specific ward,” they said. Officials also complained that the hospital administration had deployed junior residents, especially when seniors need to be on duty in the department, which has the most number of patients at any given time. TOI also spotted junior residents in these wards on Monday. “Specialists, at least at the rank of professor, need to look after these patients in post-operative care. Non-Covid patients are more now and we don’t have sufficient beds for them. Wards reserved for Covid must be opened to accommodate these patients,” officials said. Medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande said the reserved wards are being opened as per need. “The 400 beds till need some works to be used. Toilet work is remaining there,” he said. Panel to probe deaths of 3 allegedly due to oxygen supply break GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra has set up a four member committee to inquire into the death of three patients, allegedly due to sudden snapping of oxygen supply in Trauma Care Centre’s ICU-I on Sunday. Led by professor and head of pulmonology department Dr Sushant Meshram, the inquiry panel comprises professor and head of medicine department Dr Prashant Patil, professor and head of anaesthesia department Dr Barsagade and medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande. The panel has been asked to submit its report by Tuesday. GMCH officials claimed the deceased were Covid negative but critically ill when brought to the hospital. “One suffered a heart attack in casualty ward, one was on dialysis and third had pneumonia with heart problems. Their oxygen saturation level had sunk below 56, 55 and 66. So far, no fault in oxygen supply has come to fore,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/400-new-covid-beds-added-but-gmch-non-covid-wards-running-short-of-beds/articleshow/80337772.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 19, 2021||Pune||Poor response to afforable houses in PMC limits||Pune: Only 1,200 of the 2,918 winners of the online lottery conducted by the Pune Municipal Corporation for allotment of apartments under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana have so far paid the 10% advance, necessary for the purchase of flats. The civic administration on Monday issued a public notice, urging the remaining beneficiaries to complete the formalities in a week’s time. “The citizens who were selected in the lottery should complete the process. The civic administration will sell the flats on first-come, first-serve basis if the remaining beneficiaries don’t come forward in a week’s time,” PMC additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal said. The civic administration officials said the lack of required documents and non-availability of loans for the beneficiaries were impeding what should have been a good response. The administration will now partner with the financial institutions to speed-up the loan disbursement, the officials said. The houses under the PMAY are built in areas like Kharadi, Hadapsar and Wadgaon. As many as 2,918 people had qualified during the online draw conducted in October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/poor-response-to-afforable-houses-in-pmc-limits/articleshow/80337093.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Pune||Firms tighten belts, forego New Year’s gifts to staffers||Pune: As offices have shut down and employees have been working remotely because of the Covid-19 pandemic, corporates have not distributed gifts such as branded calenders, planners and diaries to their customers and employees this New Year, as they did earlier. “Budget constraints are the primary reason. We did not distribute any gifts for Diwali, Christmas either. Around 50% of our employees are still working from home,” Joshua O’Brian, the HR representative of an MNC, said. Pradeep Jasnani, a partner at a startup, said, “For the last two years, we had been distributing innovative pin-up calendars to our customers. It is important for us to invest in brand awareness as we are a new company. This year, we are trying to recover from the heavy losses we faced in 2020 and have had to cut out all the frills in order to stay afloat.” Stationery shops said that even though they have got stock for these items, there has been low demand this year. “We have got the usual range of calendars, diaries and planners for 2021, but the demand has not been like it was in the previous years. We also had a lot of corporate clients who would give orders for customized calendars, planners and such items, but the orders have reduced by over 50% this year,” a stationery trader in Hadapsar said. “With many offices still closed, and employees working remotely, stationery sales have dropped drastically,” another stationery shopkeeper in Shivajinagar said. “This dip in sales transcended into 2021 with low demand for calendars and planners. Companies are trying to go paperless and as digital as possible, especially now when businesses are struggling with finances. But, the number of individuals buying calendars for their homes, is similar to what it is every year,” the shopkeeper added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/firms-tighten-belts-forego-new-years-gifts-to-staffers/articleshow/80337089.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||‘Bikers involved in most bus mishaps in Mumbai’||MUMBAI: BEST buses have been involved in maximum mishaps involving two-wheelers and pedestrians which is why drivers need to be extra cautious while plying buses. Surendrakumar Bagde, general manager of BEST gave the message to over 10,000 drivers and other staff in a note circulated on the first day of Road Safety Month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/majority-bus-mishap-victims-are-bikers-pedestrians-best/articleshow/80337144.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Trichy||Preparations on for DMK meet||Trichy: Preparatory work for the 11th state conference of DMK to be held in February at Siruganur, on the outskirts of Trichy, was inaugurated by party working president K N Nehru here on Monday. The event will be held on a 300-acre parcel of land, most likely on February 20 and 21. The official announcement on the conference will be made by the party headquarters soon. Functionaries pointed out that Trichy district had hosted the party state conference earlier in 1996, 2006 and 2014. There is a tentative plan for Stalin to visit the site on Tuesday during his campaign in the neighbouring districts. Since there was no confirmation about it, the party has kicked off the work. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/preparations-on-for-dmk-meet/articleshow/80337128.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Nagpur||NMC starts mega drive to remove encroachments||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Monday intensified its anti-encroachment drive against vendors occupying footpaths across the city. Armed with excavators and huge police protection, the enforcement department employees went across all 10 zones as part of the drive. In Gandhibagh zone, the team removed 25 shops occupying footpaths on Mominpura Kabrastan Road. Dhantoli zone too carried out the drive on Subhash Road. Mangalwari zone removed encroachments on State CID Road and in Sadar area. Hanuman Nagar zone razed an illegal construction on a parking space in Prabhag number 33. Tension gripped NMC headquarters in Civil Lines after a delegation of physically challenged shop owners led by senior corporators Abha Pande, Praful Gudadhe and Manoj Sangole staged a sit-in protest against Dhantoli zone’s action against them while carrying out drive on Subhash Road. The mega action was launched following orders from municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, who has directed deputy municipal commissioner Mahesh Moroney and assistant municipal commissioners of all zones to undertake simultaneous encroachment removal drive daily. He has warned that the effective action should be seen in all zones daily and responsibility would be on ward teams including junior engineer, sanitary inspector, civil engineering assistant and eight labourers, who should be exclusively spared for this activity. The civic chief has also warned that in case of lethargic attitude towards encroachments, the responsibility of the concerned official will be fixed and departmental inquiry will be initiated followed by administrative action. Moroney has instructed all assistant municipal commissioners to act accordingly. He has also appealed to encroachers to refrain from occupying footpaths and roads because as citizens of Nagpur, it is their responsibility also to think of the betterment of the city and pedestrians must be able to move freely on footpaths. Now onwards, a rigorous drive will be taken up in each zone and material will be seized. NMC will not return the seized materials instead auction them every month, said Moroney.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-starts-mega-drive-to-remove-encroachments/articleshow/80337819.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 19, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Trader’s body found in SUV, youth killed||MOTIHARI/MADHEPURA: While one Abhishek Kumar (45) was found dead in his SUV on NH-28 near Mathbanwari under Piprakothi police station area in East Champaran on Monday, a youth identified as Anand Kumar was shot dead by unidentified thieves near Pathak Tola in Madhukarchak under Behariganj police station area in Madhepura district on Sunday evening. Abhishek belonged to Balua under Paharpur police station area and owned an automobile showroom at Chhatauni Chowk in Motihari town. A pistol and his cellphone were recovered from the car, which was locked, SHO Vikrant Kumar said. Police sources quoting postmortem report said he was shot dead. His family members have also alleged the same in the FIR. Motihari SDPO Arun Kumar Gupta said police were investigating whether it was a murder or suicide. The Madhepura incident took place when Anand and his cousin Niraj Kumar chased and caught the thieves, who had stolen a sound amplifier from his house. Anand dealt in tent business and hailed from Behariganj. Police said one person was arrested in this connection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/traders-body-found-in-suv-youth-killed/articleshow/80335744.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Nagpur||THE MAN WITH MANY FACES||What first caught the viewer’s attention was not the mellow, cultured, baritone; not the sinewy, definitely un-Bonglike, well-exercised physique; nor the chiselled, symmetrical features. It was the eyes — large, sensitive, all-seeing eyes that observed and expressed with an intensity rarely encountered in cinema. Moreover, these are protean eyes that could metamorphose and alter their gaze with the demand of the character. The inquisitive, piercing gaze of Pradosh ‘Felu’ Mitter (Sonar Kella, Joy Baba Felunath) was very different from the cunning but innocent rusticity of Gangacharan the village priest (Ashani Sanket). The cynical and mocking gaze of the bohemian Mayurbahan (Jhinder Bandi) was completely at odds with the angry, frustrated stare of truck driver Narsing (Abhijaan), or the shifty, nothing-to-lose desperation of the thief Aghore (Sangsar Simantey). Coach Khidda (Koni) peered at his trainee in the swimming pool with a mad fervour which contrasted totally with the dignified but defiant gaze of Dr Mitra (Wheelchair). With the possible exception of Tagore, Bengalis love to dwell in binaries. Who plays better football, Mohan Bagan or East Bengal? Who is the better director, Ghatak or Ray? Who is the better poet, Shakti or Sunil? The more popular novelist, Shirshendu or Sunil? The more versatile singer, Hemanta or Manna? Soumitra, much against his will, became the counterpoint to one such binary — who is the better actor, Uttamkumar or Soumitra? While the other debates have waned with the passage of time, the last-mentioned shows no signs of easing off (I myself had witnessed battles of epic proportions at my own home in my formative years between my father — an Uttam adherent and my mother — a Soumitra fanatic). But even the most diehard fans of the ‘mahanayak’ cannot but agree that nobody played across a greater spectrum of roles with more assurance and authenticity than the poet-editor-stage thespian from Krishnanagar. While Kumar, as the reigning heart-throb of Tollywood, carefully cultivated a starlike persona, aloof from the foul rag-and-bones of everyday reality, Soumitra sought to retain his quintessential boy-next-door ‘Apu’ identity almost with a vengeance. Perhaps his lifelong mentoring by the easily-accessible but breathtakingly myriad-minded genius of Ray also stimulated a desire in the disciple to articulate himself through various media — cinema/stage, poetry, painting — and yet retain his essential empathy with the grassroots. Ergo, he could be found smoking and arguing with fellow intellectuals in the fabled Coffee House at College Street, had no qualms about pushing the trolley in a film set when the occasion demanded, visit tardy contributors of his literary journal Ekkhon and harangue them in person. One suspects that the accuracy and nuance one notices in his more mature performances (Dekha, Podokkhep, Mayurakshi) evolved out of this rare ability to willingly suspend his notion of superstardom and celebhood and mingle with the masses. For, make no mistake, a superstar he was, right up to his final days. One who made no less an individual than Prof Mahesh Elkunchwar go all starry-eyed when Soumitra dropped in at the latter’s residence for lunch with the hidden agenda of seeking his permission to stage Elkunchwar’s Atmakatha in Bengali. (Only twice before had I seen the great playwright reduced to a similar fanboy state — in the presence of two equally illustrious luminaries: Dr Sriram Lagu and Vijaya Mehta). When I ribbed Dada about this transparent adoration, he scolded me, “Gadhva, mahit ahe toh kone ahe? Maestrocha protégé!” This in a way, was the ultimate tribute to Soumitra. Like the Bergman-Sydow, Kurosawa-Mifune, Scorsese-de Niro collaborations, the Ray-Chatterji partnership too is one for eternity (14 films together!). But the other actors, while not denying their formidable skill sets, never quite became as integral a part of a people’s consciousness as Soumitra did for the Bengalis over the years. Everyone who spoke the language prayed for his recovery during the weeks he spent in his hospital bed; everyone, from the chief minister to a commoner walked the streets during his funeral procession in a spontaneous outpouring of love and grief for this most nonheroic of heroes. Soumitra Chatterji, pleased, would have broken out in that famously toothy grin! (Supantha Bhattacharyya teaches English at Hislop College)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/the-man-with-many-faces/articleshow/80337831.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Pune||Post-vaccination, 302 show ‘common side-effects’ in Pune Metropolitan Region||PUNE: A total of 302 healthcare workers exhibited minor flu-like symptoms, mainly headache, body pain and fever, within 48 hours of receiving the first shot of Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR). Experts emphasised that these symptoms were known side-effects of the vaccine and showed the body's response to the vaccine-borne antigen (virus particles). This is seen even in flu shots. Those who get the shot feel being sick and unwell for the first two to three days. 302 show ‘common side-effects’ in regionOf the 302 beneficiaries — 203 from Pimpri Chinchwad, 88 from rural parts of Pune and 11 are from the Pune city limits — having side-effects, only two showed severe symptoms and needed initial care. Both were from rural parts of Pune, a health official said. A 35-year-old staff nurse working at the sub-district hospital in Daund showed the weakness of lower and upper limbs soon after the vaccination and was rushed to the Sassoon hospital in Pune the same day. She has an underlying medical condition, including suspected auto-immune disease, which is being investigated. In addition, she has anaemia and hypertension. “The hospital’s treating physicians have given a primary report stating that the complication she suffered was not vaccine-related. It is more likely to be because of the underlying medical conditions,” said district civil surgeon Ashok Nandapurkar. The woman has recovered from the extreme weakness of the limbs “There is about 90% recovery. All the neurological investigations are normal. The district-level committee formed to evaluate such instances will analyse the cause of her condition,” Nandapurkar said. A minor instance of developing severe symptom post-vaccination had happened at the primary health centre in Wagholi on Saturday. A woman healthcare worker had complained of excessive sweating and breathlessness. Primarily it happened because she had done night duty at the hospital and did not have breakfast. “She recovered within an hour and went home. She is absolutely fine now,” said Ayush Prasad, the chief executive officer (CEO) of Pune Zilla Parishad. Vaccine scientist Prasad Kulkarni said, “One in 10 vaccinated persons show flu-like symptoms. The most common are headache, body ache, fever and nausea. Some of the uncommon but documented symptoms are dizziness, profuse sweating and abdominal pain but they were seen or documented in 1 in 100 vaccinated persons during the Covid vaccine trial.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/302-show-common-side-effects-after-vaccination-in-pmr/articleshow/80337136.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 19, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Residents annoyed as streets at Thiruverkadu remain waterlogged||CHENNAI: Since recent past walking home has been an annoying task for the residents of Pillaiyar Koil Street, Kasturibai Avenue in Thiruverkadu as most of the streets are filled with ankle-deep water . “I have to wade for 100 meters through this filth to get home and go to work, every day. It’s annoying,” said K Senthil Kumar an IT employee and resident of the area. Similar is the plight ion adjoining streets like Ram Nagar and Vinayagar Koil Streets. Each street houses nearly 200 families, and most of their entrances are under water. Residents said their stormwater drains need to be repaired and there’s no outlet for the water to go when it rains. Sewer holes also start overflowing, and water gets mixed with it. “Six months ago, we had a similar situation and the authorities pumped all the water into a vacant plot nearby, which lies right between two houses. There is simply no place for the water to go,” said Mythili Surya, another resident who is seven-month pregnant. Pointing to the waterlogged street at the entrance of their home, Mythili said, “One day I almost slipped and fell when I tried to go out. Since then I panicked and do not step out.” Fed up and desperate, a few weeks ago the residents pooled in money to pump out the water into a nearby ditch. They also cleared the path to Ram Nagar and created a small park leaving space in between for vehicles to pass by. But after the recent rain, the park was flooded yet again. A construction worker who had put up a small shed on the park, next to the site he works in had to leave in the middle of the night due to flooding. The waterlogging has also led to vermin and mosquito menace, and the entire area reeks of stench. Residents said that despite repeated reminders and letters to the local authorities, nothing has been done. In the beginning, the local official from the Thiruverkadu municipality refuted any claims of waterlogging but later said all the stormwater drains in the area were damaged and needed replacement. “We have submitted a proposal to the government about this, and are waiting for approval. But in the meantime we are regularly pumping out water from streets,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/residents-annoyed-as-streets-at-thiruverkadu-remain-waterlogged/articleshow/80335760.cms||Aditi R
January 19, 2021||Bareilly||Rajya Gur Mahotsav in Lucknow to highlight jaggery’s nutritional properties||PILIBHIT: The state sugarcane administration has decided to organise a two-day Rajya Gur Mahotsav 2021 at Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research, Lucknow, on February 13 and 14. UP additional chief secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry Sanjay R Bhoosreddy has announced seven committees to ensure the event’s success. “The Mahotsav, which is expected to be attended by thousands of jaggery manufacturers from across the state, is aimed at promoting the jaggery industry in rural areas, apart from spreading mass awareness about nutritional properties of jaggery (gur) and its by-products, with the objective of popularising them among urbanites as nutritional food,” said Bhoosreddy while talking to TOI. Although there is no official record of the total number of gur manufacturers in the state, as they have been exempted from obtaining licenses, it is estimated that there are over 5,300 functional jaggery units across the state’s 44 sugarcane dominant districts, he added. During the previous sugarcane crushing season, these units had crushed over 210 lakh quintals of sugarcane to manufacture about 20 lakh quintals of jaggery. The quantity of crushed cane was 15% of the state’s total sugarcane produce, Bhoosreddy also said. “The jaggery units are crucial in providing employment to the rural masses, as each unit employs a minimum of 20-25 people, including at least two skilled people with expertise in gur manufacture. Also, unlike sugar mills, these units buy sugarcane against cash, thereby addressing the immediate needs for liquidity of small and marginal sugarcane growers,” he said. Regarding nutritional properties of jaggery, a senior professor at LH State Ayurvedic College in Pilibhit, Hari Shankar Mishra, said, “Jaggery is an organic product as its manufacture is free from use of any chemicals. During its manufacturing, sugarcane juice is cleaned using Deola (hibiscus ficulneus) plants, which are safe for human health, whereas sugar manufacturing undergoes a complex chemical process, leaving traces of the chemicals used in the finished product.” “Jaggery, which is like a health supplement, is nutritional. It has antioxidant properties that strengthens the human immune system, protecting the liver from toxins, prevents anaemia and improves the digestive system,” Mishra said. Bhoosreddy also expressed hope the Rajya Gur Mahotsav would improve health and immunity of people of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rajya-gur-mahotsav-in-lucknow-to-highlight-jaggerys-nutritional-properties/articleshow/80332670.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Petrol rises to all-time high of Rs 91.8 in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Petrol price in Mumbai hit an all-time high on Monday, with the city’s 11 lakh motorists and 23 lakh bikers bound to feel the pinch. Retail rate at over 200 city pumps rose to Rs 91.8 per litre—breaching the last highest of Rs 91.34 on October 4, 2018. Diesel, too, set a new record with a hike of 27 paise taking the price from Rs 81.60 to Rs 82.13 a litre. The price of petrol in Parbhani district continues to be the highest in the country at a revised rate of Rs 93.97. Since March 2020, petrol price in Mumbai has increased by over Rs 16 a litre. “This is ridiculous. During peak hours, due to traffic snarls, we have to drive cars at speeds as low as 10-15 kmph. We waste a lot of fuel in traffic jams and the petrol price hike will hit us hard,” said Abhishek Das, an officegoer, who takes his car from Thane to Andheri. Transporters say this is the highest rate so far and an increase in cost of essential goods, fruits and vegetables is an inevitable fallout. “It is actually diesel cost that has hit our industry, which is on the brink of collapse, especially small transporters,” said a Chembur transport firm owner. As on date, 65% trucks are lying idle due to transportation costs—65% of which comprises fuel and 20% is toll. “Skyrocketing diesel prices are adding to the stress of transporters. Asset idling is at its peak and there are mounting losses. Are we headed toward doomsday?” said Abhishek Gupta from Bombay Goods Transport Association. Officials said that the price rise was not just due to fluctuations in international crude oil prices, but also due to the value of rupee vis-a-vis the dollar. The fuel price hike will have a cascading effect on the industry, an expert said. “It will increase prices of all FMCGs, white goods, cement, steel etc,” he said. Since May 2020, petrol and diesel prices have risen by over Rs 15 a litre. Petrol had escalated from Rs 76.31 on April 2, 2020 to Rs 90.34 on December 7 and Rs 90.6 on January 6, touching Rs 91.32 on January 14 and escalating to Rs 91.56 on Monday. Similarly, diesel shot up from Rs 66.2 in April last year to Rs 80.5 in December and Rs 80.7 on January 6 before touching Rs 81.60 on January 14 and now Rs 81.87. The increasing taxes and VAT which are the highest in Maharashtra has upset consumers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/petrol-rises-to-all-time-high-of-rs-91-56-in-city/articleshow/80337834.cms||Somit Sen
January 19, 2021||Coimbatore||300 CCTV cams to be installed to check crime in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: The city police will install 100 CCTV cameras each at Singanallur, Peelamedu and Saravanampatti police station limits with the help of private firms and using public contribution to prevent crime. Several crimes were reported from the east sub-division of the city police, which has Singanallur, Peelamedu and Saravanampatti police station. The stations cover vast areas. “The city has 3,000 police personnel. But they cannot cover every nook and cranny, New residential areas are coming up in the city. CCTV cameras have been helping police to crack cases,” said a senior police officer. Two days ago, miscreants had looted 100 sovereigns of gold ornaments from a house on Dr Rajendra Prasad Road at Tatabad. The residential area had only one CCTV camera, which was facing towards the main road. Though police retrieved CCTV footage, it was not clear. Following the burglary, senior officers approached residents and requested them to install CCTV cameras. Police have also intensified patrolling during night and early morning hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/300-cctv-cams-to-be-installed-to-check-crime/articleshow/80335753.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Dehradun||Man accused in theft case consumes poison in police station in Udham Singh Nagar||Rudrapur: A 32-year old man, suspect in a theft case, was admitted to a private hospital in the city after he allegedly consumed poison in the police lock-up during interrogation on Sunday night. The man has been identified as Ravi Chauhan, a resident of TDC Colony in Haldi area of Pantnagar. Chauhan was immediately rushed to Jawaharlal Nehru district hospital in Rudrapur where the doctors said that his condition was ‘serious, but stable’. On Sunday, he was admitted to a private hospital after his condition deteriorated. He was brought in for questioning in connection with a theft that took place in the city’s Pantnagar area. The police officials said that the man was upset over a family feud and thus, took the extreme step. According to the police, Chauhan was held after one Kanhaiya, held in connection with the Pantnagar theft case on Friday, told the police that Chauhan was his partner in crime. Thereafter, officials summoned Chauhan to the police station on Saturday. When he didn’t appear in the police station on time, his father Ram Pyare Chauhan and his younger brother Rahul were detained by the police. Later on Saturday night, Chauhan appeared before the Pantnagar police and denied any wrongdoing. While the family members of Chauhan say that he consumed poison in the lock-up, the police have said that he had consumed the toxic substance before coming to the police station. “Police released me and my younger son after Ravi appeared before them. He was held for questioning and he consumed poison in police custody,” alleged Ram Pyare Chauhan. Meanwhile, SSP Daleel Singh Kunwar said, “He was a suspect and was thus called for interrogation. He had consumed the poisonous substance before coming to the police station. His brother has filed a complaint against Ravi’s wife and his brother-in-law for mental harassment. A case has been registered in the matter and probe is underway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-accused-in-theft-case-consumes-poison-in-police-station-in-udham-singh-nagar/articleshow/80334639.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 19, 2021||Chennai||IIT-Madras develops temperature tracking technology for monitoring treatment||CHENNAI: IIT-Madras researchers have developed an ultrasound-based technology to track temperature in real time during treatment like thermal therapy used for treating tumours, for pain relief and rehabilitation. Researchers said the technology is non-invasive, portable compared to existing alternatives, and is safe as there is no exposure to ionising radiation. Professor Arun K Thittai, department of applied mechanics said the technology they have developed generates a heat map in real time, which will show the temperature at different locations and at varying depths within the targeted tissue region where the heat is applied. “At present, the heat anticipated is set on the device. But there is no clue what is deposited in the tissue. Our contribution is we want to monitor this in real time using ultrasound,” he said.  The technique involves obtaining ultrasound signals from the tissue region of interest in the body, where heat is applied non-invasively from outside either through a microwave applicator, which was tried at IIT-M lab for demonstrating the technology, or high-intensity focussed ultrasound (HIFU). The signals are processed based on the wave interaction with the tissue medium. “The technique can be incorporated as a software in existing scanners by the manufacturers and thus does not require any special electronics hardware,” the professor said. At present, there is an MRI (MR guided HIFU), which is the only alternative, to monitor treatment like treating uterine fibroids. “But it has its disadvantage. It is a huge complicated high-end system so it is probably used only for serious procedures in top centres,” the professor said. The team has demonstrated feasibility of the method on tissue mimicking materials and in-vitro tissue samples. They are now working to develop an integrated microwave applicator cum ultrasound-based real-time imaging feedback for a possible clinical application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/iit-m-develops-temperature-tracking-technology-for-monitoring-treatment/articleshow/80335776.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Coimbatore||2 killed in accident on L&T bypass||COIMBATORE: A van driver and a 54-year-old woman passenger were killed after the vehicle rammed another van on the L&T bypass on Monday morning. The deceased were identified as H Mohammed Ashiq, 24, of Komaralingam in Tirupur district and Rajamani, wife of Nataraj of Lakshmi Nagar at Seeranaickenpalayam in Coimbatore. Nataraj, a private security guard, Rajamani and their grandsons S Kishore, 17 and S Rithish, 7, had visited their relative’s house at Udumalpet in Tirupur district to celebrate Pongal festival. They hired a van and were heading towards Seeranaickenpalayam from Udumalpet on Monday morning. Mohammed Ashiq was driving the vehicle. When the van reached L&T Bypass, another van heading towards Kerala, rammed the vehicle. Ashiq suffered serious injuries and died on the spot. Rajamani was declared as brought dead. The other three passengers were admitted to a private hospital at Sundarapuram. The Madukkarai police registered a case against van driver B Sanu of Kozhikode in Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-killed-in-accident-on-lt-bypass/articleshow/80335771.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Pune||Armed with app, session sites set to vaccinate 1.14L recipients in 4 days||Pune: Technical glitches in the CoWin app were ironed out and session sites for nearly half the 285 vaccination centres in the state were created on Monday. State health officials said they were more confident now about using the CoWin app for the 1.14 lakh health beneficiaries in four days of inoculation sessions from Tuesday. As many as 28,500 healthcare workers will take the shots per day. They may also include 10,200 healthcare workers who had missed their jabs on January 16 as the system randomly selects people, health officials said. State principal health secretary Pradeep Vyas has directed all the sites to upload the data on the CoWin app. “After the first-day issues, we had a districtwise assessment. Now, the CoWin app is functioning and session sites have been created. All sites will have to upload data on the CoWin app for the upcoming sessions every day,” he told TOI. On Saturday, the first day of the vaccination drive, the software failed to deliver text messages to beneficiaries intimating them about their centres and the time of vaccination, and only 65% of the recipients in the state could take their shots. Most centres conducted the vaccination without CoWIN. Deputy director of health services, Pune region, Sanjay Deshmukh, said these issues were taken care of and all districts were told to ready the session sites on Monday and conduct the entire process online. Pune district officials said of the 15 sites in the rural areas, nine were created on Monday. State health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said he had already spoken to the Union health minister and was assured that the remaining vaccine doses required for the state would be sent soon. Commissioner of National Health Mission N Ramaswami said the sessions will start at 9am. “We are expecting more numbers this week. Fortunately, there are no major adverse events or refusals,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/armed-with-app-session-sites-set-to-vaccinate-1-14l-recipients-in-4-days/articleshow/80337146.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 19, 2021||Coimbatore||RTO scouts for land to set up automated driving test tracks||Coimbatore: The regional transport office has identified five acres near the Codissia Trade Fair Complex to set up automated driving test tracks and an integrated RTO office.“We have sent a proposal to the state government to set up the facility at a cost of 50 lakh. Coimbatore south, north and central RTOs will be shifted to the integrated complex,” said an official. “State transport department officials asked us to find some other place. We have sent a letter to the Coimbatore collector, seeking at least five acres in the city for the facility.”Automated driving test tracks will have sensors to record the errors made by novice drivers. “We plan to set up H-type or S-type tracks for cars. If the learner hits the side wall of the tracks, sensors will count the hits to assess driving skill,” the official added.Regional transport offices in the district are situated at Peelamedu Pudur, Dr Balasundaram Road, Kovaipudur, Thudiyalur, Mettupalayam, Pollachi and Valparai. The central RTO office on Dr Balasundaram Road has a centralized test track for motorcycles. Rest of the RTOs conduct tests on vacant grounds. While the central RTO officials conduct driving test for cars at Race Course every day, the method is not sufficient to measure driver performance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rto-scouts-for-land-to-set-up-automated-driving-test-tracks/articleshow/80335757.cms||A Subburaj
January 19, 2021||Coimbatore||Now, schoolteachers to familiarise students with deleted portions||Coimbatore: Four months after making a decision to reduce school syllabus by 40%, the state government notified the deleted portions on Sunday. Teachers welcomed the move. “The State Council of Educational Research & Training has deleted certain topics. But it may not have a significant impact on students because for them, the number of lessons is what matters and not the topic. Now, we will have to mentally prepare the students,” said T Arulanantham, state treasurer of the Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Government Teachers Association (TNHHSSGA). “We will explain to the students about the deleted portions and make them strike off those topics in textbooks. Otherwise, most of them might find it difficult and it would add to further confusion. The same applies to the evaluation part of each lesson and it will take us another two days,” he added.It will be difficult to complete the notified syllabus and revise within a few months without conducting special classes, said a government schoolteacher. “We were asked not to compel students to visit schools and teach them separately if they are willing to continue online education. For subjects like Zoology, basics of a topic has been deleted but the advanced form is included in the syllabus. In such case, students will have no option but to study deleted topic as they would not understand the next lesson otherwise.”Many schools have completed most of the syllabus, said R Vishalakshi, president of the Tamil Nadu Private Matriculation Schools’ Association. “It is important to brush up topics because we don’t know how far the students had understood the lessons during online classes,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/now-schoolteachers-to-familiarise-students-with-deleted-portions/articleshow/80335772.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Bareilly||Youth, 22, nabbed with brown sugar worth Rs 50 lakh at Indo-Nepal border||PILIBHIT: A joint team of Sashastra Seema Bal’s (SSB) 49th battalion and Pilibhit police on Sunday night nabbed a 22-year-old youth at Kutia Kabar village along the Indo-Nepal border allegedly with 40 gm of brown sugar — worth Rs 50 lakh — when he was on his way to Nepal on a bike. Police identified the accused as Jagjit Singh of Ramnagar village under Madhotanda police station and booked him under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav said police sent two samples of the seized brown sugar to a government forensic lab. “The accused had procured the brown sugar from Udham Singh Nagar district in Uttarakhand to sell in Nepal. We are coordinating with our counterparts in Nepal as well as in Uttarakhand to get information on the drug smuggler's network,” said the SP. Police said the estimated cost of the seized brown sugar would be around Rs 50 lakh. SHO Ram Sewak said the accused was booked under sections 8 and 22 of the NDPS Act and police impounded the motorcycle that he was riding without papers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/youth-22-nabbed-with-brown-sugar-worth-rs-50-lakh-at-indo-nepal-border/articleshow/80332679.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||PRIs elections: Mandi MP’s brother loses ward election in his village||Shimla: Losing election of ward member at Jalpehad panchayat of Jogindernagar sub-division in Mandi district by a candidate has left the BJP and its Mandi MP Ram Swaroop Sharma red faced as the candidate was none other than his elder brother. Sharma had won the parliamentary election in 2019 by a huge margin and is a resident of the ward his brother contested the election from. Interestingly, candidates aged between 21-22 have won the elections of pradhans in Kullu, Bilaspur and Shimla districts The results of the first phase of panchayat election were declared on Sunday night. The Mandi MP’s brother Trilok Chand Sharma had contested the election from ward 3 of Jalpehad panchayat. It was a direct contest between him and Harnam Singh, who won by a margin of 20 votes. When contacted, Sharma said he cannot stop someone from contesting an election. “Is your brother under your control?” he asked this reporter. In Kullu district, the poll win of Revti Ram, 21, has pradhan of Manjhli panchayat of Bhuntar tehsil has left many surprised. There were three candidates in fray for the post but Revti managed to swing it in his favour by securing 700 votes out of 1,735 polled. In Shimla district, Avantika Chauhan, 22, won the election of pradhan from Lower Koti panchayat of Rohru sub division. She is a BCom graduate from Delhi University and is now doing her masters in rural development from open university. It was her idea of holistic development of panchayat that swung the votes in her favour. In Bilaspur district, Jagrtiti Shail, 22, who is doing her LLB from Himachal Pradesh University, was elected as the pradhan of Sai Kharsi panchayat in Sadar block. She had worked closely with the villagers during Covid-19 lockdown and it worked in her favour. Jagriti said that she wants to bring transparency in the functioning of panchayat and wants to ensure that benefits of various government schemes reach the deserving people at the lowest level of society. In Mandi district, residents of Shala panchayat of Nachan assembly constituency preferred to vote a couple to power. While Meenakshi won the post of pradhan, her husband Raj Kumar won the up-pradhan’s elections. Raj Kumar remained pradhan of Shala panchayat since 2015 but this time the post (of pradhan) was reserved for a female candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pris-elections-mandi-mps-brother-loses-ward-election-in-his-village/articleshow/80337133.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Pune||Experts: Flu-like symptoms after vaccination known||Pune: Experts stressed that all flu-like symptoms — fever, headache, body ache, tiredness and chills — were adverse reactions or side-effects of a vaccine if they happened within 48 hours of the vaccination and they resolved on their own. They explained that not all side-effects were adverse events (AE) and not all adverse events were related to the vaccine. The terms should be used very cautiously, said experts. “‘After this, therefore because of this’, is a very common fallacy in human logic. Not every Y that follows X is caused by X. It could be just coincidental,” said vaccine scientist Prasad Kulkarni. There may be AEs that are not related to the vaccine. “These unrelated events may occur either due to pre-existing known or unknown medical condition of the patient or due to the causes which have nothing to do with the vaccine,” he said. In all clinical trials across the globe, AEs occur. In fact, one of the purposes of clinical trials is to find out the AEs caused by the drug under trial. “This helps to define the safety profile of the vaccine during the trial phase. Investigating every instance of AE also helps find out which AEs are vaccine-related. Hence, during immunisation of kids, parents are informed about the common symptoms that the kids will be exhibiting,” said senior paediatrician Sharad Agarkhedkar. To give an example, if somebody gets a vaccine and meets with an accident, then it becomes an AE, but it is obviously not related. If a child gets a pentavalent vaccine and gets fever on the next day, it is also an AE and it is related to the vaccine, he added. “Hence, when authorities put down everything that happens, including fever to accident, under AEFI (adverse event following immunisation), we need to know that not every instance is vaccine related,” Agarkhedkar said. “All medicinal products, including vaccines, have adverse events and adverse drug reactions. But the benefits they provide to mankind are far more than these risks of AEs and ADRs, and hence they are licensed by the regulator,” said Sanjay Patil, the chairman of the Indian Medical Association’s Hospital Board of India, Pune chapter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/experts-flu-like-symptoms-after-vaccination-known/articleshow/80337142.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 19, 2021||Nagpur||Civic chief not allowing development works: Zalke||Nagpur: Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and standing committee members are once again at loggerheads over non-release of funds for development works. The civic chief has informed the standing committee about formation of a special committee to carry out development works on a priority basis. This has angered the members further, said standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke at a press conference. Of the Rs2,700 crore budget of the standing committee, the civic chief has sanctioned mere Rs63 crore for development works. Zalke also termed the municipal commissioner’s decision to reduce spending under five heads by 50% unethical. “When Radhakrishnan had already implemented the standing committee’s realistic budget on November 12, then there was no reason to further reduce provisions by 50% under five heads,” he said. He also claimed that the administration has not allowed any work proposed by the standing panel and gave permission to only a few work worth Rs50 lakh. Without implementing many of the decisions passed in the five-day-long general body meeting during the tenure of the then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, the administration allegedly sent the rulings of the mayor to the state government for scrapping the orders, which included suspension action against Dr Pravin Gantawar, action against former chief accounts and finance officer for allegedly stalling funds for erecting street light poles and to take back police complaint filed against Congress corporator Nitin Sathawane. The state government had directed the civic administration to take the decisions on its level. Actually, the civic administration had sent the rulings of the then mayor Sandip Joshi deliberately to the government as it did not intend to implement them, at the behest of MVA government, said Zalke. He also expressed anguish over the civic administration’s proposal to seek re-appropriation of Rs136 crore fund granted by the erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis government. “Already, I had re-appropriated this fund in my budget, which was approved in the special general body meeting. The administration’s move to send the same proposal again before the general body is nothing but to stall developmental works proposed by the elected representatives,” he said. Meanwhile, the standing panel gave its not to finance department’s proposal to finalize accounts of the NMC for the year 2019-20 in which the civic body had earned Rs2,119.97 crore and spent Rs2,376.02 crore, which included Rs1,398.71 crore spent under public health heads, Rs101 crore on public institutions and Rs101.66 crore paid as repayment of loans. The standing committee also allowed the administration to appoint a new agency to supply computer operators in the civic body. For this, the NMC will spend Rs1.73 crore for six months. The move will save Rs2.53 crore per annum of the civic body, he said and added that directions have been issued to retain the computer operators of the now ousted agency. Other proposals cleared included plantation on road dividers at a cost of Rs1.89crore, extension to a private firm to supply cow dung cakes in NMC’s crematoriums etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/civic-chief-not-allowing-development-works-zalke/articleshow/80337837.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 19, 2021||Pune||Officials bust myths to boost immunization in PMR today||Pune: Health workers are eyeing higher footfall and fewer last-minute refusals to propel daily Covid-19 vaccination count above 70% in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on the second day of the inoculation drive on Tuesday.The PMR had vaccinated 58% of the 3,100 targeted beneficiaries on the first day of the mega drive on Saturday. A total of 71 healthcare workers had refused to take the shots after reaching the vaccination centres for various reasons on Saturday, while as many as 1,150 of selected workers failed to turn up for the vaccination. Ayush Prasad, the chief executive officer (CEO) of the Pune Zilla Parishad, said, “Contacting the beneficiaries well in time, building their vaccine-confidence and reserving time slots are the key aspects to increase the response. Accordingly, we have advised health officials to take measures to boost confidence among the beneficiaries. Our endeavour is to achieve 100% vaccination in the days to come.”The rural Pune reported 61% vaccination on the first day of the drive. Prasad said none of the beneficiaries developed any vaccine-related complication in the last two days.He said the number of vaccine doses and centres had not changed. “As and when the drive gets to the next phase, we will increase the number of centres and doses. At the moment, there are no instructions regarding this from the state government,” Prasad said.Many beneficiaries could not get the messages on the inaugural day due to glitches in Co-WIN app, which is the centralised portal being used for registration and verification of the priority groups. As a part of the confidence-boosting measure, the civic health department is also calling up health workers, besides sending them messages informing time and place of vaccination on Tuesday. “This will keep them informed about their vaccination turn. We have also urged private hospitals, which are vaccination centres, to follow up with the beneficiaries to increase footfall at the centres,” Ashish Bharati, head of the PMC's health department, said.According to Bharati, a review of message and software will be taken daily for the next few days till the vaccination is under way.Pavan Salve, additional health chief of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), said, ‘ Beneficiaries have been informed 48 hours in advance about the vaccination to avoid the last-minute rush.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/officials-bust-myths-to-boost-immunization-in-pmr-today/articleshow/80337158.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 19, 2021||Coimbatore||Covid-secure schools ready to welcome back students||Coimbatore: High and higher secondary schools in the district are all set to welcome Class X and XII students from Tuesday.The schools were cleaned and fumigated on Monday. “Apart from cleaning schools, instructions were given to school managements to paste notices explaining about the measures needed to be taken to prevent Covid-19 infection. As the state government has limited class size to 25 students per classroom, schools are revising seating arrangements,” said an official with the school education department.There are 635 high and higher secondary schools in the district. “Students will be allowed to enter only after body temperature screening and using hand sanitizer. They should wear mask. Teachers have been instructed to monitor students, especially during the break hours, to prevent them from crowding or sharing food.”The schools were asked to get consent letter from parents, which state that they are well aware of the Covid-19 pandemic and are willing to send their ward to school. “While some schools are planning to distribute the letters to the students on Tuesday to get signature of parents, others have already sent the letters through WhatsApp to parents,” the official said.While the schools are allowed to function six days a week, they are not allowed to conduct special classes beyond working hours, he said. “The schools will distribute multivitamin tables to students from Tuesday.”Some private schools have scheduled classes for Class X and Class XII students 30 minutes apart, said R Vishalakshi, president of the Tamil Nadu Private Matriculation Schools’ Association. “This is to prevent crowding while conducting body temperature screening. Now that each classroom will have only 25 students, we would need more teachers to handle classes and depending upon the availability of teachers, a timetable will be prepared.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-secure-schools-ready-to-welcome-back-students/articleshow/80335774.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 19, 2021||Patna||Bihar: 52% get vaccine shots on Day 2, 10% down from launch day||PATNA: Altogether 14,745 beneficiaries got the Covid-19 vaccine shots on Day 2 of the inoculation drive on Monday, accounting for 51.6% of the total number of people registered. This is almost 10% less than the figure on Saturday, the inaugural day of the nationwide vaccination programme launched by PM Narendra Modi. As per data shared by the state health department, a total of 28,791 people registered to get the vaccines on Monday, out of which only 14,745 turned up. The break-up shows that while 282 healthcare workers received Covaxin on Monday, 14,463 beneficiaries got Covishield. Health minister Mangal Pandey said the vaccination on Monday was done at 298 sites and it will be done on a routine basis four days in a week— Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. On the first day on Saturday, a total of 29,240 people registered and 18,122 turned up for the vaccination, accounting for 61.97% of the total number of registered beneficiaries. The state health department special secretary Manoj Kumar pointed towards the glitches in the Co-WIN portal as one of the reasons for the decline in the number of vaccinations on Monday. “There are mobilisation issues and portal is still not functioning properly. Some people are getting the messages late. Also, since this is the first phase, there is some hesitation too. But slowly this will get over.” Manoj further said that because of a lack of proper communication, some people were missing their messages. He added, “We do not have the option to select beneficiaries as it is being auto-generated. Some medical colleges and hospitals are asking us to let them select 100 people and plan accordingly. We will sort this issue.” Manoj said the health department is analysing data from all districts and the drop in percentage as well as reasons for the fall. “For instance, Jamui has recorded 92% of turn out, while West Champaran has only 37%. It depends on various issues such as the capacity of the district and manpower. We are analysing all aspects,” he added. The cumulative data for the two days shows that 33,253 people in Bihar received the Covid-19 vaccine, out of which 547 got Covaxin and 32,706 got Covishield. Also, these all are healthcare workers and are of mixed age and gender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/52-get-vax-shots-on-day-2-10-down-from-launch-day/articleshow/80335780.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 19, 2021||Kolkata||Net installation on Kolkata's Maa flyover stuck in a limbo||KOLKATA: The work to install nets along a stretch on Maa flyover to prevent kite strings from injuring bikers and motorists has stopped halfway. The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) has installed the height poles on a certain stretch, where the nets will be put up only on one flank of the flyover. The work is yet to be taken up for the other flank of the flyover. The KMDA officials said the work was supposed to be completed much before. “The stretch on the southern flank of the flyover, where the poles will come up for installing the nets, will have to be shut for a few days at night for the work. Cops are yet to give us permission for the closure of the stretch,” said an official. Cops said the KMDA had sought from them the permission to carry out the second round of fencing on the flyover in October last year. “We did not take any chance as it was the festive season. After the festival the KMDA did not approach us further in this regard,” said a police officer, adding that the KMDA should complete the work in a short time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/net-installation-on-maa-flyover-stuck-in-a-limbo/articleshow/80335784.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 19, 2021||Coimbatore||Techie-turned-wildlife enthusiast’s pet project can check man-animal conflict||Coimbatore: Four years ago, when a middle-aged lone tusker tried to mingle with an elephant herd near a gated community in Pannimadai, he was rejected outright. But the majestic tusker, nicknamed African, persisted and eventually became the leader of the herd.The journey of African, from a loner to the leader, was recorded by Timothy Vedanayagam, a 61-year-old techie-turned-wildlife enthusiast and a resident of the gated community.Since then, Vedanayagam has created an exhaustive database of wild elephants that has details like age of the animal and encounters between people in the locality. The database also has hundreds of hours of video footage. Vedanayagam became interested in tracking elephants a decade ago when people working in his tea estate in Valparai informed him about presence of elephants and sought his assistance. He developed an early warning system that consisted of 10 infrared cameras. “Whenever an elephant crosses a camera, it would trigger an alarm. After some years, I developed an early warning system with latest technology,” he said. “In 2014, when my family moved to the gated community that had 300 plots but only 10 houses, I noticed elephants moving from the Thadagam forest to nearby villages like Thaliyur, Pannimadai and Thippanur. Herds used to cross the area three times a day. Subsequently, I identified elephant paths and installed wireless cameras including thermal cameras and artificial intelligence-powered cameras along the paths. Whenever an elephant is captured on cameras, I would receive a text message that shows the location. This apart, I could watch live footage from the cameras from the control room in my home,” he told TOI. “The system can trace movement of elephants for about 2km.”Nowadays, his neighbours call him to inquire about presence of elephants in the area before commencing a trip, said Vedanayagam. “Several human-elephant conflicts had taken place in the locality earlier. Not even a single conflict was recorded in the last six years after I launched the project.”He is ready to share the database with the forest department, Vedanayagam said. “The purpose of the project is to prevent human-animal conflict by alerting the public and thus to protect the species. By propagating the early warning system, we would be able to mitigate the conflict.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/techie-turned-wildlife-enthusiasts-pet-project-can-check-man-animal-conflict/articleshow/80335779.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 19, 2021||Nagpur||All parties claim max seats in Vid GP polls||Nagpur: Taking advantage of the fact that gram panchayat elections are not contested on party symbols, all the four major political parties of the state – Congress, NCP, BJP and Shiv Sena – claimed to have won maximum number of panchayats in Vidarbha. Over 3,800 panchayats had gone to the polls on January 15. In Nagpur district, both Congress and BJP claimed to have won in maximum number of panchayats. District Congress president Rajendra Mulak claimed that his party had won 83 panchayats out of 129 while BJP had won in only 25. According to Mulak, NCP had won in only 14 villages while Shiv Sena’s figure was 5. Other parties and independents had won in two panchayats. On the other hand, district BJP president Arvind Gajbhiye said that BJP was forming a government on its own in 65 panchayats and was coming to power with the help of independents in eight more, taking the tally to 73. He said that efforts were on to form the government in between seven and ten more panchayats. According to Gajbhiye, Congress had only between 20 and 25 panchayats. NCP district president Shivraj Gujar said that his party was forming the government in 30 panchayats and had won between one and three seats in 29 panchayats. Shiv Sena leader Raju Harne did not make any tall claims of winning big. He said that Sena was forming the government on its own in Dhamna village winning 5 out of 8 seats. Ashish Jaiswal, who had contested the assembly elections as a Shiv Sena rebel, claimed that Sena was forming the government in 60% panchayats in Ramtek assembly constituency. In Bhandara district, BJP claimed to have soundly defeated Congress in assembly speaker Nana Patole’s constituency Sakoli. Leaders in general claimed to have won maximum seats in the district. They, however, did not celebrate the victory as a mark of respect to the victims of the Bhandara hospital tragedy. Congress claimed to have won the maximum number of panchayats in Wardha district followed by the BJP. Shiv Sena came a cropper in the district winning only one panchayat. BJP claimed to have won in 339 out of 604 panchayats in Chandrapur district. On the other hand, Congress claimed that 65% of its candidates had won. Dr Kalyan Kumar, husband of social activist Paromita Goswami, won from Chitegaon panchayat. In Amravati district, Congress and NCP leaders, including minister Yashomati Thakur, were able to ensure victory of their candidates. However, in Dhamangaon Railway assembly constituency, BJP MLA Pratap Adsad ensured victory of his candidates. In Yavatmal district, forest minister Sanjay Rathod was able to ensure victory of Shiv Sena candidates in his constituency. In other places, the picture was mixed and many leaders of the district received a jolt in their own backyard. In Buldhana district, leaders of all parties claimed to have won maximum number of seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/all-parties-claim-max-seats-in-vid-gp-polls/articleshow/80337853.cms||Ashish Roy
January 19, 2021||Chennai||Arumughaswamy commission writes to TN government for another extension||Chennai: The Justice (retd) A Arumughaswamy Commission has written to the Tamil Nadu government for another extension of its term. The commission, probing the circumstances leading to the death of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa, has a tenure till January 25, 2021. It has asked for a six-month extension, sources said. The commission has also asked for extension for the supporting staff of the commission by six months from February 10, 2021. The commission works from an office on the first floor of Kalas Mahal in Chepauk. In the letter, the commission stated that the proceedings had been stayed by the Supreme Court based on a case filed by Apollo Hospitals, because of which it was unable to move forward. Apollo hospitals has filed two special leave petitions before the Supreme Court after which on April 26, 2019, a stay was given. The vacate stay petition filed by the state government last came up for hearing before the Supreme Court on December 9, 2020. According to sources, the apex court adjourned the matter for want of time, since the bench was preoccupied in a constitutional matter and ordered to list the case again after four weeks. In an earlier letter on October 16 last year, the commission had come down heavily on the Tamil Nadu advocates on record in Supreme Court for not pursuing legally to vacate the legal battle on vacating an interim stay order on the commission’s functioning. The commission said in that letter that it had taken strenuous efforts to ensure that a case to vacate the stay order imposed by the Supreme Court be filed and also listed. The commission in the letter has said that TN government’s advocate on record and the additional advocate general were allowing Supreme Court hearings in the case to be delayed as a mute spectator. As per the commission’s letter to the TN government, Apollo’s case is to allow the constitution of a medical board, while the commission’s stance is that the evidence provided by doctors who treated Jayalalithaa will prevail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/arumughaswamy-commission-writes-to-tn-government-for-another-extension/articleshow/80335783.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Admn seeks list of unused land, vacant properties||Chandigarh: The UT administration has asked the estate office, municipal corporation, and housing board for the details of their unused land and vacant properties.A senior UT official said the collected data could be used for future housing projects and property auction. The reports will go to the administrator's advisory council (AAC), which is going to meet shortly. The estate office was also asked to finalise its e-auction schedule for the first quarter. Ready to auction 10-to-15 residential properties, the estate office will hold a workshop for the prospective bidders to teach them about e-auction.During the 2019 auction in November, a 1,014-square-yard (2 kanal) plot in Sector 33 went for Rs 15.30 crore against the reserve price of Rs 7.53 crore. In 2019, the estate office had put up one industrial, 11 residential, and 14 commercial properties on auction for two days (November 13 and 14). While there were no takers for commercial and industrial properties, the estate office had earned Rs 44.05 crore from the auction of just 11 residential properties, which had a total reserve price of Rs 27.59 crore.Market experts say there are buyers for these residential properties, as all of these were freehold and the buyers will not have to shell out the exorbitant leasehold-to-freehold conversion fee. The total reserve price of the commercial and industrial properties was Rs 15.1 crore and Rs 33 crore, respectively. Being leasehold, these couldn't find buyers.All those auctioned residential properties were in the southern sectors. One was a built-up house on a 4-marla site in Sector 32-A, auctioned for Rs 1.68 crore against the reserve price of Rs 1 crore. The remaining properties were plots, whose reserve prices ranged from Rs 1.25 crore to Rs 7.53 crore, while the locations were in sectors 33, 35, 37, 38, and 40.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/admn-seeks-list-of-unused-land-vacant-properties/articleshow/80335817.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
January 19, 2021||Pune||1,200 armed forces staffers get first dose||Pune: Altogether 1,200 healthcare staffers and frontline workers at military hospitals and the Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC) here have so far been vaccinated as part of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. A senior AFMC officials told TOI, “Healthcare and frontline workers were vaccinated on Monday. Four booths were set uo for smooth exercise.” The Command Hospital, AICTS and MH, Khadakwasla, and Kirkee also had similar arrangements.— Sandip Dighe||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1200-armed-forces-staffers-get-first-dose/articleshow/80337164.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||Root-ing for conservation||Ahmedabad: As one approaches the banyan tree, famously known as ‘Mahakali Vad’ due to a temple of goddess Mahakali at its roots, its imposing size is difficult to encompass at one go – as countless aerial roots across the area of half an acre gives it the feel of a small jungle.The Covid-19 pandemic had reduced the flow of visitors to this popular picnic destination for the residents of state capital Gandhinagar and nearby Dehgam. “But devotees and visitors are back,” says Siddhrajsinh Solanki, son of a temple trustee who takes care of the temple.The tree, considered to be about 500 years old by the locals, is also considered sacred. “It’s believed that the tree is located on an ancient stepwell. Our forefathers had played under its canopy, and the entire village considers it a part of their collective heritage,” says Solanki, adding that during the month of Chaitra, over 5,000 participate in annual rituals. For the visitors, it’s always a challenge to guess the ‘original’ root and counting all its aerial roots. Bhupatsinh Solanki, a local shopkeeper, says that the activity keeps the visitors busy for hours, as they also jokingly offer rewards to each other if they find the correct one. “It’s good that the visitors are back, especially on weekends, marvelling at nature’s wonder,” he said. Snapshot of a giantLocation: Kantharpur, about 18km from Dehgam, and 30km from GandhinagarArea covered: About half an acre or 2,000 sq mCanopy cover: Crown is over 6,500 sq mAge: Approximate age is 300 years; however local belief puts it about 500 yearsNumber of aerial roots: 300+Number of visitors (annual): Over 30,000Featured in ‘Heritage Trees of Gujarat’The tree is featured in the book ‘Heritage Trees of Gujarat’ penned by H S Singh, former PCCF of Gujarat and now member of National Board for Wildlife. “The tree is an abode for thousands of birds and monkeys. It’s like a small ecosystem. Surely it could be one of the biggest banyan trees in Gujarat and it should be protected as a centuries-old witness of the region’s history,” he said.Modi’s conservation efforts (to go with pic)On PM Narendra Modi’s blog, the entry on August 28, 2013 – the Janmashtami day – shows his visit to Kantharpura. ‘On the morning of 28th August 2013, Shri Narendra Modi visited the auspicious 500-year-old Banyan Tree, Mahakali Vad at Kantharpura in Dehgam Taluka, Gandhinagar district. The grand tree covers an area of almost half an acre. He guided various government officials on the development of the Vad as a spiritual and holy place,’ mentions the blog.Due to prevalent belief, no one harms the tree or cuts any branches – as it attracts bad luck. Nearby farmers also revere the tree. Many visitors try to find the original root, but it’s now difficult to find or guess- Harshadgiri Goswami | Priest at Mahakali temple||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/root-ing-for-conservation/articleshow/80337153.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Aurangabad||Troubled Munde seeks solace in poll victories||Aurangabad: State social justice minister and NCP leader Dhananjay Munde, who has a rape allegation levelled against him, had some reason to cheer on Monday following his party’s victory in some of the key gram panchayats in his constituency. The panels led by Munde have claimed victory for NCP in 10 out of 12 gram panchayats in Parli assembly constituency. The NCP leader had an early advantage in the poll battle as he ensured unopposed victory for the NCP supported panels in five gram panchayats from his constituency. The victory has further tighten Munde’s grip in his constituency amid his cousin and BJP leader Pankaja Munde getting elevated as a member of party’s national executive council after being defeated in the assembly election from Parli. In his Facebook post, Munde congratulated all the winning candidates and appealed them to work towards development of their respective villages. On the other hand, Pankaja has made a generalized comment about the outcome of gram panchayat elections by congratulating the state unit of BJP for performing well in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/troubled-munde-seeks-solace-in-poll-victories/articleshow/80335785.cms||---
January 19, 2021||India||Covishield jab takes 4 minutes, Covaxin double that time||MUMBAI: If it takes around four minutes to check the documents and administer the Covishield vaccine, it takes double the time for the Covaxin vaccine. The time associated with Covaxin vaccine is longer because the recipient, unlike the takers of the Covishield vaccine, has to sign a consent form as per the requirement of its Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) clearance. “Also, readings of the recipient’s blood pressure, temperature and oxygen saturation have to be taken,” said Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, acting dean of state-run JJ Hospital, Byculla. JJ Hospital is one of the six centres where the Covaxin is available. The recipient of the Covaxin vaccine is also asked a series of questions, such as contact with people who travelled. “A three-page document is given to the recipient in which they has to select an option if they develop any symptoms over the next seven days,” said a doctor. The document has to be later handed over to the vaccinators. Recipients for the Serum Institute of India’s Covishield vaccine, on the other hand, are not asked any questions. Only their identity proof is verified. Many doctors, however, advise people to consult their family physician for a thorough evaluation of any possible allergic reaction. All vaccine recipients have to wait for 30 minutes after the vaccination for observation. Dr S Nikam, the civil surgeon at Amravati district hospital, said that it takes a minimum of 40 minutes — including 10 minutes for the pre-vaccine work and the vaccine — for each recipient getting the Covaxin. Covishield and Covaxin are different types of vaccines. While Covaxin is made from an inactivated or dead virus, Covishield uses a replication-deficient chimpanzee viral vector that is a weakened version of a common cold virus (adenovirus). “Covaxin is safe because it is based on an inactivated virus and has very low to zero side-effects,” said state department of medical education’s chief Dr T P Lahane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covishield-jab-takes-4-minutes-covaxin-double-that-time/articleshow/80338176.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 19, 2021||Pune||Construction of 2 depots more than 50% complete||Pune: More than 50% work on two Metro depots coming up in Range Hills and Vanaz has been completed. Both the facilities are crucial to the operation of the Metro service, as the Vanaz depot will cater to the rakes on the Vanaz-Ramwadi line, while the Range Hills depot will look after the maintenance of the Pimpri-Swargate corridor. Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) on Monday said 65% of the work on the Vanaz depot was complete and 50% of the work of the Range Hills facility was done. MahaMetro aims to start the first phase of operations at both depots by the end of this year, with Vanaz the first in the pipeline. The depots will feature a total of 25 stabling lines — 10 in Vanaz and the rest in Range Hills — as well as rake maintenance units, washing bays, test tracks, inspection lines, engineering train units and sub-stations. “Work in underway at full swing. We are monitoring the progress every week. Both facilities will be equipped with state-of-the-art maintenance technologies,” Hemant Sonawane, general manager (PR), MahaMetro, said. More than 1,000 workers have been deployed across both sites. “We look to complete the Vanaz depot work by August-September and start the first phase of operations. The Range Hills site is expected to be ready by December. By March, we expect to finish a major portion of the civil work at Vanaz,” a MahaMetro official said. The depot is coming up at the erstwhile garbage transfer station on Paud Road. MahaMetro said the garbage removed from the site was processed in a scientific manner. MahaMetro has also finished 80% of the construction work of a ramp at the Range Hills site to facilitate the entry and exit of Metro rakes from the underground tunnel. MahaMetro is developing two Metro lines in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad — an elevated-underground route from PCMC to Swargate, and a fully elevated corridor running from Vanaz to Ramwadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/construction-of-2-depots-more-than-50-complete/articleshow/80337204.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 19, 2021||Kolkata||Artists bring alive patriot’s life on giant canvas||KOLKATA: Canvases running hundreds of metres end-to-end are being painted to bring alive Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on the lawns of National Library. More than 200 artists have been selected by the ministry of culture for this unique exhibition that will be unveiled here on January 23 to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji. The theme of the exhibition has been planned by the National Museum of Modern Art, Delhi, a wing of the ministry. Christened ‘Jai Hind’, the huge canvases will see the entire biography of Netaji told through paintings, with special emphasis to the important events of his life. Scenes from his prison life between 1924 and 1938 are being highlighted. During these years, he moved from prison to prison across the country as he was repeatedly imprisoned while leading the defiance against the British. The Great Escape from his Elgin Road residence, reappearance in Germany, formation of the Azad Hind Fauj and the Rani Jhansi regiment are coming alive on different canvases. Artists trained in the Bengal school of art, both from Santiniketan Kala Bhavana and Government Art College have been chosen for painting the canvases. “We are highlighting the Bengal School of Art that originated from these two places and remain two distinct branches of the school to this day. We are also focusing towards the patachitra tradition of Bengal,” said Adwaita Gadanayak, the director general of NGMA. A giant 18ft statue of Netaji is being fabricated as an installation by sculptor Ram Sutar. Though they are independent canvases, the idea of patua scrolls is being blended into the theme. A senior artist, Diptish Ghosh Dastidar, who is leading his band of young artists, said that bringing to life someone’s life at such a mammoth scale was a new experience for many. The canvas has reached a length of 400 metres already.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/artists-bring-alive-patriots-life-on-giant-canvas/articleshow/80335842.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 19, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Activists seek suspension of Metro work on riverbed||PUNE: Environmentalists and civic activists on Monday cited a report that warned of a possible increase in flood levels, and demanded that the Metro work on the Mutha riverbed be stopped. The report, prepared by the Central Water and Power Research Station (CWPRS), stated that the Metro piers coming up at the riverbed may cause the river’s flood level to rise by 2.5 feet and the area submerged to increase by 183 feet. “We have been demanding that the Metro not be constructed on the riverbed as it may cause damage, but the authorities did not pay us any heed. Now, our stand has been vindicated,” Rajya Sabha member Vandana Chavan said at a news briefing on Monday. “MahaMetro (Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited) should explain how it is going to correct this major mistake,” she added. Sarang Yadvadkar, an environmentalist, said the Metro alignment should be “as per the development plan and not on the riverbed”. Activists further claimed MahaMetro submitted incorrect data about the river and its width to the National Green Tribunal. They said MahaMetro must now provide a scientific and acceptable solution, modifying the Metro alignment, to undo the increase in the flood level. “MahaMetro must bear the entire cost of the modification. All the encroachments on the riverbed must be removed immediately and no construction must be allowed inside blue flood line under any pretext,” they said. Anu Aga, director of Thermax and a petitioner, issued a statement demanding that the piers be removed. Hemant Sonawane, head of public relations at MahaMetro, said in an SMS reply to TOI that MahaMetro was committed to protecting the environment, and that the data submitted to NGT was shared by the irrigation department. “MahaMetro has received the CWPRS report. We are analysing and discussing some provisions with CWPRS. WE have also shared the CWPRS data with the empowered committee, which will take a decision,” Sonawane said. The elevated Metro route is coming up on a 1.45km stretch of the riverbed. Around 60 pillars are being raised on this stretch to support the Metro viaduct. Even before work began on this stretch, environmental activists had opposed the construction and moved the NGT against the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/activists-seek-suspension-of-metro-work-on-riverbed/articleshow/80337200.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Aurangabad||End of era for Bhaskar Pere-Patil, panel led by daughter loses poll||Aurangabad: The panel supported by renowned former sarpanch Bhaskar Pere-Patil lost to a rival group in Patoda village, located on the outskirts of Aurangabad city, bringing an end to the popular leader’s run of over 25 years. Bhaskar himself had decided against contesting the election this time in order to give an opportunity to young blood. In the result declared on Monday, the panel led by his daughter Anuradha lost by a wafer-thin margin of 18 votes to the panel of Kapil Pere-Patil. When contacted, Bhaskar initially refused to comment. However, when asked how he perceives the end of his 25-year run, the veteran blamed a section of local media. “I was not contesting the election this time. So, I am not interested in commenting in detail,” he said, parrying further queries. Known for his elocution skills laced with humour, Pere-Patil had earned the tag of model village for Patoda by working on a different fronts. Some of his noticeable work included making Patoda an open-defecation free village, successful implementation of cleanliness campaigns of governments, ensuring metered water supply to villagers, installing CCTV cameras at anganwadis and improving a tree cover. He was felicitated in recognition of his work at the hands of the then President of India Pratibha Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/end-of-era-for-bhaskar-pere-patil-panel-led-by-daughter-loses-poll/articleshow/80335835.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Director files contempt plea against Kangana Ranaut||MUMBAI: Bollywood casting director and fitness trainer, Munawwar Ali Sayyed, filed an application for contempt of court against actor Kangana Ranaut for allegedly violating her assurance against posting on social media any new message about a case whose quashing she sought. Sayyed, through his advocate Rizwan Merchant, claimed that before going to the police station, the actor allegedly tweeted against the visit, showing “blatant disregard to the statement made before HC”.' His contempt petition says on January 8 she allegedly “interfered with administration of justice and judicial process by publishing a contemptuous tweet and video on her twitter account”.' Though conscious of the court order, she published the tweet and video “portraying that she has been ‘mentally, emotionally and now physically tortured’. In doing so, she wilfully distorted the order of the court,”' said the plea, seeking an order for a show-cause notice against her. Ranaut had last year filed a quashing petition against an October 2020 order of a magistrate which on Sayyed’s complaint had directed police to register an FIR which they did. The HC restrained police from summoning her and her sister till January 25 and also from taking coercive steps against them. It had on November 24 recorded a statement by Ranaut’s lawyer, Rizwan Siddiquee, who on instructionss said the sisters will refrain from saying anything in connection with the subject matter of FIR till further orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/contempt-of-court-plea-filed-against-kangana/articleshow/80335792.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||13,000 healthcare workers in Gujarat to get shots today||AHMEDABAD: After a gap of three days, a batch of 13,000-odd healthcare workers (HCW) would get Covid-19 vaccination on Tuesday. On January 16 – the first day of nation-wide vaccination drive – 12,320 in Gujarat received the shot. Several prominent doctors from private and government hospitals were among the recipients of the first dose of vaccine. Dr Nayan Jani, state immunization officer, told TOI that about 13,000 registered HCWs would get the vaccine on Tuesday according to the schedule. “The number of vaccination sites would remain the same at 161. However, the district or municipal corporation administration can decide on the infrastructure based on their requirement,” he said. He added that based on national guidelines, the state would carry out Covid-19 vaccination for four days a week. “The vaccination would not take place on Sunday, Monday, and Wednesday every week. The days are reserved for regular vaccination for other diseases,” said Dr Jani. The beneficiaries were informed through CoWIN software on Monday, said state health department officials, claiming that they had faced no connectivity issue on Friday. Every centre would administer 100 vaccines a day in the initial phase to give adequate time to the recipients to report any adverse impact, and also get acquainted with the system. “If needed, the number of vaccination centres would be increased in the future,” said MA Pandya, mission director, National Health Mission (NHM), Gujarat. “The system is in place to ensure that every person getting vaccinated would get the second dose of the same vaccine after 28 days. The storage and procurement would take place accordingly.” The district-level units are asked to mobilize HCWs for maximum participation. Across the country, the number of participants have remained around 60 to 75%, said senior officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/13k-healthcare-workers-to-get-shots-today/articleshow/80337202.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Kolkata||Fountain of Joy sings Azad Hind tunes ahead of Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary||KOLKATA: The three-tier cascading fountain at the Maidan is dancing to the tunes of patriotic songs to commemorate the 125th birth anniversary of freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose. In all, 10 songs that were popularly played in the Indian National Army (INA), the force that Netaji had set up to fight for the country's independence, are being played at the CESC Fountain of Joy. They include ‘Kadam Kadam Badhaye Ja’, ‘Vande Mataram’, ‘Sare Jahan Se Achcha’, ‘Mile Sur Mera Tumhara’ and ‘Hum Dilli Dilli Jayenge Aur Apna Hind Banayenge’. While the Fountain of Joy is about the interplay of light, sound and water, light and sound played a crucial role in one of the most thrilling chapters in Netaji's life: the Great Escape in January 1941. Interned in his house at 38/2 Elgin Road, Bose had in the early hours of January 17 slipped out. He had surfaced in Germany three months later. “It was 1.20am on January 17, 1941. Apart from Netaji, who was all set to embark on the clandestine journey, there were only four family members present in the room at the Elgin Road address that is now known as Netaji Bhawan: Sisir Bose, Ila Bose, Dijendra Nath Bose and Aurobinda Bose,” said Abhijit Ray, the grand nephew of Netaji who has researched on the thrilling episode. Disguised as a bearded Muslim, Subhas Bose had turned to his niece Ila and said, “Let the light in my room stay on for another hour at least.” He then asked Dijendra Nath to go up, check if all were asleep, cast a glance at the opposite pavement from a window to see if any cops in plain dress were about and then signal if all was clear. The light in his room was to act as a decoy and misguide cops into believing that Netaji was working till late. Dijendra Nath went up to check if all was clear and then cleared his throat. That was the signal that the coast was clear. Ila Bose had packed the holdall that Netaji carried. The only personal belongings that he took with himself were a gold-plated wristwatch given to him by his mother Prabhabati and a gold-plated pen gifted by Deshbandhu Chittaranjan Das. As Sisir Bose drove away, Subhas Bose bid farewell to the family house that had been built by his father Janakinath Bose, a well-known lawyer in Cuttack, in 1909. CESC, then a British firm, had lit up the house. Subhas moved in from Cuttack in 1913 for higher studies in Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fountain-of-joy-sings-azad-hind-tunes-ahead-of-netajis-125th-birth-anniversary/articleshow/80335861.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Aurangabad||Anjali: First transgender elected representative in Jalgaon||Nashik: The Bhadli Budruk gram panchayat in Jalgaon district got its first transgender representative elected by the people in 40-year-old Anjali Patil. The voting for the elections was held on January 15, while the counting followed by the announcement of results was carried out on Monday. Patil’s candidature was supported by Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA). “I was dejected after my nomination was rejected by authorities as I had filed it from a seat reserved for women after other contestants objected to it. I had selected the other option in my nomination form to describe my gender. However, we moved Aurangabad bench of Bombay High Court that allowed my candidature as women and now I have won the elections by a margin of 560 votes,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/anjali-first-transgender-elected-representative-in-jalgaon/articleshow/80335871.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 19, 2021||Pune||Sand trader shot dead, friend injured||Pune: A 30-year-old sand trader was killed and his friend suffered bullet injuries after their two business partners allegedly fired at them from close range at Takli Haji village in Shirur taluka on Monday afternoon, the Pune rural police said. The Shirur police said the deceased, the persons and the two assailants were friends. They turned foes recently over some monetary dispute. The deceased sand trader, Swapnil Ranasingh (30), hailed from Takli Haji. The injured man, Pappu Gawade, had been admitted to a hospital in Shirur, the police said. Senior police inspector Padmakar Ghanwat of the local crime branch said, “The two opened fire at Ranasingh from a close range after a verbal spat. Four bullets hit him on the chest and stomach. The fifth bullet brushed against the stomach of Gawade. The latter is out of danger.” Ghanwat said, “We have established duo’s identity and a search has been launched.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sand-trader-shot-dead-friend-injured/articleshow/80337211.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Pune||Booty worth Rs 8.4 lakh burgled from house, shop near Hinjewadi||PUNE: Unidentified men broke into a house and a shop at Vinodenagar near Hinjewadi in the early hours of Sunday and made off with gold ornaments and cash collectively worth Rs8.4 lakh. The suspects broke the locks of the house and entered the shop by digging a hole, police said. Rajendra Vinode (49) lodged an FIR with the Hinjewadi police. Rajendra Bhavari, sub-inspector, Hinjewadi police, said that the complainant’s house was locked. In the early hours of Sunday some unknown person(s) broke the locks of the house and made off with gold ornaments and cash, collectively worth Rs8.2 lakh, the officer said. He said that the suspects also broke into a grocery store nearby and stole cosmetics worth Rs 15,000 and cash Rs 4,000. “The suspects dug up a hole behind shop,” the officer said. The Hinjewadi police are checking CCTV footages from other establishments to ascertain the identities of the suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/booty-worth-rs8-4-lakh-burgled-from-house-shop-near-hinjewadi/articleshow/80337214.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||Stop mechanically attaching bank accounts: Gujarat HC tells GST officials||AHMEDABAD: In an important order, the Gujarat high court has said that tax officials should stop mechanically attaching bank accounts of alleged GST defaulters as soon as the department carries out searches, and it has ordered the Centre to formulate a guideline in this regard. The HC was furious over the practice of attaching bank accounts by the Central Goods & Service Tax (CGST) officials as soon as they carry out searches on suspicion of tax evasion. This case involved a scrap dealer whose two bank accounts were seized. There was a total amount of Rs 22,065 lying in those accounts. The bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora said that the objective of attachment of bank accounts under Section 83 of the GST Act is to secure the interest of revenue. On the paltry amount seized in bank accounts, the judges questioned, “What good purpose the department is going to achieve by provisionally attaching the two bank accounts with balance of a paltry amount of Rs 22,065?” The HC observed that it gets numerous cases complaining about attachment of bank accounts under Section 83. This exercised is carried out mechanically. “This mechanical exercise of the power is not appreciated,” it commented and reminded the government that various courts in different judgments have warned the government officials to show restraint in attaching bank accounts, but the court keeps getting numerous cases of this kind. The high court has directed the government that this practice “should stop at the earliest. So much judicial time is wasted in all such matters wherein the law is so well settled”. The HC noticed that the powers vested on GST officials under Section 83 are similar to powers vested in income tax officials in attaching bank accounts of an assessee. While the I.T department has got a guideline to use the power, GST department does not have one. The bench has ordered the Centre and the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) to read this judgment “thoroughly and consider issuing appropriate instructions or guidelines at the earliest” for attachment of bank accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/stop-mechanically-attaching-bank-accounts-hc-tells-gst-officials/articleshow/80337201.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Pune||NHAI installs rumble strips, solar blinkers along busy bypass stretch||Pune: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has installed 1,000 solar stud lights (blinkers) and rumble strips along the road surface between the new Katraj tunnel and Navale bridge as part of measures to reduce the speed of vehicles reaching the ever-busy Katraj-Dehu Road bypass. The solar stud lights blink during night to alert drivers and the rumble strips help in slowing down the vehicles’ speed. An NHAI official said the solar stud lights and rumble were some of the road furniture that will help bring down the number of accidents on the bypass. NHAI project director in Pune Suhas Chitnis told TOI, “We have completed the work of installing the stud lights between the new Katraj tunnel and Vadgaon bridge. The lights have been installed on the side margins of the road surface. This is important as it helps the drivers to manage their vehicles and gives a clear indication in the dark as to where the road surface ends.” Similarly, the NHAI has installed the solar stud lights near the commencement of the rumble strip patches along the lanes of the bypass. The rumble strips have been painted near the new Katraj tunnel, while approaching the viaduct (Dari Pul) on the way to Bhumkar bridge and on the approach of Navale bridge. “We have also increased the number of rumble strips to 30 to 40 per patch from 20,” Chitnis said. “The highway section needs such solar stud lights to make the truck drivers more alert,” an NHAI officer said. The NHAI has swung into action following a spate of accidents on the bypass since October last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nhai-installs-rumble-strips-solar-blinkers-along-busy-bypass-stretch/articleshow/80337219.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||‘Low-grade fever, body ache after Covid vaccination expected’||MUMBAI/PUNE: In Mumbai, while 12% of the healthcare workers developed some reaction after Covid-19 vaccination, doctors said this was expected and an indication that the vaccine is doing its job. “Reactions such as low-grade fever, low-gr-ade body aches, swelling at the vaccine site are expected and show that antigenicity (induci-ng an immune response) is developing,” said KEM Hospital dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh. One of the healthcare workers whose blood pressure dropped after taking the Covishield vaccine on Saturday is admitted at BMC-run KEM Hospital in Parel. “She is doing well and should be discharged early on Tuesday,’’ added Dr Deshmukh. The other patient with severe adverse event is a doctor from civic-run V N Desai Hospital, Santacruz, who developed very high fever and got dehydration. “He is conscious and stable at the moment, but will continue to be under observation for a few more days,” said a BMC official. The official said that as per the definition of severe adverse events, a person who receives a vaccine either dies or needs hospitalization. “In Mumbai, we have only two patients needing hospitalization and that too as a preventive measure. It is not a reason to be worried about the vaccine,” said the official. Meanwhile, of the 302 beneficiaries having side-effects in Pune, 203 were from Pimpri Chinchwad, 88 from rural parts of Pune and 11 from the Pune city limits. Only two showed severe symptoms and needed initial care. A 35-year-old staff nurse working at the sub-district hospital in Daund developed weakness in lower and upper limbs soon after the vaccination and was rushed to the Sassoon hospital in Pune the same day. She has an underlying medical condition, including suspected auto-immune disease, which is being investigated. In addition, she has anaemia and hypertension. A minor instance of developing severe symptoms post-vaccination had happened at the primary health centre in Wagholi on Saturday. A woman healthcare worker had complained of excessive sweating and breathlessness. Primarily, it happened because she had done night duty at the hospital and skipped breakfast. “She recovered within an hour and went home. She is fine now,” said Ayush Prasad, CEO of Pune zilla parishad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/low-grade-fever-body-ache-after-vaccination-expected/articleshow/80337239.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 19, 2021||Pune||Pune: Transporters may up charges to offset increasing fuel costs||PUNE: Transporters in the city — alarmed by the constant rise in fuel prices — warned of an increase in transportation charges. In Pune on Monday, a litre of petrol cost Rs91.23, while diesel cost Rs 80.33. Ali Daruwalla, national spokesperson for the All India Petrol Dealers Association, said Monday’s petrol price was the highest in Pune since 2013, when a litre had cost Rs93, In Mumbai, petrol prices hit an all-time high of Rs 91.56 per litre. Diesel too peaked at Rs 81.60 per litre. Baba Shinde, president of a state transporters’ body, said they would have no choice but to jack up the transportation charges, which would ultimately be passed on to consumers, “as the prices of commodities would go up”. Shinde said they have written to Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari in this regard. “In the letter, we requested the minister to roll back the excise duty on fuel. We have only just begun to get back on our feet after last year’s slump, and the fuel hike is making things difficult for us,” Shinde said. Private cabs too increased fares on some routes — for instance, a one-way trip to Lonavla that previously cost Rs2,000-2,500 now costs Rs3,000. “We too need to recover out costs. The fuel prices are increasing at a very inconvenient time as we are just recovering from the effects of the pandemic. We are already struggling as the number of passengers in our cabs is just a fraction of that at pre-Covid levels,” Guru Katti, president of a cab drivers’ association, said. Daruwalla said relief was on the way. “Empowered groups of ministers will soon discuss the fuel price hike issue and a rollback of the excise. Also, a long-term strategy to reduce dependency on fossil fuels is in the offing,” Daruwalla said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/transporters-may-up-charges-to-offset-increasing-fuel-costs/articleshow/80337221.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: PIL seeks local polls through paper ballots||AHMEDABAD: Ahead of the state election commission (SEC) announcing the dates for local body polls, an advocate has moved the Gujarat high court demanding that the elections be conducted through ballot papers and not electronic voting machines (EVMs). Imtiyazkhan Pathan filed a PIL on Monday and sought the HC’s directions to the SEC that it should conduct civic body elections next month through ballot papers and not using EVMs. Pathan cited a reply from the SEC given under to a Right to Information Act application stating that the SEC does not have voter-verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) machines. In its reply in October 2020, the SEC stated that as VVPAT machines are not used in the elections for civic bodies, the SEC does not have VVPAT machines. In his PIL filed through advocate K R Koshti, the petitioner cited the Supreme Court’s verdict in which the apex court held that a paper trail is an indispensable requirement of free and fair elections. Following the SC verdict, it was resolved that VVPAT should be universally used at all polling stations. The introduction of a paper trail was for the purpose of ensuring a safety valve against tampering with EVMs. The introduction of VVPAT was to ensure that the electoral verdict is the true representation of the votes cast. The PIL further contends that in case of a discrepancy between EVMs and VVPAT, the result reflected by the VVPAT is the barometer reflecting the people’s choice in an election. In case of any dispute, it is mandatory for the Returning Officer to count votes according to the VVPAT. If the SEC does not have VVPAT machines, it is not proper for it to conduct civic body elections through EVMs and it should be directed to conduct polls through ballot papers. This PIL is likely to come up for hearing later this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-seeks-local-polls-through-paper-ballots/articleshow/80337209.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Admissions for IDOL courses till January 30||MUMBAI: Students who cleared HSC exams in December can seek admissions to undergraduate courses at Mumbai University’s Institute of Distance and Open Learning (IDOL). The institute has been conducting admissions in two phases since last year. The January session will be open for aspirants seeking admissions to BA, BCom, MA and MCom through distance education. Admissions will be till January 30. Students can register at https://old.mu.ac.in/distance-open-learning for admissions. Last year, around 900 sought admissions in the January session, but the number is likely to go up this year with many clearing HSC and undergraduate programmes in December. This year, overall 59,000 students have taken admissions to IDOL in the July session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/admissions-for-idol-courses-till-jan-30/articleshow/80335781.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Pune||Criminal held for extortion attempt||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Sunday arrested a man with a criminal record after a contractor accused him of attempting to extort him. The police chased and nabbed Santosh Manjare (29) of Koregaon Khurd village and seized a loaded country-made pistol and four sharp weapons. The contractor was appointed to level a private company’s plot in Khed taluka. In his complaint, the contractor stated that Manjare told him to pay Rs50,000 per month to continue the work uninterrupted. “The police immediately started looking for Manjare — who is named in two murder cases and was imprisoned between 2013 and 2019,” Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash said. Assistant inspector Dattatreya Gulig on Sunday received information that Manjare would be coming to the village in car. “The moment he arrived, the police chased him. He fled into a field nearby, but landed in the net,” Prakash said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/criminal-held-for-extortion-attempt/articleshow/80337228.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||2 held in Mumbai for extorting money from broker||MUMBAI: The Aarey police arrested a journalist along with his associate, Dawood Shaikh, for extorting Rs 1.6 lakh from a real estate agent. Police said the accused had threatened the complainant, Raees Ansari, that they would complain to Aarey authorities and demolish his illegal house and shop. Shaikh was held for taking bribe of Rs 11,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-held-for-extorting-money-from-broker/articleshow/80337248.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Pune||At 298, PMR adds least daily cases since June 9 last year||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added 298 Covid cases on Monday, its least since June 9 last year, taking its tally above 3.73 lakh. Besides, the region recorded 361 recoveries in the last 24 hours, taking its discharges above 3.59 lakh. As per the report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, seven people died of the infection in PMR on Monday, taking its toll to 8,961. Among the new cases, the Pune municipal limits added 121, followed by the PCMC limits (87) and the rural areas (75). Council and cantonment areas in the region recorded 11 and 4 cases, respectively. When it comes to recoveries, the PMC areas added 151, followed by the rural areas (82) and the PCMC limits (60). The recoveries in the council areas stayed at 43, while those in the cantonments stood at 25 in the last 24 hours. The active cases in the region included 2,011 in hospital isolation and 3,248 in home quarantine. As per PMC data, the municipal areas had 293 patients on oxygen beds on Monday, while its critical count was at 206. Along with Covid-19 infections, other health problems like high blood pressure and heart problems were responsible for the casualties on Monday, stated the death reports issued by civic, district and private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-298-pmr-adds-least-daily-cases-since-june-9-last-year/articleshow/80337243.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Girl’s in-laws hack man to death for ‘sexually exploiting’ married daughter||NAGPUR: A 55-year-old man, who allegedly raped his married daughter, was reportedly hacked to death by her husband and one of his relatives, in Pipla area in the wee hours of Monday. The cops have arrested the accused. Hudkeshwar police, which have registered a case of murder, said the deceased, a resident of Pipla and a native of Haseempur village in Lucknow, had been sexually exploiting his daughter since a young age. The sexual exploitation continued even after she got married, said cops. The deceased would allegedly visit his daughter’s place to exploit her but he being the father her in-laws did not suspect his intentions. According to cops, the deceased had even shifted to his daughter’s place a month ago. When the woman narrated her plight to her husband, he threw his father-in-law out of the house, they said. On Sunday, the man again visited his daughter and exploited her, but the rape survivor’s brother-in-law reportedly witnessed this. He then narrated the incident to his brother. Cops said the husband and one of his relatives then chalked out a plan to eliminate the woman’s father. In the night, the woman’s husband and his relative allegedly went to the man’s place and killed him with sharp-edged weapons. The matter came to fore on Monday morning when a relative of the deceased visited his house. The deceased’s relatives then approached Hudkeshwar police. Preliminary investigation revealed that some of the neighbours of the deceased had spotted the accused leaving the house. Cops rounded up the accused and later arrested them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-hacked-to-death-for-sexually-exploiting-married-daughter/articleshow/80337866.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Baby saved after fall from second floor||AHMEDABAD: Eleven-month-old Devansh had just started to learn crawling on all fours. The son of an army man living in the city’s cantonment, he was playing with his elder brother on December 13 morning in the gallery of their residence, when he accidentally fell down from the second floor. After taking him to the military hospital, his parents brought him to Civil Hospital. “A CT scan of his brain showed a sub-arachnoid haemorrhage (bleeding in space between brain and tissues covering brain) along with other health issues. He had also sustained multiple lower-rib fractures and injuries on small intestine,” said Dr Rakesh Joshi, professor and head of paediatric surgery department. A surgery was initiated immediately by a team of doctors. The doctors found a 5cm tear in stomach wall along with contamination in abdomen. “The surgery was successful, but the first five days were critical for him as his pulse rate remained high. On ninth day, he started fluids and on 20th day, he started food,” said Dr Bela Shah, professor of paediatric department. “It was a critical case that required multi-pronged and multi-specialty approach. If not done properly, it can result in life-long disabilities or short life span.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/baby-saved-after-fall-from-2nd-floor/articleshow/80337246.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Kolhapur||Power of vote: NOTA gets more support in Narkhed village||Kolhapur: The election outcome of a ward in the Narkhed village of Mohol tehsil in Solapur district has become a hot topic as the maximum voters picked the ‘none of the above’ (NOTA) option over the two candidates in fray. A woman candidate, who secured the highest number of votes, was declared elected in the evening, but local residents have decided to challenge the decision in the high court. In ward number five of Narkhed, two candidates received 163 and 143 votes respectively, while 434 voters opted for NOTA. Vinod Patil, a local resident, immediately sent a letter to the state election commission, citing various provisions and demanded fresh election in the ward. However, Savitri Khandare, who secured more votes in a straight contest, was declared the winner late in the evening. Patil, who had lodged the original complaint, told TOI that the returning officer announced the decision saying that provisions, cited by him in the complaint, were applicable to municipal council and not gram panchayat. Patil said he would move the HC to challenge the decision Patil, in his complaint, has cited an order by the Election Commission, issued on November 6, 2018. Patil said that order, titled “if NOTA gets more votes”, has said that NOTA is to be treated as fictional candidate while declaring the election result. The order also instructs to conduct fresh election in the event of more voters opting for NOTA. In a straight contest in the ward, which was for a woman candidate in the general ward, Deepali Kolhal secured 143 votes. Her rival Savita Khandare, whose election symbol was cup and saucer, got 163 votes and was announced elected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/power-of-vote-nota-gets-more-support-in-narkhed-village/articleshow/80335927.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Surat||‘Modern vision fast-tracked metros’||GANDHINAGAR/SURAT: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday took a veiled jibe at the previous Congress-led UPA government for the lack of modern vision and policy framework that resulted in snail-paced work on the metro rail network which has picked up significant pace in the last six years. Modi was addressing after the virtual ground breaking ceremonies of Surat Metro project and the second phase of Ahmedabad Metro rail. "The difference between the working of previous governments and ours is clearly visible. In the 10-12 years of previous governments, only 225 kilometres of Metro line were operational, while during six years of our government, over 450 km of metro line in 27 cities was operational. There was neither modern thinking nor policy even for metro. There was a lack of uniformity between various metros being developed and no coordination with other modes of transport in the cities," he said. The BJP-led NDA government has adopted an integrated approach in the metro work and means of transport like bus and railways will work in unison with the metro rails keeping future requirement of 10 years later in mind. The second phase of Ahmedabad Metro comprises two corridors - one from Motera to Mahatma Mandir in Gandhinagar and the second from Gujarat National law University (GNLU) to GIFT City. While he stated that Surat and Ahmedabad will boost the Atma Nirbharta (self reliance) push, Modi particularly praised the ‘Diamond City’ for its image overhaul from being synonymous with plague and other calamities to India’s second cleanest urban landscape. “People in the Surat have an inherent quality of embracing people from across the country,” he said, attributing the city’s monopoly in diamond and man-made fibre success to immaculate planning and constructive ideas. He said the population living in slums has sharply dropped from 20% to 6% and added that Surat was a shining example of ‘Ek Bharat Shresth Bharat.’ Modi made special mention of large number of flyovers, enhancement of sewage treatment plant capacity and building of modern hospitals in Surat, which has led to ease of doing business. Similarly, Gandhinagar's image from a government and retired persons paradise has also been transformed. "It could not even be called a city. Now, we have seen a transformation of its image in recent years and it has become lively due to the large population of youngsters due to various premier education institutes like IIT, NIFT, DAIICT, PDPU, GNLU among others. Referring to what he termed a ‘rarely discussed’ Pragati programme, the PM said projects worth Rs 13 lakh crore which had been stalled for decades have been discussed in these sessions and attempts are being made to put them back on track.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/modern-vision-fast-tracked-metros/articleshow/80334763.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||19 get shots in Mohali on Day 2||Mohali: The Covid-19 vaccination started with a manual registration process in Mohali on Monday, the second day of the drive. Only 19 beneficiaries were administered the vaccine at civil hospital, Phase VI, said civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur. As many as 55 people have been vaccinated to date.  After accepting patients manually, the health department switched over to the online process. “All those who were accepted under manual process were registered online,” she added. She said, “The vaccination process was undertaken at civil hospital, Phase VI, and 19 beneficiaries got the shots against the identified 100 for the centre. This process will continue on Tuesday as well. The centre where we will get the maximum number of beneficiaries will be selected for operations. And the centre where the number will be very less will not be operated. At present, we are targeting urban centers.”As many as 325 health workers were identified for the first day of the drive, but only 36 got the shot on Saturday. The drive is to be carried out at civil hospital, Phase VI; civil hospital, Kharar; community health centre, Banur; Fortis Hospital; civil hospital, Derabassi; and Kissan Vikas Chamber in Aerocity. In the first phase, 11,284 beneficiaries have been identified. Of them, 2,809 are government officials and 8,475 are from the private sector. The vaccination drive will be completed in 113 sessions. The total number of vaccinators employed for the task is 207.  ‘No side-effects reported’The civil surgeon said in the two days of the vaccination drive in Mohali, no one reported any side-effects or complications. “In total, 55 people have been given the shot. Fortunately, no patient came back with any side-effects, except mild pain in arm where the vaccine was administered,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/19-get-shots-in-mohali-on-day-2/articleshow/80335941.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||GR on school reopening; Mumbai will have to wait||MUMBAI: After consulting the state public health department, the education department decided to resume offline school sessions for classes V to VIII across the state from January 27. However, BMC has decided to keep schools shut until further notice. The state school education department issued a government resolution on reopening of schools on Monday stating the health department has agreed to reopen schools, but the zilla parishads and municipal corporations concerned should ensure safety measures. School education minister Varsha Gaikwad had last week said the state will issue a separate standard operating procedure (SOP) on how to go ahead with the reopening of schools in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gr-on-school-reopening-city-will-have-to-wait/articleshow/80337252.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Aurangabad||CMIA initiates drive to spread awareness about STRIVE||Aurangabad: The Chamber of Marathwada Industries and Agriculture (CMIA) has introduced a mobile van to spread awareness among students regarding Skills Strengthening for Industrial Value Enhancement (STRIVE) — an apprenticeship programme of the central government. As part of the awareness drive, the CMIA has also put up posters in different parts of the city, including the vicinity of Industrial Training Institute (ITI). “The apprenticeship programme is useful for students who have completed class X and aspire for a technical job. There is very low awareness among students and parents about this government initiative. We will reach out to the target beneficiaries through our drive,” CMIA president Kamlesh Dhoot said. He added that the mobile van carrying posters, pamphlets and other awareness literature would be stationed near schools and other prominent places in the city to spread the desired awareness. STRIVE — a World Bank-funded project that was approved by the Centre in November 2016 with a total financial layout of Rs 2,200 crore — aims at creating awareness through industry clusters and geographical chambers that would address the challenge of involvement of Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (MSMEs). The outcome-based project also aimed at integrating and enhancing delivery quality of ITIs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cmia-initiates-drive-to-spread-awareness-about-strive/articleshow/80335935.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Rs 25,000 for Maharashtra bus drivers with clean record||MUMBAI: State Transport bus drivers who have an accident-free record for 25 years will now get a special reward of Rs 25,000 from the state government, said transport minister Anil Parab while inaugurating Road Safety Month programme. Parab said just like employees get punished for wrong-doings, there should be incentives for good work. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rs-25k-for-st-drivers-with-clean-record/articleshow/80337256.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Nagpur||Passengers face inconvenience in unclean Danapur-Sec Hamsafar||Nagpur: Passengers travelling in Danapur-Secunderabad (02788) Hamsafar Covid-19 special train on Monday complained of having a horrid journey due to “no water supply, dirty coaches and stinking toilets”. The special train is expected to have top level of hygiene. “The efforts taken by railways to improve cleanliness during Covid-19 peak were missing in the train,” said a passenger Rajesh Tiwari travelling in B8 coach of the train. “When we boarded the train at Nagpur there was no water in taps and even toilets. We noticed this after the train had already left Nagpur. I complained about the dirty coaches and stinking toilets to head ticket examiner Ramprasad Chakole who promised to fill water at Ballarshah station. Though the water was filled, the coaches were not cleaned till the train reached Secunderabad,” said Tiwari. “Humsafar Express is a fully premium service with AC-3 tier and sleeper class accommodation having all the modern facilities designed and operated by Indian Railways. Its services include long haul routes. The said train covers a distance of 1,823km and is expected to provide good service to passengers. Special efforts need to be taken, especially during the pandemic,” said Basant Shukla, general secretary, Bharatiya Yatri Kendra. A section of passengers said that not only B8 but other coaches also were stinking. “The dustbins were overflowing and there was no water in the washbasin taps. As there was no on-board cleaning facility, plastic bottles and pouches were strewn all over inside the AC III coaches. The coaches were dirty with spitting near the doorway area,” they said. “If the condition of premium trains like Hamsafar is so poor what can we expect from other mail/express trains. There are not many stoppages to the train and hence there was no way out except complaining to the ticket examiner,” said Tiwari. Tiwari said the superfast train belongs to the South Central Railway (SCR) and primary maintenance is done by the SCR. “It must have left Danapur in Patna district in East Central Railway in an unclean state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/passengers-face-inconvenience-in-unclean-danapur-sec-hamsafar/articleshow/80337890.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Surat||AAI seeks 687ha land for parallel runway extension||Surat: The Airports Authority of India (AAII) has demanded 687 hectares of land for the extension of parallel runway at the Surat airport from the Khajod Urban Development Authority (KHUDA).The demand was made during recent meeting between the officials of the KHUDA and the AAI for the land parcel in Abhava. The AAI officials stated that the land ad measuring 39.23 hectares is immediately required for improving the existing operations at the airport. AAI officials stated that the memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between the government of Gujarat and the AAI, where the the government of Gujarat has consented to acquire the additional land required by the AAI for expansion of airport and transfer it to the AAI free-of-cost. The current runway at Surat is 2,905 m and needs to be extended to 3,810 m to accommodate larger aircraft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/aai-seeks-687ha-land-for-parallel-runway-extension/articleshow/80334777.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: App glitch, vaccine hesitancy impacted turnout||MUMBAI: The slow start to the Covid-19 vaccination programme in Maharashtra was mainly due to glitches in the Co-WIN app, but there were also talks about vaccine hesitancy, said officials. On Saturday, 64% of the shortlisted healthcare workers were inoculated across the state. In Mumbai, about 48% of the shortlisted beneficiaries took the shot, and in Pune, 58%. “As the Co-WIN app, the centralised portal being used for registration and verification of the priority groups, started functioning late on Friday, some of the beneficiaries got messages after midnight,” said a BMC official. The municipal body was targeting 4,000 recipients, but only 1,926 took the vaccine on day one of the mega drive. While the BMC war rooms started making phone calls to many of the to-be recipients late on Friday, coordination took a hit. Some of the vaccinated healthcare workers told TOI that they received the calls at 9am on Saturday for the 11.30am session. A healthcare worker from JJ Hospital in Byculla said that he had received the Co-WIN generated message around 1am. BMC additional commissioner Suresh Kakani said some people were caught off guard by the messages and were unsure about its authenticity. “But now that people are aware that a system is in place to send SMSes and follow-up calls, the turnout for the next session will be much better,” he added. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said that Maharashtra’s turnout was not very low compared to most states. He added that once the app is up and running again, more beneficiaries can be contacted in time. National Health Mission director N Ramaswami concurred. “The turnout in Maharashtra wasn’t poor if one looks at the all-India figures. Maharashtra was second only to Uttar Pradesh. We are clearly among the better performing states,’’ he said, adding that they expect a better turnout on Tuesday. “There isn’t vaccine hesitancy among healthcare workers as they know the importance of vaccines,’’ Ramaswami said. However, there were hush-hush discussions about vaccine hesitancy. A senior doctor from KEM Hospital in Parel said he has severe allergies and would wait a while and undergo a pre-vaccine checkup before taking the shot. Another doctor who was supposed to take Covaxin at JJ Hospital said he wanted to find out more about the vaccine before taking it. “I will wait for my name to come up again on the Co-WIN list,’’ he said. In Pune, 71 healthcare workers refused to take the shots after reaching the vaccination centres for various reasons, while 1,150 failed to turn up for the vaccination. (With inputs from Pune)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/app-glitch-vaccine-hesitancy-impacted-turnout/articleshow/80338876.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: App glitch, vaccine hesitancy impacted turnout||MUMBAI: The slow start to the Covid-19 vaccination programme in Maharashtra was mainly due to glitches in the Co-WIN app, but there were also talks about vaccine hesitancy, said officials. On Saturday, 64% of the shortlisted healthcare workers were inoculated across the state. In Mumbai, about 48% of the shortlisted beneficiaries took the shot, and in Pune, 58%. “As the Co-WIN app, the centralised portal being used for registration and verification of the priority groups, started functioning late on Friday, some of the beneficiaries got messages after midnight,” said a BMC official. The municipal body was targeting 4,000 recipients, but only 1,926 took the vaccine on day one of the mega drive. While the BMC war rooms started making phone calls to many of the to-be recipients late on Friday, coordination took a hit. Some of the vaccinated healthcare workers told TOI that they received the calls at 9am on Saturday for the 11.30am session. A healthcare worker from JJ Hospital in Byculla said that he had received the Co-WIN generated message around 1am. BMC additional commissioner Suresh Kakani said some people were caught off guard by the messages and were unsure about its authenticity. “But now that people are aware that a system is in place to send SMSes and follow-up calls, the turnout for the next session will be much better,” he added. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said that Maharashtra’s turnout was not very low compared to most states. He added that once the app is up and running again, more beneficiaries can be contacted in time. National Health Mission director N Ramaswami concurred. “The turnout in Maharashtra wasn’t poor if one looks at the all-India figures. Maharashtra was second only to Uttar Pradesh. We are clearly among the better performing states,’’ he said, adding that they expect a better turnout on Tuesday. “There isn’t vaccine hesitancy among healthcare workers as they know the importance of vaccines,’’ Ramaswami said. However, there were hush-hush discussions about vaccine hesitancy. A senior doctor from KEM Hospital in Parel said he has severe allergies and would wait a while and undergo a pre-vaccine checkup before taking the shot. Another doctor who was supposed to take Covaxin at JJ Hospital said he wanted to find out more about the vaccine before taking it. “I will wait for my name to come up again on the Co-WIN list,’’ he said. In Pune, 71 healthcare workers refused to take the shots after reaching the vaccination centres for various reasons, while 1,150 failed to turn up for the vaccination. (With inputs from Pune)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/app-glitch-vaccine-hesitancy-impacted-turnout/articleshow/80337260.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Doctor, man held for aborting foetus||MUMBAI: A gynaecologist was arrested by the Kasturba Marg police recently for aborting the foetus of a 16-year-old rape survivor. The doctor has been released on bail. Police also arrested a 40-year-old man who had brought the minor to the doctor. The teenaged girl had been sexually assaulted a few months ago. The accused used to work in a temple at Borivali East and had first met her there. He later got intimate with her at another premises with false promises of marriage and got her pregnant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gynaecologist/articleshow/80337269.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Thane||Maharashtra: App glitch, vaccine hesitancy impacted turnout||MUMBAI: The slow start to the Covid-19 vaccination programme in Maharashtra was mainly due to glitches in the Co-WIN app, but there were also talks about vaccine hesitancy, said officials. On Saturday, 64% of the shortlisted healthcare workers were inoculated across the state. In Mumbai, about 48% of the shortlisted beneficiaries took the shot, and in Pune, 58%. “As the Co-WIN app, the centralised portal being used for registration and verification of the priority groups, started functioning late on Friday, some of the beneficiaries got messages after midnight,” said a BMC official. The municipal body was targeting 4,000 recipients, but only 1,926 took the vaccine on day one of the mega drive. While the BMC war rooms started making phone calls to many of the to-be recipients late on Friday, coordination took a hit. Some of the vaccinated healthcare workers told TOI that they received the calls at 9am on Saturday for the 11.30am session. A healthcare worker from JJ Hospital in Byculla said that he had received the Co-WIN generated message around 1am. BMC additional commissioner Suresh Kakani said some people were caught off guard by the messages and were unsure about its authenticity. “But now that people are aware that a system is in place to send SMSes and follow-up calls, the turnout for the next session will be much better,” he added. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said that Maharashtra’s turnout was not very low compared to most states. He added that once the app is up and running again, more beneficiaries can be contacted in time. National Health Mission director N Ramaswami concurred. “The turnout in Maharashtra wasn’t poor if one looks at the all-India figures. Maharashtra was second only to Uttar Pradesh. We are clearly among the better performing states,’’ he said, adding that they expect a better turnout on Tuesday. “There isn’t vaccine hesitancy among healthcare workers as they know the importance of vaccines,’’ Ramaswami said. However, there were hush-hush discussions about vaccine hesitancy. A senior doctor from KEM Hospital in Parel said he has severe allergies and would wait a while and undergo a pre-vaccine checkup before taking the shot. Another doctor who was supposed to take Covaxin at JJ Hospital said he wanted to find out more about the vaccine before taking it. “I will wait for my name to come up again on the Co-WIN list,’’ he said. In Pune, 71 healthcare workers refused to take the shots after reaching the vaccination centres for various reasons, while 1,150 failed to turn up for the vaccination. (With inputs from Pune)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/app-glitch-vaccine-hesitancy-impacted-turnout/articleshow/80338875.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Bank executive gets pre-arrest bail in ‘mis-selling’ case||MUMBAI: Observing that prima facie, misappropriation of funds through false and fabricated documents is not seen, a sessions court recently granted anticipatory bail to an HSBC Bank portfolio manager who was accused by a senior citizen father-daughter duo of investing their money in policies that only benefitted her with a commission but caused them a loss of Rs 1.47 crore, a profit which they claim they could have otherwise earned. The court further said that after the banker, Priya Paul, explained every factual aspect of the investment, the complainant, Khushnuma Behram (60), and her 80-year-old father put their signatures over the documents. “Therefore, when it is the admitted position that this complainant and her father, who are well-educated, having full knowledge in respect of documents to be signed by them for investment, they must have full knowledge about the pros and cons of the investment made,” the court said. It also observed that it was not disputed that Behram and her father had received the amount along with the dividend. “It is also to be noted the applicant submitted the tabular format in respect of proposals and the details showing that the amount which was invested, Rs 40.4 lakh, by this complainant and her father was returned to them with profit to the tune of Rs 47.15 lakh,” the court said. The court said under such circumstances, the question of sustaining a notional loss, prima facie, does not arise at all. Azad Maidan police had registered the FIR after the State Police Complaints Authority issued an order in July 2019. Granting Paul pre-arrest bail, the court said, “When no criminal antecedents of the applicant are reported, the question of her remaining absent from the process of law does not arise. She also has a permanent residence in Mumbai along with deep roots in the society. Considering her position in the bank, the question of fleeing from justice will not arise.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bank-exec-gets-pre-arrest-bail-in-mis-selling-case/articleshow/80335976.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 19, 2021||Aurangabad||Nanded police looking into insider angle in Rs 14 crore online cheating case||Aurangabad: Nanded police, investigating the online siphoning of Rs 14.4 crore from the poll account of a cooperative bank, have started looking into the role of an insider. Superintendent of police Pramodkumar Shewale said police teams have been sent out to different places for digging out details in this case. The officer, while expressing confidence in solving the case, said things are expected to get clear in a week’s time. Not leaving any stone unturned, Nanded police have even formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) headed by sub-divisional police officer Vikrant Gaikwad to probe the case. “We have roped in a team of experts for carrying out a forensic audit of the servers and computers of the cooperative bank from where the money was siphoned. We are investigating the case from all the angles including if there is any insider involved in helping the suspects,” Gaikwad said. He added that the money was transferred to 267 different bank accounts in Gujarat, Haryana, Delhi, West Bengal, Karnataka and Tripura. Another officer privy to the probe said police are investigating why no one from the bank raised an alarm about the dubious transactions for about a fortnight, who gave clearance for the transactions and whether the accounts were hacked into. The delay in lodging an FIR gave enough time to the suspects to transfer the money in subsequent bank accounts, before withdrawing it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nanded-police-looking-into-insider-angle-in-rs-14-crore-online-cheating-case/articleshow/80335965.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Trichy||Girl, 5, drowns in rainwater-filled pit||TRICHY: A five-year-old girl drowned after accidentally falling into a five-foot-deep pit brimming with rainwater, at a construction site in Trichy city. The deceased girl was identified as Pandi Sri, daughter of Sakthivel, a cab driver. The girl was residing with her parents in Reddy street near KK Nagar. On Sunday, the girl was said to have ventured out to play along with her friends. However, as she did not return home for hours, her family launched a search, but in vain. They lodged a complaint with the Airport police. On Monday morning, Sri’s body was found in the pit dug up in a private construction site near her house. Police said the pit, which was dug up for laying the foundation for a building was filled up due to the recent rains.. The girl was suspected to have slipped into the pit while playing. “The construction site was open as civil work was progressing. An inquiry is under way,” a police source said. The body of the victim was shifted to the Trichy MGMGH for postmortem. The Airport police have registered a case under IPC section 174 (unnatural death). It may be recalled that a 5-year-old boy drowned in an open drainage canal while playing in Thennur locality on December 23. Authorities said that negligence from parents is one of the reasons for the fatalities besides the infrastructure lapses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/girl-5-drowns-in-rainwater-filled-pit/articleshow/80337254.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||MC prepares Rs 1,526cr deficit budget||Chandigarh: The municipal corporation has prepared its Rs 1,526-crore deficit budget for the 2021-22 financial year. Out of this, the civic body expects Rs 1,176 crore from Chandigarh administration as grant-in-aid (GIA) and the remaining amount from its own revenue resources. The outlined budget is deficit of around Rs 115 crore, though minor changes are expected in figures during the finance and contracts committee (F&CC) and general house meetings, where it will go for members’ approval.Out of GIA demand of Rs 1,176 crore, the MC has kept Rs 386 crore for developmental works under capital segment, while remaining Rs 789 crore are under revenue section to fulfil the committed liabilities and other related expenditures. The civic body has prepared all the figures by keeping the recommendations of the 4th Delhi Finance Commission in mind and they have also given its reference in the budget document’s remarks’ column.All the senior officers, led by municipal commissioner KK Yadav, held a detailed discussion on the budget on Friday. Since it is a deficit budget, the finance requirement was assessed minutely to get sufficient money for the next fiscal. The figures were discussed department-wise, keeping their requirement and expenditure against their estimated developmental works and committed liabilities.“Around a couple of weeks back, the accounts department of the MC had sought figures from each department, asking for their requirement for the next financial year. After that, the department prepared the budget by keeping all segments, namely capital, revenue, receipts from income, among others, in mind,” a senior official said.Sources in the MC said like previous years, the engineering department of the MC has shown the maximum requirement of funds for their projects. Since the department has multiple wings, like public health, road and building, horticulture, electrical, among others, it needs a pretty sum. Besides, a significant amount has also been kept for the sanitation and fire departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-prepares-rs-1526cr-deficit-budget/articleshow/80335966.cms||Deepak Yadav
January 19, 2021||Kolhapur||Rankala lake ducks died due to salty, spicy snack diet||Kolhapur: Severe acidosis — because of eating fried, salty/spicy snacks thrown in the lake by tourists — and not avian influenza caused the death of the ducks in the Rankala lake on Sunday. “There is no need to panic. The samples have tested negative for bird flu,” confirmed Y A Pathan, the deputy commissioner of animal husbandry department, said on Monday. On Sunday, two ducks were found dead in the Rankala lake, some crows were found dead at Sarnaik Colony in Kolhapur city, and a few other places in the district such as Gadhinglaj and Chandgad. District collector Daulat Desai had then designated the localities as an “alert zone” and surveillance was carried out by the animal husbandry department. Poultry operators have been asked to keep their premises clean and shielded from wild birds. However, no mass-deaths of poultry birds have been reported in the district yet. “The ‘alert zone” will continue to be in place till the surveillance is completed as per the guidelines for sample collection. The post mortem of the ducks found dead in Rankala lake has revealed that they died because of the severe acidosis caused by eating of chips and other spicy snacks. The snacks were found in their gut.” The animal husbandry department had sent the samples of the dead birds to Pune and Bhopal-based laboratories. As per the reports, the ducks did not die of avian influenza. Dumping of leftover snacks in the lake by the tourists or by those catching fish is a common practice at the Rankala lake. Thousands of tourists visit the lake every day and there is no mechanism in place to stop people from throwing food in the water. Kolhapur Municipal Corporation’s environmental cell head Samir Vyagrhambare could not be reached for a comment. Meanwhile, there have been reports of birds in Satara, Sangli and Solapur districts. The first confirmed report of avian flu has been received from Solapur. Around 1,200 birds were culled by the animal husbandry department on Sunday night in the Jangalgi village in Mangalwedha taluka of Solapur. Reports of deaths of 104 have been received from Koregaon, Karad, Khandala, Khatav and Maan talukas in Satara district. Birds at a private poultry farm were found dead at Hanbarwadi in Karad tehsil. District collector Shekhar Singh has imposed restrictions on 10 km area from Hanbarwadi as a precautionary measure. In Sangli district, 54 bird died in Sawli, Awandhi and Etawade villages. But the test reports were negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/rankala-lake-ducks-died-due-to-salty-spicy-snack-diet/articleshow/80337895.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Kozhikode||On a giant mission to protect a turtle species in Kasaragod||KOZHIKODE: A young conservation biologist hailing from Uttar Pradesh is spearheading an effort to save the highly secretive and exceptionally large Cantor’s Giant Softshell Turtle, locally known as Bheemanama/Paala Poovan, by putting in place a community led conservation initiative in one of the few remaining breeding populations of the Evolutionarily Distinct and Globally Endangered (EDGE) species in the Chandragiri river in Kasaragod. Ayushi Jain, a research affiliate of Wildlife Institute of India, has been spending most of her time for the last two years traversing around the 60km stretch of the river in Kasaragod, looking for sightings of the elusive turtle and more importantly telling the local residents that the giant turtle that often get caught in their fishing lines as by-catches or which at least some of them used to consume is extremely threatened and is even considered locally extinct in some places. Cantor’s Giant Softshell Turtle, which can grow to over one meter in length and can weigh over 100kg, is one of the rarest species of turtles in India and also one of the largest freshwater turtles in the world. As they spend most of their time buried under the sand in the river they are very elusive. The strange-looking turtle is also known as ‘frog-faced softshell’ due to its odd facial features and is classified as endangered by the IUCN Red List. After spending two years in Kasaragod, her initiatives to cobble together a community network of key informants and trained locals who can rescue, rehabilitate and safely release the by-catches of the extremely rare species has met with initial successes. She has managed to rope in around 30 key informers living along the river stretch who call her up whenever a turtle gets caught up in fishing hooks or is found injured. With their support, three turtles which had got caught in the fishing hooks had been rescued so far. On Sunday, as many as 45 people, including those who are part of the turtle community network and forest department personnel, were provided training to rescue, rehabilitate and safe release of the turtle by-catches. “When we started the project two year ago, the previous published sighting of the turtle was nine years ago and we had to depend on anecdotes about the sightings of what locals used to call Paala Poovan or Bheemanama. We started off on the premise that having a network of informants along the stretch of the river would help us spot the turtle. Within a week of establishing contacts, I got a call about sighting of the ‘large turtle’ and we rushed to the spot and could get a glimpse of the elusive turtle surfacing on the river for a moment before submerging to the depths. We managed to photograph it and confirm that the Paala Poovan was indeed the Cantor’s Giant Softshell Turtle,” Ayushi Jain said, adding that she managed to get two more sightings of the rare turtles later. The project started with the support of Zoological Society of London and National Geographic Photo Ark and later in 2020 was supported by MBZ Species Conservation Fund. Ayushi said that the immediate threat to the rare species in its riverine habitat in Kasaragod was the creatures getting caught in fishing hooks and nets. She said sand mining in the area also posed a serious threat to the long-term survival of the species along with isolated incidents of people harvesting their eggs. She said that though the residents living along the river had been coexisting with a very rare species, most of them didn’t know about the conservation significance of the species. “During the initial survey conducted among around 250 residents, not many knew that the turtle was an endangered one. Also, only 70 of them, despite living near the river, had seen it in their lives,” Ayushi said. Though the the Cantor’s Giant Softshell Turtle is protected under Schedule 1 of Wildlife Protection Act, it doesn’t actually get much protection as the unique species has its habitat outside the protected area network. “The only way to protect the species is to involve the local community members as they will be the first to spot the turtle and also respond positively towards its conservation,” she added. The turtle had been previously spotted in Valappatanam river, Kutiady river and from Varkala, among a few other rivers in the state though no population assessment has been carried out till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/on-a-giant-mission-to-protect-a-turtle-species-in-kasaragod/articleshow/80334804.cms||K R Rajeev
January 19, 2021||Trichy||Awareness measures fail to strike a chord||Trichy: As the road safety awareness month to promote safe transportation kicked off on Monday, authorities took up the formality promotion drives such as distributing awareness pamphlets and affixing safety stickers on the vehicles. However, these measures fail to strike a chord with locals. While helmetless riders attract penalties through enforcement in various parts of the city, the other violations including signal jumping, over-speeding and attending phone calls while riding two-wheelers go unnoticed. Meanwhile, the road safety council meeting to discuss the civic issues and find solutions has remained suspended for about a year now. Instead of enforcing the rules against violations other than helmetless rides, holding same awareness programmes such as rallies have attracted the public wrath. “Perhaps, the authorities can conduct sensitisation drive with school students online to influence their parents,” H Ubaidullah, a resident of KK Nagar said. “We will suggest novel methods to promote awareness on road safety. There is a proposal to convene a meeting involving the families of people killed in road accidents to share their sufferings as awareness,” M Sekaran, member, district road safety council said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/awareness-measures-fail-to-strike-a-chord/articleshow/80337263.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||3 DSPs from Delhi to join UT||Chandigarh: After they completed their tenure, three deputy superintendent of police-level officers were transferred from Chandigarh to Delhi on Monday. They are: Sukhraj Katewa of 2008 batch, who was posted as DSP (economic offences wing); Krishan Kumar, also of 2008 batch, who was DSP (central); and Rajeev Kumar Ambastha of 2009 batch who had the charge of UT DSP crime.According to a transfer / posting list of 23 DANIPS cadre officers released by the ministry of home affairs, three DSP-level DANIPS cadre officers of 2011 batch will be posted here in their place. They are: Jasbir Singh, Niyati Mittal and Rajnish, all of whom were serving as DSPs in Delhi.The UT director general of police (DGP) will assign them their new roles after they join duty at Chandigarh police headquarters in Sector 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-dsps-from-delhi-to-join-ut/articleshow/80336007.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 7-year-old boy riding bicycle dies after van crushes him||MUMBAI: A 7-year-old schoolboy who was cycling near his home at Malwani in Malad (west) died after coming under the rear wheel of a van around 11.30am on Monday. The boy, Akshay Pawar, lived with his parents, who are daily wage workers, and five sisters in Ambhujwadi slum. The police said that the boy could have lost his balance and come under the van. A probe is on. Locals took the boy to hospital where he was declared dead. His body was sent for an autopsy. The van driver, Mohammad Hadis Ansari, has been taken into custody. As relatives and neighbours gathered to mourn the child’s death, police personnel were deployed to pre-empt trouble from breaking out. This is the second case of a cyclist’s death in the western suburbs this month. On January 5, Masoom Qazi (28), was cycling from Jogeshwari to Juhu gully when he was knocked down by a scooter. He died on January 9. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/7-year-old-boy-riding-bicycle-dies-after-van-crushes-him/articleshow/80337282.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Rajkot||11 girl students test Covid positive in Keshod||RAJKOT: A residential school in Keshod town of Junagadh town reopened on an anxious note after 11 students, all girls, tested positive for coronavirus infection, on Monday. The girls study in Class X and Class XII in KA Vanpariya Vinay Mandir, a residential school for girls. The school authorities had conducted a rapid antigen test for all students before allowing them entry in the campus. In all, 160 people - 140 students and 20 staff members - were subjected to the antigen test. “Eleven girls tested positive and their samples have been sent for RT-PCR test. All these girls have been home quarantined,” said Praveen Chaudhary, district development officer (DDO), Junagadh. All the infected girls are asymptomatic, he added. The school has a total 300 students, most of them being natives of near-by villages and towns. According to officials, this is a grant-in aid school. The authorities have not taken any decision regarding closing physical classes so far. In Junagadh district, at least 5,000 people have tested positive of whom 30 succumbed to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/11-girl-students-test-positive-in-keshod/articleshow/80334805.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Trichy||Motorists want toll cut as holes galore on NH 81 & 83||Trichy: The national highway (NH) 81 connecting Karur and western districts with Trichy has multiple potholes and lacks adequate lighting, which fails to conform to the standards and mandatory parameters of a national highway. Citing a recent order from Madras high court in December 2020 that slashed the toll fee between Maduravoyal and Walajapet highway by 50% due to the poor road conditions, road users batted for a similar move until the NH was made repaired.NH 81 has a toll plaza functioning in Thirupparaithurai. A portion of the road between Andanallur and Thindukkarai has remained damaged for years as locals claimed that the concessionaire responsible to maintain the road once in five years has not done so on this stretch. “We do not remember any road renewal work carried out on Trichy-Karur NH in the last five years. The so-called national highway lacks lights at multiple spots, the toll fee can be either waved off or reduced,” P Aiyarappan, a road safety activist said. The toll plaza collects a user fee varying between Rs 25 to Rs 140 (single journey) for various types of vehicles. But the poor quality of the NH does not deserve the user fee, the commuters said. With the presence of craters on the NH near Thindukkarai, two-wheeler riders are made to take a sudden turns, putting them vulnerable of being mowed down by vehicles approaching from behind.NHAI official sources said that the concessionaire will be directed to repair the damaged road portion. Similarly, NH 83 connecting Trichy with Thanjavur and other delta districts has multiple potholes near Thiruverumbur RoB and a few near Thuvakudi.  “We will re-lay the NH between Palpannai and Thiruverumbur in the next two months to eliminate the potholes,” an official source with Valavanthankottai toll plaza said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/motorists-want-toll-cut-as-holes-galore-on-nh-81-83/articleshow/80337272.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 19, 2021||Delhi||Covid vaccination: 44% turn up in Delhi on second day; three-hour delay at LNJP||NEW DELHI: There was a drop in turnout of healthcare workers for vaccination on the second day of the drive with only 3,598 individuals of 8,136 listed turning out at the 81 vaccination centres. Though 53% of the scheduled people had received the jab last Saturday, only 44% lined up on Monday.  According to a government report, none of the 239 people administered Covaxin at six centres had adverse reactions, while only 24 of the 3,359 given Covishield at 75 centres reported adverse events. Hesitancy about receiving the vaccination and glitches in the Co-WIN app at many centres reportedly affected the turnout. Many beneficiaries did not get text messages about the day’s schedule due to tech setbacks. A source said that the Co-WIN app does not have the option to edit the list of scheduled beneficiaries and so it was not possible to add fresh beneficiaries. This was discussed in a meeting and the health department agreed that the edit option should be incorporated into the app. The vaccination drive began three hours late at Lok Nayak Hospital due to the presence of only two people when the minimum requirement is for nine recipients. A vial of the vaccine holds 10 doses and once it is opened, has to be used within four hours. Priyakant Sharma, 36, nursing officer at Lok Nayak said she did not receive an SMS alert before the phone call on Monday morning. “People are not fully knowledgeable about the vaccine and are afraid to take it,” she surmised. “Last year, I contracted Covid and took nearly two weeks to recover. This made me realise that vaccination is crucial.” In East and Shahdara districts, the turnout was low despite counselling sessions for the recipients. Several staffers of Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital, which recorded a 33% turnout on the first day, abstained from the shot on Monday. “More people will start coming once they see others are not reporting adverse symptoms,” hoped Dr Yogesh Kushwaha, nodal officer for vaccination, adding the hospital had a staff of over 700 whom they expected to inoculate in eight days. A majority of those receiving the jabs on Saturday expressed happiness afterward. “The Covid vaccine is safe and effective, though adverse events may occur as with other vaccines,” reasoned an official. After the injection, the beneficiaries received an SMS congratulating them on being vaccinated. They were asked to call 1075 helpline for post-vaccination queries and informed that the vaccination would be complete only after they received the second dose after 28 days. The information about the date and time of the second dose will be communicated to them. Contrasted with the low turnout were health workers who were eagerly awaiting their turn. A doctor in west Delhi’s Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital admitted to breaking protocol to vaccinate those who were volunteering to receive the shot after a majority on the list did not turn up. A hospital official said, “We volunteered because we didn't know when our names would appear on the list. Even the hospital MD got his shot as a volunteer.” Dr Sahar Qureshi, medical superintendent at Max Hospital, Saket, said that unlike other places, his institution hadn’t experienced reluctance on the part of the workers. “It is quite the opposite in our case with people eagerly calling us to check when their turn will come,” Qureshi claimed. Dr Neha Srivastava, 36, a paediatrician at the hospital, said that she was informed about the vaccination on Sunday night. “I had no anxiety or apprehension. Everyone should get vaccinated. Even if a few of the receivers suffer some side-effect, it is still better than becoming infected with Covid and facing its impact,” she said. Srivastava reminded that while things would likely improve after the vaccination, people would still have to use masks and maintain physical distancing, at least in 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/44-turn-up-in-delhi-on-second-day-three-hour-delay-at-lnjp/articleshow/80337286.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Madurai||Plea in HC to remove ghost nets from sea||Madurai: The Madras high court on Monday ordered notice to the central and state governments on a plea which sought to remove ghost nets - fishing nets lost or abandoned or discarded in the sea - from the Gulf of Mannar Biosphere Reserve.A division bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice M M Sundresh ordered notice on the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by K Pushpavanam, a law student from Madurai district.Stating that the reserve is the habitat for several marine species, the petitioner said that he came across a news report with regard to ghost nets responsible for trapping and killing several marine animals such as dugongs, whales, dolphins and turtles, and also causing damage to coral reefs.He stated that the report also stated that these abandoned ghost nets alone contribute to 10% of plastic pollution in the sea. The flora and fauna at the Gulf of Mannar Biosphere Reserve are at the brink of extinction due to plastic pollution.Pushpavanam said that Kerala had launched a campaign in 2017 called ‘Suchitwa Sagaram’ to remove ghost nets and other plastic wastes from sea with cooperation from the local fishermen and the initiative was a success.Hence, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench seeking to take steps to remove the ghost nets from the Gulf of Mannar Biosphere Reserve as per recommendations made in the integrated management plan for Mannar Marine National Park and Biosphere Reserve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-in-hc-to-remove-ghost-nets-from-sea/articleshow/80337285.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Petition in Bombay HC challenges MU registrar’s appointment||MUMBAI: Dhanesh Sawant, the chancellor’s nominee to Mumbai University, has filed a petition in Bombay high court against the state’s “arbitrary action” in appointing registrar Ramdas Atram. Sawant has stated the state “exceeded its powers” and alleged it has “ulterior motives” in appointing Atram. Sawant said the state tried to usurp powers and encroach upon the statutory and executive powers of the university, a statutory body. The state’s direction to hold the process of selection amounts to “overarching interference in the autonomy of universities and is arbitrary”. The petition also says the directions by the government asking all universities to submit details of vacant posts, selection committees and panel members, with a sign-off asking varsities to not start any recruitment process (with the state’s nod) amounts to interference. The petitioner stated it is only because of the government resolution dated May 4, 2020, the vice-chancellor had sought the state permission on September 14, 2020, to start the process of selection for the registrar. Considering the Covid-19 pandemic, the state had imposed a ban on new appointments without its permission. After waiting for two months to hear from the state, in-charge registrar Baliram Gaikwad was appointed. The petitioner stated: “The control of the state government on universities is very limited and is basically related to the financial aspect as provided in S.8 of University Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/petition-in-hc-challenges-mu-registrars-appointment/articleshow/80336836.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||No complaint against MLA: Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that no complaint was received against Uduma MLA K Kunhiraman for threatening a poll official during local body elections. He added that based on media reports, crime branch has initiated a preliminary probe in this matter. The presiding officer, who has allegedly raised the complaint, is not authorized to check the identification cards of voters who are coming to polling booths. This is the responsibility of the first polling officer. The allegation is that the presiding officer verified the identity cards of the voters who were standing in queue. The MLA had given a complaint to the district collector in this matter. Following this, the collector then contacted the presiding officer and urged officials to carry on with the responsibilities that have been given to each one of them inside the polling booths. However, after the results were announced, the presiding officer wrote on social media that he was threatened by the MLA. The state election commissioner had sought a report from the collector based and the report is under the consideration of the commission, said the chief minister, adding that he doesn’t believe that the MLA would have threatened the polling official since that was very unlike his nature. Earlier, UDF had given a notice seeking an adjournment motion to discuss the issue. But, speaker P Sreeramakrishnan denied permission on the grounds that there was no emergency situation to suspend the proceedings and discuss the issue. However, he allowed it as a submission to be presented during Zero Hour. In protest, UDF members walked out, came back later and presented it as submission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/no-complaint-against-mla-cm/articleshow/80334842.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Nashik||Ban on import of poultry from affected dists||Nashik: Collector of Nashik district Suraj Mandhare has banned the import of poultry and other related goods from districts affected by the avian flu. A crow was reportedly found dead in Shrigonda taluka in Ahmednagar district and a sample sent to Bhopal laboratory confirmed avian flu in the taluka. The animal husbandry department has demarcated an ‘alert zone’ in 1km radius of the incident spot. “As part of the action plan for prevention, control and containment of avian influenza (Revised 2021), we have decided to ban the movement of all poultry – live birds, their meat, eggs, manure, bird feed, along with the goods and equipment related to poultry into Nashik from the affected districts,” said Mandhare. “The measures are required to prevent the poultry here from being affected and thus save the poultry industry in Nashik. People need not panic as proper cooking of the bird (if it is affected) and eggs will ensure the virus gets killed before it enters the human body,” said the collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ban-on-import-of-poultry-from-affected-dists/articleshow/80337910.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 19, 2021||Surat||Surat metro be integrated with BRTS, city buses||SURAT: After building the longest Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) network, Surat is set to get a modern metro rail that will integrate all public transport systems. Surat has a 108 km BRTS corridor, the largest in the country in the public transport system. “We also have city bus services which cover most parts of the city. In normal circumstances, around 2.50 lakh people commute using BRTS and city buses daily. Now, metro rail will further strengthen the public transport,’‘ Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat, told TOI. At present, 157 buses play on 12 dedicated BRTS corridors while 575 city buses play on the roads. As Covid-19 cases continue to decline, people started using BRTS and city buses. On an average, 1.25 lakh people are using these services daily. Interestingly, SMC has its own ‘Surat Money Cards’ for citizens that enables travel in BRTS and city Bus with just ‘tap-In” and ‘tap-out’ without waiting in queue to buy paper tickets and managing changes. Moreover, the card enables access to various transit and non-transit based services offered by SMC. Nearly, 45,000 people are using this card for public transport and other services. This card will be valid for metro travel also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-metro-be-integrated-with-brts-city-buses/articleshow/80334824.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Trichy||Teacher gets 49 years rigorous imprisonment for sexually assaulting girl students in Tamil Nadu||PUDUKOTTAI: A 50-year-old government school teacher was sentenced to 49 years rigorous imprisonment (RI) for sexually assaulting girl students of his school. The headmaster of the panchayat union primary school near Gandharvakottai in Pudukottai district, where the incident took place, was also sentenced to one year RI for failing to act against the erring teacher. The incident came to light in June 2018, when a section of parents complained to the Pudukottai district elementary educational officer (DEEO), against the teacher. In their complaint, they said that the teacher was using double entendre and inappropriate language in the class. Further, he also sexually assaulted the children. Following this, the teacher was suspended and an inquiry ordered. The district collector had also directed a police inquiry into the allegations, while the DEEO transferred the headmaster for failing to act against the teacher. Subsequently, the all-women police station (AWPS), Pudukottai booked the teacher and the headmaster under Pocso Act and arrested them. Pronouncing the verdict on Monday, sessions judge of the mahila court, R Sathya found the teacher guilty of the crime under three sections of the Pocso Act and sentenced the accused to 49 years of imprisonment and imposed Rs 45,000 fine on him. The headmaster who was added as the second accused in the case was awarded 1 year rigorous imprisonment and Rs 5,000 fine. (The victims' identity has not been revealed to protect their privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/teacher-gets-49-years-ri-for-sexually-assaulting-girl-students/articleshow/80337274.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Vijayawada||Ensure proper toilets in all schools: Andhra Pradesh CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday directed officials to make maintenance of toilets a priority and ensure proper lavatories in all schools from February 1. During a review meet, the chief minister said the issue should be considered a priority as many students are unable to go to school due to a lack of or poorly maintained toilets. The chief minister emphasised that clean toilets must be made available for students and told officials to initiate measures for immediate repairs. He asked officials to solve plumbing and sanitary issues as soon as possible and directed them to prepare a standard operating procedure on maintenance of toilets in schools. The chief minister pointed out that funds for toilets have been set up and steps were taken to maintain clean toilets to provide hygienic lavatories. He also demanded that awareness be created among caretakers on use of chemicals for cleaning toilets. Officials said that a special mobile application has been designed to monitor the maintenance of toilets. State officials have also introduced a mobile app to monitor attendance of school students. The app can be accessed by teachers and parents. So far, 90% of students’ parents/guardian information has been registered. The app will send alerts to parents on their wards’ attendance on a daily basis. The alerts will also be sent to gram/ward volunteers and if a student misses two school days, they will visit the household to verify.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ensure-proper-toilets-in-all-schools-jagan/articleshow/80334812.cms||---
January 19, 2021||India||Limited doses of vaccine to be sent to friendly countries as goodwill gesture||NEW DELHI: The government on Monday decided to export limited doses of Covid-19 vaccines to its friendly countries as a “goodwill gesture” to meet some of their immediate requirements. Covaxin will be sent to Mongolia, Oman, Myanmar, the Philippines, Bahrain, Maldives and Mauritius while Bhutan, Seychelles, Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Nepal will get Covishield. While both vaccines will be supplied on a government-to-government basis, the procurement will be done by the ministry of external affairs (MEA), an official said. The decision was taken at a meeting of officials from health ministry, MEA, commerce ministry and the department of pharmaceuticals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/limited-doses-of-vaccine-to-be-sent-to-friendly-countries-as-goodwill-gesture/articleshow/80338186.cms||Sushmi Dey
January 19, 2021||Nashik||Serosurvey to begin in Nashik’s rural areas||Nashik: A sero survey will be carried out in the rural areas of Nashik district from Friday and will take around 15 days for the entire exercise to be complete. District health officer Kapil Aher said, “We are carrying out the serosurvey to determine the presence of antibodies among people in the rural areas and to find out if the community has developed herd immunity.” The survey will be carried out with the help of Government Medical College and Hospital, Auranagabad. The training of the staff, who will conduct the survey, has been completed and the sample survey methods from villages and municipal councils have also been decided. The samples will be collected randomly irrespective of age, sex, marital status, etc. Aher said the idea behind carrying out the serosurvey, at a time when the nationwide vaccination programme has already been rolled out, was that it was important to understand where a community stood so that alternate arrangements could be made to treat people who have been infected with Covid-19 at the earliest. Stating that only the healthcare workers were being immunized in the first phase of the vaccination programme, Aher said, “It will take some time before the senior citizens, patients with comorbidities and children are vaccinated against the virus. In case of resurgence of the infection in any area, the serosurvey will help the administration to take more calculated and effective steps.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/serosurvey-to-begin-in-nashiks-rural-areas/articleshow/80337914.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 19, 2021||Trichy||‘Trees felled for road widening to blame for monkey menace’||Trichy: Motorists travelling on the Trichy-Thuraiyur state highway at Pagalavadi near the Pulivalam forest are often used to seeing a troop of monkeys at any time munching on boiled rice, fruits and biscuits fed by the public. However, for farmers in Trichy and Perambalur districts, it is no more an amusing sight. They have been witnessing an increasing influx of monkeys and peafowls into their fields in the last five years thanks to the many trees that have been felled for road widening projects. They say the menace has grown manifold due to the destruction of their habitats of late. They have now called for establishing a rehabilitation centre for the animals. Hundreds of trees, mostly tamarind, have been felled to widen rural roads as part of statewide schemes including under rural infrastructure development fund and Tamil Nadu rural roads improvement schemes. Subsequently, several roads in Thuraiyur such as Thuraiyur - Perambalur, Thuraiyur-Thamampatti and Manachanallur – Nochiyam roads have been widened. This apart, small stretches have also been developed in Nagalapuram, Adaikkampatti, Kalathur and Nakka Salem. This has chased away animals and the birds towards agricultural fields and villages. Farmers say the simians destroy fruit and vegetable crops, but it is the coconut cultivators who are the worst-hit. “The monkeys feast on the coconuts and cause extensive loss to us,” said S Perumal, a farmer from Thuraiyur which has been among the worst affected areas. Maize, groundnut, sunflower and vegetables are raised in Trichy and Perambalur where peafowls also abound. “Human-wildlife conflict is not new to our country. It is increasing day by day not only in protected zones but also local ecological zones like villages,” says Q Ashoka Chakkaravarthy, wildlife conservation biologist. “The forest department should establish a rehabilitation centre for monkeys. Pachamalai hill is a suitable place for it,” he said. “There are no protected zones like sanctuaries in Trichy and surrounding areas. So, farmers face trouble from wild animals very often,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trees-felled-for-road-widening-to-blame-for-monkey-menace/articleshow/80337290.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
January 19, 2021||Madurai||Act firm on illegal bldgs on govt land: HC||Madurai: The state government has to have a sense of discipline and uniformly demolish all unauthorised structures in revenue and public land, the Madras high court has said, and asked the government to submit a comprehensive report on a plea seeking to remove unauthorised statues in public places and road margins across the state.A division bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice M M Sundresh observed that unauthorised constructions, including religious or political statues are springing up in the revenue land parcels in the state. The judges observed that a loud and clear message has to be sent to the local people or political big shots that they cannot put up unauthorised constructions in revenue or public land across the state. The judges further observed that before putting up any statue proper permission should be obtained from the authorities concerned. The judges asked the government to take a comprehensive view in this matter and sought a report in this regard.The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by V Vaira Sekar, a resident of Thanjavur district on Monday. The petitioner stated that such unauthorised statues which are situated in the public places and road margins also causes traffic congestion and cause hindrance to the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/act-firm-on-illegal-bldgs-on-govt-land-hc/articleshow/80337289.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Smoke of gold units ‘affecting’ Kalbadevi locals||MUMBAI: After constant complaints from residents in Kalbadevi, the BMC has demolished nearly 40 chimneys at gold processing units in the vicinity in the last one month. Residents of the neighborhood had complained that work at these units resulted in emission of smoke and harmful gases through chimneys right into their homes. “These units use different acids and other material to clean and process gold. In this, they emit large amount of poisonous smoke carrying acid fumes. The smoke affects those falling in line of the wind direction. These people operate clandestinely from afternoon through the night. Complaints to different authorities have fallen on deaf ears,” said a local. Members of a residents’ association had also met BMC authorities, demanding action. Over the past month, BMC has demolished about 40 chinmeys at these gold units. Residents, however, said the action is an eyewash. “We’ve been fighting for clean air since 2000 but there hasn’t been any concrete step to stop the gold units. The chimneys will be back in a few days,” said another resident. BMC authorities said their work against these units is ongoing. “We demolish the chimneys, recover demolition cost from them and begin prosecution. Often, these chimneys return but we regularly demolish them when it is brought to our notice,” said Chakrapani Alley, assistant commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/smoke-of-gold-units-affecting-kalbadevi-locals/articleshow/80337312.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 19, 2021||Nagpur||Vax to take longer as govt restricts number of centres||Nagpur: Administering all the Covid-19 vaccines sent to the region, which are enough for 53% of the registered health care workers, is likely to take up to February 12, since the Centre has reportedly continued restriction on increasing number of centres. After a break of two days, vaccination will resume at 56 centres in 11 districts of Vidarbha on Tuesday with a target of covering 5,600 doctors, nurses, technicians, attendants etc working in government-run hospitals.On the first day, on January 16, 3,881 health care workers could be administered doses on. Total registrations for vaccination number 1,59,427. But the government had supplied 1.88 lakh doses, which included first as well as second dose of each beneficiary.After deduction of 10% wastage, 1,69,200 doses will remain, enough to vaccinate 84,600 (53%) health care workers. With 3,881 covered on Day-1, another 80,719 can be given the jab.The government on Monday reportedly cleared vaccination at same number of centres, on Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday every week. Thus, vaccination of 80,719 health care staff will be completed by February 12 if number of centres is not increased.As against proposed 60 centres, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) will continue vaccination at five centres — Pachpaoli Women’s Hospital, AIIMS, IGGMCH, GMCH and Daga Hospital.Sources from NMC told TOI, “Government directed that same number of centres will continue till January 30. Pulse polio vaccination is from January 31 to February 5. Existing beneficiaries will also have to be given second dose after completion of 28 days.”There is no clarity on vaccination of remaining 74,827 registered health care workers, including those working in private hospitals, which will be followed by front-line workers and people above 50 years and those below 50 years with comorbidities.The Centre had announced even front-line workers will be covered along with health care workers in phase-I.In some relief, Co-WIN app was reportedly working on Monday and messages were delivered to all health care workers scheduled for vaccination on Tuesday.Deputy director of health services, Nagpur division, Dr Sanjay Jaiswal told TOI, “Healthcare workers are now excited to get the jab. Many are calling and inquiring when their number will come. Good results of Day-1 sent a positive wave.”Deputy director of health services, Amravati division, Dr Rajkumar Chavan said, “Co-WIN worked properly on Monday. But random timing of 9am to 5pm was delivered to all. Our staff contacted all and gave slots for 25 each in 2 hours at each centre, that too at the convenience of the beneficiary. Plan is to ensure 100% turnout and no wastage of doses.”On Day-1, Co-WIN had not worked, and messages were not delivered to selected health care workers. Only NMC sent messages from Co-WIN to beneficiaries before and after vaccination in the region.Dr Jaiswal and Dr Chavan appealed health care workers to avail the vaccination benefits without missing the dates.NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said, “Random timing generated from Co-WIN will be continued in city as health care workers can turn up as per their convenience. To avoid wastage of doses and ensure 100% turnout, we will register 120 in Co-WIN from Wednesday so that at least 100 turn up at each centre.”Joshi added vaccination will be done six days in a week in city. “Government said four days in a week so immunization of children is not hampered and Sunday will be a rest day. But five centres of the city do not have immunization programmes. It will ensure more coverage of health care workers,” he said.Asked about vaccination of workers at private hospitals, Joshi said discussions are going on and final decision will be taken on Thursday. “We will chalk out a plan to cover doctors and other staff working in treatment of Covid patients at private hospitals.”Vaccines along with syringes in sufficient quantity have been supplied to all centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vax-to-take-longer-as-govt-restricts-number-of-centres/articleshow/80334870.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 19, 2021||Nagpur||Only 1 recipient reports side effects on Day-2 of Covid vaccination||Nagpur: Only one health care worker, from District Women’s Hospital at Amravati, was required to be hospitalized on Day-2 after Covid-19 vaccination. Eight of the nine health care workers admitted on Sunday were discharged on Monday.Deputy director of health services, Amravati division, Dr Rajkumar Chavan told TOI, “The one health care worker who was hospitalized on Monday complained of high fever and rashes. The health care worker is undergoing treatment and stable. There is nothing to worry as all these are minor side effects of vaccination.”Dr Chavan added, “Seven of the eight health care workers admitted in the division on Sunday were discharged. Only one doctor is still admitted in GMC, Akola, and likely to be discharged on Tuesday.”Dr Chavan also said, “No more cases of Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI) were registered in five districts of the division on Monday.”Deputy director of health services, Nagpur division, Dr Sanjay Jaiswal said, “One doctor who was admitted at Hingna was discharged on Monday. It was the only case of hospitalization in six districts of the division.” Dr Jaiswal also said no more cases of minor AEFI were recorded on Monday.Thus, only 10 hospitalization cases were registered in 11 districts of Vidarbha in two days of vaccination.Minor AEFI cases — mild fever, body pain, vomiting etc- were recorded in 195 persons in Vidarbha on Sunday, 165 in Nagpur division and remaining 30 in Amravati division. All were reportedly well on Monday.There have been total 205 cases of AEFI, which mean only 5.28% of 3,881 health care workers who took the jab on Day-1 of vaccination on Saturday in the region.Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said, “Minor side effects like body pain, arm pain, headache are signs of immune response and they are observed with many vaccines. Most of these effects resolve within a day or two. So there is no need to worry. Serious allergic reaction is rare but cannot be ruled out. Therefore, all beneficiaries are being observed for 30 minutes after vaccination. It can be extended up to one hour.”AEFI Nodal Officer has been appointed at all 56 centres in the region. They will contact and monitor all beneficiaries of Day-1 for more four days. A team of experts was also formed for dealing with AEFI cases.On Saturday, none of 3,881 beneficiaries complained of any health issues within 30 minutes of vaccination in observation rooms at vaccination centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/only-1-recipient-reports-side-effects-on-day-2-of-covid-vaccination/articleshow/80334849.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Doc hospitalised with fever, diarrhoea day after vaccine||Chandigarh: On Sunday night, a doctor was admitted to a hospital with fever and diarrhoea a day after he received the Covishield vaccination. “The doctor has been discharged and does not have any of the symptoms now,” confirmed director, health services, UT, Dr Amandeep Kang. She said, “As the patient was brought to the hospital, we will consider this as an adverse event and have conveyed it to the ministry. The patient was found negative for Covid.”Experts said it was too early to conclude anything about the effect of the vaccine, as antibodies start building three months after the second dose. On the first day of the immunisation on January 16, only three cases with minor side-effects were reported, and these included dizziness and nausea. The PGI is yet to receive its share of vaccines despite the fact that it has been the only hospital where there was a dedicated Covid hospital. The health department had given 300 doses to the PGI from the Central institutes’ lot. “As we have not received any such directions from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, we cannot give from our consignment,” said Dr Kang. The PGI will start its next vaccination session on Thursday and continue on the pattern of UT health department, which is four days a week. “Our consignment was supposed to be distributed by the UT department and we have conveyed this through the Punjab governor to the ministry. We have five sites, but we will open them after we receive our consignment. PGI has the highest number of registered health workers, that is, 11,000, which is more than the city’s total strength,” said a PGI official.”Sources said as Chandigarh was taken as a state in vaccine allocation, PGI was to get its quota from the UT health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/doc-hospitalised-with-fever-diarrhoea-day-after-vaccine/articleshow/80336078.cms||Shimona Kanwar
January 19, 2021||Pune||Pune: Rural schools get going with second reopening on January 27||PUNE: As it was for the senior classes, a contrasting situation is unfolding in the urban and rural areas over reopening of schools for standards V to VIII too. Rural schools are ready and willing to open for students, unlike the urban schools where local authorities have yet to make any move to welcome back the younger lot. The state government has said these classes can begin from January 27. The officials at the Pune zilla parishad (ZP) said they were 100% prepared for the reopening from January 27 while the officials at the education board of Pune Municipal Corporation said there were no signs of reopening yet at their level. Pune ZP chief executive officer, Ayush Prasad, told TOI that they have been very successful in reopening the higher section, and so far there has not been a single Covid-19 case, and the schools are running smoothly. “We are preparing for the January 27 reopening also and we have started informing parents, teachers to get ready,” he added. Chief of PMC’s education board, Shivaji Daudkar, said, “We have not been notified by the commissioner or the higher authorities as yet about the reopening. So, there are no such moves as yet to reopen the schools for standard V to VIII. At present, we are taking stock of the schools that have reopened for classes IX to XII.” When the state government had given the nod to reopen the schools for standards IX to XII, the rural schools started preparations and reopened on the set date of November 23. Municipal corporations across the state took time to decide and the PMC and PCMC agreed on opening of schools in their areas only from January 4. The first week had less than five per cent schools reopening, which later picked up but was still less than 20% till mid-January. In the rural areas, the percentage of schools that had reopened for standard IX to XII was 87.9 % in Maharashtra and nearly 45% in Pune. Teachers have been are multitasking with recorded videos in classrooms for those who are not able to come to schools and taking up face-to-face teaching for those who are attending physical classes. The online classes began on June 1, but since std IX, X and XII are crucial years, the schools were reopened after following all safety precautions. The education office inspected all schools for their students, sanitising systems, seating arrangement, daily temperature and oxygen checks, and also sought consent letters from parents. Teachers were told to report to schools with their RT-PCR negative reports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rural-schools-get-going-with-second-reopening-on-jan-27/articleshow/80336085.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 19, 2021||Surat||Developer arrested after five drown at lake facility near Chikhli||SURAT: Developer of the picnic spot in Soldhara village near Chikhli in Navsari was arrested on Monday after five people, including four of a family, drowned in a raft capsize on Sunday night.Police investigation revealed that the lake facility did not have enough safety precautions to prevent any such accidents. Police arrested its developer Ashok Patel for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Patel, a farmer, manages the facility with local people while he runs a honey bee farm nearby. The incident occurred at Eco-Point, a picnic spot developed by locals. Due to heavy rush on the weekend, a large number of people had visited the place as the facilities were made available free-of-cost for visitors. Cops said that too many people climbed over the raft that is meant for fishing, making it capsize due to overloading and 23 people falling into the water. In normal days, the capacity is limited to 15. Of the deceased, four are from the same family from Ahmedabad while one woman is from Surat city. Krishna Soni (35), her children Jaimil (10) and Hency (6) and her relative Mehul (28), all from Ahmedabad drowned along with six-year-old Imsiya Kinkhabwalaa of Begampura area in Surat city. “I always wanted that people take interest in nature. To kindle their interest, I developed the facility with the help of people and also provided free facility to the visitors,” Patel told TOI, adding that no such incident has happened in the past. “There was a heavy rush on Sunday and how the raft capsized is a mystery for all of us,” he added. Majority of the rescued people were shifted to nearby hospitals. “We are gathering details about who gave permission for the use of the lake,” said a police officer. Despite several attempts, Navsari superintendent of police Rushikesh Upadhyay was not available for his comments. Eco-Point is a popular weekend getaway housing a lake, walking track, tree house, viewing point, plant nursery, adventure activity, children playing area and cafeteria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/developer-arrested-after-five-drown-at-lake-facility/articleshow/80334938.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Covid app glitches cause information vacuum||NEW DELHI: After glitches in the Covid vaccination application on Day 1, all hospitals manually informed the beneficiaries for Monday about their schedule a day in advance. Slow functioning of the information feeding system and non-delivery of messages to beneficiaries are among the issues being faced by Co-WIN. Dr Yogesh Kushwaha, nodal officer for the vaccination programme at Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital in Khichripur, said around 35% of the beneficiaries could not turn up at the centre on Day 1 because they didn’t get any message. “The first day was a little slow because the app was not functioning properly and information was not reaching beneficiaries. On Monday, it worked a little better, but to be on the safe side, we communicated with them over phone,” said Dr Kushwaha. “The app has options for refusal and absenteeism but we were finding difficulty in feeding that information too,” he pointed out, adding that all arrangements were made to run the application on both tablets and mobile phones on Monday. Rajni Sharma, a nursing officer at the flu centre, said she had only received a call from the hospital administration. “We were expecting a call or a message through the government app, but nothing came,” she said. Dr Saroj Sharma of the paediatric department at Dr Hedgewar Arogya Sansthan in Karkardooma accepted that till Monday morning, the app was not operating properly. “We had come across beneficiaries who didn’t receive any message but turned up at the last moment after receiving a call,” she added. The glitches seemed to have contributed to the low turnout at LNJP Hospital till noon. “Many people did not receive text messages about their time and schedule for the vaccination,” said a hospital official. The district administration is contacting all beneficiaries over phone now and the hospital is also informing them, the official added. Similar problems were reported at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, with the nodal officer, Dr Shalini Chawla, stating that there was also an issue with the message format that was confusing beneficiaries. Raminder Sehgal (72), a beneficiary at the hospital, said the message in Hindi was difficult to understand, with the translation roughly saying the vaccination appointment had been postponed. “I didn’t even know that I was to be vaccinated on Monday. Later, a call from the hospital clarified things and I came for vaccination,” said Sehgal. The health workers at Indira Gandhi ESIC Hospital are not being covered as the facility erroneously got included under East Delhi district. It was realised later that the hospital falls under Shahdara district and the authorities has been informed, said Dr Sunita Chaudhary, its medical superintendent. “We expect that our workers will be covered from Tuesday,” she added. There was no reaction from Delhi government about the glitches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-app-glitches-cause-information-vacuum/articleshow/80337296.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Madurai||HC seeks report from state on plea to upload masterplans on official website||Madurai: Observing that uploading land masterplans on the official website would reduce bureaucratic red tapism, the Madras high court on Monday ordered notice and sought a comprehensive report from the state government. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by M Maruthupandian, an advocate and a resident of Ramanathapuram district, who sought the town planning authorities to upload masterplans of all the areas across the state on the official website.A division bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice M M Sundresh observed that the petitioner contended that once the masterplan is available in the website, any intending purchaser will be able able to satisfy himself as to the project that can be put on on the land that he proposes to buy. There may also not be any need to run to the authorities for permission to construct a commercial project on what is earmarked as residential land.The judges observed that it prima facie appears to be an excellent idea. If masterplans are put on the website, it not only ensures that things move according to the plan, it will also entail less requests for conversion of one type of land to another. The petitioner stated that he came across several incidents where people who purchase land for commercial purposes come to know that the area was not classified as a commercial area when they approach the town planning authorities for building plan approval. He stated that such kinds of issues would be prevented if the masterplan along with the type of classification of the land is made available on the website.Hence, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench. He also sought to make it mandatory to mention the classification of the land in the document during the time of registration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-report-from-state-on-plea-to-upload-masterplans-on-official-website/articleshow/80337291.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Trichy||Politics is not cinema, join DMK-led front: Karti to Kamal||Pudukottai: Congress MP Karti P Chidambaram on Monday suggested that actor Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam join the DMK–Congress alliance for the upcoming assembly elections in Tamil Nadu as nothing can be achieved by remaining alone. Speaking to reporters in Pudukottai on the sidelines of a party meeting, Karti said it was impossible to succeed in politics as it happens in cinema where the protagonist becomes rich within a song. “Therefore, it will be a pragmatic decision if Kamal joins DMK–Congress alliance,” he said. “The Congress party believes in secularism and liberal politics. Since Kamal Haasan also speaks on same lines, he should be comfortable in aligning with the coalition in which Congress is an integral part,” he said. “When people don’t like two major coalitions in the poll fray, they tend to vote for parties like the MNM and the Naam Tamilar Katchi. While their vote share is not significant, these votes can only be considered protest votes and these are not positive votes,” he said. If the parties like MNM wanted to succeed in the mainstream politics, they should be part of a coalition, he added. To a question on issues among parties in the coalition, he said friction in multiple party coalition is obvious before election. More parties are likely to join the DMK alliance in the coming days and issues would be sorted out by deliberations, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/politics-is-not-cinema-join-dmk-led-front-karti-to-kamal/articleshow/80337295.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||UT health workers to be vaccinated by next month||Chandigarh: The city will complete Covid vaccination of all health workers, except those of PGI, by mid-February as the requested consignment has been almost halved. The city has received Covishield vaccines for 5,400 beneficiaries in the first lot. Keeping that in mind, it will take around 15 days at all the four sites to vaccinate health workers in this batch, while the remaining 3,765 beneficiaries will get it when the next consignment arrives next month. The UT health department has received directions from the Union ministry of health and family welfare for the schedule. Initially, the city was to receive 21,000 vaccines and later it was reduced to 12,000. “We got the vaccine schedule from the ministry. Earlier, we had decided to have nine sites, but as the consignment could not match, it was reduced to four. We have not included PGI in it,” said director, UT health services, Dr Amandeep Kang.According to a back-of-the-envelope calculation, if all the health workers registered for the day come four days a week to the allotted four sites, 8,791 will be vaccinated in 22 days or five weeks. There are a total of 9,165 health workers, of which 374 were given the vaccine on the first day. “On the first day, there was more than 70% attendance. But now it is being assumed that not many beneficiaries will come. In that case, the vaccine activity for the health workers is expected to be complete by next month,” said an official in the UT health department. When the DHS was asked about fast-tracking the vaccination, she said, “We are following the guidelines and the schedule given by the ministry.” Sources said it has been instructed that the vaccination activity should not be completed before the timeline given by the ministry as it might take some time for the next consignment to arrive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-health-workers-to-be-vaccinated-by-next-month/articleshow/80336084.cms||Shimona Kanwar
January 19, 2021||Vijayawada||MLC bypoll: Suneetha likely to be elected unopposed||Vijayawada: YSRC nominee Pothula Suneetha will be the unanimous candidate for the impending by-election to the upper house in the state. She filed her nomination papers with the returning officer in the legislative council on Monday, the last day to file nominations. Suneetha’s is the only nomination the returning officer received since the process started on January 11. She is likely to be declared elected unopposed to the upper house under assembly quota. The post fell vacant on November 1 last year when she resigned from her membership and from the TDP. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy nominated her for the by-election on behalf of the ruling party to complete her remaining term, which will end on March 29, 2023. Suneetha will become the second MLC to quit TDP and the upper house, join the ruling party and get re-elected. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mlc-bypoll-suneetha-likely-to-be-elected-unopposed/articleshow/80334863.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Bookings start for Rajdhani Express daily run from CSMT||Bookings have begun at all computerised reservation centres and on website for CSMT-Hazrat Nizamuddin Rajdhani Express which is scheduled to run daily from Tuesday. The train leaves Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus Mumbai at 4 pm daily and arrives at Hazrat Nizamuddin at 9.55 am the following day. In the return direction, it leaves Hazrat Nizamuddin at 4.55 pm daily and arrives at CSMT at 11.15 am the next day, said a Central Railway spokesperson. It has a First AC, five AC-2 Tier and eleven AC-3 Tier and a pantry car. The frequency was increased to four times a week in 2019 and now it will run daily, he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bookings-start-for-rajdhani-express-daily-run-from-csmt/articleshow/80317418.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 19, 2021||Kochi||HC orders to continue prosecution against Biju Ramesh||Kochi,T’puram: The high court has directed for continuing with the prosecution against Biju Ramesh for allegedly submitting false evidence before a court in the bar bribery case. Justice R Narayana Pisharadi issued the directive while setting aside JFCM-II Thiruvananthapuram’s decision not to entertain the application for prosecuting Ramesh for submitting false evidence. The court considered a petition filed by Sreejith Premachandran of Thiruvananthapuram through advocate T Asaf Ali. It is alleged in the complaint that Ramesh gave false statement on oath and produced an edited CD containing recordings of conversations before the magistrate court. The lower court had held that it has no jurisdiction to entertain the complaint against Ramesh. Advocate Asaf Ali had argued that the lower court had sufficient power to entertain such an application but did not. A counsel representing Ramesh had contended a total stranger to the case cannot approach the lower court and that the lower court lacked such power. After considering the case, the HC held that Ramesh’s contention that the petitioner has no locus standi could not be accepted as per a 1978 Supreme Court decision. The HC held that the lower court has jurisdiction to entertain and consider the application for prosecution and directed for doing so. Meanwhile, Ramesh said that he was still confident of proving his points. He told television channels that he had submitted the device used to record the conversations and all his claims would be proven right if the device is examined. “I welcome the court directive,” he said. Ramesh, who repeated his earlier arguments that UDF leaders, including opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, had received money from him, added that he was not afraid of going to jail if he is proven wrong. He alleged that it was Chennithala’ benami who approached the HC with the complaint that he had submitted fake and doctored documents in the court. He said the CD and recording device he submitted in the court while giving the statement under Section 164 were not examined by any agency. Ramesh also said he was not hopeful of any positive outcome in the investigation into the case in connection with the suicide of SNDP Kanichukulangara union former secretary and SNDP general secretary Vellappally Natesan’s close aide K K Mahesan. “Nobody would dare to antagonise Vellappally Natesan. There has been no improvement even in the case in connection with the death of Swamy Saswathikananda,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-orders-to-continue-prosecution-against-biju-ramesh/articleshow/80334922.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Madurai||Form committee to study Madurai’s chances to be 2nd capital: Chamber||Madurai:A high-level committee comprising experts from various fields should be constituted to explore the possibilities of making Madurai the second capital of the state, Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry has said.In a statement, the president of the Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry, N Jegatheesan, said the growing population and traffic congestion in capital Chennai has made the second capital a must. Madurai is the most suited city to become the second capital.To start a small-scale industry, an entrepreneur in Kanyakumari has to travel 750km to Chennai to meet various department officials and to get necessary permissions. Southern Tamil Nadu is lagging behind in trade and industrial development. Madurai is a historical and ancient place credited with development of Tamil Sangam. The city is the centre of the southern districts and ideal for a second capital. One third of the population of Tamil Nadu is living in the fourteen southern districts. More trade and industrial units are needed to ensure economic growth in south Tamil Nadu.If Madurai becomes the second capital, large-scale manufacturing industries around Chennai are likely to move to Madurai and southern Tamil Nadu. Small ancillary units depending on large industries would also be located in the area, which pave avenues to provide more employment opportunities for the educated youths in the region. Adequate land, human resources and infrastructure are available in southern districts for establishing various government department offices. Madurai is well-connected with four lane roads and has facilities such as rail transport, international airport, AIIMS and Madras high court bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/form-committee-to-study-madurais-chances-to-be-2nd-capital-chamber/articleshow/80337344.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Pune||Turn on & tune in to AIR Pune for English lessons starting from today||PUNE: The primary education department of Pune Zilla Parishad has decided to broadcast English lessons via All India Radio from January 19 to March 26. “Students learn a language by listening, speaking, reading and writing the language. However, many in the rural areas do not get a chance to listen to English or even speak the language. Not everyone has a smartphone or internet facility. So online education may not reach everyone, and hence radio is a good alternative. This programme aims to bridge the gap and does not stress much on grammar and other aspects of the language as much as it stresses on listening and speaking,” ZP vice-president Ranjit Shivatare said. The content is age-appropriate and related to the day-to-day life of students so that they connect better. Each lesson starts with a small act and both English and Marathi are used for better understanding. Shivatare said a similar programme was held between 2011 and 2016, which had a positive outcome. “We have told all teachers, block education officers and students to tune in to this programme. We also appeal to parents to allow their wards to listen to this. Wherever radios are not available, teachers will arrange community radios for students to listen to the programme while adhering to all Covid-19 safety protocols,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/turn-on-tune-in-to-air-pune-for-english-lessons-starting-from-today/articleshow/80336117.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 19, 2021||Vijayawada||Rising costs of material may hit construction sector in AP||Amaravati: The construction sector in the state, which has been reeling in crisis for the past two years, once again finds itself slipping into muddy waters as a result of steep rises in prices of steel and cement. Builders are concerned over the sudden rise in material costs just as construction activity was beginning to pick up pace. Realtors fear that the increase of material cost might force them to revise prices leading to another slump in the market. Cement prices touched the Rs 380 to Rs 400 per bag-mark from Rs 280 to Rs 300 in the retail market over the last 45 days. Prices had begun picking up gradually after the Centre eased Covid-19 regulations and opened up the markets. Construction activity had slowed down in March due to Covid-19. While cement retailers sold stocks at old prices soon after the market reopened, cement companies started delivering new stocks with revised prices. The prices were slowly revised to see an increase of 25% in a span of 45 days. Similarly, steel prices have also gone up by around Rs 15,000 per tonne, from Rs 30,000 per tonne to Rs 45,000, over the last one month. “There is a near 50% increase in steel prices and it is causing enormous burden on builders,” said A Murali, a realtor. Builders predict that flats may become expensive by at least Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 per square feet. “This discourages potential home buyers and imposes a burden on builders in recovering investment,” said a member of Credai. Cement manufacturers, however, faulted realtors for the increase in construction costs. South India Cement Manufacturers Association (Sicma) recently denied allegations of cartelisation by cement companies. “Cement constitutes 2% of total construction cost. It will not have any impact on pushing up construction cost up,” SICMA president and India Cements chief, N Srinivasan had told reporters last week. A representative from Sicma said that all developers of apartments were getting cement stocks well below the Rs 300 per bag price and sought to know as to why they should be bothered about revision of retail prices. “Not even half a bag of cement is needed for construction per square foot. It means that there will not be more than Rs 50 burden per each square foot even if the price of a bag is increased by Rs 100. Surprisingly, the price has not gone beyond Rs 50 per bag in the wholesale market,” said a cement distributor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rising-costs-of-material-may-hit-construction-sector-in-ap/articleshow/80336013.cms||Samdani MN
January 19, 2021||Nashik||Deshmukh wants to find source of Arnab Goswami’s information||Nashik: State home minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday said he has sought the senior police officers’ feedback on the source of sensitive information available to Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami.“The alleged WhatsApp conversation between Arnab Goswami and Partho Dasgupta, the former CEO of the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), which has now gone viral, mentions some very sensitive things. It also has a mention of Balakot and Pulwama,” said Deshmukh, wondering how Goswami got to access this information.Deshmukh, speaking to reporters during his visit to Nashik, said he will hold a meeting with the officers on Tuesday.“We are collecting information on this matter. We have called an important meeting. After that, we would decide on our next course of action,” the home minister said.Later in the day, Deshmukh visited the Maharashtra Police Academy. He reviewed the training that is given to the police officers and also checked various facilities like the firing range, the running track and the hockey ground.He then held a meeting with the officers of the Nashik city and rural police.Nashik city police commissioner Deepak Pandey said the state home minister, while giving certain instructions to the cops, also expressed satisfaction at the work done by both the police units in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/deshmukh-wants-to-find-source-of-arnab-goswamis-information/articleshow/80337924.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 19, 2021||Madurai||Virtual courts here to stay: CJ||Madurai: Madras high court Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee said that the pandemic has changed the working culture as virtual courts are her to stay, at an event organised to welcome him during his first sitting at the Madurai bench for two days from Monday. “We can on a permanent basis make use of the virtual platform,” he said.“We will be one team and will share my thoughts on how to go about after the pandemic effect is slightly eased. With the vaccination coming in and the number of cases going down, I will consult the judges and others before opening up the courts a bit,” he said. He said that in the last nine months everything has changed including the work culture. Banerjee said that public office is a position of trust, which unfortunately some recent occupants have probably not shown the character expected of them and needs to change.He said that he is very happy to dictate the orders immediately after the matter is over and that once he reserves orders, he takes a maximum of three or four working days to deliver the orders. He said that if you deliver judgements to the face of advocates who are arguing, you will not miss the points that they have made and they will stand up and correct you on facts. He noted that it is an advantage to deliver judgements in open courts, but sometimes owing to time constraints it is not done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/virtual-courts-here-to-stay-cj/articleshow/80337319.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Nagpur||‘No scientific reason to get both vaccine doses from same batch’||Nagpur: There does not seem to be any scientific reason behind the government directions to use Covid-19 vaccine of the same batch for the first and second shot, say experts. Officials claim this strategy has been adopted to ensure availability of vaccine when time for second dose comes.Vidarbha’s 11 districts had received 1.88 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine. The number of health care workers registered for vaccination is 1,59,427. All can be given the first dose of the vaccine. However, only around 50% of the health care workers are going to be covered in these doses.The health care workers are supposed to get booster dose 28 days after the first shot. The government has said that the vaccine doses sent are ‘double doses’, which means each beneficiary should get the second dose from the same batch.Apart from delaying vaccination of health care workers, the storage of this batch for 28 days has become a challenge.Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde told TOI, “There are recommendations not to use hybrid vaccine strategy, which means avoiding two different brand of vaccines. But there is no scientific recommendation for giving both shots from the same vaccine batch. Such suggestions might have been given by the manufacturers for some technical reasons.”Another doctor also said the same thing, on condition of anonymity.The guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) on Thursday said inter-changeability of vaccine is not permitted. “Second dose should also be of the same Covid-19 vaccine which was administered as the first dose,” it said.Deputy director of health services Dr Sanjay Jaiswal said, “The government issued these instructions to ensure availability of second dose on time for health care workers who get the first dose now. The second dose is supposed to be given after 28 days. There might be problems if vaccine supply is not available when time for second dose comes,” he said.Dr Jaiswal also said vaccine doses for remaining health care workers will come in soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-scientific-reason-to-get-both-vaccine-doses-from-same-batch/articleshow/80334912.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 19, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Five arrested for spreading rumours on vandalism in Prakasam district||VIJAYAWADA: Continuing its crackdown on those spreading rumours and fake news, Singarayakonda police on Monday arrested five persons for falsely claiming that the Lakshmi Narasimha arch at Singarayakonda village in Prakasam district was desecrated. According to Singarayakonda police, the five arrested — T Anil Kumar (36), M Srinivas Rao (42), C Naresh Kumar Reddy (27), B Devendra Kumar (38) and B Nagamalikarjun (24) — had been spreading false claims across various social media platforms which had started to cause tensions among locals. Upon knowinng about these rumours, the temple’s executive officer (EO), Byragi, lodged a complaint in which he clarified that the cement arch was constructed around 20 years ago and that the damage that was being circulated as desecration, was actually due to natural wear and tear. He also alleged that the five accused chose to spread falsehoods in a bid to disrupt communal harmony. Cops said that the rumours were being circulated on WhatsApp, Twitter, Facebook and by a few YouTube channels. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the IPC. Elsewhere, Srinivasa Rao, a BJP functionary from Sattenapalli in Guntur district, was detained for allegedly spreading fake news regarding attacks on temples. Rao’s wife had lodged a complaint in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/five-arrested-for-spreading-rumours-on-vandalism/articleshow/80336191.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Pune||Fellowshipapplications till Jan 31||Pune: Students can apply for the research fellowship offered by TERRE Policy Centre till January 31. The fellowship is applicable for college students and five selected ones will get Rs 25,000 and a certificate. A statement issued by TERRE said the application for the national fellowship titled ‘Dr APJ Kalam Young Research Fellowship’ will be online. The scholarship is a tribute to Kalam and to encourage young, budding researchers, Vinita Apte, founder-president of the institute, said in a statement. The scholarship for those between 18 to 25 years of age. Apte said they have received 400 applications which will be examined and presented in April and interviews with the jury will be in May and the results will be in June. For more information visit http://www.drkalamfellowship.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fellowshipapplications-till-jan-31/articleshow/80337389.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid effect: T stares at Rs 40k cr shortfall||Hyderabad: As the state is gearing up to prepare budget estimates for 2021- 22 financial year, a dent to the tune of Rs 40,000 crore due to Covid-19 induced slowdown has become a concern. The state presented budget for the year with an estimate of Rs 1,82,000 crore but by the end of the financial year, but it could generate only Rs 1,42,000 crore. The dent was mainly due to short fall in tax revenue, stamps, registration and non-tax revenue estimations. Another concern for the state is almost exhausting additional and conditional extra borrowing limit. It has nearly exhausted the limit. “We are seriously considering all possibilities, but there will not be any rationalization of the public welfare schemes as we promised people about them,” state planning board vice-chairman, B Vinod Kumar said . Interestingly though the state was expected to budget an estimate of Rs 2 lakh crore this year, the government only presented an estimation of Rs 1,82,000 crore. Source said that there could be a dent or slowdown of infra projects due to this. Telangana finance minister Harish Rao during an interaction with the Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on budget preparation, informed that the state lost Rs 723 crore as the Centre did not consider the commendation given by the finance commission. Rao demanded that states should be given higher tax rates from the Centre. “The conditional borrowing limit grant given due to Covid- 19 induced economic slowdown also should continue for the coming financial year. The state should also release Rs 900 crore for the backward areas development. Interest subsidy for SHG women should be extended to all the districts. Release GST compensation immediately,” he added. He demanded Centre to distribute Covid-19 vaccine free of cost in the country like they promised in Bihar. Interestingly, state health minister Eatala Rajender some time back said that vaccine will be free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-effect-t-stares-at-rs-40k-cr-shortfall/articleshow/80336125.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 19, 2021||Nashik||‘Act against those who have Rs 1L tax dues’||Nashik: Commissioner of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) Kailas Jadhav on Monday directed officials to take action against defaulters who have dues over Rs 1 lakh in property and water taxes. Jadhav has also set the target of recovering 50% of the property tax dues and 75% of the target revenue collection set for this financial year by the end of the current fiscal. The directive of the civic chief comes in the wake of the drop in the NMC’s revenue collection that has been hit following the Covid-19 outbreak. “There are 238 water tax defaulters who have dues over Rs 1 lakh. These defaulters altogether have water tax dues amounting to Rs 10 crore. I have directed the officials to recover at least Rs 8 crore from them,” said Jadhav. Moreover, there are over 3,700 defaulters who have property tax dues of over Rs 1 lakh. So far, the NMC has collected Rs 82 crore as property tax in the current fiscal compared to Rs 110 crore collected during the corresponding period last year. Of the Rs 132 crore-target set as revenue collection from water taxes for this fiscal, the NMC has managed to collect only Rs 25 crore so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/act-against-those-who-have-rs-1l-tax-dues/articleshow/80337926.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 19, 2021||Pune||Pune Zilla Parishad education teams on mission to track child labourers||PUNE: Pune Zilla Parishad has formed teams of teachers and anganwadi workers to rescue child labourers.  “We will ask the parents about the schools where the children were enrolled and cross verify with the schools if they have been attending the classes or not so as to double check the authenticity of their claims. We suspect that due to the pandemic and the resultant financial distress, the number of cases of child labour have increased,” Ayush Prasad, CEO, Pune ZP, said. The ZP has already identified hotspots such as hotels, roadside dhabas, brick kiln, sugar cane fields and public construction sites. “It is not possible for teachers to enter and search these places. Hence, we have urged the district collector to give special permission to teachers and anganwadi workers to enter the premises of establishments for a search,” Prasad added. The commissioners of social welfare and tribal welfare have been contacted for opening their hostels as a makeshift rescue home for such children before they are rehabilitated. The ZP already has a strong network of women volunteers connected via hundreds of WhatsApp groups. The contacts shall be used to identify students, especially girls, being kept out of school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-edu-teams-on-mission-to-track-child-labourers/articleshow/80336156.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS hits back, says 172 BJP MPs facing cases||HYDERABAD: Taking strong objection to the remarks made by BJP leaders terming the TRS as a ‘mafia party’ on Sunday, TRS leaders on Monday alleged that 172 BJP MPs out of 302 party members in Lok Sabha, are facing allegations and involved in various cases. They said this only shows which party is a mafia party. The TRS leaders also termed BJP as ‘bakwas jyada party.’ బండి సంజయ్ నీకు దమ్ముంటే తెలంగాణకు కేంద్రం ఏమి చేసిందో చెప్పి మాట్లాడు...- మీడియా సమావేశంలో ఎమ్మెల్సీ… https://t.co/MEAktaIgtA— TRS Party (@trspartyonline) 1610968173000Addressing press conferences here separately on Monday, party MLAs Gyadari Kishore Saidi Reddy and A Jeevan Reddy and MLCs — Shambirpur Raju, Bhanu Prasad and Srinivas Reddy — said Union home minister Amit Shah took shelter in Delhi for two years when he was charged in some cases. The leaders also dared BJP state president Bandi Sanjay to come for a debate with them on development of the state and central assistance. They said Pragathi Bhavan is a symbol of development. Sanjay at the party executive meeting alleged that the CM’s camp office had become a platform for land, sand and brick mafia. The leaders also dared BJP state president Bandi Sanjay to come for a debate with them on development of the state and central assistance||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-hits-back-says-172-bjp-mps-facing-cases/articleshow/80336149.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Dehradun||After a gap of one year due to Covid-19, Nehru Institute of Mountaineering set to resume courses from March||Fresh batches start training at the institute from MarchUttarkashi: After a gap of almost a year due to the outbreak of Covid-19, Uttarkashi-based Nehru Institute of Mountaineering (NIM) will start its fresh batches from March onwards, officials of the institute said. They added that the institute will also run extra courses to make up for the backlog. Significantly, the premier mountaineering institute, which is under the aegis of the ministry of defence, runs a gamut of courses ranging from basic and advanced mountaineering training to search and rescue as well as skiing. Every year hundreds of youths and adventure lovers join these courses to refine their skills. However, the institute was unable to conduct even a single batch due to the pandemic last year. Colonel Amit Bisht, principal of NIM, said, “We are starting the new session from March and will run all the regular and special courses like earlier.” He added, “We have also decided to run two extra batches each of basic and advanced mountaineering courses to compensate for last year’s session. This will benefit more than 300 registered students, who suffered due to cancellation of the courses in 2020.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-a-gap-of-one-year-due-to-covid-19-nehru-institute-of-mountaineering-set-to-resume-courses-from-march/articleshow/80334081.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
January 19, 2021||Nagpur||NSUI files complaint against Arnab Goswami||Chandrapur: The National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), student wing of the Indian National Congress, has lodged a complaint against editor-in-chief of Republic TV Arnab Goswami for allegedly leaking sensitive information about surgical strike on terrorist camps in Pakistan three days before the actual operation. The complaint, filed by NSUI national secretary Roshanlal Bittu, is based on transcript of the purported chat between Goswami and former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), Partho Dasgupta, which is part of the Mumbai police charge sheet in the TRP scam.Bittu told TOI that soon after he learnt about the purported transcript of WhatsApp chat of Goswami that revealed the sensitive information about air strike planned on terrorist camps in Pakistan, he appraised the higher ups in the organization and lodged a formal complaint with Ramnagar police here. Though cops have accepted the complaint, they did not respond by filing FIR, he added.The complaint filed by Bittu accuses Goswami of treachery and also raises question as to how he (Goswami) was able to know about the highly sensitive information about government’s plan to retaliate through surgical strike against Pakistan after the Pulwama attack on February 14, 2019 that killed 40 CRPF personnel in J&K.Bittu has alleged that Goswami had exposed the highly sensitive information and betrayed the countrymen. He has urged to register offence against Goswami and others involved in the matter and take action as per the law. Superintendent of police Arvind Salve said the complaint was received at Ramnagar police station in Chandrapur city late on Saturday night. “We have so far not registered any offence. The matter is under consideration and we will soon decide over the complaint,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nsui-files-complaint-against-arnab-goswami/articleshow/80334925.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 19, 2021||Vijayawada||Farmers’ bank weathers Covid, posts 27% growth||Vijayawada: Recovering from the Rs 29 crore Secured Over Draft (SOD) scam in 2017, Krishna District Cooperative Central Bank (KDCCB) has managed to increase its total business from Rs 6,200 crore in 2019-20 to Rs 6,908 crore till date in 2020-21. The bank, which had struggled to recover bad debts and expand its business till 2019, registered a 27.84 per cent growth in 2019-20. Known as the farmer’s bank, KDCCB has 59 branches in the district. Freedom fighter Bhogaraju Pattabhi Seetharamiah, the founder of Andhra Bank, established KDCCB along with Ayyadevara Kaleswara Rao in 1918. The activity of the bank had been limited to crop loans and term loans and as a result, it struggled to increase manpower and pay bonuses and other benefits to employees. Things changed after a few key decisions taken by the board headed by chairman Yarlagadda Venkata Rao. The bank introduced a number of loan and deposit schemes to attract farmers as well as normal customers. Under Raithu Nestham scheme, each farmer is given a Rs 15 lakh loan. Farmers can repay the loan within 10 years by paying Rs 1.5 lakh plus applicable interest every year. Altogether 7,500 farmers utilised this scheme which was introduced in January 2020. “We are committed to developing the bank in multi directions. We want to change the notion that ours is a crop loan bank. We have started an education loan scheme for the children of farmers. The bank will sanction up to Rs 30 lakh education loan pledging agriculture land for students who wish to study abroad at 9.5 per cent interest per annum. In a bid to encourage entrepreneurship in farming community, the bank has started giving overdraft facilities to children of farmers who started their own businesses,” Venkata Rao said. “We have got appreciation from district authorities for giving the highest amount of loans to farmers and self-help group (SHG) women during the Covid-19 period,” he said. “We are happy that RBI gave permission to start three gold loan branches in Vijayawada in which farmers can get gold loans at 0.71 paise per cent per month interest to farmers and 0. 75 paise per cent interest to others. The bank is also eyeing to expand its branches,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/farmers-bank-weathers-covid-posts-27-growth/articleshow/80334933.cms||Venu Lanka
January 19, 2021||Madurai||Farmers seek govt relief for damaged crops||Tuticorin: Farmers dependent on rains for cultivation of pulses and crops in the arid regions of Tuticorin district thronged the district collectorate here on Monday with their damaged crops, urging the government to give them Rs 30,000 as compensation per acre of crop damage. The crops were damaged due to inundation as a result of unseasonal heavy downpour last week and flooding Thamirabarani.“We have come on behalf of the people of Ilavangal village in Kayathar taluk where we have cultivated in around 1,500 acres crops including urad dal, green gram and maize. We have spent Rs 30,000 per acre and want the government to give us the same as compensation,” said K Dorairaj. Farmer Mariappan said that the Rs 4,000 per acre announced by the government – at Rs 10,000 per hectare – is pittance and is less than a 10th of what they have spent on their fields in addition to their labour. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/farmers-seek-govt-relief-for-damaged-crops/articleshow/80337384.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Nagpur||Bhandara hospital fire inquiry report delayed further||Nagpur: Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar-led committee couldn’t finalize the report of inquiry into Bhandara district general hospital fire which claimed the lives of 10 premature babies on January 9, by late Monday evening too.Till reports last came in late in the evening, Kumar was still in the process of finalizing the crucial report which is likely to fix responsibility for the tragedy and also make suggestions on fire preventions in hospitals to the government.On Monday morning, home minister Anil Deshmukh had told TOI that Kumar would submit the report by evening. Deshmukh had a discussion with Kumar on Sunday and had taken a review of the inquiry. “The course of action would be decided once the inquiry report is ready, said Deshmukh.Kumar didn’t respond to TOI’s calls and messages seeking confirmation on submission of the report till the time of going to press.Sources said Kumar was still holding discussion with the panel members at PWD’s civil lines office till late in the evening. They said Kumar has recommended certain ‘improvements’ in the report submitted by health director Dr Sadhana Tayade, who monitored the probe at hospital level. Bhandara police is awaiting the report submission to initiate action. The police are already probing the case after registering Sec 174 under CrPC for accidental death.The expert committee was given an extended deadline till Sunday. Health secretary Pradeep Vyas had informed the state cabinet past week that the panel would submit its report on January 17 which didn’t happen.Vyas and health commissioner Ramaswamy N didn’t answer TOI’s calls and messages.The panel has completed its spot inspection and questioning of stakeholders three days back. Since January 15, the panel members are in the city busy writing the report at the commissioner’s office in Old Secretariat. On Sunday and Monday, the members met at the PWD Civil Lines office where Kumar too reached to finalize the report.Sources said the members are staying back late night to finalize the report.BMC deputy commissioner (fire safety) Prabhat Rahangdale, who is also assisting the Kumar committee, had visited Bhandara just once on January 12. He is said to be working on his report from Mumbai.Health director Dr Sadhana Tayade, GMCH paediatric head Dr Dipty Jain, PWD representative, Bhandara collector’s representative and deputy chief fire officer (Mumbai) Rajendra Choudhary have majorly conducted the questioning and spot inspection at Bhandara.Panel chief Kumar has visited the hospital a couple of times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bhandara-hospital-fire-inquiry-report-delayed-further/articleshow/80334950.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 19, 2021||Madurai||Consultative meeting of Madurai smart city forum to be held today||Madurai: The first-ever consultative meeting of the Smart City Advisory Forum (SCAF) of Madurai Corporation has been convened to be held on Tuesday. The consultative meetings are mandated by the Union ministry of urban development so that projects required for the people of the city can be discussed. The forum comprises the district collector T Anbalagan (chairman), MP Su Venkatesan (joint chairman), MLAs, representatives of trade and industrial bodies and a secretary/president of a residents’ welfare association as its members. The meetings have to be conducted at least twice a year.Corporation commissioner and managing director of Madurai Smart City Limited, S Visakan has sent the invitations to the office-bearers and members for the meeting to be held at Anna Maaligai at 10am on Tuesday. Venkatesan said that he had insisted the then district collector T G Vinay to form the forum and conduct a consultative meeting in July 2020. But, it was not conducted. Although he wrote reminders, no effort was taken to conduct the meeting.As a result, as joint chairman, he sent the invitations on Saturday to hold the meeting. Following this, the collector and the corporation commissioner spoke to him and assured to conduct the meeting on Tuesday. The ministry in 2016 sent a memorandum to form the forum to consult and take decisions on the smart city projects. However, it was not formed until recently though most projects are nearing completion.Pointing out that very few cities in the state are conducting the meetings, corporation officials said that they could not hold it in Madurai as they are engrossed in other works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/consultative-meeting-of-madurai-smart-city-forum-to-be-held-today/articleshow/80337359.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||NCB arrests Nigerian who swallowed 12gm cocaine in Juhu||MUMBAI: Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday arrested a Nigerian national for possessing 12 gm cocaine. On the basis of a tip off, the NCB on January 14 laid a trap near a five-star hotel in Juhu where the accused was to come to deliver the cocaine. When the team approached the accused, Ifeanyichukwu Pius, he swallowed the cocaine which was concealed in plastic pellets weighing nearly 1 gm each. The team immediately nabbed the peddler and took him for an X-ray and CT scan to JJ Hospital. Medical examination confirmed the presence of the pellets, which he was then made to purge. He was arrested after being discharged on Monday. Meanwhile, a woman drug peddler, Nazma Shaikh, was nabbed by the anti-narcotics cell. Police recovered 100 gm MD, 3 kg charas worth Rs 54 lakh and Rs 9.45 lakh cash from her possession. Her car has also been seized. DCP Datta Nalawade said her husband, Salman, Langda, is a criminal and drug peddler.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncb-arrests-nigerian-who-swallowed-12gm-cocaine/articleshow/80337404.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||3rd Metro car shed expert panel visits Kanjur site||MUMBAI: The chief secretary-led expert committee on Metro car shed carried out field inspections on Monday. The committee, which has nine members, is the third committee to be set up by the Maharashtra state government to find a solution to the Metro III car shed impasse. It was formed in the first week of January and had been given time to submit its report within a month. Officials said the committee visited the Kanjur Marg site and a review of the Aarey, Kalina and BKC sites was also done to zero in on the most feasible site for the car shed. The Uddhav Thackeray-led government had scrapped the Aarey site for the car shed and shifted it to a site in Kanjur Marg, but the work on the Kanjur Marg site had been stayed by the Bombay high court following objections raised by the Centre on the ownership of the land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3rd-metro-expert-panel-visits-kanjur-site/articleshow/80335818.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Nagpur||8-year-old anaemic girl suffers cardiac arrest mid-air, dies||Nagpur: An eight-year-old girl flying on a Lucknow-Mumbai GoAir flight with her father was declared brought dead at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) after being rushed there following an emergency landing at 7.25am on Tuesday at Nagpur airport. Ayushi Punavashi Prajapati, resident of Seheri Khat, Siddarth Nagar, Chaffa in Uttar Pradesh, and her father were on GoAir flight G8307. Officials said they appeared financially backward and the father could barely explain the girl’s condition. The exact cause of Ayushi’s death is not known. GMCH officials said the viscera samples have been preserved to ascertain the cause of death. Prima facie, they said it appears she collapsed due to cardiac arrest triggered by high altitude. “She was anaemic. The father had not disclosed this, else he would not have been allowed to board the flight. Patients below 8 to 10gms of haemoglobin are not permitted air journeys. Ayushi’s records show she had just 2.5gms. They were going for her treatment to Mumbai,” officials said. A medical team from Kingsway Hospital, which has a tie-up with Nagpur Airport, attended to the sick flyer as soon as the plane landed. Kingsway’s emergency medical therapist Dr Mohammed Ahteshamoddin told TOI the girl was already on automated external defibrillators (a life saving device) when they rushed inside the plane. “The passenger was taken in an cardiac life support ambulance to GMCH for further evaluation. GMCH doctors declared her brought dead. She was unconscious, cold and not responsive. Her condition was serious,” he said. The flight took off immediately after patient the and her father alighted. The girl’s father didn’t mention any medical case history to the airport medical team as well. “She had some underlying diseases. But it may not be found out through post mortem. The viscera has been preserved. Sudden death can be attributed to cardiac arrest at the moment. The death is natural. Entire medical history will have to be studied in case the family submits it,” GMCH officials said. Officials said oxygen demand is more at high altitudes. “As soon as the journey started, she complained of breathing difficulty and an emergency landing was done. The father was not disclosing even after she suffered cardiac arrest. The crew members searched their bags and found blood reports of the girl stating she had 2.5gms of haemoglobin. Covid test was done and found negative. At 6pm, the body was handed over to the father, who took it by road to their native place, about 200km ahead of Lucknow,” officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/8-year-old-anaemic-girl-suffers-cardiac-arrest-mid-air-dies/articleshow/80351912.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 19, 2021||Nashik||Road safety drive in rural Nashik||Nashik: The Regional Transport Office (RTO) has decided to carry out a special traffic awareness drive in the rural areas of Nashik district with an aim to make people more aware about traffic rules and bring down the number of road accidents. The RTO kickstarted the Road Safety Campaign 2021 across the district on Monday. Various sessions would be held for motorists from time to time, besides conducting inspection drives. Regional transport officer Bharat Kalaskar said, “We have been able to bring down the number of accidents in the district by around 55%. However, there has been a sharp drop in the number of accidents in the urban areas (72%) largely because of the various awareness drives taken out for road safety.” “We have now decided to carry out a similar exercise in the rural areas by carrying out rallies throughout the year, appealing to people to wear helmets, fasten seat belts and adhere to traffic norms,” said Kalaskar. District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal has appealed to motorists to be more careful while driving to avoid accidents. District collector Suraj Mandhare called for the behavioural changes among the motorists and reign in on the speed of the vehicles to ensure there were minimal or no accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/road-safety-drive-in-rural-nashik/articleshow/80337927.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 19, 2021||Vadodara||Crocodiles flourish in Gujarat's Charotar wetlands||VADODARA/ ANAND: If the prospect of spotting the large, ponderous, lizard-like amphibious reptile with carnivorous habits stirs the inner Steven Irwin in you, then head to the wetlands of Charotar this season. The lush green belt of Central Gujarat has been buzzing with ‘jaw-dropping’ crocodile activity proving it to be safest haven for reptile species in Gujarat. Nearly 70 sq km here is a high density area, which includes villages like Deva, Heranj, Vaso, Petli and Malataj for the schedule 1 animal protected under the Indian Wildlife Protection Act. In fact, this year a record number of them have been sighted in lakes, ponds and water bodies of 25 villages of twin districts – Anand and Kheda. During a recent crocodile count carried out earlier this month by volunteers of Voluntary Nature Conservancy (VNC), wildlife enthusiasts made as many as 216 direct sightings which is almost 30 % rise and 52 more in absolute numbers compared to last year. VNC, which has been carrying out annual Charotar Crocodile Count since 2013, carried out their eight crocodile census this year. “We had sighted 164 crocodiles last year which itself was maximum of all the counts. Of the 25 villages which were surveyed, major populations were sighted in Deva, Petli, Vaso, Heranj, Malataj and Traj villages. “In fact, our teams made the maximum sightings at Deva village with 88 sightings, followed by Heranj and Traj having 25 and 24 crocodile sightings, respectively,” said Anirudh Vasava, VNC’s research coordinator. Vasava said that this reflects that people here see this species as co-inhabitant. “Residents here are not disturbing the mother crocodiles, there is enough food available for these crocodiles and so far, there is no illegal trade or disturbance to this species,” said Vasava. This year, the sightings have significantly increased. This reinforces that the water bodies in Charotar region are providing a healthy breeding ground to the crocodiles and turning into a suitable habitat for them, he said. The volunteers could record more crocodiles during the two days count because of climatic conditions as well. “The weather was cold and sky was clear making it favourable for more crocodiles to come out on the banks of the water bodies for basking,” the crocodile expert added. Volunteers spotted 16 smaller than one metre crocodiles, 85 sized between 1 and 2 metre, 54 between 2 and 3 metre, and 29 were more than 3 metres long. However, 32 more crocodiles which were sighted during the count could not be measured accurately. Every year, crocodile hunters converge at Charotar to count the jaws using the ‘citizen science’ approach. Till now, over 500 enthusiasts from nearly 19 states of the country, all from diverse backgrounds, have joined the annual event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/crocs-flourish-in-charotar-wetlands/articleshow/80334966.cms||Prashant Rupera
January 19, 2021||Vijayawada||NGT hears contempt plea against Andhra Pradesh govt||VIJAYAWADA: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) bench in Chennai inquired into the contempt petition filed against the Andhra Pradesh government for allegedly violating the tribunal’s orders on Monday. Shravan Kumar, counsel for the petitioner alleged that the Andhra Pradesh government was working on the Rayalaseema Upliftment Project though the NGT had previously ordered to stop the works until the state got the requisite approval. The advocate also stated that blasts were being carried out without any permission. A bench of Justice Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta asked Venkata Ramani, senior advocate for Andhra Pradesh, why blasting work was being done. To this, Ramani explained that the project would not be undertaken and only the necessary tests were being carried out to formulate the detailed project report (DPR). Ramani also pointed out that the NGT had allowed the government to prepare a DPR while only stopping the ground works. Ramani also explained that the AP government was preparing an explanation and would file it soon. The NGT adjourned the case till February 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ngt-hears-contempt-plea-against-govt/articleshow/80334957.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
January 19, 2021||Nagpur||ST bus to Tadoba’s Kolara gate to start from Sunday||Nagpur: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), state’s biggest public transporter, will launch a daily bus service for tourists between Nagpur and Tadoba via Umred-Bhisi-Chimur-Kolara from January 24.The bus is being started at the insistence of Chimur MLA Kirtikumar (Bunty) Bhangadiya, who on January 13 had written to MSRTC divisional controller Nilesh Belsare to start the bus following demand from tourists and locals.“Many middle-class tourists who don’t have a four-wheeler to reach the park gate have to pay through the nose. The to and fro distance between Nagpur and Kolara is 230km for which private vehicles charge a minimum of Rs3,000 and above,” said Bhangadiya.Belsare said, “We are finalizing the schedule and will launch the bus on January 24. Earlier, our tourist bus for religious places in the Nagpur district on every Sunday has turned out to be a big hit with 44 passengers availing the service in the last two schedules.”The Chimur MLA was confident that the Tadoba bus will not only help tourists but local residents also who want to visit Nagpur for various works. “About 80% tourists prefer to enter Tadoba through the Kolara gate only as it is near to Nagpur. The two schedules will mostly cater to the tourists taking a halt in Kolara,” he said.According to a regular visitor, Sandeep Dahat, the timing needs to be revised as the “bus will not benefit those wanting to take a single safari and return the same day”. “The morning schedule starts at 6.30am which is too early for tourists wanting to enjoy the afternoon safari which starts at 2pm. The second schedule too is odd as the bus starts at 12.30pm and may not reach Kolara before the safari timing.” The tentative timingsAs per the plan suggested by the Chimur MLA, there will be two schedules. The first bus will leave Nagpur at 6.30am and take Umred-Bhisi-Chimur-Kolara-Shivni-Navargaon-Sindewahi route. The same bus will start from Sindewahi at 11.45am and reach Nagpur at 3.30pm after picking up tourists returning after morning safari. The bus will benefit visitors wanting to enjoy evening and morning safari and return the next day. Similarly, another bus will leave Nagpur at 12.30pm and reach Sindewahi at 5pm, and return to Nagpur after picking passengers from Kolara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/st-bus-to-tadobas-kolara-gate-to-start-from-sunday/articleshow/80334954.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 19, 2021||Pune||A new building, more courses for varsity’s Pali dept with Rs 13.3cr funds||Pune: Research and better facilities for students will now be provided for those pursuing Pali from Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). The Pali department has received Rs13.3 crore funding from the state government. The funds will be used for a separate building for Pali studies from the funds approved by the state department of social welfare. The department’s head Mahesh Devkar said the funding will help boost research studies. It was established in July 2006 to mark the 2550th anniversary of Buddha’s mahaparinirvana and the 50th anniversary of B R Ambedkar’s embrace of Buddhism. Before its establishment, courses in Pali and Buddhist Studies were being taught in the department of Sanskrit and Prakrit Languages. The department of Pali is the only place under the jurisdiction of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) where facilities for learning Buddhist Literature in Pali, Sanskrit and Tibetan is available from basic to the advanced levels. Devkar said, “We have taken a holistic approach in the study of Buddhist studies by including a number of related sub-fields such as comparative linguistics, Buddhist psychology, comparative philosophy: Indian and Western Buddhist art, architecture and inscriptions, Buddhist culture and history of Buddhist thought, socially engaged Buddhism in our new curriculum. The funding will further enhance our current work in Pali,” he added. The department also plans to have a memorial of eminent individuals who have worked for the scheduled caste, development of important cultural and historical sites among others. The construction of a new building has begun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/a-new-building-more-courses-for-varsitys-pali-dept-with-rs-13-3cr-funds/articleshow/80336190.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Madurai||Madurai district sees decline in all crimes||Madurai: Crimes of all categories including murder, robbery and theft came down in 2020 due to an array of measures taken by city police, said Madurai city police commissioner Prem Anand Sinha on Monday.The number of murder cases in Madurai city came down by 10% in 2020 compared to 2019. While 44 murders took place in 2019, they came down to 40 in 2020. Similarly, attempt to murder cases also came down to 58 in 2020 from 71 in 2019, he said.Executing bond under CrPc has helped police control crimes in Madurai. Police executed bonds with 1,329 people under CrPc Section 110 and 719 people under Section 109. Anti-social elements, rowdy elements were kept under close surveillance, which effectively resulted in reducing crime rate in the city limits.There were only 98 robbery and chain snatching cases compared to the 127 cases in 2019. House break-in incidents also came down by 40% in 2020. While 136 house break-in incidents took place in 2019, they came down to 83 cases in 2020. Theft cases came down to 301 in 2020 from 447 cases in 2019, the commissioner said.The deputy commissioner of police (crime), Madurai city, K Palanikumar, said that earlier detection of cases has helped them bring down crimes. There are six crime teams working for the past one year to solve crime cases, he said.However, the volume of the ganja seized in 2020 was more than four times of the quantity seized in 2019. Prem Anand Sinha said that 273kg of ganja was seized in 2019 and 138 cases were registered. Whereas, in 2020, the quantity is 1,116kg and 345 cases were registered. In the second half of 2020, 994kg of ganja was seized through special drives. It had resulted in registering 285 cases. As many as 17 ganja peddlers were detained under Goondas Act in 2020. The number of arrested ganja peddlers was two in 2019, he said.The number of crimes against women and children including sexual offences also came down to 52 cases in 2020 from 61 crimes in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-district-sees-decline-in-all-crimes/articleshow/80337402.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Pune||FYJC round for 70% plus scorers opens||Pune: The second round of first-come first-served admissions to First Year Junior College ends on Tuesday in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporations. This round was exclusively for students who had scored 80% and above in their SSC examinations. Of the 421 allotted students in round 2, 400 students were admitted in the second round. In the first FCFS round, which was for students with over 90% marks in SSC, 81 students had taken admission of which 21 were from CAP while the remaining 80 were through quota admissions. The next FCFS round is for students who have scored between 350 to 500 marks (70% marks and above) and will take place on January 19 and 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fyjc-round-for-70-plus-scorers-opens/articleshow/80337401.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Kochi||Gold case: Customs gets Rabins’ custody for 10 days||Kochi: Additional chief judicial magistrate court, Ernakulam, on Monday granted custody of Rabins K Hameed, a key accused in Thiruvananthapuram gold-smuggling case, to customs for 10 days. The court in the order said in an unprecedented smuggling case like this, source of the smuggled gold and the way in which those were smuggled, the role of intermediaries abroad as well as in India etc. need effective probe. “In this context, I find sufficient ground to allow custody of A18 Rabins to the investigation officer from 12.00 noon today (Monday) to 11am on January 28,” the court order stated. The order said it is submitted by special prosecutor that a major part of the investigation is completed. The investigation revealed that Rabins has an active role in the operation of smuggling activities from UAE. The custodial interrogation is essential to find out the people who raised funds, collected the gold and other related modus operandi of smuggling of gold misusing the diplomatic channel, the court order stated. The court directed that the accused shall not be subjected to any sort of mental and physical torture while in custody and to give sufficient time of break in the course of interrogation. The court also directed to avoid interrogation during untimely hours to ensure comfortable sleep to the accused. He shall be given medical aid as and when required, the court ordered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gold-case-customs-gets-rabins-custody-for-10-days/articleshow/80334956.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Ministers Puvvada and Satyavathi face heat from TRS leaders||Hyderabad: Two ministers in KCR’s cabinet are facing the heat from party leaders and cadres in their home turfs. Transport minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar and women and child welfare minister Satyavathi Rathod are in the thick of this intra-party struggle in Khammam and Mahabubabad respectively. A video of former Khammam MP Ponguleti Srinivas Reddy training his guns on Ajay, who represents Khammam in the assembly, has gone viral. “Positions and power are not forever. Those enjoying such power should realise that the people who put them there could bring them down also,” Srinivas Reddy said while addressing his supporters. In the 2019 elections, Srinivas Reddy, a sitting MP then, was denied the TRS ticket. He raised a banner of revolt but the party leadership mollified him by reaching out to him. However, internal differences came out in the open with supporters of Srinivas Reddy often complaining that they are being ignored by Ajay. “I am also aware of the fact that people are being asked not to attend my meetings. I can meet anyone, anywhere and I do not need anyone’s permission,” Srinivas Reddy said without naming Ajay as his supporters clapped. The former minister said his son is taking up several social service activities in the segment and mingling with people. At various programmes that six-time legislator D Redya Naik of the TRS attended, his daughter, Ravinchandra and Mahabubabad MP Malothu Kavitha were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ministers-puvvada-and-satyavathi-face-heat-from-trs-leaders/articleshow/80336188.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 19, 2021||Madurai||Jewellery, cash, gun stolen from locked house||Madurai:Unidentified people broke into a house belonging to a retired deputy tahsildar and escaped with gold jewellery, cash and a double barrel gun from the house. P Ravindran, the retired official, who resides at Duraisamy Nagar in Madurai city, was away in Rajapalayam to celebrate Pongal. He returned home early on Monday and was shocked to see the front doors open. On checking, he found that gold jewellery weighing 65 sovereigns, Rs 20,000 in cash and silver utensils weighing a few kilograms were missing. Based on a complaint, a case was registered with the SS Colony police station. DCP (crime) K Palanikumar, who visited the house, said that they got some clues on the suspects and arrests will be made soon. He said that the stolen gun has a license. Cartridges of the weapon that were kept near to the gun were not touched by the thieves, he said.Ravindran’s son got married last month. He along with his parents had gone to Rajapalayam to celebrate Pongal festival in his in-laws place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/jewellery-cash-gun-stolen-from-locked-house/articleshow/80337399.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: First biodiversity management meet held||MUMBAI: The first meeting of the Biodiversity Management Committee was held as per the directions of the high Court. The meeting included eight department heads and five expert members, including corporators. The panel was set up on orders of the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court to work for the conservation of biodiversity. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1st-biodiversity-mgmt-meet-held/articleshow/80337416.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Meerut||Brother of senior IAS officer Lav Agarwal found dead with bullet wound in Saharanpur||Meerut: Ankur Agarwal (42), brother of senior IAS officer Lav Agarwal who's posted as joint secretary in the Union ministry of health and family welfare, was found dead close to his factory in UP's Saharanpur district on Monday evening.According to sources, Ankur had left for his factory in the morning and his body with a bullet injury was found at around 5 pm the same day."There was one entry and exit bullet wound on his body. His licensed pistol with six more rounds in the magazine and cartridge was recovered from the spot," Upendra Agrawal, deputy inspector general (DIG), Saharanpur range, said.Senior officials in Saharanpur said Agrawal's body was found in a deserted field near his factory in Pilakhni industrial area under Sarsawa police station in the district.Prima facie, police said, Agarwal had "killed himself". Sources added he was under financial debt which may have forced him to take the extreme step of ending his life."This could be a case of suicide but it can be ascertained only after investigation," Atul Sharma, Saharanpur superintendent of police (rural), said.The family of Agarwal has not made any official complaint or pressed charges, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/brother-of-senior-ias-officer-lav-agarwal-found-dead-with-bullet-wound-in-saharanpur/articleshow/80334103.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Madurai||Road fatalities come down by 58%||Madurai: Road deaths came down by 58% in Madurai city police limits in 2020 compared to 2019, Madurai city police commissioner Prem Anand Sinha said on Monday.He said that only 81 road deaths took place in 2020 compared to 193 deaths in 2019. Similarly, fatal road accidents too came down from 185 in 2019 to 75 in 2020.The city witnessed 682 non-fatal accidents and left 801 persons injured in 2019. But in 2020, only 487 people were injured in 455 non-fatal accidents.The commissioner said that effective enforcement of traffic rules and strict actions against offenders have helped bring down the number of deaths. As many as 5.53 lakh cases were registered in 2020 for various violations including red light jumping and speeding, while the number was 2.29 lakh cases in 2019. As many as 4.88 lakh cases were booked for violating helmet rule in 2020, which is way higher than the figures of 2019 - 2.07 lakh cases. While 41,569 cases were registered in 2020 for not wearing a seat belt, in 2019 it was 13,510, he said.Road dividers and zigzag barricades were installed at places vulnerable to accidents with the help of the highways and Madurai Corporation to bring down accidents in order to improve road safety, the commissioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/road-fatalities-come-down-by-58/articleshow/80337406.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Two more chances for those in Mumbai who missed first day shot||MUMBAI: The 2,000-odd healthcare workers from Mumbai who missed getting the vaccine on January 16 will get two more chances although they may have to wait a bit, report Vijay V Singh, Bhavika Jain & Malathy Iyer. On Monday, there was confusion over the rescheduling of dates for those who missed the shot. While city civic officials said these names would be added to the back of the 1.3-lakh-long list of healthcare workers who have been shortlisted for the first phase, a state government official said that efforts were being made to accommodate these names in this week itself. “The Co-WIN app is designed to reschedule dates for those who missed out,’’ said BMC’s immunization officer Dr Sheela Jagtap. ``The system will give every person three chances. So those who missed out on Saturday will get two more chances. After the third chance is ignored, it is presumed they don’t want to be considered,’’ she added. The first day of the mass vaccination drive for healthcare workers got off to a poor start because of technical glitches; people were informed late or were sceptical about the messages. The city witnessed only 48% turnout as against the target of vaccinating 4,000 healthcare workers on day 1. In fact, the state officials have tweaked the data-sheet generation a bit to ensure each booth vaccinates a minimum of 100 people; with 285 booths, 28,500 healthcare workers should be vaccinated on Tuesday.  State officials said that more than 100 beneficiaries will be assigned to each centre so that even if some don’t turn up, others can be vaccinated. “People who did not turn up at their scheduled time and date will be given two more chances. If they do not turn up after the third chance their name will be taken off the list," said a senior state public health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-more-chances-for-those-who-missed-first-day-shot/articleshow/80337930.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana high court slams sarpanch, imposes Rs 50,000 penalty||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court took a serious view of the first public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed in 2021 by a village sarpanch and imposed a penalty of Rs 50,000 on him. Mincing no words, a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice A Abhishek Reddy took to task petitioner Gattu Kumara Swamy for choosing the public interest litigation as a cover to espouse his own cause in the name of public interest. Swamy is a sarpanch of Laxmidevipet in Mulug district. Swamy complained that the station house officer of Venkatapur was harassing the people of his village by registering First information reports against them and sought action against the SHO. His counsel told the court that the sarpanch has got no vested interest in the case but was only trying to uphold the interests of the people. The state counsel, however, informed the judges that the petitioner is an accused in a first information report and he did not come to court with clean hands. The judges came down heavily on the petitioner and his counsel and slapped costs on the petitioner asking him to pay it to the high court legal services wing. The judges also asked the registry to screen all the public interest litigations filed by the counsel in the backdrop of the current public interest litigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-hc-slams-sarpanch-imposes-rs-50000-penalty/articleshow/80336192.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand increases work days under MGNREGA from 100 to 150||DEHRADUN: In a meeting of the State Employment Guarantee Council on Monday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat ordered to extend work days under MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) from 100 to 150 days per year. The state government would provide the required funds for the same. Besides, the district magistrates have been directed to review the works done under MGNREGA twice a month. The CM said that some districts have performed well and the local authorities there must share their experiences with other districts. प्रदेश में जल्द ही मनरेगा के कार्यदिवस 100 दिन से बढ़ाकर 150 दिन किए जाएंगे, जिसके लिए राज्य फंड से धनराशि की व्यव… https://t.co/ZJxBtO4F8j— Trivendra Singh Rawat (@tsrawatbjp) 1610973890000Uttarakhand has a total of 12.19 lakh job cardholders under the scheme, out of which 2.66 lakh cards have been added in the last 12 months. Out of the total number, 67.19% of the job cards are active. According to official data, 53.65% of the total job card holders are women. Uttarakhand is ranked second in the country in terms of payment and job card verification, according to a state government release. Out of the total budget approved for 2020-21, the state government has already released 80% of the funds. Meanwhile, the CM also asked for GIS mapping of rivers, which are to be rejuvenated in the state. For the revival and rejuvenation of water sources, the CM said that the work should be done in a planned manner. It was also decided in the meeting that priority should be given to works under the state and district plans, which can be carried out through MGNREGA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-increases-work-days-under-mgnrega-from-100-to-150/articleshow/80334105.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: BJP cranks up district units for MLC polls, appoints incharges||HYDERABAD: BJP has asked the district units in the two graduates MLC constituency elections to appoint one in-charge for every 25 voters. State unit also asked leaders of district units in Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubanagar and Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam MLC constituencies to meet voters in person.  “We want to cash in on the goodwill we have gained after the successes in Dubbak and GHMC polls. We have geared up the district units for the MLC polls,” BJP state general secretary G Premender Reddy said. Meanwhile, the appointment of executive committee (EC) with only 70 members, including three women, has raised eyebrows in the party. The central leadership had asked the state unit to limit the number of EC members to 70 only. Previously, the EC had a membership of 300. “The party tried to keep every member in good humour. Many seniors have been made special invitees of the committee. If they are included, the number is close to 240,” sources said. Former Congress minister A Chandrasekhar from Vikarabad district joined the BJP in the presence of party Telangana affairs incharge Tarun Chugh on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-cranks-up-dist-units-for-mlc-polls-appoints-incharges/articleshow/80336194.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 19, 2021||Bareilly||Amroha RTO fines 66 buses without permit, collects Rs 8 lakh fine||BIJNOR: The regional transport officer of Amroha issued challans to drivers of 66 buses plying without permit, and seized 18 buses, while also collecting Rs 8 lakh in fines during an eight-day long drive here on the national highway. According to officials, there were several complaints against buses operating illegally on the Delhi-Lucknow national highway via Gajraula. Transport officers campaigned against the operation of private buses without permit on the highway. According to Amroha’s senior assistant regional transport officer A K Singh, “We launched a crackdown against the illegal operation of buses on the national highway on January 8, which lasted till January 17. We’ve penalised 66 private buses plying without permit on the national highway. Of these, 18 were seized, and fine of Rs 8 lakh was slapped on their owners.” Singh further stated, “Buses were plying from Bareilly and Pilibhit to Delhi without permit. Our campaign to prevent buses without permit is on.” Owners and drivers of these vehicles were predictably belligerent. Sources said at least a hundred private buses are plying on the route without paying tax, causing huge losses to the transport department. In Bijnor too, a large number of such vehicles are running on the roads, but the ARTO office has so far turned a deaf ear to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/amroha-rto-fines-66-buses-without-permit-collects-rs-8-lakh-fine/articleshow/80334099.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Ponnala for debate on Kaleshwaram claims||Hyderabad: Former irrigation minister Ponnala Lakshmaiah on Monday said he is ready to prove corruption charges in Kaleshwaram project and threw a challenge at TRS ministers for a debate over the issue. “Misinformation is being spread among the people that the groundwater levels have increased due to the Kaleshwaram project. If the groundwater can get recharged with only 16 TMC water as claimed by the ruling TRS, then the groundwater recharge in areas under Nagarjunasagar, Jurala and Srisailam projects should be huge. But that has not been the case,” he said. Also, areas in Wanaparthy and Sangareddy saw a good recharge in groundwater levels but there was no Kaleshwaram in those areas. The TRS should stop misleading the people, he said. Lakshmaiah charged chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao of misleading the people about the aspects of Kaleshwaram project. “They started the pumps yesterday stating 10 TMC ft water would be lifted. To impress upon the people, some quantities of water were also pumped. It is unfortunate that the KCR government is trying to convince the people that Kaleshwaram project is doing wonders. The reality is that Sriram Sagar, Yellampali and Mid-Manair are already brimming with water. Just to show the people that Kaleshwaram project is crucial, water is being pumped despite not being necessary,” the Congress leader alleged. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and KCR should lead from the front by taking the Covid-19 vaccine shot. “Crores of people took polio drops in the country on a single day and created a record during Congress rule,” he said, referring to the Modi government’s attempt to claim credit for the vaccination drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ponnala-for-debate-on-kaleshwaram-claims/articleshow/80336197.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||13 shoppers in Mumbai trapped in elevator for over 2 hours||MUMBAI: Thirteen shoppers, including children, were trapped in an elevator of a hypermarket in Bhayander after it malfunctioned on Sunday evening. All of them were rescued after more than two hours. The Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation fire personnel said that the elevator stopped between the ground and first floors around 7.40 pm. Ten women and three children were stuck inside. The malfunction possibly occurred due to overload. The women and children panicked and there was huge commotion, even as firemen tried to bring the lift to the floor level. The firemen finally cut the roof of the elevator with a gas cutter for ventilation purpose as there was no air inlet. The people inside were evacuated through the cut roof by around 10 pm. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/13-shoppers-trapped-in-elevator-for-over-2-hours/articleshow/80337423.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Schools all set for reopening today||MADURAI/TRICHY: School education department officials conducted inspection in various government and private high schools and higher secondary schools in the state on Monday ahead of reopening for Classes X and XII for the first time since the Covid-19 pandemic began. Schools were seen busy with sanitisation and preparation work ahead of reopening. Since only 25 students are allowed in a classroom according to the Covid-19 safety SOP, furniture also had to be arranged accordingly and social distancing marking done. Madurai district chief educational officer (CEO) R Swaminathan and director of non-formal and adult education, V C Rameshwara Murugan inspected eight schools and a girls’ hostel for underprivileged students. “Inspections have also been held at block level and educational district levels as well by officials. It was checked whether the schools were ready to reopen and had all Covid-19 safety measures and facilities in place,” said Swaminathan. The schools are to mandatorily be equipped with facilities like clean toilets, drinking water, hand washing facilities, hand sanitisers etc., and their campuses must be sanitised. Thermal scanners and pulse oximeters have also been kept ready at all schools for screening. In Trichy district, about 75,000 students are expected to come to 506 schools to attend regular classes. In-charge for the districts in the central zone, L Nirmal Raj, chairman of the Teachers Recruitment Board (TRB), carried out inspection at Campion School in the city as well as other schools in the district. He spotted a few discrepancies and asked school officials to rectify them. The Madurai district CEO further said that for 82,000 students from across 534 government and private schools, multivitamin and zinc tablets will be distributed free of cost on Tuesday. All government schools were also given the prioritised syllabus for Class X and XII. “Meetings have been held with teachers as well to plan schedules for government school students and schools are ready to be reopened. Timings for the classes are also to be the same as regular full-day timings,” said Swaminathan. Only students who have submitted consent forms are allowed to come to school. Private schools are expecting more than 90% of students to return. Schools are ready to reopen with safety protocols even as online classes continue. “Barring a few students who may have some health concerns, other parents are more than willing to send students to school,” said M Senthilnathan, president, Private Schools Correspondents’ Confederation. Trichy collector S Sivarasu said health officials will ensure that students don’t get panicky over normal fever and other symptoms linked to Covid -19. District chief education officer R Arivazhagan said most of the schools have made the necessary arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/schools-all-set-for-reopening-today/articleshow/80337413.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Meerut||Double murder: Man attacks three from in-law’s family, 2 dead, one critical||Bijnor: In what is being seen as a domestic dispute gone horribly wrong, a man allegedly attacked three members of his in-law’s family at the latter’s home in Bijnor district, killing his wife’s parents and leaving his brother-in-law critically injured. The incident happened late night on Saturday, at the residence of the in-laws of the accused, in the Seohara area. The victims were fast asleep and were caught completely off-guard by the fatal attack. While the in-laws succumbed to the fatal attack, his brother-in-law sustained critical injuries and is currently under medical observation. After receiving information, superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh rushed to the scene along with a contingent of cops and inspected the scene of the crime. A case has been registered against the assailant under sections 452, 307 and 302 of IPC based on the complaint filed by the wife of the accused. Four police teams have been formed to arrest the accused. Bijnor superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh said, “Police are investigating the case. Prima facie, it appears the accused, identified as Rizwan, a resident of Bhanedi village under Jansath police station of Muzaffarnagar district, got married to Anjum (25) of Chak Mahmud Sahni village under Seohara police station in Bijnor three years ago. After they had a daughter, husband and wife fought over some personal matter, and Anjum left home to come over and stay at her maternal house. Anjum told the cops they were sleeping in the house when her husband Rizwan arrived late night on Saturday, and repeatedly attacked her father Abdul Maalik (60), mother Wakeela (58) and brother-in-law Fahimuddin with a knife. Maalik died on the spot while Wakeela succumbed to her injuries in Seohara community health centre, while Fahimuddin is recuperating in hospital.” Singh further said, after committing the crime, the accused fled from the scene. The SP said, “Four teams have been formed to arrest the accused. A probe is on. The criminal will be apprehended soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/double-murder-man-attacks-three-from-in-laws-family-2-dead-one-critical/articleshow/80334126.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Firm defaults on PF amount, court takes officials to task||Hyderabad: Turning critical towards the regional provident fund authorities for being clueless on PF defaults and corporate restructures taking place right under their nose, the Telangana high court on Monday sought to know as to what steps were being taken to protect the interests of workers belonging to a company. The firm had undergone the corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP) and a new management took over the company. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice A Abhishek Reddy gave this interim direction while hearing a petition filed by two workers’ unions — Mazdoor Sangh and Casual Karmika Sangham — of IComm Tele Ltd at Cherlapally. P Bhaskar Mohan, counsel appearing for the workers, said IComm company was dragged to the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) by its lenders and following a CIRP, its management was handed over to Megha Engineering and Infrastructures Ltd (MEIL). “As the resolution plan did not have enough safeguards for the workers’ money like PF arrears, etc, we had represented to the PF authorities to protect our interests in November 2019 itself. But, they did not respond properly,” the counsel said. He said the PF dues alone stood at Rs 8 crore which need to be cleared on a priority basis. EPFO counsel G Venkateswarlu argued that they were unaware of the NCLT proceedings. But, he could not explain as to what steps were taken after the NCLT order was brought to their notice by the workers. Y Suryanarayana, counsel for the resolution professional, said the company put PF dues only at Rs 4 crore. “Of this, the new management paid only 5% and the remaining dues stood written off,” he said. The petitioner’s counsel said this was an unfair arrangement. The bench initially said workers should approach the Company Law Appellate Tribunal. However, upon persuasion by the petitioners, the bench sought to know from the PF authorities the steps they had taken to protect the workers’ interests, their role in such matters, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/firm-defaults-on-pf-amount-court-takes-officials-to-task/articleshow/80336206.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Dehradun||No rain or snow, water level in Naini lake hits two-year low||Nainital: The water level in Naini lake, which rose to 11 feet and 3 inches in September last year, has fallen to just over 5 feet. The lake is not only the central tourist attraction of Nainital but also the only source of drinking water for the entire hill town. Its primary source of recharge is snow and rain, and both have been sparse this winter. According to data from the regional meteorological centre, Dehradun, whose observatory is at Mukteshwar, the lake town has seen no snowfall this year and only 6% of the expected rainfall in the post-monsoon season (October-December). Notably, the lake’s water level has fallen despite subdued tourist activity due to the lockdown. Officials are worried if it continues like this in the coming months, a “stressed situation” awaits in the summer. The lake provides close to 8 MLD (million litres per day) water to the town. “The water level in the Naini lake last year as well as in 2019 was over 6 feet on January 18. However, those years saw a good amount of winter rains and snowfall. Since September, the water level has fallen by over six feet,” said an official responsible for maintenance of the lake. In 2018, the water level had fallen to 3 feet and 1 inch. Not only Nainital, all the major hill stations like Mussoorie, Dhanaulti and Mukteshwar, which witnessed decent snowfall last winter, didn’t see any this year. It has disappointed tourists and consequently, hoteliers. “Snowfall brings tourists from places like Delhi-NCR even on weekdays, which boosts the local economy. This winter, even though there is decent footfall on weekends, hotels remain empty and the Mall Road deserted on weekdays,” said Ved Sah, vice president, Nainital Hotels and Restaurants Associations. Hoteliers in Mussoorie shared Sah’s concern. “It’s snowfall that attracts tourists during winter. We are eagerly waiting for it this year,” said Sanjay Aggarwal, secretary of Mussoorie Hotels’ Association. However, the meteorological department’s prediction of rains and snow in the coming week has given hope to locals. “The post-monsoon rains have been very bad this season, with districts like Champawat seeing barely a fraction of the expected showers. However, some areas of the state did get decent rains in January. We can now expect a fresh spell of rain and snowfall in the state after January 26,” said Bikram Singh, director, regional met centre, Dehradun. (With inputs from Anmol Jain in Mussoorie)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-rain-or-snow-water-level-in-naini-lake-hits-two-year-low/articleshow/80334129.cms||Prashant Jha
January 19, 2021||Nagpur||Meet non-medicos who worked behind the scenes during vax drive||VAX-MEN: TOI speaks to the non-medicos who worked behind the scenes when the spotlight was on others during the opening day of vaccination driveLokhande made sure vax is distributed across divReceiving vaccine at the dead of the night and distributing it to six districts across Nagpur division is not new for Damodar Lokhande. He has been shouldering this responsibility for years now. Be it polio or MR vaccine, Lokhande and his team work tirelessly to ensure point to point distribution. But the Covid-19 vaccine experience was full of excitement, he said.“Our experience of vaccine distribution came handy for us. We were ready with mapping of syringes, vaccines and other equipments. Vehicles from all the six districts were called at the DDHS office in advance. We ensured enough rest and sleep for the drivers of these vehicles. Such minute planning is must to ensure smooth work,” said Lokhande.The vehicle carrying vaccines reached Nagpur around 2am on January 15 and five out of six districts in the division successfully received their share, along with syringes by early Friday morning. According to Lokhande, his team’s focus was to ensure that vaccine reaches to the end-user within the deadline.“I understand that the distribution work at district-level, tehsil-level and further at village-level is really a tough task. So, we ensured that all our subordinates get the vaccine before time,” Lokhande said while mentioning that his team-members Rajesh Dakhole and Sandeep Wadibhasme worked under the able guidance of DDHS Dr Sanjay Jaiswal.Bhatkulkar ensured proper storage, distribution at city centresAs a medicine store in-charge, Prashant Bhatkulkar has been handling the storage and distribution of vaccines since 1995 polio drive. According to him, what helped him in successful vaccine storage in city was that he took no additional stress or pressure just because it was Covid vaccine. He mentioned that years of experience played an important role in smooth functioning of the vaccination on the first day.“All were excited as it was Covid vaccine. But sometimes, we make mistakes if we are overenthusiastic. So, I decided to take it as a routine work and not to give any special treatment to Covid,” said Bhatkulkar who believes that Covid is a unnecessarily hyped pandemic which will end soon.“We have vaccines now — not one but two. Both are made in India. We have distribution chains ready, registration and administration processes mapped and trained manpower to handle the situation. So, the pandemic will end in coming days,” said Bhatkulkar.While he described it as a routine task, Bhatkulkar’s work, as the custodian of all medicine stores of NMC, included preparing of the indent, proper receipts, storage, distribution, and maintenance of stock registers, issue registers, connected files and records. He was the person who ensured the availability of vaccine at all five vaccination centres in city.Yadav, man behind digital registration, SMS alertsVaccination for Covid-19 is a digitally monitored process and it requires a lot of data entry and data management work. Vaccine cold chain manager Ravil Yadav has done a mammoth task of collection, cleaning, serving and uploading of the data of more than 26,000 beneficiaries.“Data of beneficiaries was received from 1000+ facilities including government and private hospitals. More than 550 private hospitals in Nagpur had sent the data. But it was not uniform and properly processed. It took a lot of time and effort to process this data,” said Yadav who had to do all single-handedly. His experience of using e-Win vaccination platform worked for him but the next challenge was to upload the data on website.“The server was already under heavy load. I was suggested by the seniors that we may opt for the manual or on-paper vaccination if digitally uploading fails. But I tried till last moment. It was 1.30am on January 16 when we successfully upload the entire data of Nagpur on the server,” said Yadav. As a result of this, most of the beneficiaries not only got SMS alerts about their vaccination but also got immediate confirmation alert as soon as they got the jab. Yadav has got two assistants to help him during next phase of vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/meet-non-medicos-who-worked-behind-the-scenes-during-vax-drive/articleshow/80334973.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 19, 2021||Meerut||Police team attacked by villagers during raid; 6 cops injured, van vandalised||Meerut: A team of policemen were caught completely off guard when the locals attacked them during a raid following a tip-off on cow slaughter in Ruhasa village of Meerut district on Monday morning. The incident took place within the limits of Daurala police station in Sardhana Tehsil. According to sources, at least six policemen from Daurala police station were conducting the raid in the village to get held of suspect Muzzamir, when scores of women from the accused’s family confronted the team. The situation soon escalated when the locals began pelting stones at them, injuring five police officers. The mob also vandalised a police van as the cops ran for cover. The injured policemen managed to escape from the spot and alerted the senior officers. Later, an FIR was filed under section 307 (attempt to murder) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code at Daurala police station. Meanwhile, the police said raids are on to trace Muzzamir and his family members, who attacked the police team. “A police team was conducting a raid in Ruhasa village in search of a wanted suspect when they were attacked by women from the accused’s family. An FIR has been registered and further investigation is underway," Akhilesh Narayan Singh, Meerut superintendent of police (city) said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/police-team-attacked-by-villagers-during-raid-6-cops-injured-van-vandalised/articleshow/80334140.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 19, 2021||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad cops crack Sangvi firing case||Pune: The Sangvi police on Monday claimed to have cracked the case of firing at a 30-year-old salesperson in Old Sangvi on January 9 with the arrest of three persons, including the former live-in partner of the salesperson’s wife, over the past few days. Police said the ex-partner, Jaspritsingh Satyal (30), who allegedly hatched the murder plot, was taken into custody from Aurangabad on Thursday. The other two — history-sheeter Anand Ingle (30), who had shot at Anand Solanki from a very close range, and pharmacist Sunil Hiwale (28) of Parbhani district — were nabbed in Ulhasnagar in Thane district and Aurangabad, respectively. The Sangvi police have gained the custody of the arrested men, Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash said. Solanki was recently discharged from a hospital. Krishna Prakash said Solanki suspected the involvement of Satyal. “Solanki got married two months back and had been receiving threat calls since. We traced the number and were directed towards Hiwale and Satyal,” the commissioner said. “Satyal revealed he was in a relationship with Solanki’s wife before and after his marriage. She ended their relationship after agreeing to marry Solanki,” Krishna Prakash said. Satyal, wanting to be with the woman, hatched a plot to kill Solanki. “He hired Hiwale to keep a watch on Solanki and threaten him and paid Ingle to shoot Solanki,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pimpri-chinchwad-cops-crack-sangvi-firing-case/articleshow/80336205.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||KCR to visit Laxmi barrage today||Hyderabad: Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will be visiting Medigadda as Laxmi barrage has reached full reservoir level (FRL) i.e 100 feet. Last year, the barrage had touched 98 feet. The CM will also hold a review meeting with officials after visiting the barrage and have darshan at Kaleshwaram temple. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-to-visit-laxmi-barrage-today/articleshow/80336200.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 19, 2021||Vadodara||Vaccination to resume at six sites today||Vadodara: The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) will continue the Covid-19 vaccination drive at six sites today. The decision was taken after guidelines regarding the vaccination schedule were declared on Tuesday by the central government.The vaccination will be conducted at five private hospitals and the GMERS Hospital, Gotri public hospital. The hospital at Gotri is the biggest Covid-19 treatment facility in central Gujarat.VMC officials said that the target of vaccinating 100 people at each vaccination site would continue like the inaugural day. In all, 600 persons are expected to get vaccinated on Tuesday too. VMC is looking to conduct vaccinations on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. It may also consider one more working day for the vaccination drive, if needed.Those who will get vaccinated include the administrative nodal officer at the GMERS Hospital Dr Sheetal Mistry and city BJP president Dr Vijay Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vaccination-to-resume-at-six-sites-today/articleshow/80334975.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala revenue up 60%, tax receipts slip: CAG||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Even as Kerala’s revenue receipts increased from Rs 57,950 crore in 2014-15 to Rs 92,854 crore in 2018-19, recording a growth rate of 60%, the share of tax — the main source of revenue — slipped from 61% to 55% over the same five-year period, according to the Comptroller & Auditor General’s report on state finances tabled in the assembly on Monday. At the same time, revenue expenditure increased 54% from Rs 71,746 crore in 2014-15 to Rs 1,10,316 crore in 2018-19. The report observed that revenue expenditure (comprising mainly salaries, pensions and interest payments) as a percentage of total expenditure ranged between 89 and 93%. The share of committed expenditure was 63% in 2018-19 and it consumed 75% of revenue receipts during the year. Interest payments consumed 18% of revenue receipts and is a matter of concern for the state government, it said. The state’s revenue deficit increased from Rs 13,796 crore in 2014-15 to Rs 17,462 crore in 2018-19 and fiscal deficit increased from Rs 18,642 crore in 2014-15 to Rs 26,958 crore in 2018-19. Though the ratio of fiscal deficit to GSDP improved from 3.6% in 2014-15 to 3.4% in 2018-19, the state did not achieve any of the targets fixed in its medium-term fiscal plan or Kerala fiscal responsibility act during 2018-19. “As per the recommendation of the 14th Finance Commission, fiscal deficit to GSDP ratio was to be anchored at 3% but it was 3.4% during 2018-19,” the report said. Regarding the quality of expenditure, the CAG report observed that even though capital expenditure increased from Rs 4,255 crore in 2014-15 to Rs 7,431 crore in 2018-19, posting a growth of 75%, capital expenditure showed a declining trend during 2017-18 and 2018-19. It decreased by Rs 1,377 crore in 2017-18 and a further Rs 1,318 crore in 2018-19, showing low priority of the government towards capital expenditure. The state’s share of health and education sectors in total expenditure is more than general-category states, while its share of capital expenditure and development expenditure is less than that of general category states, the audit found. Throwing light on reality, the report finds that the average return on investment made by the state government was just 1.40% in the last five years while the government paid an average interest rate of 7.29% on its borrowings during the same period. The CAG figures reveal the minuscule investment made by the government on projects that would yield returns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/revenue-up-60-tax-receipts-slip-cag/articleshow/80334979.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||1,300 mishap-prone spots in Maharashtra; 34 die daily in crashes||MUMBAI: Maharashtra has identified 1,324 black spots (mishap-prone areas) in several districts, including 58 accident spots in Mumbai alone, and 34 people have died in road crashes on an average daily in the past three years.  The statistics were revealed by the state transport department a day before chief minister Uddhav Thackeray launches Road Safety Month on Monday. Pedestrian safety will be given priority this time as there have been many hit-and-run cases. According to NCRB data, there were 1,398 cases of pedestrians dying in road mishaps in 2019. All government agencies and NGOs will now work on the theme ‘Sadak Suraksha, Jeevan Raksha’ from January 18 to February 17 to create awareness on road safety. “Nearly 10% of fatalities across India have been on Maharashtra’s highways and 12% on Expressways. This has been a cause of concern and officials have been directed to incorporate the three Es — Education, Enforcement and Engineering (of roads) to correct the black spots,” said a senior transport official. In Mumbai, a detailed survey to find the number of vehicles accessing busy stretches at any given hour and speeds at 10 locations is being conducted by United Way Mumbai. The regional transport office and traffic police — both in the city and on highways — will be involved in re-examining all black spots and incorporating intervention measures including minor road alignments, signages, crash barriers, among other preventive steps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1300-mishap-prone-spots-in-state-34-die-daily-in-crashes/articleshow/80317447.cms||Somit Sen
January 19, 2021||Meerut||Over 1,000 tractors mobilised for tractor parade as BKU eyes massive support from west UP farmers||Meerut: Even as the farmer leaders across western Uttar Pradesh districts are holding door-to-door meetings to mobilise farmers for the proposed tractor parade that is scheduled to be held in Delhi on Republic Day against the Centre’s agri laws, over 1,000 tractors assembled at Bijnor’s Kiratpur Mandi to take part in the agitation. According to state president of Bharat Kisan Union’s (BKU) youth wing, Digambar Singh, over 24,000 farmers will travel to Delhi in 2,000 tractor-trolley from Bijnor on January 22. Addressing a panchayat at Afzalgarh on Monday, Singh said the farmers are ready to move to Delhi, adding that they will not tolerate these "black farm laws". This comes on the day when the Supreme Court, while hearing an application by the Centre seeking an injunction against the proposed march, refused to intervene in the matter and said the onus falls on the Delhi Police on whether to allow farmers’ entry into Delhi or not. Meanwhile, the BKU has urged all other farmer unions in Uttar Pradesh to join the rally to ensure "farmers’ inclusion in the Republic Day parade and make it a success". Apart from that, the BKU leaders have been holding panchayats and organising door-to-door meetings with farmers to make them aware and take part in the agitation. According to the secretary of the national coordination committee of Kisan Ekta Manch, Naveen Pradhan, who has been entrusted with the task of mobilising farmers, told TOI, "We have a target of taking out the tractor march to Delhi comprising 25,000 tractors at least from west UP districts, including Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Baghpat and Bijnor." Notably, Rakesh Tikait, the national spokesperson of BKU, who has been giving a clarion call for a massive tractor march on Republic Day in Delhi, said on Monday, "We won’t let down this year’s Republic Day parade. The government will bring out its own parade on Rajpath, us farmers will take out our own."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/over-1000-tractors-mobilised-for-tractor-parade-as-bku-eyes-massive-support-from-west-up-farmers/articleshow/80334152.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 19, 2021||Vadodara||Four held for forging Covid-19 reports||Vadodara: The J P Road police arrested four persons allegedly involved in preparing fake Covid positive reports to claim insurance money. The accused had conspired to prepare a fake Covid-19 positive report of Mitesh Prajapati and Jyotika Prajapati in December last year.The scam came to light when Dr Bijal Shah, who runs a pathology lab in Chhani, checked his lab records some days ago. Shah told the police that on January 8, he got Covid positive reports of two persons namely Mitesh Prajapati and Jyotika Prajapati. When Shah checked the lab records, he found that the reports he gave for the accused duo in December last year were negative.Shah began inquiring into the matter and learnt that Mitesh had joined hands with Praveen Kumar Parmar, an insurance agent, for claiming insurance money on the basis of a forged report. Also, Dr Anil Patel who works at a private hospital has been booked for cheating along with Ripal Mishra who runs a private lab as they helped Mitesh in the fraud. The accused tampered the Covid-19 report and showed it as positive to claim the insurance firm.The cops first arrested Mitesh and during his questioning, they learnt about involvement of Patel and agent Praveen Kumar Parmar who too were nabbed. Parmar told the cops that he took help from Deepak Tiwari who works at a hospital for preparing fake Covid-19 positive reports. Tiwari was arrested on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/four-held-for-forging-covid-19-reports/articleshow/80334984.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Scrap Rs 358 crore payout pact given nod during President’s rule: Govt in Bombay HC||MUMBAI: The MVA government has filed a review petition in the Bombay high court to withdraw an agreement for a payout of over Rs 358 crore to a road contractor for a highway project. The agreement was cleared by top bureaucrats during the brief period of President’s rule in the state in 2019. The agreement was finalised and filed in court after the new government took over without seeking its clearances, says the petition. The petition says that the agreement with the contractor was submitted without the consultation and approval of the finance and law and judiciary departments. This is mandatory according to the rules of business of the government. “The consent terms have been submitted without taking into confidence and without the approval of the government which was in force from November 28, 2019,” the petition states. It claims the consent terms between the state and contractor would “be a burden on the public exchequer at the instance of unauthorised persons”. “We have decided to challenge the consent terms filed. Since the matter is sub-judice, I cannot say more,” state PWD minister Ashok Chavan said. The money is currently deposited by the state government with the Bombay high court. Former finance secretary Subodh Kumar, who is now retired, said not obtaining approval anew for the payout from the new government “was a highly improper act of omission”. “President’s rule is usually a stop-gap arrangement when usually only routine and urgent matters are cleared,” he said. “When a new political dispensation takes over, it is a strongly established practice to take fresh approvals for decisions.” In 2011, the state had awarded a contract to Manaj Tollways for the four-laning of two national highways near Pune. The project length was 41 km and the estimated cost was Rs 358.4 crore. In 2015, the contractor terminated the agreement without completing the work and demanded arbitration. Estimates from successive government engineers pegged the compensation due to the contractor from Rs 92 crore to Rs 197 crore. In 2018, court-appointed arbitrator Justice J A Patil ruled the compensation due was Rs 332 crore plus interest. The then BJP-Sena government called for one more government estimate. In March 2019, a government engineer pegged the compensation due at Rs 184 crore. This was the last government estimate. The contractor had filed a petition in the Bombay high court demanding the execution of the Rs 332 crore arbitration award. The state asked for the arbitration award to be stayed in a Pune court. In September 2019, the Pune district court did not grant a stay on the arbitrator’s award. By then the model code of conduct for the state election came into force. The matter remained dormant until after the 2019 assembly polls. An unclear verdict resulted in a 12-day period of President’s rule in the state from November 12 to 23. It was during this period that top bureaucrats cleared a proposal from the PWD department to make a payment of Rs 358.8 crore to Manaj Tollways. Documents show that senior bureaucrats, including additional chief secretary (PWD) Manoj Saunik and the then chief secretary Ajoy Mehta, signed the file in a matter of four days between November 18 and 21. The file was signed by governor B S Koshyari on November 22. President’s rule in the state was lifted the next day. The new government was sworn in on November 28. State officials submitted consent terms with Manaj Tollways in the Bombay high court on December 10, agreeing to pay the sum. This was done without consulting the MVA government, which had by then been in power for 13 days. The contractor then filed a contempt petition demanding the payment, and it was finally deposited with the court in February 2020. Both Saunik and Mehta declined comment, saying the matter was sub-judice. PWD officials said they had to take urgent approvals for the payout during President’s rule since the court had directed the payment and had ordered the attachment of two ministers’ bungalows and the GST commissioner’s office. “Mantrayala would have been attached next and it would have been very embarrassing. Also, interest was adding up on the arbitrator’s award,” a PWD official said. The official said the permission of the finance and law and judiciary departments had indeed been taken at an earlier stage. On why the permission of the MVA government was not sought, the PWD official said: “The permission by the executive had already been given by the governor. There was no need for fresh approval since the government as an entity exists in perpetuity.” The official said the budgetary allocation for the payment was cleared by the legislature in the first budget session of the MVA government. Subodh Kumar said: “The supplementary budgetary demands may not offer a detailed explanation of what each departmental expense is for.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/govt-in-hc-scrap-rs-358cr-payout-pact-given-nod-during-prez-rule/articleshow/80337438.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Flu scare: Telangana govt halts chicken supplies from Maharashtra to state||HYDERABAD: The state government on Monday issued orders to the district collectors to temporarily stop chicken supplies from Maharashtra to Telangana until the bird flu is brought under control in the neighbouring state. Though there is no case of bird flu in Telangana so far, confirmed cases of bird flu in poultry have been reported from nine districts of Maharashtra including Latur, Parbhani, Nanded, Pune, Solapur, Yavatmal, Ahmednagar, Beed and Raigad, where affected and suspected birds are being culled. The state government has directed the district collectors of Kamareddy, Nizamabad, Nirmal, Adilabad, Asifabad and Mancherial to be on high alert and restrict the entry of birds from Maharashtra. These districts share the borders with Maharashtra where bird flu cases have been confirmed. Animal husbandry minister T Srinivas Yadav held a high-level meeting here on Monday on steps taken to check spread of bird flu in Telangana and directed the officials of animal husbandry department to coordinate with other departments concerned to set up check posts on borders and restrict the entry of poultry from Maharashtra. “There is scope of small traders in the bordering villages going to Maharashtra and purchasing chicken, the rates of which have fallen rock bottom due to bird flu cases. These are precautionary measures,” animal husbandry director V Lakshma Reddy said. Officials said the Centre has asked states to not ban sale of poultry and allow sale of poultry sourced from non-infected areas and states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/flu-scare-govt-halts-chicken-supplies-from-maha-to-state/articleshow/80336219.cms||Roushan Ali
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Parents stage protest against offline exams||HYDERABAD: Demanding implementation of GO 46 and cancellation of offline exams, parents of students studying in Gitanjali Devshala at Balamrai staged a silent protest in front of the school on Monday. Around 75 parents, who gathered at the school, demanded that the management cancel offline exams that are scheduled to be held from February 9. “Even as the state has announced that it is not mandatory for students to attend school physically, the management has made it compulsory for classes 8, 9, and 10 to physically appear for the exams. We are scared that our children will get infected with Covid-19,” said a parent, whose children are studying in class 4 and class 9. Parents said that the school should give 50% fee reduction for the academic year 2020-21 as this academic year is conducted online. Parents, who submitted a representation to the staff present at the school, said that the school is also threatening to detain students if parents fail to clear fee dues. A senior member of the management made it clear that the school is complying with GO No. 46 and added that it is not feasible for them to give 50% fee reduction that parents are demanding. “No student will be forced to come to school. It is up to the parents. And, there will be an option to appear for exams online,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-stage-protest-against-offline-exams/articleshow/80336222.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Goa||ST/SC body wants kumeri land issues resolved||Poinguinim: The Goa Commission for SC/ST under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, has threatened to act against officers concerned if cases regarding Kumeri land, forest rights, reserved forest, water supply, roads and transport problems are not redressed on priority. The one-day court camp held at Shristhal in Canacona on Sunday was attended by over 245 affected and aggrieved ST residents, who put forth their grievances before the commission and complained that the authorities concerned had kept their issues lingering for no reason. The camp court was chaired by the commission chairperson Ramesh Tawadkar. Tawadkar said that he is not happy with the type of reasons cited for the delay in resolving the issue and instructed the officers present to prepare an action plan to resolve the matter. Officer have been asked to submit the action plan to the commission latest by February 18, failing which, the officers concerned will be held responsible and further action initiated against them. The officers present at the camp were deputy conservator of forest (DFC, South) Anil Shetgaonkar, deputy collector Satish Prabhu, forest settlement officer Francis Ferrao, assistant forest officer Aniket Gaonkar, Canacona range forest officer (RFO) Anand Velip, DCF(Wildlife, South) Yeshoda K, executive engineer (roads) Ganesh Velip, executive engineer (water supply) Jamadhar Mohammad Gause, RFO wildlife Vikramaditya Gaonkar, assistant engineer (water supply) Lester D’Souza, junior engineer Pradip Pagi, tribal welfare deputy director Pundalik Korjuvenkar, tribal assistant director Sagar Verlekar and education assistant director Uday Gaonkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/st/sc-body-wants-kumeri-land-issues-resolved/articleshow/80336294.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||5 centres in Pkl to inoculate 100 beneficiaries each today||Panchkula: Five centres with a target of 100 beneficiaries each have been decided for the third day, Tuesday, of the vaccination drive in Panchkula. Sixteen people were vaccinated on Monday, taking the two-day count to 282.Civil hospital, Sector 6, Panchkula, authorities said the 16 were health workers, who were vaccinated at Sector 4 civil dispensary.On Tuesday, the shots will be administered at Sector 4 civil dispensary; Sector 7 civil dispensary; sub-civil hospital, Kalka; community health centre, Pinjore; and Alchemist Hospital, Sector 21.  District immunization officer Dr Meenu Sasan said, “We are all set to immunize 500 persons in a day. However, much depends on how many beneficiaries receive a message from Covid portal. At times, there are problems due to the mismatch of a beneficiary’s identity at the portal, resulting in message not reaching them.” At government medical centres, Tuesday and Friday have been decided as vaccination days, while Alchemist Hospital will give the shots to health workers on five days a week.  In the first phase, over 9,000 registered medical workers, including those of Command Hospital, will be inoculated. In the second phase, officers and frontline workers will be vaccinated. People aged above 50 years will get the jab in the third phase and those who are less than 50-year-old but with diseases will be covered in the fourth phase. Each person will receive two doses. After receiving the first dose, (s)he will be monitored by health experts for 30 minutes in a separate ‘observation room’. The second dose will be given after four weeks of the first one and information will be sent to beneficiaries on their registered mobile number. “The teams will give 100 doses at one centre in a day. For making it successful, open spaces at schools, colleges, community centres and dharamshalas will be utilized so that Covid-19 does not spread,” said chief medical officer Dr Jasjeet Kaur.Vaccination days in Panchkula Government centres: Tuesday and FridayAlchemist Hospital: All five working days||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-centres-in-pkl-to-inoculate-100-beneficiaries-each-today/articleshow/80336223.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
January 19, 2021||Bhopal||Errors & glitches lead to 8% drop in Bhopal’s vac coverage||Bhopal: People who are no longer associated with medical colleges or hospitals, and even some who received the first Covid vaccination dose on January 16, got notification that they would get vaccinated here on Monday. Confusion also prevailed with SMSes not being received and hospital telephone lines being converted into a call centre facility, urging beneficiaries to get vaccinated.Overall, it led to a drop in vaccination percentage across Bhopal. A total 609 people or 50% got the dose on Monday against 58% vaccination achieved on Day 1 on January 16. Vaccination was scheduled to begin at 9 am. At the district hospital, vaccinators had to wait for more than an hour as the beneficiaries had not received an intimation, said a JP hospital official. The hospital could only provide dose to 18 out of the 100 listed beneficiaries. At Gandhi Medical College (GMC), 34.6% of the vaccination target was achieved at the end of the day on Monday. At its three vaccination sites, 300 was the collective target. GMC main gave 40 doses, Hamidia centre had 26 people and only 38 turned up at Sultania hospital. On Saturday, GMC had achieved 27.3% of the targeted vaccination.Confusion was the order of the day at GMC. In the list released on Monday, there were half a dozen GMC doctors who got vaccinated on the first day, January 16. It included Dr Puneet Tandon, Dr UM Sharma, Dr Ajay Jain and others. The names of several nursing staff members, including Nita, were re-added even though all of them were vaccinated on the first day of the vaccination rollout. On the same list figured Dr Arvind Jain. He is in Mumbai for an upgradation coufurse. Duplication of names in the list was also cited by some GMC representatives for the confusion all around.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/errors-glitches-lead-to-8-drop-in-bhopals-vac-coverage/articleshow/80334995.cms||Jamal Ayub
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Lake Club restaurant, bar reopening in Feb||Chandigarh: After more than a year, the restaurant and bar of Lake Sport Complex, popular as Lake Club, is going to reopen. The sports department has started technical evaluation of the four bids received for running this eatery at the Sukhna.Sports director Tejdeep Saini said: “After going through the technical papers minutely, we will open the financial bid to select who will run the club’s restaurant and bar. It’s a fair process that will take hardly a couple of weeks. The club is likely to reopen for the members in the first week of February.” The amended the terms and conditions allow only the members to use this drink and dine facility. Non-members are barred. The Lake Sports Club has 1,200-odd members, the majority non-permanent.The new rules are based on detailed discussions among the senior officers and employees concerned of the sports department. An official said: “Most of the members had objected when in 2018, the UT sports department had opened the club’s dining facility to non-members. The members argued that they paid a high fee for this facility, while the outsiders will also create chaos and disturbance.”Significantly, Citco (Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation), city’s official hospitality agency, hasn’t applied for this contract. The four bidders are from the city and Punjab. Sources confirmed that Citco was once in serious talks with the sports department before it chose not to run the eatery. The income from the restaurant pays the department’s salaries and other expenses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lake-club-restaurant-bar-reopening-in-feb/articleshow/80336260.cms||Deepak Yadav
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: NCP minister’s son-in-law is remanded to judicial custody||MUMBAI: NCP minister Nawab Malik’s son-in-law Sameer Khan, who was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with a drug peddling case, was remanded to judicial custody on Monday. Khan is accused of not only financing the drug business of arrested UK national Karan Sajnani, but he had also allegedly been planning to market CBD-infused tobacco, by declaring it herbal tobacco. CBD or cannabidiol is derived from the cannabis plant. Khan was arrested on January 13. The prosecutor on January 14 had said NCB had found evidence that Khan was planning to mix CBD oil and other chemicals with marijuana. Following this disclosure, the NCB raided a godown in Rampur, Uttar Pradesh, but nothing was found. Sajnani was arrested on January 9 after the investigating agency found his role in the import of ganja through courier from the US. Later, officials recovered ready-to-use ganja joints from Sajnani’s flat. Subsequently, two sisters, including the former manager of a Bollywood actress, were also arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncp-ministers-son-in-law-is-remanded-to-judicial-custody/articleshow/80337459.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Meerut||UP couple weds at police station as cops turn 'baraatis'||Meerut: UP police officials turned 'baraatis' on Monday and married off a couple at SSP office in Bulandshahr. The incident took place after a woman approached the police station and reported a tiff with her partner of three years. She claimed that the man was delaying the wedding despite their long relationship. First the cops resolved the tiff and then married the couple off, who exchanged 'varmala' at the police station itself.Jitendra Kumar Singh, Syana station house officer, said, “A woman approached the Bulandshahr SSP complaining that after being in a relationship for three years, her partner was avoiding her due to a tiff. Her partner was present when she filed the complaint and the SSP married them off after getting their nod.”Two garlands were quickly arranged and the two of them exchanged the ‘varmala’ in the presence of cops - their 'baraatis'. Praveen Kumar, an advocate, said, “While the 'varmalas' have been exchanged, paper work is still left. It will be completed soon."While the groom is posted as a constable in Auraiya, the woman belongs to Bulandshahr. The two had met around three years ago as the man often visited the woman's neighbour.The SSP office turned into a marriage office for a moment, Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-couple-weds-at-police-station-as-cops-turn-baraatis/articleshow/80334161.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Civic body’s F&CC members to be elected on Jan 27||Chandigarh: The stage is set for the election of five members of the Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) of the Chandigarh municipal corporation, as the civic body has issued a notice in this regard.F&CC is the biggest committee of the MC, which can sanction projects worth up to Rs 50 lakh and is also the most powerful grouping after the General House to take financial and policy decisions of the civic body.According to the notice, January 19 is the date for filing of nomination papers by the interested candidates and the polling will take place on January 27 during the first meeting of the newly constituted General House. Recently elected city mayor Ravikant Sharma will supervise the entire election process.Giving this information, mayor Sharma said, “I have issued the notice for the F&CC members’ election, and soon after the election on January 27, the first meeting of the committee will be held on January 29 to discuss important public and civic body issues. As far as the issue of selection of candidates for F&CC polls is concerned, the decision will be taken by the party (BJP) in consultation with the senior party leaders and our municipal councillors.”In the past few years, since out of the five members of the F&CC, the BJP had kept giving one seat to the opposition party in the House, the Congress, the need for election was not felt earlier and the members were chosen unanimously. It remains to be seen whether the ruling BJP once again gives one seat to the opposition party.“If the BJP again gives one seat to the Congress, the opposition party will not insist on voting. But, if it tries to keep all the five members from the saffron party only, there are chances of voting taking place,” said a civic body source.Besides, the reconstitution of the F&CC, the members of three other committees will also be announced during the General House meeting on January 27. These committees are Road Committee, Sewage and Water Disposal Committee and House Tax Assessment Committee, out of which the first two committees have financial powers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/civic-bodys-fcc-members-to-be-elected-on-jan-27/articleshow/80336244.cms||Deepak Yadav
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||T brand meat soon: Talasani||Hyderabad: Animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav on Monday said the sheep and goat federation was planning to set up outlets to sell meat under the Telangana brand soon. He directed officials to examine the feasibility of opening outlets under the aegis of Telangana State Sheep and Goat Development Cooperative Federation. The minister directed the GHMC officials to conduct raids on meat shops and ensure that retailers selling sheep and goat meat do not jack up prices as the demand for sheep meat has gone up due to fear of bird flu. “There are complaints of prices of mutton being jacked up,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-brand-meat-soon-talasani/articleshow/80336259.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 19, 2021||Ludhiana||Fastener industry seeks tax reforms, steel rate regulator||Ludhiana: The fastener industry of Ludhiana is the lifeline for several other sectors, where the products manufactured by thousands of fastener factories of the city are used either in finished goods or for self consumption. Besides this, various original equipment manufacturers (OEM) and automobile manufacturing companies too are highly dependant on the city’s fastener units. But during the last few years, fastener manufacturers have been suffering huge losses on account of drop in sales and dip in profit margins. According to the industrialists, 2020 has by far proved to be the worst year for them, but they are still hopeful about recovery and are pinning their hopes on the Union Budget, which will be announced on February 1. Speaking to TOI, Narinder Bhamra, president of Fastener Manufacturers Association of India, said, “We are hoping that this Budget will definitely be a good one for the manufacturing industry and the finance minister will bring special financial schemes for the micro small and medium enterprises (MSME) units, which will address multiple problems being faced by us. However, the biggest problem being faced by our industry right now is the huge fluctuation in the rates of steel raw material produced by the primary steel manufacturers due to which our businesses have been jeopardised. Be it private or government company producing steel, all are adopting unfair practices just to make more profits and they do it without even caring about the hardships which we may face due to the rate change.” He added that, “Due to this unethical practice, hundreds of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) units engaged in manufacturing of fasteners have already become bankrupt and have closed down or are slowly heading towards this situation. We have recently sent several suggestions for the Budget 2021 to the finance minister. We have demanded that in order to combat this situation of price rise a steel rate regulator must be set up in India but on the patterns of TRAI (Telecom Regulatory Authority of India) whose permission should be necessary before hiking even a single rupee in the rates.” According to Kuldeep Singh, general secretary of FMAI, “Considering the fact that a huge setback has been caused by the coronavirus to the industry and trade and the profits have taken a huge dip while expenses have shot up considerably. It is the need of the hour that the central government enhances the limit of income tax exemption up to Rs 5 lakh and there should be unconditional zero tax till this threshold. In addition to this, the rate of tax should be fixed slab-wise and for income in the slab of more than Rs 5 lakh, but up to Rs 10 lakh tax should be charged at 20% and over this limit tax should be 30%. It’s high time that all surcharges are abolished from the India and only one kind of charge as ‘income tax’ should be applicable on us. If these changes are made in the income tax system, then it will give a big push to the businesses amid this crisis.” According to Atul Sethi, another fastener manufacturer and vice-president of FMAI, “A lot of changes need to be done in the tax deducted at source (TDS) and tax collected at source (TCS) in India. One of the major changes required is that in case of delay in the payment of TDS, TCS or other direct tax an assessee should be liable to pay only interest and no penalty should be charged for late filing. Under Section 68, 69 read coupled with Section 115, BBE, the tax rate is 78%, which is totally unjustified. It should be brought down to 30% at least.” Box – 5k-plus fastener manufacturing units in city Ludhiana is one of the biggest hub of fasteners and major products being manufactured here include nuts, bolts, studs, washers, screws and rivets, which are supplied to automotive, hardware, aeronautics and several other sectors. According to the FMAI, there are more than 5,000 units dealing in direct and on contract manufacturing and supply of fasteners to Indian and overseas companies. A huge supply of products is made to several big automotive companies, including Maruti, Tata, Mahindra, Ashoka Leyland, etc. In addition to the manufacturing units in organised sector, there are hundreds of tiny units as well, which still operate inside the houses of the owners of these units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fastener-industry-seeks-tax-reforms-steel-rate-regulator/articleshow/80334983.cms||Mohit Behl
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Punish officials for delay in Rs 500 cr VAT scam probe: FGG||Hyderabad: The Forum for Good Governance (FGG) has asked the government to punish the commercial tax officials for dragging their feet in the Rs 500 crore VAT scam. FGG said the probe had been kept in cold storage for over a decade. The scam pertains to fraudulent return of VAT to contractors. FGG secretary M Padmanabha Reddy said the officials of commercial taxes department conspired wth contractors and duped the government to the tune of Rs 500 crore. “Taking advantage of a judgment of court cases unrelated to the matter, they returned Rs 500 crore VAT collected during 2009, 2010 and 2011,” he said. The director of vigilance and enforcement department conducted a detailed probe and submitted a report in 2012. In the report, the department said the return of the money was done with malafide intention and recommended action against the accused officials. “On receipt of the report of the vigilance department, the revenue department should have suspended the officials and launched a criminal prosecution against them. But, no action has been taken till now. The revenue department is delaying action and protecting the erring officials,” the FGG secretary said. After two years, charges were framed but the officials approached high court and got a stay. “The government is making no efforts to get the stay vacated. The amount of Rs 500 crore is not a notional loss. It is an amount withdrawn from the banks and returned to the contractors,” alleged Padmanabha Reddy. The FGG wrote to governor Tamilisai Soundararajan asking her to issue directions to the chief secretary, impress upon him to take legal steps to vacate the stay and recover Rs 500 crore from the contractors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/punish-officials-for-delay-in-rs-500-cr-vat-scam-probe-fgg/articleshow/80336264.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||New CSE for passport complaints||Secunderabad: To ensure speedy disposal of deficient passport complaints, a second additional customer service executive (CSE)-cum-biometric counter has been set up at the Regional Passport Office, Secunderabad. Regional Passport Officer (RPO) Dasari Balaiah inaugurated the counter here on Monday. Earlier, with only one CSE counter available, applicants had to wait for many days as the staff handled complex and deficient passport applications. “All the complex and deficient passport applications submitted at Begumpet, Ameerpet, Tolichowki and Nizamabad Passport Sevea Kendras (PSKs) and Passport Seva Laghu Kendra (PSLK) at Karimnagar and various Post Office Passport Seva Kendras (POPSKs) are sent to the Secunderabad office. The staff at the Passport Back Office (PBO) in Secunderabad used to clear them at a single counter. Now the newly-opened CSE counter will reduce waiting time for the people,” said an official release issued by the RPO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-cse-for-passport-complaints/articleshow/80336286.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Covid warriors for months, but no place on jab priority list||BHOPAL: Medicos of Gandhi Medical College (GMC), working in the critical Covid-19 care centre and fever clinics for the past 10 months, are missing from the coronavirus vaccination priority list. The glaring mistake has irked many doctors and other medical staff, who termed it as the administration’s lack of sensitivity towards true Covid warriors. In first list sent to the department of health for coronavirus vaccination, names of doctors and junior doctors from seven departments of GMC are missing. It includes departments of medicine, anaesthesia, pulmonary medicine, radiotherapy, ENT, pharmacology and paediatrics. On Monday, the Central Medical Teachers’ Association of MP (CMTA-MP) submitted a letter to the GMC dean and urged that the priority list should comprise medicos who are working on core Covid-19 care, said CMTA-MP general secretary, Dr Rakesh Malviya. It came soon after GMC’s Junior Doctors’ Association (JUDA) met the GMC dean, Dr Aruna Kumar, and highlighted the issue. MP Junior Doctors’ Association president, Dr Arvind Meena, later said, “Those who have served in Covid-19 critical care and would be continue to serve in the same capacity in the foreseeable future, should have been placed on the priority list for coronavirus vaccination.” According to sources, an emergency meeting was called by medical education minister Vishwas Sarang pertaining to the issue. Dr Aruna Kumar — in her talks with JUDA members — blamed the situation on the National Health Mission, said Dr Meena. When contacted, Dr Kumar did not respond. NHM has denied such allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/7-depts-gmc-covid-core-group-missing-from-priority-vac-list/articleshow/80335009.cms||Jamal Ayub
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Pilot booked for rape, cheating TV actor in Mumbai||MUMBAI: A 33-year-old pilot has been booked for rape, unnatural sex and cheating a 27-year-old television actress. The accused used to sexually assault the victim with the promise of marriage. A case has been registered against the accused on Monday. The accused met the victim on a matrimonial site last year. A police official said, “The accused had visited the victim on January 10 at her Andheri home when here parents were away. The accused then promised to marry her and told her that he would take her to meet his parents in Bhopal. He then sexually assaulted her. The next day he started avoiding her calls.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pilot-booked-for-rape-cheating-tv-actor/articleshow/80337485.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Pune||Over 5,000 birds culled at two Pune villages; infected crows source of flu||PUNE: As many as 5,840 infected birds, all from two backyard poultries in a village each in Mulshi and Daund talukas of Pune district, were culled on Sunday after sample test reports confirmed them as positive for bird flu, state animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh said on Monday. “Of these, 5,140 birds were culled in the Mulshi village and 700 in the Daund village,” he said. “An area within a radius of one kilometre of these backyard poultries has been declared as infected zone and all precautionary measures, including spraying of disinfectants, are being taken to check the spread of the infection,” Singh told TOI. “A two-member team from the central government visited the bird-flu infected places in Pune and neighbouring Raigad district on Monday to take stock of the situation. Infected crows are being seen as the primary source of the spread of the flu among birds. Backyard poultries have been affected as the birds come in contact with infected crows. The flu cases found in Mulshi and Daund are a case in point,” he said. Ever since the first confirmation of bird flu case in the state, the samples of suspect bird death cases are being sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) in Bhopal for confirmation. The animal husbandry department has urged all to intimate it on 18002330418, a toll-free number, or the nearest veterinary dispensary in case of any unusual mortality of poultry birds in commercial farms and backyard poultry. “Properly cooked poultry meat and boiled eggs are safe for human consumption. People should not spread misconceptions and rumours based on unscientific information,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-5000-birds-culled-at-two-pune-villages-infected-crows-source-of-flu/articleshow/80337481.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 19, 2021||Ludhiana||Giaspure factory owners cry foul over bad road||Ludhiana: Pissed off over the pathetic condition of the main road of Giaspura industrial area, factory owners on Monday organised a meeting on the issue. Businessmen also lambasted the authorities for turning a blind eye to all their problems, including sewerage, clean water and street lighting in the area. According to the industrialists, their businesses are taking a hit due to the poor infrastructure of the area. Giving more information, Jatinder Singh, president of Giaspura Industries Welfare Association (GIWA), said, “Many difficulties are being faced by industrial units situated on this stretch of the main Giaspura road. This road is the lifeline of the area and also serves as a passage for the entire industrial area-C and thousands of industrial units are accessible through this road only. But even then the condition of the road is as if it does not exists at all. What is even worse is that the main sewage line of the Giaspura road had not been functioning properly and had remained damaged for the past so many years. Despite the civic body authorities planning to lay a new sewage line and reconstruct road after that, it has become an excuse that due to the planned works the road is yet to be constructed.” Singh added that, “Different departments are involved in this project and because of very poor coordination between them, the work, which started in February2020, is still pending. Though Covid-19 may also be a reason for the delay, but seven months have passed since the opening of the lockdown and it seems this project may take several more months. Road construction is in progress but very slow and new sewerage line has got choked and sewage water is flowing on the road, leading to real bad conditoins for residents, industrialists and the people constructing the road.” According to Upkar Singh Sahni, general secretary of GIWA, “This is total lethargic and unplanned attitude of the civic body authorities towards provision of amenities to tax paying and law abiding citizens. Moreover., due to this situation every industrial unit in this area is incurring huge losses and even then the authorities are not waking up to our woes. Another setback for us is that no client is ready to visit this area and our business dealings have been dealt a severe blow. Besides, the movement of commercial as well as personal vehicles is very difficult in this situation and damage is also being done to our vehicles due to the pathetic condition of the road.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/giaspure-factory-owners-cry-foul-over-bad-road/articleshow/80334996.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Vadodara||City lad bags AIR 24, wants to be a teacher||Vadodara: A majority of those who aspire to become company secretaries (CS) either look forward for a career in the corporate sector or start their own consultation. But city-lad Sapan Kachhiya has different plans. Sapan wants to become a teacher. On Monday, as The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) declared result of CS foundation program, Sapan bagged All India Rank (AIR) 24 with 77.50 %. The computer based examination for CS foundation program was held in December last year. “Since the time I was in Class VIII, I have dreamed of becoming a teacher,” said Sapan, currently a second year student of bachelors of commerce at M S University’s Faculty of Commerce. “I may start my own institute or join an existing institute. But teaching is my passion. I had helped my friend in social science subject when I was in class ten. Later, I helped him in accounts of class 11 and class 12,” said Sapan, who plans to clear CS by appearing in both the groups in 2022. Sapan, whose father Rakesh Kachhiya has taken voluntary retirement after suffering from brain haemorrhage and mother Dipixa works as a sales supervisor, even pens poems. “I have penned 50 plus poems,” said Sapan, whose elder brother Parth is pursuing final stage of chartered accountancy. Apart from Sapan, 24 other students from Vadodara centre cleared the CS foundation program on Monday. While Vasisahmed Dudhwala and Yugam Shah shared the second position in Vadodara centre by scoring 74.50%, another student Jay Thakkar ranked third in Vadodara centre with 65.50%, officials of Vadodara chapter of ICSI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/city-lad-bags-air-24-wants-to-be-a-teacher/articleshow/80335024.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Health workers in line eagerly await their turn for vaccination||KOCHI: “Every hour I check my phone to see if I have received a message on Covid vaccination. I am anxious as well as excited as I wait to get vaccinated,” said Dr Kavitha Ravi, an additional professor in pathology, Government Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam. Health care workers have been asked to check twice a day — in the morning and night. Dr Kavitha was tested positive for Covid-19 in August and she developed complications. She is yet to fully recover from post-Covid complications. Tests showed that she had not developed antibodies to fight the coronavirus infection. “Therefore, I am at increased risk of catching the infection again. And I don’t want that to happen”. At Kottayam medical college, Reshma Mohandas, the first nurse in Kerala who tested positive and recovered, is keen to understand if any of the health care worker who received the vaccination on Saturday had severe side effects. “Being a health worker, I am always at risk of getting reinfection. At the moment, the vaccine is our real saviour,” said Mohandas. Both the health department and Indian Medical Association had conducted awareness sessions. Yet there were concerns. But with no major side effects reported among those who got the Covishield vaccine on January 16, there is increased enthusiasm amongst health workers as they wait for their turn. “I have returned to routine life after vaccination on Saturday and have four surgeries planned for the day. I didn’t have any side effects,” said Dr Jose Chacko Periapuram. “From our experience, the majority didn’t experience any major side effects,” Dr Anish T S, associate professor, Trivandrum Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/infected-once-medics-wait-anxiously-for-shot/articleshow/80338200.cms||Preetu Nair
January 19, 2021||Bhopal||Co-Win portal: Mobile app glitches, vial waste over acceptable limits in Bhopal||Bhopal: Operating the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-Win) portal is proving to be larger than expected challenge for health department. With less than anticipated people turning up for vaccination, vial waste after two days of vaccination is above acceptable limits. “The wastage is over permissible limits. As the vaccination drive progresses, we expect to limit the wastage to below 10%,” said a senior immunisation officer in Bhopal on Monday. Ahead of the vaccination drive, state immunisation officer Dr Santosh Shukla, had told TOI that 15% is the acceptable dose wastage limit set by the manufacturer. In the case of MP, most of the vaccines Covisheild. Across MP, 18559 doses were administered in the two days of the vaccination. If the same is true for the entire state, given wastage is more than 15%, then in two days of vaccination an estimated doses worth Rs 2.27 lakh (@Rs 220 per vaccine dose) have been ‘programmatic wastage’ across MP. As per union ministry of health guidelines allowable programmatic wastage for Covid-19 vaccine is 10%. 5.06 lakh doses of the vaccine have been received by the state government where in 2.25 lakh health care workers are to be covered in the first round. Other issues with the Co-Win interface is inability of the local headquarters to notify beneficiaries more than a day in advance, said the official. “We are working on the interface and understanding Co-Win functioning. Portal accessibility through mobile interface snagged in many locations. Browser interface was utilised in many cases. Uploading beneficiary data in advance is also complicated,” he added. Citing the issue that many of the beneficiary names were repeated, he said, “For instance we upload names of 200 people for a session, it is the portal that decides which 100 people are to be called for vaccination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/co-win-portal-mobile-app-glitches-vial-waste-over-acceptable-limits-in-bhopal/articleshow/80335031.cms||Jamal Ayub
January 19, 2021||Goa||Only loot, no ease of doing biz in state: GFP||Panaji: The state government is harassing entrepreneurs and investors who wish to set up new industrial units in Goa by asking them to obtain structural reports from the town and country planning (TCP) department and the inspectorate of factories and boilers, GFP said on Monday. GFP vice-president Durgadas Kamat said entrepreneurs are forced to pay a hefty bribe in order to get the structural report and certificate from the inspectorate of factories and boilers. “We want an investigation into this racket,” said Kamat. “We want them to withdraw the process immediately. The government is doing illegal things without notifying this process.” GFP questioned the need for two structural certificates to be prepared and submitted to two different government departments. Kamat said that while the TCP department has recognised several structural engineers, the inspectorate of factories and boilers has empanelled just three structural engineers to certify the building plans. “The government is pressurising entrepreneurs to obtain two structural reports and this is nothing but a racket. Any person who wants to set up an industry in Goa has to pay Rs10 per sqm to get a structural report,” Kamat alleged. Kamat also said that chief minister Pramod Sawant is only paying lip service with regards to ease of doing business reforms. Kamat challenged the chief minister to list out how many new industrial projects were set up after the Vibrant Goa investment summit was organised. GFP claims that the state has failed to live up to the assurances made at the Vibrant Goa summit. “There is no ease of business but just loot of business in Goa. There is no concrete policy for investments in Goa. This is nothing but loot and scoot. The Pramod Sawant government, the minister and the factories and boilers department are only looking to make money,” he said. Issuing a warning to the BJP-led government, GFP said that it is paying close attention to the work being carried out in every department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/only-loot-no-ease-of-doing-biz-in-state-gfp/articleshow/80336339.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Ludhiana||Rectify 10 black spots in road safety month: Expert||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana traffic police are observing the 32nd National Road Safety Month from Monday onwards but the 92 accidental black spots, where most of the accidents, including fatal ones, have taken place, are crying for attention. It has been a few years since these black spots have been identified, however, till now nothing has been done to rectify the faults to avert accidents there. The assistant commissioner of police, traffic zone-1, Gurdev Singh, has also released his book in which he has given detailed solutions to correcting the construction of the 10 black spots. But despite that, no practical changes have been made. National road safety expert Kamaljit Soi said, “The Ludhiana traffic police are organising various awareness drives, seminars, etc. to observe the road safety month. Instead, the Ludhiana police should get the black spots rectified, where people are losing their lives. 92 blackspots have already been identified. Moreover, ACP Gurdev Singh has given solutions by suggesting required changes needed for the rectification of the 10 black spots. During this one month, the city police should get at least these 10 spots rectified.” Soi added, “Rs 500 crore have already been allotted for this, which the Punjab government has not used for road safety so far. Moreover, I will suggest to the city police to keep zero tolerance for traffic violation during the road safety month. Awareness is important but the traffic police have been holding awareness programmes for quite some time. Now, it’s the time for enforcement as people follow the norms due to the fear of being caught or the fear of being punished.” “The target of Ludhiana police for this one month should be reducing the death rate by 50%. They should involve people and even I would provide free service to them to make Ludhiana a safer city,” said Soi. Additional deputy commissioner of police, traffic, Pragya Jain said that extensive studies had been done on 10 black spots and measures had been shortlisted to convert them into white spots. These measures include structural changes, installing road safety measures, removing encroachments, etc. as per specific need of a particular black spot. During this road safety month, the city traffic police will try to rope in all departments for the purpose. Year Road accident Deaths 2016384 2017351 2018328 2019365||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rectify-10-black-spots-in-road-safety-month-expert/articleshow/80335008.cms||Payal Dhawan
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Narendra Modi weakest Indian PM, says Asaduddin Owaisi||HYDERABAD: Hours after the ministry of external affairs acknowledged reports of new construction activity by the Chinese along the LAC, Hyderabad lawmaker Asaduddin Owaisi slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for doing precious little to counter the growing threat in the roiled region. Owaisi, whose AIMIM party is all set to contest more regional polls in the country after tasting success in Bihar, including West Bengal elections and Bihar civic polls, called Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the “weakest Indian PM” and said his government failed to inform people about the status of “Indian land in Chinese control.” Amid concerns that a new village has come up inside Indian territory and reports of satellite images showing rows of houses on the banks of Tsari Chu river in upper Subansiri district, Owaisi tweeted: “China is building villages in our land. Is this a special AWAS YOJANA for Xi Jinping?”“Made no demands on China to return our land -Made no military effort to take back control from China -Made no efforts to avenge the deaths of our brave soldiers killed by China,” Owaisi said in a series of tweets, referring to Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/modi-weakest-indian-pm-says-owaisi/articleshow/80336345.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Homeopath held in child sale racket for ‘accepting’ Rs 30,000 commission||MUMBAI: City crime branch investigating a baby sale racket arrested a 56-year-old homeopathy doctor from Worli on Monday and identified four more children aged two months to three years sold by a gang of eight to couples. Dr Dhananjay Boga allegedly took a commission of Rs 30,000 in the sale of one of the babies to a family in Dadar, said investigating officer Yogesh Chavan who is leading the probe. TimesViewThe net seems to be widening with the arrest of a doctor acting as a middleman. Since this is the third such baby sale racket which has been busted, it shows people’s desperation to have a child by any means. There is a need to frame stringent laws to curb this illegal trade.Police are trying to trace the biological mothers of the seven babies they have found so far. This is the third such baby sale racket that Mumbai police has busted in the past three years (see box). Sources said the lengthy legal procedure for adoption is the reason why some couples opt for the “easy” illegal route. After identifying the seven sold babies, city police intimated the child welfare committee (CWC) about them. Police said they have not taken custody of these children on humanitarian grounds as most are aged under three years. On Monday, TOI had reported that the crime branch had busted a gang of eight, including six women, that sold male children for Rs 1.5 lakh and female for Rs 60,000. On Saturday, crime branch Unit 1 arrested alleged gang members Arti Singh, Rukshar Shaikh, Rupali Verma, Nisha Ahire, Shahjahan Jogilkar, Geetanjali Gaikwad, Sanjay Padam and Gulshan Khan. The arrested accused have been booked under the Indian Penal Code section for human trafficking and Section 81 of Juvenile Justice Act. While Arti Singh is a technician employed with a private pathology laboratory, Nisha Ahire, Rupali Verma and Gulshan Khan are associated with surrogacy centres. “Half of the arrested accused women worked as ayahs in surrogacy centres and, we believe, thus they had access to needy couples. The modus operandi of the gang is to move around BMC-run hospitals and small nursing homes and look for women from financially weaker sections of society who show willingness to sell their babies. They also look for women who have accidentally got pregnant or delivered babies out of the wedlock and convince them to give the children up for adoption,” said a police officer. Police said the number of arrests made and the babies found is expected to rise as police have stumbled upon certain WhatsApp chats of the accused. Police seized eight mobile phones containing photographs of newborns and WhatsApp chats which they hope will help them find details of the number of babies sold and trace their families in Mumbai and Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/homeopath-held-in-child-sale-racket-for-accepting-rs-30000-commission/articleshow/80336839.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 19, 2021||Bhopal||Only 304 cases and 3 deaths acrosss MP; positivity at 1.4%||Bhopal: Only 304 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state on Monday, taking the count of total positive cases in the state to 2,51,882. It was for the third consecutive day that less than 400 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state after more than six months. And not only this, just three deaths were reported in the entire MP in a single day. This too was witnessed after more than six months. With these new casualties, the Covid death toll in the state reached 3,756. Districts where these deaths were reported include one death each from Bhopal, Gwalior and Jabalpur districts. On Monday, new cases were reported from 43 of the 52 districts of the state.Districts where no new cases were reported on Monday include Narsinghpur, Jhabua, Shajapur,Guna, Bhind, Mandla, Burhanpur, Niwari and Agar Malwa.Fresh cases were reported in double figures from seven districts. The highest number of cases were reported from Bhopal where 70 people tested positive, followed by Indore where 50 tested positive, Betul where 19 tested positive and Jabalpur where 16 people were found positive. On the brighter side, 540 people recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals. With these new people recovering from Covid-19, count of people who have recovered so far in the state reached 2,41,966. A total 20,449 samples were tested on Monday, of which 355 tested positive, thus the positivity rate—which is the number of positive cases out of every 100 samples tested—for Monday stood at 1.4%. As on January 18 , there were 6,160 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/only-304-cases-and-3-deaths-acrosss-mp-positivity-at-1-4/articleshow/80335039.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra plays it safe, sends Co-WIN & manual alerts||MUMBAI: Preparations for the second day of Covid-19 vaccination in the state on Tuesday went off smoothly, with health officials claiming that each of the 28,500 to-be recipients across Maharashtra had got a phone message from the special Co-WIN app on Monday itself. However, civic corporations such as the BMC decided to leave nothing to chance or technology as phone call reminders were being made to each of the 4,000 chosen healthcare workers in Mumbai. “We will follow this dual intimation method for a few more days,” said BMC additional commissioner Suresh Kakani. Day 2 of vaccination will begin at 9 am at 285 centres across the state, including 40 in Mumbai. “We expect to vaccinate 28,500 healthcare workers across the state,” said National Health Mission director N Ramaswami. In the first phase of the vaccination, roughly 7.5 lakh healthcare workers, including 1.3 lakh in Mumbai, will be vaccinated. At a review meeting held by CM Uddhav Thackeray late on Monday, senior officials said messages would be sent to the beneficiaries via the app, but most corporations would also make manual calls. Officials also said more than 100 beneficiaries would be assigned to each centre as, if some don’t turn up, others could be vaccinated. “People who did not turn up at their scheduled time and date will be given two more chances. If they do not turn up after the third chance, their name will be taken off the list,” said the official. On the eve of the first day of vaccination on January 16, glitches in the Co-WIN app resulted in healthcare workers getting messages late into the night, which in turn resulted in low turnout. While 64% of the shortlisted healthcare workers got vaccinated across the state on Saturday, the corresponding number for Mumbai was 48%. No vaccination was carried out in the state on Sunday and Monday as a result of the glitches that were ironed out in the two-day break, said an official. On Monday, Ramaswami said messages had been sent out to shortlisted healthcare workers via Co-WIN. “We expect a better turnout on Tuesday,” he said, adding that Maharashtra had one of the best turnouts across the country even on the first day of vaccination. At Thackeray’s meeting, a review of the preparation for the four days of vaccination due on Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday was carried out. Thackeray also reviewed the functioning of the Co-WIN app and asked district collectors for their feedback on the application. Many collectors were of the opinion that the app slowed down the process and, in many places, there were still some connectivity issues. However, in Mumbai, TOI spoke to senior officials of a couple of wards, who stated they had not yet received the list of people they needed to call for vaccination. An officer said, “Once we get the list, we start calling like last time. It is not difficult to call because there are few people on the list. But once the number of people scheduled for vaccination starts to increase, it will be not possible for the war room to call all of them.”The official said the Co-WIN app needs to be strengthened at the earliest. A medical health official of a ward in the western suburbs said, “Last time we got a list of 100 people in our ward listed for scheduled vaccination. We had eight phone lines and till Saturday morning, we communicated to all 100. There were no difficulties as most of them are health workers from BMC hospitals/facilities who are aware about the vaccination process and don’t require much explanation over the phone.” The BMC has set up war rooms in each of its 24 administrative wards, where they have deployed teachers and doctors for bed management and counselling of Covid-19 patients. The war room experts contact a person after they test Covid-19-positive and guide them for the required process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-plays-it-safe-sends-co-win-manual-alerts/articleshow/80338841.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra plays it safe, sends Co-WIN & manual alerts||MUMBAI: Preparations for the second day of Covid-19 vaccination in the state on Tuesday went off smoothly, with health officials claiming that each of the 28,500 to-be recipients across Maharashtra had got a phone message from the special Co-WIN app on Monday itself. However, civic corporations such as the BMC decided to leave nothing to chance or technology as phone call reminders were being made to each of the 4,000 chosen healthcare workers in Mumbai. “We will follow this dual intimation method for a few more days,” said BMC additional commissioner Suresh Kakani. Day 2 of vaccination will begin at 9 am at 285 centres across the state, including 40 in Mumbai. “We expect to vaccinate 28,500 healthcare workers across the state,” said National Health Mission director N Ramaswami. In the first phase of the vaccination, roughly 7.5 lakh healthcare workers, including 1.3 lakh in Mumbai, will be vaccinated. At a review meeting held by CM Uddhav Thackeray late on Monday, senior officials said messages would be sent to the beneficiaries via the app, but most corporations would also make manual calls. Officials also said more than 100 beneficiaries would be assigned to each centre as, if some don’t turn up, others could be vaccinated. “People who did not turn up at their scheduled time and date will be given two more chances. If they do not turn up after the third chance, their name will be taken off the list,” said the official. On the eve of the first day of vaccination on January 16, glitches in the Co-WIN app resulted in healthcare workers getting messages late into the night, which in turn resulted in low turnout. While 64% of the shortlisted healthcare workers got vaccinated across the state on Saturday, the corresponding number for Mumbai was 48%. No vaccination was carried out in the state on Sunday and Monday as a result of the glitches that were ironed out in the two-day break, said an official. On Monday, Ramaswami said messages had been sent out to shortlisted healthcare workers via Co-WIN. “We expect a better turnout on Tuesday,” he said, adding that Maharashtra had one of the best turnouts across the country even on the first day of vaccination. At Thackeray’s meeting, a review of the preparation for the four days of vaccination due on Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday was carried out. Thackeray also reviewed the functioning of the Co-WIN app and asked district collectors for their feedback on the application. Many collectors were of the opinion that the app slowed down the process and, in many places, there were still some connectivity issues. However, in Mumbai, TOI spoke to senior officials of a couple of wards, who stated they had not yet received the list of people they needed to call for vaccination. An officer said, “Once we get the list, we start calling like last time. It is not difficult to call because there are few people on the list. But once the number of people scheduled for vaccination starts to increase, it will be not possible for the war room to call all of them.”The official said the Co-WIN app needs to be strengthened at the earliest. A medical health official of a ward in the western suburbs said, “Last time we got a list of 100 people in our ward listed for scheduled vaccination. We had eight phone lines and till Saturday morning, we communicated to all 100. There were no difficulties as most of them are health workers from BMC hospitals/facilities who are aware about the vaccination process and don’t require much explanation over the phone.” The BMC has set up war rooms in each of its 24 administrative wards, where they have deployed teachers and doctors for bed management and counselling of Covid-19 patients. The war room experts contact a person after they test Covid-19-positive and guide them for the required process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-plays-it-safe-sends-co-win-manual-alerts/articleshow/80337941.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana issues orders to stop chicken supplies from Maharashtra||The Telangana government on Monday issued orders to district collectors to temporarily stop chicken supplies from Maharashtra into Telangana until the bird flu is brought under control in Maharashtra. Though there is no case of bird flu in Telangana so far, confirmed cases of bird flu in poultry have been reported from nine districts of Maharashtra where affected and suspected birds are being culled. The Telangana government has directed collectors of districts sharing borders with Maharashtra where bird flu cases have been confirmed to be on high alert and restrict entry of birds from Maharashtra. Animal husbandry minister T Srinivas Yadav directed animal husbandry department officials to coordinate with other departments concerned to set up check posts on borders and restrict entry of poultry from Maharashtra. —Roushan Ali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-issues-orders-to-stop-chicken-supplies-from-maharashtra/articleshow/80337513.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Goa||Goa Dairy plans cold storage at Dhargalim||Ponda: In a bid to prevent spoilage of milk during the long journey from Pernem to its Curti-Ponda plant, Goa Dairy is mulling setting up a Bulk Milk Cooler (BMC) — a cold storage system — at Dhargalim. The facility is aimed at helping milk farmers. The dairy has a plot of land at Dhargalim, which has been lying unused for the last several years, where it plans to set up the BMC unit to store the milk that is collected daily. Chairman of the dairy’s administrative committee, Durgesh Shirodkar, said that the milk that is collected daily from the Pernem farmers is brought to the Curti-Ponda plant on vans in uninsulated cans. As a result, there is always a risk of spoilage, especially during summer, he said. “If we have a proper cold storage at Dhargalim, we could store the milk there and bring it by way of tankers, which would not only minimise transportation cost, but also safeguard the quality of the milk,” Shirodkar said. For a decision in this regard, the matter was supposed to come for discussion during the Sunday annual general body meeting (AGM). However, the meeting could not be held as some members objected saying it did not have proper approval from the Registrar of Cooperative Societies (RCS). Shirodkar said the next date for the AGM has not yet been decided. However, it will be conducted by following all due procedures and required documents, he said. Shirodkar has been on the dairy’s administrative committee since June 2020. If we have a proper cold storage, we could store the milk there and bring it by way of tankers, which would not only minimise transportation cost, but also safeguard the quality of the milk||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-dairy-plans-cold-storage-at-dhargalim/articleshow/80336367.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
January 19, 2021||Goa||‘No pumping station on devasthan land’||Calangute: Minister for ports and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo assured that the sewerage pumping station at Gauravaddo (east) will not be built on land which earlier belonged to the Shantadurga Kalangutkarin Devasthan following protests by the Devasthan committee members and social activists in Calangute. Making a surprise visit during a protest meeting at the site of the proposed pumping station on Monday morning, Lobo said that after considering the sentiments of the people, the station will be built at a different location in Gauravaddo. “Work on the pumping station will be kept on hold till other suitable land is found,” Lobo said. He added that work on another pumping station at Gauravaddo (west) will also be kept on hold because of objections raised by people. He also said that no sewerage will be kept at the pumping stations. “It will only be pumped,” he said. Earlier during the meeting, Devasthan committee members and social activists strongly condemned the government for undertaking the work despite objections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-pumping-station-on-devasthan-land/articleshow/80336383.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Goa||Swami Vivekananda Kendra to be set up in Margao: CM||Panaji: A Swami Vivekananda Kendra will be established at Ravindra Bhavan to propagate the teachings of the celebrated spiritual leader who had visited Goa nearly 130 years ago, CM Pramod Sawant announced on Monday. Several programmes will be continuously held every year in his memory, especially for the youth, he said. The Kendra would be set up in Margao because Swami Vivekananda stayed here, Sawant said, after paying a visit to the room at the Naik’s ancestral home in Margao where the Swami stayed for around a week in October 1892. He went to the Rachol seminary to study Christianity, months before he left for Chicago where he later delivered his landmark speech at the world parliament of religions. Sawant commended the Naik family for preserving the room along with items and furniture he used, for almost 130 years. The room has items in silver used for performing rituals by Swami Vivekananda when he visited. Sawant's visit was part of National Youth week organised by the directorate of sports and youth affairs. He promised security and government support. A descendent of the Naik family, Pandurang (Bhai) Naik said the room usually remains locked and opened only once a year on January 12 for Swami Vivekananda’s birth anniversary. “We haven’t been keeping it open for the public because there is no security. If the government provides security, we would like to keep the room open for the public,” he said. Pradeep Naik, owner of the house, a part of which was given for the setting up of Damodar Saal temple, said the chief minister’s visit has given him new vigour. “I have already started renovation work and want to keep the room in better shape,” he told TOI. Bhai Naik said his ancestor and scholar Subrai Naik hosted Swami Vivekananda in the house during his visit and would accompany him to Rachol seminary to study about Christianity. “He had a command over 13 languages and would help Vivekananda translate directly from Portuguese to Sanskrit. They would walk to Rachol and sometimes travel via palkhi,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/swami-vivekananda-kendra-to-be-set-up-in-margao-cm/articleshow/80336410.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Vadodara||Milk shop owner molests seven-year-old girl in Karjan||VADODARA: A seven-year-old girl was molested allegedly by a man living in her neighbourhood in Karjan town on Sunday afternoon. According to police, the girl had gone to purchase milk pouches from a shop in her neighbourhood around 3 pm on Sunday. As there were no customers at his shop, the accused Sharif Shah Dewan took advantage of the situation and took the girl to a room inside his shop. Dewan touched the girl inappropriately due to which she went into a shock and started crying. Dewan let her go home to make sure that nobody heard her cry in his shop. On reaching home, the girl told his mother about what had transpired at Dewan’s shop. The girl’s mother went to confront Dewan, but he refused to accept his crime. Later, the girl’s mother went to Karjan police station where an offence of molestation and violation of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was registered against Dewan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/milk-shop-owner-molests-seven-year-old-girl-in-karjan/articleshow/80335069.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Women farm activists power up protest on Jyani & Grewal’s turf||Bathinda: Hundreds of women activists from farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) — mothers, grandmothers, sisters and sisters-in-law — sporting dupattas of yellow hues to match the outfit’s flag, gathered at Dhanola village in Barnala and Katehra village in Fazilka, the native places of Punjab BJP leaders Harjit Singh Grewal and Surjit Kumar Jyani respectively, to protest against them on Mahila Kisan Diwas on Monday for their “anti-farmer utterances’’. The women from five districts each of Punjab assembled at the villages of the two Punjab BJP leaders to raise their voice against the two leaders, who had been mediating between farm organisations and the central government and who upset farm organisations due to their objectionable language against farmers and their anti-farm laws protest. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha had on January 10 given a call for social boycott of both these leaders and had asked the farmers to oppose their entry into Punjab. “The massive protest by women against BJP leaders, a day ahead of the 10th round of talks of the farmer groups with central ministers, was to show that farmer activists are not going to sit back. They will remain on roads till the BJP government agrees to repeal the anti-farmer laws,: said BKU (EU) activist Sandeep Kaur while addressing thousands of woman activists at Dhanola. BKU (EU) women wing head Harinder Kaur Bindu said women are standing shoulder to shoulder in protests against the central government. “They assembled in large numbers, not only in ministers’ villages, but many other places in Punjab and also at various Delhi borders,” she added. She said the impact of the farm laws is being felt by women equally, even if many may not directly contribute to farm work. The residents of border villages of Fazilka said, “We had not seen such a massive participation of women in any protests in the border villages. The women using their power in such a way is an eye-opener for us,” said Mukhtiar Kaur, a resident of Katehra village in Fazilka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/women-farm-activists-power-up-protest-on-jyani-grewals-turf/articleshow/80336422.cms||Neel Kamal
January 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||Cotton yarn makers in Gujarat see revenue cross 2019-20 mark||AHMEDABAD: Beating the pandemic blues, cotton yarn makers in Gujarat are set to surpass their revenues of 2019-20. According to estimates from the All Gujarat Spinners’ Association (AGSA), the industry’s turnover was Rs 29,000 crore in 2019-20. Spinning units in the state have already achieved this by the end of the third quarter of 2020-21, riding on increased demand and higher prices of cotton yarn.  Cotton yarn prices have increased by 56% from April to November 2020, when prices stood at Rs 265 per kg, according to AGSA. “Cotton yarn price was Rs 195 in the first half of March 2020, after which it fell to Rs 170 in April soon after the lockdown. With a sharp increase in price recently, the industry has regained momentum. At this price, realisation from orders has increased for cotton yarn makers. Consequently, revenues of Q4 of 2020-21 will be growing at 25% from the corresponding quarter last year,” said Saurin Parikh, president, AGSA. Cotton yarn prices rose over the past two months or so due to an unprecedented increase in demand, especially in the export market. “Pipeline stocks dried up a few months of the lockdown and demand sharply increased. Currently, all units are operating at full capacity while at least 70% of the stock is being exported to countries like Vietnam, Bangladesh and China,” said Parikh. The surge in demand also helped industry players make up for revenue lost during the lockdown and after it. Industry players said that with fatter margins due to higher prices, the industry turnover for 2020-21 will grow by 10% against 2019-20. “Realisation and margins have increased significantly with the rise in prices. This is because of increasing demand. Better realisation helped manufacturers compensate for their losses,” said Ripple Patel, managing director of a yarn manufacturing unit. Gujarat is home to at least 140 spinning units with an installed capacity of some 50 lakh spindles according to AGSA. Daily production is at 40 lakh kg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cotton-yarn-makers-see-revenue-cross-2019-20-mark/articleshow/80336461.cms||Niyati Parikh
January 19, 2021||India||Include judges and judicial staff in priority list: SCBA||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) on Monday requested Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad to include judges, judicial staff and members of the legal fraternity in the category of front-line workers to extend the Covid-19 vaccination drive to them on priority basis. "As a respected and senior member of our fraternity, you are well versed with the prevailing situation and would use your good offices to ensure that the vaccination programme is extended to the judicial system at the immediate earliest," a two-page letter said. The letter written by SCBA Vice President Kailash Vasudev said the judicial system is a sacrosanct limb of the constitutional scheme and is second to none in rendering service to people. "We request that the present vaccination programme be extended to all who work in the judicial system at the earliest to usher in normalcy in the working of the judicial system. This will restore the faith of people in the judiciary. Opening court halls and hearings in physical form are of seminal importance," it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/include-judges-and-judicial-staff-in-priority-list-scba/articleshow/80338207.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Goa||Slender Loris spotted at Gaondongrim||Poinguinim: An adult, male Slender Loris, was spotted at Ozrem near Gaondongrim on Monday. Found in the Western Ghats, the last time the animal was rescued in Canacona was over a decade ago. Dinesh Naik, who saw it first, thought it was a bonnet monkey and called animal rescuer Santosh Natekar to confirm this. Natekar, trapped the animal in a box and brought it to the forest check post at Bhatpal, said Canacona RFO Anand Velip. Natekar later released the animal where it was found. In Canacona, they are sometimes spotted at forest areas of Endrem, Tirval, Marlim, Bela, Bhutpal and Astagal, Velip said. The animal rescued on Monday weighed around 400gm and is estimated to be one to one-and-a-half-year old.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/slender-loris-spotted-at-gaondongrim/articleshow/80336467.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Second cycling track on the cards from Bandra Fort to Mahim Fort||MUMBAI: The city may get one more cycling track. This time it will be along the sea coast from Bandra Fort to Mahim Fort — a distance of 3.8 km. State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray has asked the civic body to carry out a feasibility study for the project. According to a preliminary study carried out by the BMC, an eight-metre cycling track can be constructed on existing land along the sea coast with two bridges, one across the Mithi River at Mahim Causeway and the other at Bandra Reclamation. TimesViewCycling is an important component of environment conservation. However, the BKC experiment shows it cannot be created in isolation. Mumbai has its share of cycling enthusiasts who use the roads often at great peril. City planners need to provide cycling space on arterial roads so that it becomes a mode of transport and not just a leisure or sporting activity.Nine years ago, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) had laid cycling tracks in Bandra-Kurla Complex, but it is in a shambles today. Recently, the MMOPL, which operates Metro Line 1 from Versova to Ghatkopar introduced, cycling services at Versova and at Jagruti Nagar. Assistant municipal commissioner G-North, Kiran Dighavkar, who has been entrusted the task of carrying out the feasibility study, said the project is at a very preliminary stage. After the feasibility study, a detailed project report will be prepared, which will include the cost.“It will be on the lines of Marine Drive where people come in their vehicles, park the car and take a walk or cycle. Similarly, there will be a parking lot at either end. The cycling track will also have walking tracks on either side and viewing decks along the route. As the BMC gears up for the 2021 civic elections, numerous projects are being launched by the ruling Shiv Sena. A beach restoration project is also being considered for Mahim, where a new 2,640 sq metre sea front will be created. The new sea face will have an open gymnasium and a watch tower at the site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/second-cycling-track-on-the-cards-from-bandra-fort-to-mahim-fort/articleshow/80337561.cms||Clara Lewis
January 19, 2021||Bareilly||UP ward boy death: Autopsy says cardiac arrest reason; not vaccine’s side-effect, claims CMO||BAREILLY: The autopsy report of the ward boy in Moradabad, who died a day after he was given a vaccine for Covid-19, which was released by hospital authorities on Monday has said the 46-year-old went through "cardiogenic shock (when the heart can't pump enough blood for the body) with septicemic shock because of cardio-pulmonary disease". It added: "Left ventricle of the heart was enlarged. There were several blood clots in the aorta artery that carries blood to the heart... the weight of the heart was nearly 500 gm (much more than the normal). Both lungs also show pus pockets." However, chief medical officer Dr MC Garg said Mahipal Singh's death can't be related with the vaccine shot he got last week on Saturday. "There are no side-effects (of the Covid vaccine)," Garg said. The viscera has been preserved for further lab tests. TOI had reported the death on Sunday. Citing the post mortem report, additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal, said "cardiac arrest was the cause of death". Mahipal's son-in-law Sachin Kumar said, “He felt unwell after the vaccination and was taking rest at home. He didn’t work on Saturday night. We cannot rely on the autopsy report alone as it doesn’t tell the reason that led to the heart attack. He was quite fit and never had any heart-related problems in the past. We will discuss with family members and take necessary steps thereafter." The autopsy was conducted by a panel of three doctors that included Dr Shashi Bhushan, radiologist Dr Nirmal Ojha and Dr RP Mishra, also a radiologist. TOI contacted one of the doctors in the panel and asked if it was possible to ascertain the exact reason that triggered the cardiogenic shock without the viscera report? He replied: “Only the lab report of viscera can confirm the exact factors that triggered it." Asked about the possibility of the vaccine's side-effects in the case, he said, “We have shared our opinion with the CMO but the official version can only be given by him.” Dr Garg added, “We had asked people, who were sick, to skip the vaccination but he (Mahipal) didn’t share the information then. After his death we came to know that he was suffering from Pneumonia a few days ago. The autopsy has indicated the reason behind his death and we will get full confirmation once the viscera reports are available...91 staff members were vaccinated with Mahipal and nearly 480 in the entire district. All of them are fine. Yes, few had fever and a few vomited but that is normal." With inputs from Shailvee Sharda||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-ward-boy-death-autopsy-says-cardiac-arrest-reason-not-vaccines-side-effect-claims-cmo/articleshow/80334256.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 19, 2021||Surat||HIV positive man gets 10 years in jail for molesting minor in Surat||SURAT: The special court under Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act on Monday sentenced a 34-year-old HIV positive man to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment after finding him guilty of molesting a nine-year-old girl in 2019. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 25,000 fined on the accused, who was charged under section 354A (physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of Indian Penal Code and various sections of POCSO Act. The accused, a tailor, was neighbour of the minor girl on Ved Road in Surat city. His daughter was a friend of a minor girl survivor studying in Class IV. According to case details, the nine-year-old girl’s mother had lodged a complaint against the accused in Chowk Bazar police station on January 28, 2019. She stated that on January 27, 2019, the accused took the minor girl to his house while taking measurements for her shorts, molested her. He also recorded the act on his mobile phone. Despite knowing, that he was HIV positive and can infect the minor girl, the accused molested the girl. The girl somehow managed to escape and later told her family about the incident. “Crime against minor girls is on the rise. Therefore, we had sought maximum punishment for the accused,” said additional public prosecutor A P Vasoya in the court. He added that the special court also awarded compensation of Rs 1.50 lakh to the minor girl.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/hivve-man-gets-10-years-in-jail-for-molesting-minor-in-surat/articleshow/80335136.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Vadodara||22 jail inmates booked for jumping bails||VADODARA: Officials of Vadodara Central Jail lodged offences against 22 inmates at Raopura police station on Sunday and Monday for jumping bails. The prisoners were granted bails by the court in April last year in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown. The bails were extended on various occasions till December 31 and the inmates were then asked to surrender at the jail. However, the prisoners, all who are facing sentences, did not return. Police officials said that the inmates are from Vadodara and neighbouring districts. Of the 22, 12 have been convicted by family courts while the others have been convicted by different trial courts. “The offences have been registered under the Prison Act and the details of the prisoners will be forwarded to police station near their residents. The local police will find them and hand their custody over to the jail,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/22-jail-inmates-booked-for-jumping-bails/articleshow/80335082.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Women protesters burn IMF effigy||Bathinda: Hundreds of women staged a protest against the Narendra Modi government on Women Farmer’s Day at Tikri border on Monday. The protesters, who belonged to Punjab, Haryana, Bihar, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, also burned the IMF-WTO effigy. Punjab Kisan Union leader Jasbir Kaur Nat, National general secretary of All India Progressive Women’s Association (AIPWA), Meena Tewari, AIPWA national executive committee member Prof Sudha Chaudhary, Geeta Kumari from Haryana, Trade Union leader Lekha Aduvi from Karnataka and Punjabi theatre artist Anita Shabdish addressed the gathering. They said that when the Prime Minister of Canada advised the Modi government to comply with farmers’ demands, the government termed it as illegal interference in the internal affairs of the country. While the government is very happy with the open support of external organisations, even slight criticism is not acceptable to it, they said. The women farmers also warned the IMF, WTO and World Bank to stop interfering in the internal policy affairs of India, failing which their offices would be cordoned off. The protesting women warned that if the Modi government did not repeal the pro-corporate farming laws soon, women from across the country would launch a campaign to expose the BJP by reaching out to every household through demonstrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/women-protesters-burn-imf-effigy/articleshow/80336429.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Aggressive incumbent’ BJP now ‘victimised oppn’||Jalandhar: In Punjab, BJP has changed its stance from wholeheartedly defending farm laws to protesting against the Congress government in Punjab, pointing out that it too had a right to hold its events. At the same time, party functionaries are treading carefully so that they don’t ruffle feathers. Initially, Punjab BJP leaders had held programmes to “explain the benefits” of the three agriculture marketing laws to farmers and the people. However, after the December 25 events when situation turned unsavoury at a few places, especially at Bathinda, the saffron party started holding protest meetings and sit-ins against the Punjab government when the events were disrupted by protesters. “Initially, we were playing the role of incumbent party (in power at the Centre) by trying to explain the benefits of the farm laws and engaging with farmers. However, after the emotions have been running high, especially after the venue of protests shifted to Delhi borders, we are in the role of opposition in Punjab after the incidents of disruption of attempts of disruption of our meetings. We are questioning the state government over the law and order situation,” said a senior party leader. “We are treading carefully as we don’t want to offend anybody,” said another senior office-bearer of the party. He said though initially party leadership spoke quite strongly after cattle dung was thrown at the gate of residence of former minister Tikshan Sud in Hoshiarpur on New Year day, they then decided to leave the issue alone after a major demonstration in Hoshiaropur by farm activists. “It was also felt that furthering of the controversy would further highlight Sud’s ‘picnic’ remark about farmers protest at Delhi,” he said. Party leaders Surjit Kumar Jyani and Harjeet Singh Grewal have also faced strong opposition. At its protest rally at Jalandhar on January 10, the BJP speakers focussed more on attacking the Congress for trying to disrupt their events, rather than to explain the benefits of farm law. Their main line on the contentious legislations was that the Narendra Modi-led government would never harm the interests of farmers. Meanwhile, party insiders claimed that some bitterness due to the disruption of their events would lead to polarisation in their support. “It has provided us fuel to play victim card among our perspective voters, rather than to answer people’s questions on farm laws,” claimed a former BJP MLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aggressive-incumbent-bjp-now-victimised-oppn/articleshow/80336456.cms||IP Singh
January 19, 2021||Kochi||Desist from open criticismPinarayi tells KSRTC MD||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan is learnt to have asked KSRTC managing director Biju Prabhakar to desist from making public statements on the murky affairs in the trouble-hit corporation. The chief minister summoned the official at his official residence and conveyed the message in person. Sources say Prabhakar, who met Vijayan at Cliff House on Sunday, had explained his stand in the issue and the reasons for his outburst against a section of the staff. The chief minister assured him of all-possible support in the task of rescuing the corporation from its debt trap while also asking him not to repeat open comments against staff and unions. Prabhakar had openly criticized a section of the employees for abandoning their duties and fleecing the ailing corporation. He also said that expenditure details of Rs 100 crore, during 2012-2015 period, was missing from the corporation. Following his open criticism, trade unions resorted to protests and asked him to tender an apology for casting aspersions on KSRTC employees. However, the state-wide protest announced by INTUC-affiliated trade union was called off at the last minute on Monday. The MD held conciliatory talks with trade union representatives on Monday evening and said KSRTC would go ahead with its modernisation plans, including the setting up of K-SWIFT, an organization within KSRTC for managing the operations of long distance and hybrid buses. Representatives of CITU-affiliated union in KSRTC said it did not blindly oppose the proposal, but were concerned about the structure of the new subsidiary organization being set up as part of the revival of KSRTC. Meanwhile, Yuva Morcha workers staged a protest on Monday, seeking a comprehensive inquiry into the irregularities in the corporation that was admitted by the MD. The workers protested by travelling en masse in KSRTC bus from East Fort to Thampanoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/desist-from-open-criticismpinarayi-tells-ksrtc-md/articleshow/80334269.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Ready to show our strength, say women on Mahila Kisan Diwas||Jind/Kaithal: Women observed “Mahila Kisan Diwas” in Jind district on Monday. The event was entirely managed by the women. In Kaithal district, farmers took out a tractor rally against the three farm laws passed by the Centre. Many women also drove tractors to Khatkat toll plaza in Jind, ferrying other women. Around 1,000 women from various villages in Jind handled the stage, addressed the gathering, took out a paidal march, did PT show and also sang and danced. Women took out a one kilometre procession on the Jind-Patiala national highway carrying the Tricolour and Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) flags as rehearsal for the Republic Day parade on January 26. This is the first time that women registered their presence in large numbers at the protest site of Kahtkar toll plaza. Sumitra, a law student from Jalalpur Kalan village of Jind district said, “Being a farmer’s daughter, I attended the Kisan Mahila Diwas as farmers are protesting against the three agri laws despite the bitter winter. We want to say that farmer’s children are also well educated and understand the outcome of these laws. If these are implemented, farmers will be destroyed. We will fight along with our elderly farmers till our demands are met,” she said. Sikkim Devi, a woman leader said, “We are preparing for the proposed tractor parade in Delhi on January 26. On that day, Jawans will march on one side and women will do so on the other to show their strength to the Union government. This time, women are going to show their strength before the arrogant leaders of the saffron party. Now, besides male farmers, women will also play a major role in the repeal of the laws.” Azad Singh Palwa, a member of the ongoing protest in Jind said the men stayed away from the event as the women did a good job of managing it on their own.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ready-to-show-our-strength-say-women-on-mahila-kisan-diwas/articleshow/80336484.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Goa||Verna estate gets new transformer||Panaji/Vasco: The electricity department installed an additional power transformer at the Verna Industrial Estate on Monday. The new transformer, stakeholders said, is expected to address the power reliability issues faced by the industry. The 10MVA large distribution power transformer is the fifth to be installed at the industrial estate. The move comes after an existing 6.3MVA power transformer broke down. “The new transformer will help reduce the load on the other transformers and will, in a way, reduce the power issues faced by industrial units in Verna,” Goa State Industries Association president Damodar Kochkar said . Power minister Nilesh Cabral was present for the installation of the new transformer. Interestingly, the installation and commissioning of the transformer was done by the sub-station personnel itself instead of issuing a contract. “It is the first time in 15 years that the commissioning of the transformer has been done by the sub-station personnel itself,” Kochkar said. Industry stakeholders have repeatedly brought to the fore the poor quality of electricity supply and voltage fluctuations in the state, which lead to frequent power outages, resulting in production losses. Cabral also inaugurated the new premises of the Verna electricity office at the Verna Panchayat Ghar. The office will look after six villages including Verna, Nuvem, Cansaulim and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/verna-estate-gets-new-transformer/articleshow/80336489.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Shooter granted bail as recovered ‘pistol’ turns out be cigarette lighter||MUMBAI: Almost two months after a 30-year-old Bandra-based man was arrested on attempt-to-murder charges for allegedly firing at a builder who could not repay Rs 45 lakh he had loaned him, a sessions court granted him bail, noting the alleged pistol seized by the police was actually a cigarette lighter. The court also referred to the report which said that when the ballistic expert visited the spot, they “did not find positive evidence regarding the firing”. The accused, Farhan Sayed, was arrested on November 29. “Admittedly, the applicant permanently resides in Mumbai, he has no criminal antecedents, so also, he is ready to abide by all the terms and conditions. In these circumstances, no purpose would be served by keeping the applicant behind the bars... applicant has made out a prima facie case for the grant of bail,” the court said. The builder, Nasir Shaikh, submitted an intervention plea opposing the bail plea. His advocate alleged certain lacunae in the probe and raised doubts about its fairness. The prosecution’s case was that Shaikh had borrowed money from Sayed. When he attempted to repay the amount, though, the cheques bounced. The prosecution further submitted that despite Sayed’s repeated demands, Shaikh failed to pay up. It alleged that on November 28, when the victim along with his brother-in-law approached the accused seeking time to make the payment, a heated argument ensued. It was alleged that the accused shot at them twice. While one “bullet” hit the sofa, the second firing was “ineffective”. The prosecution said thereafter, they sat together, had a cup of tea and the victim promised to make the payment in future. Subsequently, the victim, on the advice of his friend, reported the matter and handed over the “bullets” recovered to the police, the prosecution added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/shooter-granted-bail-as-recovered-pistol-turns-out-be-cigarette-lighter/articleshow/80336557.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Saffron party cancels launch of campaign for Mansa polls||Bathinda: The Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP), under fire for implementing three widely opposed agriculture laws, is finding it tough to prepare for the upcoming local body elections in various parts of Punjab’s Malwa region. Protests against senior party leaders Surjit Kumar Jayani and Harjit Singh Grewal, both of whom belong to Malwa, is learnt to have further dampened the spirits of party cadres. Party leaders had gone to kickstart electioneering for elections to Mansa municipal corporation (MC) on Sunday, but had to shelve it due to opposition from farmers and others, according to party insiders. On December 25, BJP leaders had faced opposition from farmers when the party wanted to observe the birth anniversary of ex-PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The situation has come to such a pass that many BJP leaders desirous of contesting elections are preferring to contest as independents, said insiders. Party leadership has, however, said it would contest elections on party symbol. BJP, anyway, is not considered on a strong footing in Malwa. Earlier, the party had been contesting these elections in alliance with Shiromani Akali Dal and acting as ajunior partner in thestate, including in two municipal corporations (MCs) of Bathinda and Moga. Farm leader and BKU (Ekta Dakonda) vice-president Manjit Singh Dhaner said farmers would continue holding protests against BJP and not allow them to hold functions even in towns.. BJP state vice-president Dyal Dass Sodhi said as every political party had the right to contest the elections and indulge in electioneering, the state government must ensure an atmosphere where party leaders would feel free to hold campaigning and contest elections. “The fear psychosis should not be there as it is not right in any democracy. Every political party has to take forward its political agenda,” he said. He added though there was an uneasy calm, the party would contest the elections on party symbol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/saffron-party-cancels-launch-of-campaign-for-mansa-polls/articleshow/80336515.cms||Neel Kamal
January 19, 2021||Kozhikode||17 held for sexually abusing minor girl in Malappuram||KOZHIKODE: In a shocking incident, 17 people have been arrested under Pocso Act for sexually abusing a minor girl who was earlier subjected to abuse twice in the past, at Pandikkad in Malappuram. Pandikkad circle inspector Muhammd Haneefa said that there are a total of 30 cases under Pandikkad, Karuvarakundu and Vandoor stations in connection with the sexual assault on the girl.  “Among these, 16 cases are under Pandikkad, 13 at Karuvarakundu and one at Vandoor. As many as 16 accused have been arrested in the cases at Pandikkad and one for the case registered in Vandoor,” he said. The girl was sexually abused when she was 13-year-old, after which she was lodged at the Nirbhaya Home in 2016. She was subjected to sexual abuse again after she was released to her relatives in 2017. The girl was again released to the custody of her brother and his wife as her father is no more and her mother is invalid. The latest case came to light after the girl was reported missing last month. She was taken to the Nirbhaya Home again after the incident. The information on the sexual abuse was revealed in the counselling by the child welfare committee (CWC). “The girl was released to the relatives as there was no allegation against any of them. All the accused are outsiders. Moreover, she was released after the report from the child probation officer,” said Malappuram CWC chairman Shajesh Bhaskar. He said there has been no laxity on the part of the CWC in releasing the girl to her relatives. “Her brother said there was a girl who was the same age as the victim and we thought that she would be safe in the house. But we now suspect that there was laxity on the part of the brother,” Bhaskar said. The cases are being investigated by the team led by DSP, Perinthalmanna, in which circle inspectors of Pandikkad, Karuvarakundu and Vandoor stations are the members. There are 44 accused in the three incidents of abuse which happened in a gap of four years. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/17-held-for-sexually-abusing-minor-girl/articleshow/80334265.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||Cop’s wife taken away by her parents in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Subhash Shinde, 33, a constable currently deployed at Nadiad town police station filed a complaint on Sunday, alleging that his wife Jayshree was forcibly taken away by her family members, who had objections to their love marriage. The woman was taken away from her matrimonial home at Jalaram Park in Kapadwanj. Shinde has stated that Jayshree’s father Govind Gameti, mother Lataben, one Madhusinh Adivasi and an unknown person came in a van and took his wife away in a van.  He also alleged that when he tried to stop them by guarding his wife with his arms, they dragged him to the main the road and beat him up. The FIR also mentions that accused Lataben threatened his mother Hemaben of dire consequences if she tried to intervene. Sources from the Nadiad rural police station said they have lodged a case under Section 323, 427, 506(2) and 1145 of IPC and are hunting for the accused all of whom belong to Nadiad town in Kheda district. Inspector D J Sosa of Nadiad rural police said they are probing the details of the case and will take further steps after gathering evidence. The constable has stated that he is currently on sick leave as he had suffered fractures on his feet after a fall. The complainant’s wife works as lab technician in the office of the health department in Meghraj. Police sources said that, Jayshree had come to his husband’s house as he needed her help after he had the fall and was injured. “On Sunday, while Jayshree was washing utensils outside the house, the accused came in a van and first tried to convince Jayashree to leave Shinde, and then they forced her to sit in the van and leave with them. “The FIR states that when the constable put his arms around his wife to safeguard her, the accused dragged him till the main road outside his society and beat him up. He has sustained injuries on his fingers and hand,” a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-wife-taken-away-by-her-parents/articleshow/80336508.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Kochi||Sr Abhaya murder case: Fr Kottoor challenges conviction||KOCHI: Fr Thomas Kottoor, who was sentenced to double life imprisonment in Sr Abhaya murder case, has filed an appeal before the high court challenging the CBI special court’s verdict. The priest has contended that the lower court’s trial and judgment had many defects and procedural illegalities. He also alleged that the court did not consider documents and evidence submitted by the accused to prove their innocence. Fr Kottoor and Sr Sephy were convicted in the murder of Sr Abhaya, who was an inmate of St Pius X Convent in Kottayam, on March 27, 1992. It was alleged by prosecution that Fr Kottoor and Sr Sephy hit Sr Abhaya on the head and dumped her body in the convent’s well as she had witnessed physical relationship between the accused. In the appeal, it is stated that it was not only argued that the accused were innocent but clear evidence to prove their innocence was also presented before the trial court. However, prosecution had not conducted examination or cross-examination on the basis of such evidence. Facts and circumstances of the case were misinterpreted by the court while passing the verdict, it is alleged. Statements of three unreliable witnesses, including that of ‘Adakka’ Raju, that were not interconnected were relied upon by trial court for conviction, the accused contended. These statements are not sufficient to link the accused to the crime, the appeal said. The trial court also committed illegality in allowing prosecution to submit new evidence at the final stage of the trial, the appeal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fr-kottoor-challenges-conviction/articleshow/80334272.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Sanitation inspector prepping for minister tour thrashed||AHMEDABAD: A sanitation inspector who was overseeing the clean-up of roads in Dahegam town on Sunday, ahead of the visit of minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja, was thrashed by two men. The victim had scolded the duo for dumping garbage. According to the FIR filed by Dipak Amin, 57, sanitation inspector in the Dahegam municipality of Gandhinagar district, he was on duty when he was beaten by Savan Darbar and Rajdeep Darbar. The FIR has been filed with Dahegam police. “As minister Pradipsinh Jadeja was supposed to come to Dahegam town on Monday, I was instructed by chief officer of Dahegam though a written order to ensure cleanliness,” said Amin. He said that he along with other staff members had taken three tractors to clean the roads. “When I went to buy some snacks at a hotel, I found a pile of garbage there,” Amin said in the FIR. “I told a paan shop owner to ensure cleanliness. He told me that the garbage was dumped by two brothers who own the hotel. I told him to instruct the brothers to follow my directions.” After a while, Savan and Rajdeep came along with their aides and asked Amin how he had dared to give them directions. As Amin repeated his instruction, the two men began abusing and thrashing him until he fainted. Some locals took Amin to a community health centre in Dahegam. Later, he filed a complaint of causing injuries and obstructing him in his discharge of duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sanitation-inspector-prepping-for-minister-tour-thrashed/articleshow/80336549.cms||Ashish Chauhan
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Mann faction leaders join BKU (Rajewal)||Bathinda: Despite farm leader Bhupinder Singh Mann recusing himself from the committee formed by the Supreme Court, a number of senior leaders, including state committee president of farmer organisation BKU (Mann), joined the farm outfit of Balbir Singh Rajewal, BKU (Rajewal). State president of BKU (Mann), Baldev Singh Mianpur and general secretary Gurbachan Singh Bajwa, with other leaders, reached Singhu border on Monday to lend support to Rajewal. Mianpur and Bajwa, with other leaders of BKU (Mann) had, on January 12, slammed Bhupinder Singh Mann for not objecting to the inclusion of his name in the four-member committee constituted by the Supreme Court. Mianpur said that they were angry with Mann for not objecting to join the committee. They said even though he had recused himself from the committee, he should have objected instantly when his name was included in it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mann-faction-leaders-join-bku-rajewal/articleshow/80336543.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Goa||Cylinder blast at Zuarinagar||Vasco: A fire in a house at the Zuarinagar slums led to a cylinder blast on Sunday evening. Officials reported no injuries as the neighbouring residents ran out of their houses seeing the smoke. The incident happened at around 6pm on Sunday. Some locals in the Zuarinagar slums noticed smoke was coming out from one of the house. There was nobody in the house as all the members living there had gone out. The locals alerted Verna police and the fire station. Realising that the cylinder could blast at any time, people ran from the neighbouring houses with whatever valuables they could manage. Within a few minutes of them evacuating the blast took place breaking the roof tiles of the house. The fire tenders put off the fire and saved property worth Rs. 2 lakh. People shot videos of the blast from neighbouring buildings and put it up on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cylinder-blast-at-zuarinagar/articleshow/80336546.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Kochi||All govt forms to have transgender option||Thiruvananthapuram: In yet another progressive step towards attainting gender equality, the state government has decided to include the option for declaring the sex of the applicant as transgender, trans woman or trans man in all its application forms for various services in the government departments. The order issued by the social justice department in this regard on Monday stated that those who are undergoing sex reassignment surgery (SRS) from transgender to a male or a female can choose the column for trans man or trans woman, respectively, if they wish to. Currently, the option to declare the sex as transgender is available in the motor vehicles department while applying for driving licence and also while registering with the public service commission. The social justice department had earlier received a complaint that transgender students were not able to join extra-academic activities, including national cadet corps (NCC), as there is no option for declaring their gender in the application forms. The state was the first to launch a transgender policy and as part of the policy, the social justice department and other departments like panchayats, Kudumbashree, etc have been undertaking several welfare activities for the community members. The government is providing Rs 5 lakh for SRS for the transition to trans man and Rs 2.5 lakh for the transition to trans woman. For follow-up treatment, the government is also offering Rs 3,000 per month for one year after the surgery. The government had announced financial assistance to individual members and groups of the community for launching entrepreneurship initiatives. The loans will be offered through Kerala state women development corporation. Transgender Kudumbashree units that are functioning in the state will be given priority and loans in the range of Rs 3 lakh to Rs 15 lakh will be offered depending on the project proposal. It is estimated that there are more than 4,000 members in the community in the state at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/all-govt-forms-to-have-transgender-option/articleshow/80334288.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 19, 2021||Goa||Sawant: Decision on MV Act implementation tomorrow||Panaji: Decision on the implementation of the Motor Vehicle (Amendment) Act, 2019, which proposes huge penalties for traffic violations, will be taken during the cabinet on Wednesday, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday. Ports minister Michael Lobo, however, said that they will oppose the implementation of the act for at least for a year as most roads in the state are in a bad condition. Stating that travelling from Pernem to the airport itself will show how bad the condition of the national highway is, Lobo said, “Until and unless infrastructure is improved how can we impose high penalties. To improve infrastructure, it will take at least one year and till that time the amendment should not be implemented.” The Calangute MLA also said that implementation of the amended act would increase corruption. The state cannot implement the penalty imposed by the central government. “We have to constitute a committee to finalise new penalties for Goa. We cannot do anything that will harm our people,” he said. On January 6, the state cabinet deferred the implementation of the of the amended M V Act after some ministers opposed it saying it will burden the common man during the pandemic. During the discussion stage, when the matter came up before Sawant, he asked the transport department to place the proposal before the cabinet. The amended law came into force across the country on September 1, 2019, and states were asked to decide the date from which the law would be implemented in their jurisdictions. Earlier, the state government wanted to reduce some fines on certain traffic violations. A senior officer said that three states, including Gujarat and Uttarakhand, had lowered the fines, after that the Union government approached the attorney general of India for opinion, but he stated that states have no power to change central acts and that the amended law had to be implemented in the same way. However, the state government deferred the enforcement of the amended M V Act because, at many places, roads that were dug up either for widening the highways or for the laying of cables or sewerage lines had not been restored to their original condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-decision-on-mv-act-implementation-tomorrow/articleshow/80336574.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Dehradun||Education dept to felicitate professors of agri education||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand higher education department is planning to felicitate professors who have done significant work in the fields of agriculture education and horticulture forestry. According to officials, the National Education Policy (NEP), 2020, puts more stress on research work in these two fields and therefore, it is important to encourage those working in these areas. It is worth mentioning that the department honours the professors across various fields, including Commerce, Arts, and Science. TOI has also learnt that the cash prize that is given with the recognition is most likely to be raised Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/education-dept-to-felicitate-professors-of-agri-education/articleshow/80334276.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Man gets 7yr-RI for killing wife||Hyderabad: A man was convicted by a local court on Monday for killing his wife in 2018, in Malkajgiri. He was directed to undergo 7 years of rigorous imprisonment. Police said that the victim, Chantamma (55) died after her husband hit her in the face using an electric motor. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-gets-7yr-ri-for-killing-wife/articleshow/80336581.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid vaccination drive: Telangana sees 10% dip in coverage on Day 2||HYDERABAD: A 10% dip in coverage was seen in Telangana on Day 2 of the vaccination drive. On Saturday, 92 per cent coverage was registered compared to 82 per cent on Monday. While there was some hesitancy towards taking the Covid vaccine at centres TOI visited on Monday — with many seeing less than 30 beneficiaries turn up — health authorities said figures improved by the end of the day. As against a target of vaccinating 16,750 beneficiaries at 335 vaccination centres, the state was able to vaccinate 13,666 beneficiaries, falling short of nearly 3,000 beneficiaries. Cases of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) were also reported across the state on Monday. “All the 15 cases are of mild AEFI and all the people are stable and being monitored. Depending on the symptoms some have been taken to the hospital to be monitored for a couple of hours. We are not taking any chances,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director public health, Telangana. The vaccination programme will be rolled out at nearly 800 vaccine session sites from Tuesday onwards. At each of these sites 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated which takes the target for Tuesday to 50,000 vaccinations. Up to 2pm, several vaccination centres across the city saw 20 to 30 beneficiaries turn up as against the list of 50 beneficiaries forwarded to each. This had forced some of the centres to wrap up the programme between 1.30pm to 2pm. At the centre at the Osmania General Hospital, just 25 beneficiaries turned up. The remaining were either unfit, out of station or not willing to be vaccinated. A similar situation was noticed at the Tilak Nagar UPHC (Urban Primary Health Centre). While state health authorities were able to muster numbers on the first day, on the second many planned beneficiaries stood their ground to not take the vaccine. Replacement was difficult to find and the overall cumulative target met in the first and second day was 84 per cent. At the Gandhi hospital, by the end of the day only 24 people turned up for getting the jab, against a target of 50. This, despite the hospital authorities taking several awareness sessions over the last one week to improve participation from healthcare workers. At the vaccination centre at Area Hospital Kondapur too, 29 people turned up for receiving the jab on the second day of the vaccination programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/10-dip-in-vax-coverage-on-day-2/articleshow/80336507.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 19, 2021||Rajkot||Compounder stabbed to death in Bhavnagar||RAJKOT: A compounder working in a private clinic in Bhavnagar was found murdered on Sunday evening. A resident of Varal village in Sihor taluka, the deceased Mukesh Vala (36) was stabbed while he was on his way to work in neighbouring Tana village on his bike. Locals found Vala’s body and informed police. Cops said that Vala was stabbed with a pointed object on his chest, back and hands. Based on Vala’s brother Kalu’s complaint, a case was registered at Sihor police station. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/compounder-stabbed-to-death-in-bhavnagar/articleshow/80335176.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat govt proposes Rs 10,000 crore agriculture rejuvenation fund||GANDHINAGAR: Even as the Union government is faced with sustained protests by farmers over three newly enacted laws, the Gujarat government has proposed a Rs 10,000 crore “Chief Minister’s Agriculture Rejuvenation Fund” aimed at aiding farmers to adopt contract farming and also promote agriculture infrastructure in villages. The government envisages this as a means to increase productivity and income of farmers of the state. A key source in the state government said, “The state government aims to promote contract farming through FPOs (farmer producer organizations) and has proposed to set up the agriculture rejuvenation fund. The government will set up contract farming facilitation centres under all FPOs to convince farmers about the benefits of contract farming.” Sources added that the government will support farmers in maximizing their export potential and getting assured income. “The proposed fund will be used for creating necessary infrastructure like safe storage facilities to store agriculture output as well as promoting value addition, developing mini agriculture estates, promoting agriculture startups and helping farmers in reaching out to consumers,” sources said. “The fund will also be used for improving the present system of providing MSP as well as providing timely expert assistance to the farmers. Initially, the government aims to allocate Rs 10,000 crore for the fund, which could be increased after studying the response,” sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-proposes-rs-10k-crore-agriculture-rejuvenation-fund/articleshow/80336568.cms||Kapil Dave
January 19, 2021||Thane||One dead, three hurt in auto mishap at Yeoor ghat||THANE: A college clerk from Dombivli died while two of his co-passengers along with the driver suffered serious injuries after the auto rickshaw they were travelling in, toppled while ascending the Yeour ghats, in the wee hours of Monday. According to the Vartak Nagar police, the incident was reported around 2.45am when the auto driven by Subhashan Yadav was driving up to the Yeour village with three passengers identified as Mithun Mandal (M26), Reshman mandal (F23) and Deepak Bhide (M40), a resident of Asangaon. The reason why the trio was travelling to Yoeur in the dead of the night was not yet known. Police said Bhide hailed from Junnar and was staying in Dombivli where he worked with a local college. His wife told the police he had come to Thane for some official work but the reason why he was headed to Yeour in the dead of the night was still unknown. His family also denied knowing the co-passengers. “The driver was probably speeding and failed to control the vehicle while manoeuvring a sharp turn along the ghat section following which the auto toppled down the road in an adjoining ditch,” said investigating officer, PSI Jadhav at Vartak Nagar police station. While Bhide suffered massive injuries to his heads and died on the spot, the Mandals suffered injuries to their limbs and head while Yadav also got injured. Few passersby alerted the Thane police that rushed to the spot and rescued the victims. The four were rushed to the nearest hospital where Bhide was declared dead on arrival. The police said they have booked Yadav for negligent driving and causing death due to it and will further speak with the victims to know if he was drunk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/1-dead-3-hurt-in-auto-mishap-at-yeoor-ghat/articleshow/80337590.cms||Manoj Badgeri
January 19, 2021||Goa||Active tally slides to 864, recovery rate at 97%||Panaji: On Monday, Goa reported 53 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 66 recoveries, while there were no Covid related casualties. The state’s active tally reduced marginally to 864. The state’s case positivity rate remained at 5% while the recovery rate was 97%. 51 patients who tested positive during the past two days were home isolated and 24 were admitted to hospital. Presently, six patients are under observation in the South Goa Covid care centre. All 275 beds of the Covid care centre in North Goa are vacant. A health official said though 99% of patients who test positive opt for home isolation, they have kept the Covid care centres open in case there are patients, who live on streets or poor persons living in cramped spaces, need to isolated. On Monday, Panaji urban health centre saw its caseload rising to 68, while Porvorim and Margao have 44 and 101 cases respectively. Mayem primary health centre, whose tally had dropped to almost to nil last month, has been again reporting stray cases. It has 12 active cases. Ponda primary health centre’s tally slightly reduced to 39 during the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/active-tally-slides-to-864-recovery-rate-at-97/articleshow/80336600.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 19, 2021||Bareilly||Youth, 22, nabbed with drugs worth Rs 50 lakh at Indo-Nepal border||Pilibhit: A joint team of Sashastra Seema Bal’s (SSB) 49th battalion and Pilibhit police on Sunday night nabbed a 22-year-old youth at Kutia Kabar village along the Indo-Nepal border allegedly with 40 gm of brown sugar (low quality heroine) — worth Rs 50 lakh — when he was on his way to Nepal on a bike. Police identified the accused as Jagjit Singh of Ramnagar village under Madhotanda police station and booked him under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav said police sent two samples of the seized brown sugar to a government forensic lab. “The accused had procured the brown sugar from Udham Singh Nagar district in Uttarakhand to sell in Nepal. We are coordinating with our counterparts in Nepal as well as in Uttarakhand to get information on the drug smuggler's network,” said the SP. Police said the estimated cost of the seized brown sugar would be around Rs 50 lakh. SHO Ram Sewak said the accused was booked under sections 8 and 22 of the NDPS Act and police impounded the motorcycle that he was riding without papers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/youth-22-nabbed-with-drugs-worth-rs-50-lakh-at-indo-nepal-border/articleshow/80334274.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||Cops nab real-life Ricky Bahl||AHMEDABAD: Matrimonial websites were the hunting ground for this real-life Ricky Bahl. He would lure girls registered on the sites by promising them marriage, then rape and abandon them. He would also get his victims to divulge their credit/debit card details and rob them of their money. The crime spree finally came to an end when the city cybercrime cell arrested Sandeep Sharma, a resident of Delhi, from Somnath when he arrived with a girl from Madhya Pradesh.  The 40-year-old has been accused of victimising about 20-25 girls from across the country in this manner. Like Ranveer Singh’s character from the film Ladies Vs Ricky Bahl, in which he would con women into falling in love with him and then rob them, the accused, too, had several aliases including Vihaan Sharma, Pratik Sharma, Aakash Verma and others. “The accused, whose father is a retired government servant, told the girls that he worked as an HR manager with Google in Hyderabad and earned Rs 35 lakh to Rs 40 lakh per year.” DCP Amit Vasava said, “He would gain the trust of the girls by offering marriage. He would then click their nude or half-naked photographs and use it to blackmail them. After he raped a girl, he would change his phone number. He also changed his location frequently to evade arrest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-nab-real-life-ricky-bahl/articleshow/80336620.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Dehradun||Bike-lifter gang busted: One held, six motorcycles recovered||Haridwar: Rihsikesh police claimed to have busted a bike-lifter gang on Monday. The main accused, identified as Nitesh Tomar, was arrested by the police. However, his accomplice managed to escape. The police also recovered six motorbikes which were stolen from different parts of Dehradun. Ritesh Saha, SHO of Rishikesh police station, told TOI, “Bike theft cases were being reported for the past several days. During routine checking, we managed to nab Nitesh Tomar, a resident of Badot, Uttar Pradesh. We also recovered six bikes after interrogation. Another accused Rohit Kumar is absconding and we are trying to nab him.” According to the police, the two have a criminal background. They used to lift motorbikes from markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bike-lifter-gang-busted-one-held-six-motorcycles-recovered/articleshow/80334289.cms||MS Nawaz
January 19, 2021||Dehradun||Doon hospital medical officer dizzy after shot, doctors say he had ‘excess alcohol’||DEHRADUN: Dr KK Tamta, medical superintendent of Government Doon Medical College Hospital (GDMCH), who was administered the Covid vaccine on Saturday, was admitted in the hospital on Sunday after “feeling dizzy.”  The doctors treating him claimed that he fell sick due to “electrolyte imbalance, which has been caused due to excess alcohol consumption accompanied by less solid intake.” They denied that the medical superintendent’s condition was on account of any side-effects of the vaccine. Dr Ashutosh Sayana, principal, GDMCH, said that Dr Tamta had undergone several blood tests and scans and his condition was stable. “We have communicated details of his health condition to the chief medical officer (CMO). He is doing fine now and will be discharged soon,” added Dr Sayana. Incidentally, Dr Tamta’s name wasn’t there in the list of vaccine recipients on Saturday but he nevertheless got a shot since there were extra doses of vaccine available. “Every vial of the vaccine has a 5 ml dose that can be administered to 10 people. But we found that in some vials, the dose was 5.o5 ml. Hence, Dr Tamta got the vaccine shot from that extra dose on Saturday,” said Dr NS Khatri, deputy chief medical superintendent (CMS) of GDMCH. Meanwhile, the turnout of vaccine recipients on Monday, the second day of the vaccination drive in the state, was noticeably low at the hospital. According to hospital authorities, only 46 people turned up against the target of 100. On Saturday, 76 people out of the targeted 100 had been vaccinated at GDMCH. “Some people who got the vaccine shot have shown symptoms like mild fever which is not a cause of alarm. However, this might have caused reluctance among those who were due to get vaccinated. We are trying to create awareness on the issue,” said a senior staffer at GDMCH. When queried if news of the medical superintendent getting admitted in the hospital after getting the vaccine shot might have also deterred people, Dr Khatra said that “it is clear that Dr Tamta’s sickness wasn’t due to the side-effects of the vaccine.” He added that a number of people who were due to take the vaccine on Monday had claimed to be having fever, cough and cold which is why they declined to be vaccinated. “Those who were fine were vaccinated. We are continuously working to spread awareness and vaccinate the targeted number of recipients,” he said. Meanwhile, in the 34 centres across the state where the vaccination drive took place on Monday, only 1961 people got the shots against the target of 3400. Officials said that this was around 58% of the total target set for the day. State capital Dehradun – which has the maximum number of vaccination centres (5) -- reported the lowest turnout of 142 recipients out of the targeted 500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-medical-college-hospital-tipsy-doctor-dizzy-after-covid-jab/articleshow/80334314.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Bhopal||8th accused in Umaria teen gang-rape held||BHOPAL: Umaria police arrested the eighth of the 9 accused in gangrape of 13-year-old student, from Wardha in Maharashtra on Monday. The accused is a truck driver. Search for the other accused is underway. “Of the 9 accused, 7 were arrested, two others who are truck drivers were on the run. One of them has now been arrested from Wardha in Maharashtra and search for the other truck driver is on. The truck that he used to drive has been seized,” SP Umaria, Vikas Kumar Shahwal told TOI. He added, “The minor is still in a state of trauma and is kept at the one-stop crisis centre where she is being counseled. We have also taken help of different experts for planning proper rehabilitation of the minor”. The minor was gang-raped twice in 10 days once by 5 people and then by 9 accused in Umaria district. Some of the accused in both incidents were common. The first incident took place on January 5 and the second incident took place between January 11 and January 12. After the second incident, the accused had handed her over to a truck driver who raped her before handing her over to another driver who also raped her, in Umaria district, as per the statement of the survivor. The survior was recovered by police after the complaint of kin and has since then been lodged at one-stop crisis centre in the district. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/8th-accused-in-umaria-teen-gangrape-held/articleshow/80335177.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Kochi||Falling rock damages Kuthiran tunnel roof||Thrissur: The under construction Kuthiran tunnel on the Thrissur-Palakkad road was damaged on Sunday after a huge rock accidentally fell through its roof while the operations for removing earth above it was going on. Though the workers had a miraculous escape, the incident has raised serious concerns about the safety of the tunnel, which was expected to ease the perennial traffic block on the road. With this, the opening of the tunnel by this month-end, as assured by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan recently, is unlikely. Sources in the KMC Constructions Ltd, which is now undertaking the tunnel work directly, conceded that it might take at least a couple of weeks more for completing the work. KMC, which is the main contractor for the Mannuthy-Wadakkanchery stretch of the national highway, had taken over the tunnel construction following disputes with the sub-contractor Pragathi Engineering and Rail Project Pvt Ltd. There are allegations that KMC does not have the required expertise for the construction of tunnels and this had led to the accident. However, a company official denied this and said there was no threat to the tunnel. The official added that the damage would be rectified using scientific methods. Thrissur MP T N Prathapan has demanded a safety audit of the tunnel and taking of urgent remedial measures. Meanwhile, Kuthiran people’s collective leader N C Rahul has demanded that the existing road should not be closed after the commissioning of the tunnels. The traffic on the route will come to a standstill if similar accidents happen in the tunnels, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/falling-rock-damages-kuthiran-tunnel-roof/articleshow/80334307.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Bareilly||Seven cops removed from police outpost in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: After a "sex racket" allegedly run by two constables of Gadvakheda police outpost of Seramau North police station in Pilibhit was unearthed and the concerned cops suspended, superintendent of police (SP) Jai Prakash Yadav on Monday removed the remaining seven constables from the outpost and attached them with their respective police stations. The SP also suspended a head constable Avnish Kumar posted at Lalaurikhera police outpost of Jahanabad police station after a purported video surfaced on Sunday evening in which Kumar can be seen demanding bribes from commercial and crowded passenger vehicles on the Bareilly-Haridwar NH-74. Puranpur circle officer Pramod Kumar has been asked to probe the matter further. The SP said that the suspended head constable has been attached to the reserve police lines and an inquiry has been ordered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/seven-cops-removed-from-police-outpost-in-pilibhit/articleshow/80334303.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 19, 2021||Goa||50k birth & death records to get new lease of life||Panaji: The state government has initiated the process for conservation and repair of at least 50,000 birth and death records registered between 1914 and 1970 across all talukas. The directorate of archives has acquired these records from offices of the civil and sub-registrars across the state and has invited tenders from experienced agencies willing to undertake the work. The process of conserving and repairing the archival folios includes chemical cleaning, de-acidification, tissue lamination, binding, covering and pagination in order to maintain them for easy retrieval in the future. While the size of the records vary from document to document, a majority of the manuscripts are of A4 size or less and have been written in Portuguese, Modi Marathi and English. A senior official said the tasks that will have to be carried out for the conservation of the public records include removal of dust from documents, books and records, fumigation with Para dichlorobenzene and Thymol, pagination/numbering of records and books, unbinding of registers and internally marking the sequence of the documents, records and books. De-acidification, which entails immersion of documents in an aqueous, alkaline solution wherever ink is not soluble in water, will also required to be done. If the ink is soluble in water, proper ink-fixing will need to be carried out using a proper measure of the consolidant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/50k-birth-death-records-to-get-new-lease-of-life/articleshow/80336583.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Goa||In south Goa, rindworm infestation damages watermelons||PANAJI: Watermelon farmers of Verna and surrounding villages in South Goa are grappling with rindworm pest infestation. Officers of the Goa State Horticulture Corporation and directorate of agriculture were informed about the infestation. The zonal agricultural officer (ZAO) inspected the fields and guided the farmers on preventive measures to be taken up. “This infestation occurred in the watermelons last year as well. However, farmers were unable to identify the problem until much later. This time, they have paid attention and have started taking up preventive measures in the initial stages of the infestation. This will help them salvage the crop,” horticulture officer Dattaprasad Desai said. On Monday, faculty from the Don Bosco College of Agriculture, Sulcorna, Rajan Shelke and Professor Satish Patil, visited the watermelon fields. During inspection, they noticed green coloured larvae scraping the outer green layer of the fruit rind. This scraping has resulted in green to greyish blotches on the fruits, they said. The experts said there are various reasons for the pest infestation, like climatic conditions, poor weed management, monocropping, late sowing, planting of susceptible varieties and poor knowledge on pest identification and management among the farmers. The larvae of the rindworm have been collected and brought to the institute’s laboratory for study. They educated the farmers on how rindworms develop, its appearance and feeding habit, symptoms of damage to the crop and management strategies. The farmers have been advised to conduct physical monitoring of incidence of the watermelon rindworm in the fields as it is “not attracted to light traps.” For biological control, they have been advised to apply bacterial insecticide Bacillus thuringiensis to reduce the incidence of the pest, spray a suspension of entomopathogenic fungi Beauvaria bassiana and install bird perches. They have also been advised to spray insecticides only on watermelon leaves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-s-goa-rindworm-infestation-damages-watermelons/articleshow/80336637.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid-19: Testing low in Telangana, reduces to 21,000||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Monday recorded 206 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths, even as testing continued to remain low for the seventh consecutive day. With just 21,893 tests conducted on Monday, there is a drop from nearly, 45,000 tests being conducted per day over a fortnight back. The cumulative caseload in the state rose to 2,91,872, while the death toll stood at 1,579.  The state has 4,049 active cases currently, of which 2,281 are under hospitalization. Meanwhile, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 45 new cases on Monday. This was followed by 17 cases in Karimnagar, 16 cases in Ranga Reddy and 11 cases in Medchal Malkajgiri. All the remaining districts in the state recorded between one and 10 new cases on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/testing-low-in-t-reduces-to-21k/articleshow/80336527.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man gets 3 years’ jail for sexual assault of minor neighbour||MUMBAI: Observing that a neighbour is supposed to protect children in the absence of their parents, a special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court recently convicted and sentenced a 47-year-old hairstylist to three years’ rigorous imprisonment for sexually assaulting a 10-year-old girl whose family was out at work. Relying on the deposition of the child and other witnesses, the court said, “The entire evidence is duly corroborated by her grandmother and her cousin. Both of them have deposed as regards to the part played by them. ‘R’ (cousin) is the witness who had called the grandmother immediately after seeing the accused in their room and hearing about the act of the accused,” the court said. The court further pointed out the incident took place after 3.40pm and the family approached the police station at about 5.35pm. “So, there is a prompt FIR. There is no room for doubt or suspicion in this case,” the court said. The accused, a father of two, was told to pay the child Rs 25,000 as compensation. “It is just and proper to direct the accused to pay compensation to the victim to make good of the loss sustained by the victim to some extent,” the court said. The grandmother testified that on November 30, 2013, she went to the market to buy vegetables, leaving the child alone at home. The child’s parents and other family members were out at work. The woman said her other granddaughter “R” was away at school. She said while she was out, “R” reached home and then called her frantically and asked her to rush back. When she got there, she was told the accused had entered their home and caught hold of the survivor when she was drinking water. The grandmother was further informed that when “R” pushed the door to the residence on reaching, she realised it wouldn’t open fully as the safety chain had been used. Through the gap, she saw the accused had put his hand on her cousin’s mouth. The accused claimed he had visited to check the TV. The survivor, though, informed her family of the sexual assault.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-gets-3-years-jail-for-sex-assault-of-minor-neighbour/articleshow/80337602.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 19, 2021||Varanasi||Varanasi’s GI expert to address MPs in online session||Varanasi: A social worker and expert of Geographical Indication (GI) Dr Rajani Kant of Human Welfare Association (HWA) from the parliamentary constituency of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been selected to address the members of parliament during the five-day online interactive session organised by the Parliamentary Research and Training Institute for Democracies (PRIDE) from January 18 to 22. The online presentations by eminent social workers and Padma Shri recipients for the benefit of the MPs began with the address of Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla on Monday. Kant, along with others, joined the virtual inaugural ceremony. “It is a matter of great satisfaction and honour for me that I got the opportunity to interact with the members of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha to apprise them of my viewpoints over the subject allotted to me,” Kant told TOI on Monday after attending the inaugural function. He has been allotted a 45-minute slot on January 20 for his presentation over ‘preservation, protection and promotion of traditional craft and related products of India and linking with sustainable livelihood and entrepreneurship with appropriate marketing through geographical indication under Intellectual Property Right’. President Ram Nath Kovind had presented Padma Shri award to Dr Rajani Kant for Social Work in 2019. He has been working for the past 25 years in Varanasi and nearby districts of eastern Uttar Pradesh for sustainable development of weaker sections, especially artisans and weavers. His organisation, HWA has been working for the upliftment of women, handloom weavers, handicraft artisans, marginal farmers, landless, youth and children through various developmental initiatives like Self-Help Groups (SHGs), basic education, GI registration and Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) for safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage, traditional livelihood, skill development, child rights, organic farming practices and women economic empowerment with environmental protection and sustainable agriculture practices. A total of 20 eminent social workers, who are also the recipients of Padma Shri award, have been invited from various parts of the country to address the interactive sessions. Besides Kant, one more person from Uttar Pradesh – Bharat Bhushan Tyagi from Bulandshahar got the opportunity to address the MPs. Tyagi will give his presentation on organic farming on Tuesday. According to the programme schedule, the other topics of discussion by other participants include agriculture, animal husbandry and bio gas, agro-bio diversity conservation, eradication of physical disability and organ donation f, rehabilitation of divyang, social worker working for the specially- abled children of Kashmir, environment conservation etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/varanasis-gi-expert-to-address-mps-in-online-session/articleshow/80335221.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Nashik||Health officials of 5 dists in N Maha to get IT help to fix CoWIN glitches||Nashik: The health departments of the five north Maharashtra districts have been instructed to seek the assistance of the state information technology (IT) department in case of CoWIN application malfunction.The Covid vaccination drive is set to resume on Tuesday at 40 session sites spread across Nashik, Ahmednagar, Jalgaon, Dhule and Nandurbar districts. P B Gandal, the deputy director of the state health department, Nashik region, told TOI experts from the state IT department will help the local health officials overcome glitches in the CoWIN app. “The experts’ phone numbers have been provided to the health officials and the latter have been asked to immediately call them up in case of technical snags in the app,” said Gandal.The health officials of these five districts had a meeting with the state IT department experts on Monday, where the working of the app was discussed. “We do not expect technical glitches in the future as the issues have been addressed,” said a senior health department functionary.The CoWIN app, launched recently by the Union government, contains data of healthcare workers who will be the first to get the vaccine.On the day of vaccination, the staff at the sites will be carrying out beneficiary verification using the app. And after the vaccination, all details have to be uploaded on the CoWIN portal.On Saturday, the first day of the vaccination drive, the app was either not functioning or had slowed down. This had an impact on the entire process.Gandal is confident that the footfall of beneficiaries will increase from Tuesday in all the session sites.Barring Dhule district, which registered 97% footfall at its four vaccination locations on Saturday, the remaining districts in the region recorded between 57% and 66% beneficiary attendance.Gandal said the health authorities of these districts were making efforts to counsel the beneficiaries on the need to get the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/health-officials-of-5-dists-in-n-maha-to-get-it-help-to-fix-cowin-glitches/articleshow/80334281.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||No preference for lawyers in vaccine||Hyderabad: The high court refused to direct the state or the Centre to accord preferential vaccination for lawyers. The bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Abhishek Reddy was dealing with a PIL filed by advocate Ponnam Ashok Goud who had sought vaccination for advocates on a par with frontline Covid-19 warriors. Upon a query from the bench, advocate general BS Prasad said that the government was following the guidelines issued by the Centre by giving preference to health workers, frontline workers and people aged above 50 with comorbidities. The bench said the petitioner can represent to the Centre if he wants to and closed the PIL. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-preference-for-lawyers-in-vaccine/articleshow/80336582.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||CERC vacates office on ‘prime’ Thaltej plot||AHMEDABAD: After almost 29 years of operating from a green and sprawling campus spread over 10,000 sq m, the Consumer Education and Research Centre (CERC) is set to vacate its building situated on a prime land parcel in Thaltej. India’s landmark consumer advocacy institution has shifted its operations to an office on Ashram Road. Highly placed sources claimed that CERC was directed to vacate the building in a bid to free the prime plot. The land, which is currently owned by the Lalbhai Group, is expected to be sold -- the key reason behind why the 43-year-old organisation will shift base, once again. CERC has relocated its operations to Sakar-2 building near Ellisbridge police station.  This is for the third time since its inception in 1978 that the organisation will move to a new location. When founded, it began operations from a modest office in Lal Darwaza and later moved to Thaltej in 1992, said sources. Praful Amin, chairman of the board of trustees at CERC, however, insisted that the organisation was shifting ‘voluntarily’. Amin said, “The plot was graciously given to us 30 years ago and we had no beneficiary interest. The purpose was purely for charity and public welfare. As the institution expands, we felt the need to move to a place that we owned. The Thaltej land was provided to us on lease for a designated period. Also, our donors did not charge a single paisa. Our decision to shift is voluntary.” Sources said that the Lalbhai Group is helping recapitalize the organisation. “Institutions like these which operate with a vision and objective are short on funds especially due to pandemic and other reasons. Lalbhai Group will help recapitalize the institution with a substantial corpus so that it can continue its operations without worrying about funds and continue to be efficient,” said a source. Amin added, “We will identify land to establish our new campus. Presently we are in search of space for our electrical laboratory.” He added that CERC has been developing new programmes under the Green Skill Development Programme for the union ministry of environment and forests. “We will require space for conducting these programmes, too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cerc-vacates-office-on-prime-thaltej-plot/articleshow/80336681.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||Narendra Modi is new chief of Somnath Temple trust||AHMEDABAD: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the new chairman of the Somnath temple trust. The post had fallen vacant after the death of BJP leader and former chief minister of Gujarat, Keshubhai Patel. Prime Minister Modi has for a long time been a trustee of the Shree Somnath Trust, which manages the famous Somnath Temple in Gir Somnath district. The other trustees are home minister Amit Shah, former deputy prime minister L K Advani, former chief secretary of Gujarat P K Laheri, Harshvardhan Neotia, a Kolkata-based businessman, and J D Parmar. Patel passed away in October, days after recovering from Covid-19. The decision was taken unanimously, at the 120th meeting of the temple trustees on Monday, said Laheri, who is also secretary of the trust. Modi is the second PM after Morarji Desai to chair the temple trust of the famous Lord Shiva temple. Desai had been on the board of the temple for 26 years, Laheri said. Somnath has been politically important for the Bharatiya Janata Party. Advani’s Ram Rath Yatra that started from the Somnath temple in 1990 had laid the foundation of the BJP in the country. In March 2017, Modi’s first visit to the historical temple near Veraval as Prime Minister of the country came one day after completion of campaigning for assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. Somnath Temple is first among the twelve Aadi Jyotirlings of India. The existing temple, considered the seventh one, is built in the Kailas Mahameru Prasad style and India’s first deputy Prime Minister Sardar Patel was behind its construction. The design is by Prabhashankar Sompura. A design by his son, Chandrakant Sompura, has been adopted by Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra for construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/modi-is-new-chief-of-somnath-temple-trust/articleshow/80336638.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Jaipur||Approve gas project: Raj to Centre||Jaipur: Representing the pre-budget meeting for 2021-22, UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal demanded the Centre to approve urban gas distribution in Rajasthan.The meeting was chaired by Union minister of finance and corporate affairs Nirmala Sitharaman where many states participated. The minister said, “Gas pipeline has been approved from Jasthan Field in Gujarat. Therefore, the work of urban gas distribution projects in 20 districts of Rajasthan should also be approved.”He also highlighted that no project from Rajasthan has been given the status of national project by the Centre. He asked that the state’s ambitious East Rajasthan Canal Project should be included in the budget by giving it a national status. Also 50 highways which have been declared as national highways by the Centre should be included in the budget after issuing notification.Dhariwal also urged the inclusion of new rail link projects such as Ratlam-Dungarpur, convert broad gauge between Dholpur, Sarmathura and Gangapur City. He suggested to include Bhilwara’s Memo Coach Factory project in the Union Budget.He suggested that 2% additional credit limit of gross domestic product (GDP) should be allowed. Dhariwal also demanded that Centre government should compensate the revenue deficit occurred in GST collection till June 2027.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/approve-gas-project-raj-to-centre/articleshow/80336679.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Fever to night shift: Many excuses to shun vax shot||Hyderabad: From wanting to conceive in the near future, feeling feverish, being allergic to medications and being on night duty - several beneficiaries listed for vaccination on Monday, used every trick in the bag to avoid the jab. Despite attempts to convince them, repeated phone calls and seeking written explanations, many stood their ground. “I am allergic to many medications. Since the vaccine is not advised to be taken by such people, I refused taking it,” said a beneficiary, who was listed for taking the jab at the Koti vaccination centre on Monday. In another case, a beneficiary refused to come for the vaccination citing her plan to start a family. “I have been wanting to start a family and might conceive in the next two to three months. I don’t want to take a chance and affect the health of my future baby,” said an anganwadi worker to health authorities at Tilaknagar centre, when they called her. While acknowledging hesitancy among some beneficiaries, Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director, Public Health Telangana said, “There are some who want to wait and watch and have been trying to avoid the vaccine. We will give these beneficiaries another day or two and try to convince them. Ultimately, it has to be a voluntary decision. If they are not willing we will have to exclude them.” Others who pulled off the vanishing act, made an overnight journey out of state for important personal work. “Many people said they were out of station when contacted. There were about 10 people who said they were allergic to many medications. This is a contraindication for taking the vaccine and hence they had to be excluded. There were others who refused to come saying that they are on night duty and need to sleep during the day. When we tried to convince them, some switched off their cell phones,” said an in-charge at the vaccination centre at the Osmania General Hospital. The centre saw 30 beneficiaries turn up . Dr M Dasrath, medical superintendent Area Hospital Kondapur, said, “pregnant women, lactating mothers and people with allergies were not to be vaccinated as per the protocol. Such people were excluded by the medical officers screening beneficiaries. Some of the women said they were pregnant or planning to conceive. As per protocol people with allergies, pregnant women and lactating mothers are excluded from vaccination.” The centre saw 29 beneficiaries take the jab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fever-to-night-shift-many-excuses-to-shun-vax-shot/articleshow/80336636.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 19, 2021||Dehradun||Local delicacies to be introduced in police canteens in U’khand||Dehradun: Uttarakhand police headquarters on Monday issued a circular to all district police heads and commandants of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) battalions to introduce local delicacies in police canteens across the state. According to Ashok Kumar, DGP Uttarakhand, districts and PAC battalions have been asked to introduce local dishes like Mandua chapati, Kandali saag, Gahat dal, Jhangora kheer, and others, in the canteens operated by the police department. The move will give rise to the demand of local produce and the cuisine is also considered good for health, said Kumar. He added that the initiative is in line with the state government's aim to provide platforms to local produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/local-delicacies-to-be-introduced-in-police-canteens-in-ukhand/articleshow/80334331.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 19, 2021||Goa||GMC: Ayush minister’s health improving||Panaji: The health condition of Ayush minister Shripad Naik has improved. Naik was taken off high-flow nasal cannula (HFNC) and put on simple mask oxygenation, Goa Medical College (GMC) dean Dr S M Bandekar stated in a media bulletin on Monday. The minister is now being given a normal diet, Bandekar stated. Four orthopaedic surgeries were performed on the minister for the multiple fractures that he suffered in a road accident in Karnataka, last week. He was shifted to GMC the same evening after receiving preliminary treatment at a hospital in Karnataka. “The minister is doing well and his general condition is improving. All his parameters, including blood pressure, pulse rate and oxygen saturation level are normal,” Bandekar stated. He was given blood transfusion twice for faster healing of his wounds and all his blood tests are within normal limits, he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmc-ayush-ministers-health-improving/articleshow/80336710.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 19, 2021||Jaipur||No permission needed for functions||Jaipur: The Covid guidelines for surveillance, containment and caution, up to January 31, issued by the home department on January 18, states that “prior information has to be given to the district magistrate/police commissioner concerned, along with a seating plan, preferably on email for organising social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and gatherings”. Earlier, permission was required for organising any of these functions.For these functions, organisers should ensure that the maximum number of guests allowed shall not be - in closed spaces: a maximum of 50% of hall capacity will be allowed, with a ceiling of 100 persons; in open spaces: keeping the size of the ground/space in view with a ceiling of 100 persons.The home department’s guidelines, issued by principal secretary, home, Abhay Kumar stated that lockdown shall remain in force in the containment zones till January 31. It further stated classes from 1st to 8th will remain closed till further order. Cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, entertainment parks, and similar places will remain closed for activities till January 31, 2021.It further states that district collector and district magistrates based on their assessment of situation may impose local restrictions, with a view to contain the spread of COVID-19, after prior permission of the state government.“All government and private schools are permitted to open for regular class studies for classes 9th to 12th from January 18. For regular classes all government and private schools will compulsorily follow the SOP issued by the education department. For regular class studies the seating arrangements for students would be made in such a way that the total present students are not more than 50% of the seating capacity of the room. Coaching institutions are also permitted to open,” it added. For marriage-related gatherings, number of guests permitted shall not be more than 100 and not more than 20 for funerals/last rites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-permission-needed-for-functions/articleshow/80336698.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 19, 2021||Jaipur||7.05 lakh new voters added to voters’ list||Jaipur: Of the 10.61 lakh names added during the special summary revision of electoral rolls (starting from November 21), 7.05 lakh new voters have been registered in the voters’ list as the final electoral roll was published on Monday (January 18), informed chief electoral officer (CEO) Praveen Gupta. After the final publication of electoral roll, total voters in Rajasthan is 4.95 crore. Gupta informed that of the total names, 6.95 lakh names were of the age group 18-19 years. He said 3.55 lakh names have been deleted due to death or transfer of electors. Of the 7.05 lakh new names added (1.44% of the total voters), 3.79 lakh are males and 3.26 lakh are female voters.He informed that an initiative “Garuda” was launched on a pilot basis in Ramgarh and Alwar assembly constituencies, through which 40,000 houses have been geo-tagged with the polling booths, in order to make rationalisation of polling stations easier.“Most of voters were added online through the election department’s portal and helpline app having filled online forms. We are going to launch e-EPIC facility for the voters on National Voters’ Day (January 25). Currently, we have mobile numbers of around 70 lakh voters, whose e-EPICs can be generated immediately. One can register his/her mobile number through KYC to generate one’s e-EPIC,” he said.The district-wise break-up is Dungarpur 3.26%, Sirohi 2.76%, Dholpur 2.36%, Barmer 1.92%, Kota 1.84%, Bikaner 1.80%, Bundi 1.74% and Ajmer registered an increase of 1.73%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/7-05-lakh-new-voters-added-to-voters-list/articleshow/80336708.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Bhopal||MP: Hooch dealers’ cheap liquor ends up as killer||BHOPAL: It took 38 deaths in two hooch tragedies within a span of three months to shake up the government that has now launched a campaign against illegal liquor breweries, which have mushroomed in different parts of the state. Availability of liquor at “much cheaper” prices at illegal outlets, compared to the “very high” rates at licensed liquor shops is believed to be one of the reasons for the poor turning to illicit booze. The revenue collected through liquor sale in Madhya Pradesh is Rs 10,600 crore for the financial year 2020-21 . Amid the pandemic, the state government crossed swords with liquor contractors when the latter were asked to open the shops to generate revenue. Following a controversy, new contracts were awarded after retendering in July this year. After the Morena hooch tragedy, almost every day, joint teams of police and district excise officials have been raiding these breweries. Thousands of such raids have already taken place and the illicit liquor stored in canes and raw material required to produce the hooch is destroyed. “Most such breweries have been functioning in remote corners of villages, on riverbanks and in the fields and in most of the cases officials, officials know about the production,” said a senior police officer in the headquarters. “And, this can’t be done without support from a section of politicians,” he remarked. Excise commissioner Rajeev Chandra Dubey told TOI, “This is a regular exercise. We carry out operations against illicit liquor throughout the year. Yes, after the Morena incident, the campaign has been intensified.” In the last four days alone, over 2,000 such raids were conducted in the leading to the seizure of over 26,000 litres of “kachchi sharab” (crude liquor) and 170 litres of over-proof or OP in the liquor -trade parlance. “OP is concentrated liquor and it is diluted several times to produce liquor that can be consumed,” a liquor contractor explained. Sources also point out the “costly liquor” sold in MPas one of the reasons why the poor opt for the “cheap and illicit liquor” brewed at local level. A network of bootleggers in the villages supply it leading to such tragedies,” sources said. Excise department sources said that one ‘paav’ (quarter) of desi or country made liquor in the state which costs Rs 10 from the factory and goes to the government godown is made available to the liquor contractor at Rs 51. By the time it reaches the customer at a country made liquor shop, a quarter -bottle costs Rs 65." “While the government earns 500% revenue, the liquor contractor gets about 30%,” a liquor contractor in the Chambal region explains. This is also the reason of black-marketing of the liquor,” the contractor added. Another contractor said that the same thing is applicable in the IMFL also. “Liquor is costliest in Madhya Pradesh,” a senior excise official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/paying-the-price-costly-liquor-paves-way-to-hooch-trade/articleshow/80335243.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
January 19, 2021||Jaipur||Raj to ink pact with MECL for potash exploration on Thursday||Jaipur: Rajasthan petroleum and mines department will ink an agreement with Mineral Exploration Corporation Ltd, under Union mining ministry, to carry out economic feasibility of potash mining in Hanumangarh district.After preliminary exploration, the Geological Survey of India (GSI) has found potash reserves of 133 million tonnes in Satipura block of the district. But the state government is roping in MECL to undertake a detailed economic feasibility study of the reserves.“Feasibility and pilot plant study of the blocks is important to attract investors. We have already finalized the architecture of the agreement which will be signed on Thursday,” said Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, petroleum and mines, on the sidelines of a workshop organised by National Mineral Exploration Trust (NMET).Speaking at the event, Sharma said while exploration is important, it has to be sustainable. “Mining affects the area and its people. Exploration can only be sustainable if we have strategies and implement them to mitigate the damages and displacements it causes,” added Sharma.That’s why, he said, both NMET and DMFT (District Mineral Fund Trust) have a larger role to play. But he said any policy deliberation should involve the private sector.“At the end of the day, the private sector has to face all the challenges. If the exploration data NMET provides is not accurate, their projects lose financial viability. If the local challenges are not addressed, they face the wrath of the community. If they struggle to comply with the cumbersome regulations, they are at risk of losing the blocks. So, we need to involve them at every stage,” added Sharma.NMET is running a campaign across the country to assist and empower states in creating strategies for exploration. Starting the campaign from Jaipur, Ranjit Rath, CMD of MECL and DG of GSI, said, “We chose Jaipur as first location because Rajasthan is the number one of state in terms of value and volume.”Rath said that MECL has been working with state governments and helping them in putting up blocks for auction. “GSI and MECL have given more 35 blocks to various state governments and they have been auctioned.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-to-ink-pact-with-mecl-for-potash-exploration-on-thursday/articleshow/80336712.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Residents oppose Bal Thackeray's statue at Colaba, cite SC order||MUMBAI: BMC on Sunday placed Shiv Sena founder, the late Bal Thackeray’s statue at a traffic island on M G Road at Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Chowk in Colaba. While it is wrapped for now, officials said that some work was still pending before it is inaugurated. Some residents have opposed the installation, citing a 2013 Supreme Court order, which states that no statues must be installed on public roads. Vice admiral (rtd) I C Rao, president of Apli Mumbai, an NGO, said residents had opposed it in December 2019. “There is a 2013 SC order which states that no statues can be installed on public roads. The safety of pedestrians is affected, and when there are events when the statue will be garlanded, the road will be closed. Ours is a safety issue and not political. There will be hundreds of people taking selfies and it will create a traffic problem. There is no space on the traffic island,” Rao said. Rao said the SC ruling came when the Kerala government wanted to install a statue of the late N Sundaran Nadar, former deputy speaker of Kerala legislative assembly on a traffic island. It applies to all states and Union Territories. Mumbai collector (city) Rajiv Nivatkar said he will seek more information on the issue. Shiv Sena corporator Yashwant Jadhav, who heads the civic standing committee, said, “Balasaheb Thackeray’s sacrifice for Mumbai is unparalleled. So everyone wants a tribute fit for him. The island previously selected was too small. At the current location there is enough space for people to step in and pay homage to Balasaheb. All relevant permission is in place. No Mumbaikar will oppose Balasaheb’s statue. Those opposing it are being used for political motives,” Jadhav said. BMC officials said they had taken permission from Mumbai Heritage Conservation Committee (MHCC) and other authorities. Additional municipal commissioner (city) Sanjeev Jaiswal did not respond to a query from TOI. BJP corporator from Colaba, Makrand Narvekar, said the statue should be installed in accordance with rules and no court orders must be violated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bal-thackeray-statue-in-colaba-draws-residents-ire/articleshow/80337629.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Man gets 10 yrs’ jail for sex assault of minor neighbour||Mumbai: Observing that a neighbour is supposed to protect children in the absence of their parents, a special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court recently convicted and sentenced a 47-year-old hairstylist to three years’ rigorous imprisonment for sexually assaulting a 10-year-old girl whose family was out at work. Relying on the deposition of the child and other witnesses, the court said, “The entire evidence is duly corroborated by her grandmother and her cousin. Both of them have deposed as regards to the part played by them. ‘R’ (cousin) is the witness who had called the grandmother immediately after seeing the accused in their room and hearing about the act of the accused,” the court said. The court further pointed out the incident took place after 3.40pm and the family approached the police station at about 5.35pm. “So, there is a prompt FIR. There is no room for doubt or suspicion in this case,” the court said. The accused, a father of two, was told to pay the child Rs 25,000 as compensation. “It is just and proper to direct the accused to pay compensation to the victim to make good of the loss sustained by the victim to some extent,” the court said. The grandmother testified that on November 30, 2013, she went to the market to buy vegetables, leaving the child alone at home. The child’s parents and other family members were out at work. The woman said her other granddaughter “R” was away at school. She said while she was out, “R” reached home and then called her frantically and asked her to rush back. When she got there, she was told the accused had entered their home and caught hold of the survivor when she was drinking water. The grandmother was further informed that when “R” pushed the door to the residence on reaching, she realised it wouldn’t open fully as the safety chain had been used. Through the gap, she saw the accused had put his hand on her cousin’s mouth. The accused claimed he had visited to check the TV. The survivor, though, informed her family of the sexual assault.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-gets-10-yrs-jail-for-sex-assault-of-minor-neighbour/articleshow/80336860.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 19, 2021||Jaipur||NGO gets road safety award||Jaipur: Muskaan Foundation for Road Safety has been awarded the National Award for work in the field of road safety by the ministry of Road Transport and Highways, government of India on Monday, at the inaugural ceremony of the National Road Safety Month at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi. The award was given by Nitin Gadkari, Union minister for road transport and highways and Rajnath Singh, Union minister for defense. Shantanu Bhasin, managing trustee of Muskaan received the award in the presence of the ministers.Pramod Bhasin, founder and trustee, Muskaan Foundation said, “We are very pleased with the recognition of our work by the ministry and it has given us an impetus to work further. The road accidents are a serious threat to human life is clear from the fact that Corona claimed 2250 lives during the seven months from April to November in 2020 while within these months there were 5,720 accident deaths on the roads of Rajasthan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ngo-gets-road-safety-award/articleshow/80336709.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Rajkot||Migrant killed in Gujarat clash over temple donation rally||RAJKOT: A 30-year-old migrant worker became a victim of fierce communal clashes that erupted in Kidana village near Gandhidham late on Sunday night during a rally to collect donations for the Ram temple. The victim Arjun Savaiyo from Jharkhand stabbed by the riotous mob attacked and set ablaze the rickshaw in which he was travelling, police said. The rickshaw driver was also stabbed. A complaint of murder was lodged against unidentified persons with Gandhidham B-division police station on Monday. Meanwhile, the village remained on the edge but heavy police deployment has ensured that tempers remain under rein. Three policemen were also injured during stone pelting. Police had to burst 27 tear gas shells, four stun shells and some stun grenades to quell the mob that resorted to vandalism and arson. Nearly 13 vehicles allegedly used in rioting have also been seized. On Monday, two other FIRs were also registered in Gandhidham and one in Mundra marine police station in connection with the riots. One complaint was lodged by the police against the mob for rioting, violation of notification and damage of public property. The FIR stated that when the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) rally reached Masjid Chowk in the village, some participants were chanting religious slogans which provoked people from the other faith. This led to verbal altercation between the leaders of both the communities which snowballed. The FIR states that people from the minority community started pelting stones and a mob of around 200 people rushed towards the raths (chariots). Those in the rally also resorted to stone pelting. As the news of the clash spread in the area with the majority community population, another mob armed with sticks, swords and other sharp-edged weapons rushed here. Some policemen on duty got injured and the mob began torching vehicles after which cops lobbed tear gas shells to disperse them.  Mayur Patil, superintendent of police Kutch (east) said, “The situation in the village is under control and adequate force has been deployed. We have rounded up 40 people. We have video footage of the mob and action will be taken based on the evidence.” Another FIR was registered by Vipul Jaru who named Iqbal Chavda, Kasam Kkal, Ibrahim, Hussain Chavda, Salman Chavda and 200 other unknown people, alleging that the mob stopped the rathyatra and pelted stones. Another complaint was lodged against members of the minority community with Mundra marine police station alleging that the rathyatra was attacked in Sadau village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/migrant-killed-in-kutch-riot-over-temple-donation-rally/articleshow/80335268.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Submission date of HSC forms online extended to January 28||PUNE: The dates for students of standard XII from the state education board to fill up the online application forms for Higher Secondary School Certificate examination 2020-21 have been extended from January 19 to 28 and with a late fee can be done between January 29 and February 6. Initially, the forms could be filled between December 15 and January 4 which was again extended from January 5 to January 18. However, there have been technical issues faced by some schools and junior colleges while filling up the forms which made the board extend the dates yet again. In all probability, these exams will be held in April and the SSC exams in May. The exact dates will be announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/submission-date-of-hsc-forms-online-extended-to-january-28/articleshow/80337632.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Patient rushed to Gandhi Hospital||Hyderabad: A 29-year-old patient was rushed to Gandhi Hospital after receiving the jab at the Uppal centre at 2pm on Saturday. The patient complained of vomiting and feeling giddy. “The patient came to Gandhi Hospital just now. We are admitting her in Acute Medical Care ward. She has been complaining of vomiting, giddiness and general weakness since yesterday. Doctors, who are on special duty for vaccine reactions (AEFI Committee), have examined her. Her temperature is normal, pulse and BP are normal, oxygen saturation is 100 percent on room air (without oxygen). She’s stable at present. We will run necessary investigations, and monitor her closely,” said Dr M Raja Rao, medical superintendent, Gandhi Hospital. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/patient-rushed-to-gandhi-hospital/articleshow/80336691.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||IICT researchers flag concern over virus spread through water||Hyderabad: Researchers from CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology revealed that the possibility of transmission of SARS-COV-2 through water systems is a significant concern and needs to be studied further. Detection and inactivation will play a crucial role in curbing the community spread of the virus. Scientists suggested considering virus detection as a regular parameter for routine monitoring of drinking water. The IICT scientists published a paper on environmental challenges of SARS-COV-2 in Esleveir Chemical Engineering Journal. The team of researchers led by S Venkata Mohan of Bioengineering and Environmental Sciences Lab of IICT in Hyderabad published the paper titled ‘SARS-CoV-2 in environmental perspective: Occurrence, persistence, surveillance, inactivation and challenge”. The researchers said SARS-CoV-2 virus passes out through stools making possible a faecal-oral route of transmission. Even though the faecal-oral route is stated to be “emerging as a major environmental concern”, they said that this mode of transmission is yet to be established as is transmission to the community. The IICT researchers opined that there is a need for wastewater epidemiology studies which will help in early warning signals. “Virus in general retains the infective property and infuses genetic information in the proximity of host leading to their replication. The presence of SARS-CoV-2 at an infectious dose and the duration of persistence in stools and wastewater are significant aspects that need to be studied with a larger number of samples from the public health point of view,” observed the researchers. Researchers of IICT Manupati Hemalatha, Harishankar Kopperi I Ranjith and A Kiran Kumar were part of the team that published the paper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iict-researchers-flag-concern-over-virus-spread-through-water/articleshow/80336743.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Healthcare worker, who lost two colleagues to virus, takes vaccine||Hyderabad: Gundu Gopal, a healthcare worker at Government Chest Hospital in SR Nagar, had last met his colleague Victoria Jayamani, a head nurse who served in the Covid-19 ward, just a few days before she succumbed to the coronavirus. “Jayamani died days before she was to retire. She was like an elder sister to most of us in the hospital,” Gopal told TOI. The head nurse was not the only colleague that Gopal lost during the pandemic. A lab technician he knew well, Govardhan — who was involved in collection of swab samples from Covid-19 suspects — also succumbed to the virus in July 2020. “The deaths of colleagues and the suffering of their families was emotionally overwhelming. That’s one reason I decided to volunteer for the vaccine as soon as it was rolled out in the country,” Gopal said. He said the fear of side-effects from the vaccine was nothing compared to the difficulties they went through to keep themselves and their families safe while discharging duties. Earlier this month, he signed himself up to be among the first few beneficiaries of the vaccine. Gopal, who was waiting in Government Chest hospital’s observation room said, “Although we were taking precautions, we knew we were more prone to contracting virus than anyone else.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/healthcare-worker-who-lost-two-colleagues-to-virus-takes-vaccine/articleshow/80336716.cms||Moulika.KV
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Captain on NIA notices: Do farmers look like terrorists?||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday condemned NIA notices to several farm leaders and their supporters in the midst of the ongoing agitation against three contentious farm laws, describing the move as an “arm-twisting” tactic which would not weaken the resolve of farmers to fight for their rights and future. “Do these farmers look like secessionists and terrorists?” said Amarinder, slamming the BJP-led government at the Centre. He said the government was resorting to reprehensible and oppressive tactics in a desperation to undermine peacefully protesting farmers. But these measures, he said, will not succeed in destroying the resolve of farmers, rather the Centre will only end up provoking them into stronger reaction, he said. He said the Centre seemed to be bent upon pushing farmers over the edge through intimidatory actions. Amarinder said BJP’s most powerful minds would not be able to control the situation if things got irretrievably out of hand. Instead of resolving the crisis triggered by the draconian legislations, the BJP-led central government was resorting to victimisation and harassment of the protesting farmers, said the CM. He dubbed the notices as a regressive step, which would lead to farmers hardening their stance. “It is obvious the BJP-led NDA government neither cared for farmers and their concerns, nor understood their psyche. Punjabis are fighters by nature; they are imbued with the fighting spirit which makes them among the best warriors in the world,” he said, adding that the Centre’s coercive actions will only provoke the farmers from Punjab to react negatively. He again demanding the Centre to withdraw the laws and sit down across the table with all stakeholders, especially farmers, to usher in an era of genuine agricultural reforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/captain-on-nia-notices-do-farmers-look-like-terrorists/articleshow/80336740.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Rajkot||Dahod girl raped by lover, his kin||RAJKOT: A 19-year-old girl from Dahod, working as a construction labourer, was raped allegedly by two brothers with whom she had fled and come to Rajkot in September last year. The girl told the police that of the two accused Rohit Damor and Rahul Damor, Rohit had promised to marry her after moving to Raiyadhar village in Rajkot. The marriage did not take place, but they continued living as a married couple. Rahul too lived with them as the trio worked together as construction labourers. A month after coming to Raiyadhar, the girl and Rohit had altercations over a petty issue following which he broke up with her and asked Rahul to take care of her. Rohit asked the woman to live with Rahul as his wife. She refused to follow Rohit’s instructions and insisted on going back to Rajkot. The duo refused and instead raped her for three months. The two accused did not even allow her to leave the house, she alleged. Last week, the woman’s parents learnt about her location in Rajkot and reached there. When she confided to her parents, they took her to the police to lodged a complaint of rape, confinement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dahod-girl-raped-by-lover-his-kin/articleshow/80335320.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Agra||Agra: Children at state observation home suffer from cold, lack of proper arrangements||AGRA: An inspection conducted by the juvenile justice board revealed lack of proper arrangements for children lodged at the state government’s juvenile observation home in Agra. The inspection report marked to the district magistrate mentioned that the centre has broken windows and children were not provided socks and shoes during the harsh weather conditions. TOI also has access to the copy of the inspection report which mentioned that the centre lacks proper sanitation and hygiene. Toilets and bathrooms were found stinking, Covid-19 protocol was not followed, record of food stock was not shown by the management, video conferencing system was not working and some of the young inmates complained of ill-treatment by the elder ones. There are 170 children between the age group of 10 to 18 years lodged at the juvenile observation home located in village Siroli on Jagner road in Agra district. Principal magistrate of the juvenile justice board had conducted an inspection at the centre on December 16. A report of the inspection was sent to the district magistrate of Agra on January 11. Centre superintendent Ratan Singh said, “The windows are being repaired. Required arrangements have been made to protection children from the cold weather.” Additional district magistrate Prabhakant Awasthi said, “Based on the inspection report, clarification has been sought from the district probation officer. Suitable action on points raised in the inspection report will be ensured.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/children-at-state-observation-home-suffer-from-cold-lack-of-proper-arrangements/articleshow/80334367.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||48 hours for spl counselling: HC||Hyderabad: The high court on Monday gave 48 hours to the TSCHE to conduct special counselling for students seeking admissions into MBA and MCA courses. The bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice A Abhishek Reddy was upset with the way the state was dodging the issue despite promising it will hold a special counselling session 10 days ago. The case was posted to January 20 for review. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/48-hours-for-spl-counselling-hc/articleshow/80336752.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||PD Act against murder accused||Hyderabad: Langar Houz police invoked Preventive Detention (PD) Act against a person allegedly involved in double murder case. The accused in the case was arrested in June 2020 and has been in Chanchalguda prison since. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pd-act-against-murder-accused/articleshow/80336725.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: With night restrictions gone, restaurants expecting a biz boost||JAIPUR: The lifting of night curfew is expected to lend a fillip to many sectors like tourism and travel, hotels, restaurants, handicrafts, and textiles among others. Also, it will ignite hopes for many people who have been laid off due to closure of restaurants and hotels in the absence of demand. “There is lot of pent up demand. People will come out and go to their favourite places. It will not only put us on the path to normalcy, but will also create job opportunities and increase tax revenue of the government,” said Sunil Mehta, a hotelier. Night curfew has been a dampener for the tourism sector. As the news of the restrictions spread in November, people from neighbouring states started avoiding the state. “Now, the inflow of visitors from Delhi, Gurgaon, Noida and Chandigarh will resume. We are happy that the government has lifted the curfew, but the onus is on us to follow the SoPs because corona has not gone away,” said Kuldeep Singh Chandela, president of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Rajasthan. Night curfew has hit the restaurant business as evenings accounted for a major portion of the day’s business. Looking forward to the coming days, Rajnish Pardal, owner of one of the oldest restaurants in the city, said, “The cases have been declining. Vaccination drive has started and now the night curfew is gone. This augurs well for the industry and we are optimistic that in a couple of months things would be normal.” Mehta said that for people visiting Jaipur sight-seeing is as important as shopping and eating out in the evening. “Without the market and a visit to a local restaurant, the experience is incomplete. This was missing in the past couple of months. Now, we expect a rush as the tourist season is very much live-and-kicking,” added Mehta. As a president of HRAR, Chandela said that the restaurant industry is in a difficult situation and the government should provide some relief to resurrect the sector. “We have made a recommendation to the government to treat us as an industry. The tourism and hospitality industry was given industry status in 1989, but we are taxed at commercial rates for electricity. Similarly, we have not been able to use the bar due to lockdown and curfew restrictions. That’s why bar licence fees should be reduced,” said Chandela.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-night-restrictions-gone-restaurants-expecting-a-biz-boost/articleshow/80336717.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Vaccine administered to SCR medical staff at Central Rly Hosp||Hyderabad: The first dose of the Covid vaccine was administered to the South Central Railway (SCR) medical staff at the Central Railway Hospital, Lallaguda, on Monday. The SCR zonal hospital has received 593 doses of Covid vaccine, which will be administered to all staff belonging to the health units of Secunderabad, Hyderabad, Chilkalguda, Kacheguda and Moula-Ali over a period of six days. “The frontline healthcare staff of the SCR zone put their physical, mental and social well-being at risk. It is because of their dedicated service that they are getting vaccinated first,” said SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya. He conducted an extensive inspection of the Central Hospital, interacted with the patients and inquired about the services provided by the Railway Hospital. In July last year, the Central Railway Hospital stepped up its preparedness to provide medical assistance and make arrangements as per the ICMR guidelines to treat patients diagnosed with the virus. The 300-bed Central Hospital has been permitted to keep aside 100 beds for treating Covid-19 cases among employees of SCR and their dependants. The frontline healthcare staff of the SCR zone put their physical, mental and social well-being at risk. They are getting vaccinated first for their dedicated service||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vaccine-administered-to-scr-medical-staff-at-central-rly-hosp/articleshow/80336760.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 19, 2021||Varanasi||FIR against ‘Mirzapur’ producers for hurting sentiments||VARANASI: An FIR has been lodged against the producers of the web series Mirzapur and the OTT platform company Amazon Prime Video at Mirzapur Kotwali (Dehat) police station for allegedly hurting religious and social sentiments of the people and distorting the image of Mirzapur known for having the shrine of Goddess Vindhyavasini. Mirzapur SP Ajay Kumar Singh said, “On the complaint of one Arvind Chaturvedi of Chilbiliya village, a case has been lodged against the producers of the web-series Mirzapur and the OTT platform company Amazon Prime Video under appropriate sections of IPC and IT Act.” According to the FIR lodged on Sunday evening, the producers of the web series Ritesh Sadhwani, Farhan Akhtar, Bhaumik Gondaliya and OTT platform company Amazon Prime Video have been booked under Sections 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 505 (with intent to incite, or which is likely to incite, any class or community of persons to commit any offence against any other class or community), 34 (criminal acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of IPC and 67A (publishing or transmitting of material containing sexually explicit act) of the IT Act. In his complaint, Chaturvedi alleged that the web series named Mirzapur is malicious, full of abusive words and sexuality showing illicit relationships, and has been made intentionally to hurt the religious and social sentiments of the people of the Mirzapur region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/fir-against-mirzapur-producers-for-hurting-sentiments/articleshow/80335330.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Goa||Major pending works in Panaji to be completed by March-end||Panaji: Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate, in a meeting with several government departments on Monday, urged them to complete ongoing works in the state capital by March. He also asked the departments to finish all digging activity in Panaji by March-end so that resurfacing of the roads could be completed before the monsoon. During the meeting, which was held at the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) office, the legislator expressed his ire at the lengthy delay in completion of the Neugi Nagar bridge and the danger posed due to the confusion in the traffic flow at the city’s entrance. “The main work pending with the Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) is the incomplete bridge at Neugi Nagar, Mala. It has given an assurance that work will be completed by February-March. Further, after the new bridge was built, there is a lot of confusion at the Panaji circle where it is difficult to know where to turn to enter into the city or leave the city at night,” said CCP mayor Uday Madkaikar, who was present at the meeting. According to Madkaikar, the Panaji MLA issued a “strict warning” to GSIDC to ensure that all works in the state capital are completed as soon as possible. The GSIDC, Goa Natural Gas, Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Ltd, PWD, Goa Sewerage Corporation, and the other departments submitted their road-cutting plans that were approved by the CCP on the condition that work will be completed before April. The electricity department is replacing 4,000 poles in Panaji that have either fallen or are 10 years old. Along with the poles, the department will also change the power lines. The water supply department has also sought permission to complete pipeline work, including laying of new pipelines and creation of new water supply connections. The mayor said that because of the Covid-19 pandemic, most work was delayed for seven to eight months as departments had to grapple with a shortage of labour and funds and other curbs imposed on them by the state government. He said the CCP will hold a review meeting in a month’s time, while CCP commissioner Sanjit Rodrigues will take a status update every eight days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/major-pending-works-in-panaji-to-be-completed-by-march-end/articleshow/80336789.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Sikh body starts campaign against suicide at Singhu||Ambala: In the wake of suicides by protesting farmers, Sikh body Khalsa Camp India has initiated a campaign against suicide at Singhu border, Delhi. Members are organising street plays using paintings based on the story of Bhai Sukha Singh of Marhi Kamboki, Amritsar, Punjab. Bhai Sukha Singh, along with Bhai Mehtab Singh of Meerankot, Amritsar, is known for punishing Massa Rangarh, who desecrated Harmandir Sahib, Amritsar. Sukhwinder Singh, who is associated with Khalsa Camp India said, “It is saddening to see farmers committing suicide amid the agitation. Therefore, we planned to share stories of extraordinary valour from Sikh history through street plays. The Sakhian (anecdotes) are a great inspiration as the Chardi Kala (high morale) displayed by the Khalsa during hostile times has no parallels.” Narrating the story of Bhai Sukha Singh’s life, he said, “Bhai Sukha Singh was a young Hindu boy who became Khalsa. He attempted suicide by jumping into a well after his father drugged him and shaved off his hair. He came out of the well after a wise old man advised him against wasting a precious human life. Better rejoin Khalsa Panth and sacrifice it for a noble cause, the man told him.” He said organisation members delivered multiple presentations with a series of paintings based on the life of Bhai Sukha Singh, leaving farmers, children and the general audience inspired.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sikh-body-starts-campaign-against-suicide-at-singhu/articleshow/80336773.cms||JK Singh
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||CoWIN glitch at Chest Hospital||Hyderabad: Health workers administering the Covid-19 vaccine at the Government Chest Hospital in SR Nagar faced minor hurdles on the second day due to technical glitches with the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (CoWIN) app that was developed by the Centre to monitor and track the inoculation process. Officials said that even on the second day of the vaccination drive, they had to manually conduct the process after the CoWIN app failed to update the names of the beneficiaries. “The app is still not functioning to its full capacity. Since the app is not ready, we continued to register the beneficiaries manually on the second day as well. The manual process is a little time taking but I guess we follow this method until the technical glitches in the app are fixed,” said R Mary Premila, vaccinator at the Chest Hospital. Instead of getting automated text messages on their phones, the beneficiaries received phone calls from the centres to inform about the time of vaccination and also get a confirmation from the beneficiaries. “As the data of those who were registered for vaccination was not uploaded to the app, many of the beneficiaries did not receive the messages,” said a healthcare worker, under the condition of anonymity. On the other hand, the health extension officer of Narsingi rural health centre M Srinivas said, “The problem we faced with the app on the first day of vaccination has been resolved after we received a message from the District Medical Health Officer saying that we will be able to carry out the process on the app on the second day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cowin-glitch-at-chest-hospital/articleshow/80336788.cms||Moulika.KV
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||PD Act invoked against security guard||Hyderabad: Ramgopalpet police invoked PD Act against T Pavan Singh, a private security guard, who was arrested allegedly for committing robberies. He has been in jail since September, 2020. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pd-act-invoked-against-security-guard/articleshow/80336787.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Neredmet cops nab vehicle-lifter||Hyderabad: Neredmet police arrested a vehicle-lifter — Rachammala Mukesh, 23 — for stealing a parked bike. Police said that based on the victim’s complaint , the bike was recovered from the accused, who confessed. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/neredmet-cops-nab-vehicle-lifter/articleshow/80336758.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Govt land sold to farmer, two booked under land grabbing||RAJKOT: Two persons were booked under the new land grabbing act in Rajkot on Monday for illegally selling government land to a farmer in Mota Mava. An executive magistrate lodged a complaint to police after the farmer, Ashwin Parsana, wrote to the district administration alleging fraud. Police said that the two accused Ketan Vora and Bahadursinh Chauhan approached Parsana a year ago asking him if he would like to own the government land right beside his five-acre farm. The duo forged documents and revenue records including appointment and revenue letters, gazette notification, payment challans among others to allot the land to Parsana. They took Rs 73 lakh in different amounts from him for the land. Parsana, however, became suspicious recently about the duo and submitted an application to the district administration. Authorities realized that Parsana had been cheated by Vora and Chauhan as the revenue records suggested that no order was made to allot the land to Parsana. Based on the executive magistrate K M Kathiriya’s complaint an offence of cheating, forgery and The Gujarat Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Act was registered against Vora and Chauhan at Rajkot Taluka police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/govt-land-sold-to-farmer-two-booked-under-land-grabbing/articleshow/80335361.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Agra||In 48 hours, max temp drops by 8 degrees Celsius in Agra region||AGRA: With intense cold winds, the maximum temperature in Agra region dropped by over 8 degrees Celsius within 48 hours. The maximum temperature which was recorded at 21.2 degrees Celsius on Saturday dropped to 12.2 degrees Celsius on Monday. Mild sunshine brought some relief in the afternoon. The minimum temperature was recorded at 8.2 degrees Celsius. Weatherman also reported traces of rainfall in the Agra region. Following dense fog, traffic movement on highways and major roads remained affected till 10am. Around a dozen trains were delayed. UP Roadways cancelled operations of three buses in the evening. With cold winds blowing at a speed of 12 km per hour, people preferred staying indoors at night and early in the morning. Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) arranged gas heaters at over a dozen places in the evening for those staying outdoors. Besides, people set up bonfires. Civic body team also transferred street dwellers to shelter homes. Apart from Agra, cold waves swept across Firozabad, Mathura, Etah, Aligarh and Mainpuri. Aligarh remained colder as compared to Agra. Here, mercury level dropped to 7.8 degrees Celisus. According to the Met department, the Agra region will continue to witness dense fog in the morning and evening hours along with humidity for the next four days. Mild sunshine will occur in the afternoon. Temperature on both minimum and maximum scale is likely to drop by 3 degrees Celsius. Meanwhile, the Air Quality Index (AQI) in Agra was recorded at 319 or "very poor" category, by the Central Pollution Control Board. Particulate matter 2.5 (with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) remained a prominent pollutant in the city of Taj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/in-48-hours-max-temp-drops-by-8-degrees-in-agra-region/articleshow/80334381.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 19, 2021||Jaipur||Govt schools pip pvt peers in attendance||Ajmer: The schools in the district finally reopened after a gap of nine months and 28 days, and it was the government school students who showed much enthusiasm in returning to the classrooms. The attendance in government schools was comparatively higher than that of private schools in the state. Parents were seen dropping their children to school and students of classes 9 to 12 were eager to attend their classes. Some students of Government Central Girls’ School of Naya bazaar said they do not have much support through online classes and therefore wanted to attend offline classes. Government schools clocked around 50% attendance, while it was less than 30% in private schools on the first day. A parent, whose daughter studies in a private school, said his daughter is getting online classes and therefore they do not want to take any risk. Many other parents had similar views.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-schools-pip-pvt-peers-in-attendance/articleshow/80336711.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Group says don’t incite youth||Chandigarh: The Kendri Sri Guru Singh Sabha of Chandigarh has written an open letter to the Sikhs across the globe, urging them to avoid creating unnecessary problems for the farmers’ leaders carrying forward the movement against the contentious central farm laws. The letter said the need of the hour is to think out of the box as the farmers’ fight stands to throw the prevailing politics to a different plane. “Therefore, it would be a great support if the people from abroad help in running the langar and supply essentials for enduring wintery chills,” it added. The joint statement issued by the sabha members – Professor Manjit Singh, author Ajaypal Singh, journalists Jaspal Singh Sidhu and Gurbachan Singh, and Sabha general secretary Khushhal Singh – mentioned that unfortunately, some NRIs are inciting the youth to undertake some extremist measures like unfurling the Kesri flag at Red Fort and doing away with “sluggish protests.” The statement further said some NRIs are under the belief that since the mainstream political parties have become discredited, farmers’ leaders should participate in electoral politics, to fill the political vacuum in Punjab. “And they surmise that today is the favourable time for floating a party to capture power. Such infantile understanding already drove the Sikhs into a blind alley, giving opportunity to power-seeker politicians to rule Punjab on New Delhi’s agenda for three decades,” read the statement. The Sabha members further warned that such suggestions are unethical and can be described as ‘fishing in the troubled water.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/group-says-dont-incite-youth/articleshow/80336786.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Vax drive launched at Mettuguda||Secunderabad: Launching the first phase of the vaccination drive at the Mettuguda upper primary health centre, on Monday, T Padma Rao, deputy speaker of the Assembly, asked people not worry about taking the Covid-19 vaccine. “Several people faced serious threat to their lives during the pandemic...a vaccine has come and we do not need to worry about it,” he said. Vaccine doses were given to 32 health staff at the Mettuguda UPHC, on Monday. The first to get it was Jangamma, 40, a nurse. She said: “I was nervous, but after taking the vaccine I feel relaxed. I don’t have any side effects.” About when the vaccine will be available to the public, Rao said a decision will be taken soon. Vaccination drive at Secunderabad Cantonment, scheduled for Monday, was deferred. “We are waiting for clearance from health department,” said SCB deputy chief executive officer, Vijaykumar Balan Nair. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vax-drive-launched-at-mettuguda/articleshow/80336805.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Jaipur||Convocation of Jodhpur agriculture varsity held||Jaipur: Governor and Chancellor Kalraj Mishra on Monday called for a change in the pattern of agricultural education, in accordance with the modern times.He said for this, it is necessary to develop such a management mechanism under which the youth should be eager to do agriculture related works, enterprises and farming activities instead of thinking of entering state services. Mishra was speaking at the online convocation of the Agriculture University, Jodhpur.Governor Mishra asked the agencies/bodies concerned to prepare the content of the subjects in Hindi and in local languages while delivering his address at the convocation. He encouraged students to go for startups in the agri-based businesses. While addressing as chief guest, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said that agriculture sector is on top priority of the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/convocation-of-jodhpur-agriculture-varsity-held/articleshow/80336718.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Maha, Gujarat women join agitation at Shahjahanpur||Chandigarh: Women from Maharashtra, Gujarat and Karnatka joined the agitation against farm laws at Shahjahanpur-Kheri border on the Delhi-Jaipur highway on Monday. Women drivers also took out a tractor rally from Rewari and neightboring districts of Haryana and Rajsthan. A batch of 12 women also took over the 24-hour ongoing hunger strike at the venue. tnn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/maha-gujarat-women-join-agitation-at-shahjahanpur/articleshow/80336813.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Operation Smile rescued 10-year-old from mechanic, but father set him ablaze||HYDERABAD: The 10-year-old boy who is battling for his life after his father Balu set him ablaze, had been, in the past, allegedly forced into child labour. He was rescued by a team from the Women & Child Welfare department during Operation Smile when he had been working as a helper in a mechanic shop. After rescuing the boy, KPHB police counselled Balu and his wife for forcing the boy to work as a child labourer. “When Balu was counselled in the past, it came to light that he used to frequently beat his son,” KPHB sub-inspector B Sakram told TOI. According to police, Balu is an alcoholic. He has an existing record of quarrelling with his family members after consuming alcohol. On Monday, the 10-year-old boy fell into a ditch while running away from his father while on fire. It was his neighbours and mother who saved the boy by pouring water on him. He suffered burn injuries on almost all parts of his body. Police said that the turpentine oil that Balu used to set his son ablaze was sourced from a government school close to where Balu and his family’s hut in Kukatpally. The school had been undertaking painting work, due to which the oil was available. The accused has four children—two daughters and two sons. Balu’s eldest daughter was the one who lodged the complaint at the KPHB police station. On Monday, the accused had called his son when he was watching TV and asked him to buy a beedi from a nearby shop. By this time, the accused was drunk. Earlier, in front of his hut, Balu had beat his son repeatedly. After the accused set his son on fire, locals nabbed the accused and handed him over to the police. Police said that the accused’s family have been living in the city for the past few years after moving from Kurnool district in Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/op-smile-rescued-10-yr-old-from-mechanic-but-dad-set-him-ablaze/articleshow/80336800.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Agra||Krishna Janambhoomi case: Hearing on two petitions adjourned to Jan 28 & 29||AGRA: A Mathura court on Monday adjourned two petitions seeking removal of Shahi Idgah situated adjacent to Shri Krishna temple in Mathura and posted them to January 28 and 29 for further hearing. While hearing the objection petition filed by the management trust committee of Shahi Idgah to the admission of an “appeal” against the dismissal of a civil suit seeking ownership of 13.37 acre Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi land and removal of Shahi Idgah mosque, the district judge directed for the modification of the petition and its registration as a “revision” petition. The appeal was filed by Lucknow-based advocate Ranjana Agnihotri and seven others. While raising objections, Shahi Idgah committee argued that the civil suit was registered as a “miscellaneous” petition, which was dismissed by the court. As there is no scope of filing appeal in such petitions, hence, it should be dismissed. The next hearing is scheduled on January 28. In another petition filed by Hindu army chief Manish Yadav, seeking removal of Shahi Idgah mosque, civil judge senior division court has adjourned the case till January 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/krishna-janambhoomi-case-hearing-on-two-petitions-adjourned-to-jan-28-29/articleshow/80334386.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: No Covid case in five districts||JAIPUR: While the Covid-19 daily infection graph going down, only five districts in the state have reported new cases in double digits on Monday, while five districts have not reported no case and rest of the districts reported cases in single digit. While the state continued Covid-19 vaccination drive on the second day, three persons died, while 213 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Monday bringing its overall tally to 3,15,394. With three deaths, state’s toll rose to 2,750. Jaipur reported its 512 Covid-19 death, Jodhpur its 300th and Kota reported its 169th Covid-19 fatality. Districts which reported new cases are Kota (41), Nagaur (24), Jaipur (23), Jodhpur (22), Bhilwara (16), Alwar (9), Pali (8), Udaipur (7), Dungarpur (7), Ajmer (6), Bundi (5), Banswara (5), Jhalawar (4), Dausa (4), Barmer (3), Bikaner (3), Tonk (3), Pratapgarh (3), Bharatpur (3), Hanumangarh (3), Chittorgarh (3), Rajsamand (2), Jalore (2), Jhunjhunu (2), Baran (2), Sriganaganagar (1), Jaisalmer (1) and Sikar (1). A senior health department official said, “The active cases in the state are gone below 5,000 mark as 626 more persons recovered from the virus in the state taking the active cases to 4,634.” Currently, Jaipur has the highest 1,001 active cases in the state, followed by Kota (456), Udaipur (374), Jodhpur (369) and Nagaur (324). Churu has not reported even a single Covid-19 case in the past four days, while Dholpur and Karauli reported one case each in past four days. Besides, in Sawai Madhopur and Jalore two persons in each of the districts were tested positive for Covid-19 in four days. Jhunjhunu, Dausa and Pratapgarh reported four cases each while Hanumangarh five and Sirohi reported seven Covid-19 infections in the past four days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-covid-case-in-five-districts/articleshow/80336808.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan: No Covid case in five districts||JAIPUR: While the Covid-19 daily infection graph going down, only five districts in the state have reported new cases in double digits on Monday, while five districts have not reported no case and rest of the districts reported cases in single digit. While the state continued Covid-19 vaccination drive on the second day, three persons died, while 213 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Monday bringing its overall tally to 3,15,394. With three deaths, state’s toll rose to 2,750. Jaipur reported its 512 Covid-19 death, Jodhpur its 300th and Kota reported its 169th Covid-19 fatality. Districts which reported new cases are Kota (41), Nagaur (24), Jaipur (23), Jodhpur (22), Bhilwara (16), Alwar (9), Pali (8), Udaipur (7), Dungarpur (7), Ajmer (6), Bundi (5), Banswara (5), Jhalawar (4), Dausa (4), Barmer (3), Bikaner (3), Tonk (3), Pratapgarh (3), Bharatpur (3), Hanumangarh (3), Chittorgarh (3), Rajsamand (2), Jalore (2), Jhunjhunu (2), Baran (2), Sriganaganagar (1), Jaisalmer (1) and Sikar (1). A senior health department official said, “The active cases in the state are gone below 5,000 mark as 626 more persons recovered from the virus in the state taking the active cases to 4,634.” Currently, Jaipur has the highest 1,001 active cases in the state, followed by Kota (456), Udaipur (374), Jodhpur (369) and Nagaur (324). Churu has not reported even a single Covid-19 case in the past four days, while Dholpur and Karauli reported one case each in past four days. Besides, in Sawai Madhopur and Jalore two persons in each of the districts were tested positive for Covid-19 in four days. Jhunjhunu, Dausa and Pratapgarh reported four cases each while Hanumangarh five and Sirohi reported seven Covid-19 infections in the past four days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/no-covid-case-in-five-districts/articleshow/80344763.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Jaipur||Operation Clean Sweep: 500 FIRs filed, 635 drug peddlers held||JAIPUR: Jaipur police through their Operation Clean Sweep, have registered 500 FIRs and arrested 635 drug peddlers in a campaign against drug peddling in past one year. This was revealed by Jaipur police while emphasising that the crackdown on drug peddling will continue in the city. Ajay Pal Lamba, additional commissioner of police (crime) on Monday stated that in Jaipur, the consumption of ganja (marijuana) was maximum in past one year. “We had registered 500 FIRs against narcotics peddling in Jaipur and have arrested 635 persons. During the drive, we have also seized nearly 36 quintal and 12 kg of marijuana, among other substances,” Lamba added. He said that in Jaipur, LSD, Brown Sugar and banned drugs like traurmadol and aprazol were also seized. “In order to continue the crackdown, we have dedicated district special teams in every police district to focus on checking narcotics peddling,” he added. “Since peddlers on a micro level are active as peddling smaller amounts of drugs is a bailable offence, we have to continue the crackdown on them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/operation-clean-sweep-500-firs-filed-635-drug-peddlers-held/articleshow/80336817.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Goa||Despite ban, dhirios being organised with impunity under Colva police jurisdiction||Colva: Over the weekend and spilling over this week too, bull owners and bullfight (dhirio) lovers in Colva had a gala time watching the animals engage in the gory sport. Colva police, on the other hand, were seemingly unaware of anything. On January 16 and 17, bullfights were held in Seraulim. On Monday at 5.15pm, dhirios were organised in a field near Vaddy in Benaulim. Hundreds of two-wheelers and few four-wheelers were parked on the roadside leading to the beach and also in the fields. And with no police in sight, thousands of bullfight lovers could be seen jeering and cheering the raging bulls.  A Colva police official told TOI that a team had been dispatched to stop the bullfight. However, there was no sign of police, right up to the end of the fight. Dhirios were banned by the high court in the 1997 for violation of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (PCA) Act, 1960. Section 11 of the Act clearly prohibits “inciting any animal to fight any other animal with a view to providing entertainment” or other purposes. However, they are still being organised with the tacit support of the politicians and police, one villager said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/despite-ban-dhirios-being-organised-with-impunity-under-colva-police-jurisdiction/articleshow/80336834.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Jaipur||Road safety month kickstarts in state||Jaipur: The road safety month was inaugurated on Monday by the state transport minister and the campaign for the same will continue till February 17.The aim behind this campaign is to not only ensure that people are aware about the rules and regulations about traffic, but also to encourage them to follow the concept of Good Samaritan.Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, state transport minister, told TOI, “The aim behind this road safety month is to curb road accidents in the state. For this, we have incorporated all the departments so that rules and regulations regarding road safety can have a wider reach. Various initiatives will be taken up by the department to ensure that after the campaign ends, the number of road accidents will be reduced.”The department will also hold workshops to make people aware about the MV Driving Regulations 2017 about which questions are asked when applicants apply for driving licences. Moreover, emphasis will be on encouraging people in helping accident victims.The department would also coordinate with police and banners, posters etc., will be put up across the state to raise awareness about the campaign. Schools will be encouraged to talk to students about underage driving as well as helpline numbers to be put up on school buses. The health department will conduct workshops for the first-responder training. Apart from this, the departments concerned will also carry out maintenance work on roads, including cutting of wild shrubs, ensuring that the reflectors are put on necessary spots along with repair work on the roads.For those who follow road safety norms and traffic rules, officials have been encouraged to motivate such motorists by presenting them with flowers or badges. The photographs of these motorists can also be put on social media in a bid to inspire others to follow suit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/road-safety-month-kickstarts-in-state/articleshow/80336791.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan: No Covid case in five districts||JAIPUR: While the Covid-19 daily infection graph going down, only five districts in the state have reported new cases in double digits on Monday, while five districts have not reported no case and rest of the districts reported cases in single digit. While the state continued Covid-19 vaccination drive on the second day, three persons died, while 213 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Monday bringing its overall tally to 3,15,394. With three deaths, state’s toll rose to 2,750. Jaipur reported its 512 Covid-19 death, Jodhpur its 300th and Kota reported its 169th Covid-19 fatality. Districts which reported new cases are Kota (41), Nagaur (24), Jaipur (23), Jodhpur (22), Bhilwara (16), Alwar (9), Pali (8), Udaipur (7), Dungarpur (7), Ajmer (6), Bundi (5), Banswara (5), Jhalawar (4), Dausa (4), Barmer (3), Bikaner (3), Tonk (3), Pratapgarh (3), Bharatpur (3), Hanumangarh (3), Chittorgarh (3), Rajsamand (2), Jalore (2), Jhunjhunu (2), Baran (2), Sriganaganagar (1), Jaisalmer (1) and Sikar (1). A senior health department official said, “The active cases in the state are gone below 5,000 mark as 626 more persons recovered from the virus in the state taking the active cases to 4,634.” Currently, Jaipur has the highest 1,001 active cases in the state, followed by Kota (456), Udaipur (374), Jodhpur (369) and Nagaur (324). Churu has not reported even a single Covid-19 case in the past four days, while Dholpur and Karauli reported one case each in past four days. Besides, in Sawai Madhopur and Jalore two persons in each of the districts were tested positive for Covid-19 in four days. Jhunjhunu, Dausa and Pratapgarh reported four cases each while Hanumangarh five and Sirohi reported seven Covid-19 infections in the past four days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/no-covid-case-in-five-districts/articleshow/80344762.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Will look into Arnab Goswami’s Balakot chats: Maharashtra home minister||MUMBAI: Even as the NCP joined the Congress on Monday to demand the setting up of a Joint Parliamentary Committee to probe the purported WhatsApp chats between Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami and former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta which raised questions about whether Goswami was privy to information about India’s Balakot airstrikes in advance, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said the state government was “gathering information about the leaked chats.” “Some highly sensitive things including the Balakot airstrikes and the Pulwama attack have been mentioned in the chats. We are looking as to how Arnab Goswami got access to such sensitive information. We have called a meeting on Tuesday to decide our next course of action,” Deshmukh, who belongs to the NCP, said. Read AlsoWhatsApp chats prove Arnab Goswami-ex-BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta collusion to rig ratings, says NBAThe NBA said that the collusion between Goswami and Dasgupta had led to Republic TV’s viewership numbers being boosted while “fraudulently manually reducing ratings of other channels”. It demanded that BARC make a “a clear statement about the veracity of its ratings” in the period under audit andRead AlsoArnab Goswami &amp; ex-BARC CEO chats go viralThe chats document a constant flow of communication between Dasgupta and Goswami and chats between former BARC’s chief operating officer Romil Ramgarhia and Republic TV CEO Vikas Khanchandani. Dasgupta is in judicial custody, while Ramgarhia and Khanchandani are out on bail.Details of the WhatsApp chats have triggered a political controversy over whether Goswami shared sensitive information with Dasgupta on the government’s plans for a retaliatory strike in Balakot in the wake of the February 2019 Pulwama terror attack. The conversation between the two purportedly took place on February 23, 2019 – three days before the airstrikes in Balakot in Pakistan. Arnab Goswami, Partho Dasgupta nexus exposed in whatsapp chat:Full detailsRead AlsoTRP scam: Shock, outrage on social media over Arnab Goswami and ex-BARC CEO's WhatsApp chatsNEW DELHI: The leaked WhatsApp conversations between Republic TV executive editor Arnab Goswami and former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) Partho Dasgupta has brought to the fore evidence of alleged collusion to influence TV ratings. The purported WhatsApp conversations between theIn Chandrapur, the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), the students’ wing of the Congress, on Monday lodged a complaint against Goswami for leaking sensitive information three days before the airstrikes. Read AlsoTRP scam: Ex-CEO of BARC Partho Dasgupta hospitalisedFormer CEO of ratings agency BARC, Partho Dasgupta, who was arrested in the alleged fake TRP case, has been admitted in the ICU. Dasgupta, a diabetic, was rushed to the hospital from the Taloja Central Prison in Navi Mumbaiin the early hours of Saturday after his blood sugar levels went up on FridayThe chats are part of the Mumbai police’s 3,600-page supplementary chargesheet filed in the TRP manipulation scam. Read AlsoNCP demands JPC on purported chats between Goswami, DasguptaThe Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Monday asked the government to set up a Joint Parliamentary Committee to probe the purported chats between Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and former Broadcast Audience Research Council head Partho Dasgupta.The Pulwama attack in which 40 CRPF (Central Reserve Police Force) personnel were killed took place on February 14, 2019. In the midst of a WhatsApp conversation late in the evening of February 23, 2019, Goswami purportedly told Dasgupta, “On another note something big will happen.” To Dasgupta’s “Dawood?” message, Goswami’s replied, “No sir Pakistan. Something major will be done this time.” Read AlsoCongress youth wing files complaint against Arnab GoswamiThe National Student's Union of India (NSUI) has filed a complaint against Republic TV's Arnab Goswami accusing him of treachery against the country. The complaint was filed by NSUI national secretary Roshan Lal Bittu in Chandrapur district of Maharashtra.When Dasgupta further inquired, “Strike? Or bigger,” Goswami answered, “Bigger than a normal strike.” Ever since the transcripts emerged in the public domain last weekend, the Opposition has accused Goswami of leaking sensitive information related to national security, questioned how and why he got hold of such information beforehand – when even the political opposition was in the dark — and accused the Modi government of exploiting a defence-related issue to drum up popular support during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/will-look-into-arnabs-balakot-chats-maha-home-minister/articleshow/80337665.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Dehradun||Kumbh Mela officials receive over 700 applications from akhadas, religious outfits for setting up camps along Ganga||Haridwar: Around 700 applications have so far been received by the Kumbh Mela administration from akhadas and other religious and social outfits to set up camps on the banks of Ganga during the religious fair. Mela officials, however, say that they haven’t yet started the allotment of areas for camps. They say that the software for it is still being developed and the process would begin soon. Manjeet Singh, nodal officer for land allotment, told TOI, “We have so far received around 700 applications for setting up camps on the banks of the Ganga during the Kumbh Mela. Leveling work is under process and most of the sectors are ready for camping. However, we have not started the land allotment process so far as the software for it is being developed. Nonetheless, we will allot land for camping to Kumbh Mela police and other government institutions on priority.” Meanwhile, the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad has already asked the mela administration to start the land allotment process. Notably, setting up camps on river banks is an ancient tradition followed during every Kumbh Mela.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumbh-mela-officials-receive-over-700-applications-from-akhadas-religious-outfits-for-setting-up-camps-along-ganga/articleshow/80334392.cms||MS Nawaz
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Don’t violate Constitution by stopping farmers’ march: SAD||Chandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has asked the central government not to deny the constitutional right for a peaceful march to the law-abiding farmers of the country on the Republic Day at Delhi. The party leaders made this demand during the core committee chaired by party president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday. The party said the government’s dragging of its feet over permission for the peaceful democratic march as “grossly violative of the very Constitution which the Republic Day symbolizes”, Harcharan Singh Bains, principal adviser to Sukhbir, said the government could not have chosen a worse day than January 26 to deny the citizens of the country their fundamental democratic right to free expression as well as the right to organise a democratic activity. “The march by farmers would in fact be a reminder that India is a democratic republic and is neither a monarchy nor dictatorial set up. The government should in fact thank the farmers and facilitate the march,” said a resolution passed at the meeting. The SAD core committee also criticised the National Investigation Agency (NIA) sending summons to farmers’ protest supporters. The party called upon the government to withdraw all the NIA notices. The SAD also resolved to continue to support and strengthen the farmers’ struggle in every way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dont-violate-constitution-by-stopping-farmers-march-sad/articleshow/80336793.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Pass resolution against NIA notices: BSP||Jalandhar: Criticising the NIA notices to Sikh activists associated with farmers protests, the Punjab unit of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has urged Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to call a special assembly session to pass a resolution against “unconstitutional” jurisdiction given to NIA and an all-party meeting to discuss the issue. BSP Punjab chief Jasbir Singh Garhi, who earlier participated in the farmers protest at Singhu border with hundreds of party leaders and workers, said the NIA notices were a blatant attempt to intimidate those participating or supporting farmers movement. tnn“NIA should not have any right to register any case without approval of the state government because law and order is a state subject. NIA’s direct intervention in state subject is violation of the spirit of the Constitution,” Garhi said in a statement issued here on Monday. He asked the CM to call a special assembly session for the passage of a resolution against the “unconstitutional” jurisdiction given to NIA. The BSP’s statement came on a day the CM hit out at the Centre for the NIA notices. Garhi specifically mentioned notices issued to Khalsa Aid and Jalandhar-based author and commentator Balwinder Pal Singh, stating that the latter had been consistently writing for Sikhs and Dalits joining hands. “That is the real reason he has been given NIA notice,” Garhi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pass-resolution-against-nia-notices-bsp/articleshow/80336810.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Akhila’s husband files anticipatory bail plea||Hyderabad: Fugitive Bhargav Ram, husband of arrested former AP minister Bhuma Akhila Priya and an accused in alleged abduction of three businessmen, on Monday moved an anticipatory bail petition in a local court in Secunderabad. He has been named one of 30 accused in the abduction of the trio — Praveen Rao, Naveen Rao and Sunil Rao, who are relatives of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s personal assistant. The court directed the Bowenpally police to file their counter by January 21. Bhargav Ram has been accused of being part of a conspiracy besides executing the abduction of the three siblings. The victims were allegedly kidnapped by the accused since they have a property dispute with regard to a land in Hafeezpet. Meanwhile, the bail petition moved by prime accused Akhila Priya, who is presently in judicial remand, in a local court is yet to come up for hearing in the sessions court. Police have added the charge of dacoity in the case. Police have already arrested 19 accused in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/akhilas-husband-files-anticipatory-bail-plea/articleshow/80336815.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Jaipur||Low turnout at RU, colleges||Edited (250)Jaipur: First day of re-opening of higher education institutes saw low turnout at Rajasthan University.In constituent colleges of Rajasthan University, around 20% final year under graduate students appeared, but in post-graduation, the number was even lower.Colleges and universities were opened for the students in final year and for research scholars. In Maharani College, not more than 25% students of UG final year students appeared.“The strength was poor on Monday, but we are expecting that it will improve within a week. Many students are out of station and many have to shift back to Jaipur. So, it will take some time,” said a faculty of Maharani College.Similar situation was seen in Maharaja College where not more than 20% students turned up for the classes. Authorities said that they didn’t expect a good strength on first day, but expect the numbers to improve with time.In PG the situation was even bad as not even 5% students turned up. In many departments especially of humanities not more than 5,000 appeared and some department didn’t receive a single student.Rajiv Jain, vice-principal of university said, “It will take time for students to come back to universities. Many students are yet to be back to Jaipur. Our hostel will be opening soon and admission process for the hostels have started. We expect the number of students in classrooms to improve.”Authorities expect that with admission in hostels, students will start coming to classes. Until the hostel rooms are allotted the number of students will not rise in the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/low-turnout-at-ru-colleges/articleshow/80336757.cms||---
January 19, 2021||India||Both Covishield and Covaxin vaccines have 6-months shelf life: Health ministry||NEW DELHI: The Union health ministry has said that both the Covid-19 vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — being administered now in India have a shelf life of six months from the date of production, but, as reported earlier by TOI, each vial must be used or discarded within four hours of being opened. The Centre had already procured more than 16 million doses of the two vaccines. Arundathi Chandrashekar, a mission director under the National Health Mission (NHM), said, “The expiry dates of these vaccines appear to be in line with the general shelf life for vaccines that we use under the universal immunisation programme (UIP).” This, another official said, gives the government enough time to plan and procure doses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/both-covishield-and-covaxin-vaccines-have-6-months-shelf-life-health-ministry/articleshow/80338222.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Aurangabad||Long wait for beneficiaries skipping the shot in Jalgaon||Nashik: Healthcare workers in Jalgaon district, who miss taking the Covid-19 vaccine without any genuine reason, may have to wait longer before they get another chance. District collector Abhijit Raut told TOI that the names of those healthcare workers, who had not turned up for the immunization drive on Saturday and those who fail to take the vaccine in the week ahead, would not be uploaded on the CoWIN portal. “If the names are not uploaded on the portal, they would not get the alerts about the day of their vaccination. We will only upload their names towards the end of the exercise,” said Raut. This move is aimed at sending a stern message to the 19,000-odd healthcare workers in the — that they should tae the exercise seriously.Of the 700 beneficiaries who were supposed to get vaccinated on Saturday in Jalgaon district, 257 did not show up. Raut believes 8-10% of the beneficiaries did not have any genuine reason to miss the vaccination drive. “Our officials are ascertaining the identity of such healthcare workers so that their names are not uploaded in the CoWIN portal,” said Raut.He added none of the 443 beneficiaries, who received the shot on the first day of the vaccination programme, reported any health issues. “There is nothing to fear about getting vaccinated against Covid-19,” said Raut. Good response from civic health workersMeanwhile, Ram Rawlani, the chief medical officer of the Jalgaon Municipal Corporation, said the response from civic health workers for the vaccination drive on Saturday was good. “As many a 83 of the 100 civic healthcare workers took the shot. We are confident that the footfall will increase at our vaccination site from Tuesday,” said Rawlani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/long-wait-for-beneficiaries-skipping-the-shot-in-jalgaon/articleshow/80334383.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Leopard sighted at RGIA, but leaves no trace of pugmarks||Hyderabad: A leopard was sighted near the boundary wall of Hyderabad’s Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in the early hours of Monday. Officials from the forest department, who rushed to the spot on receiving information about the leopard, verified the footage from surveillance cameras in the surroundings and confirmed the presence of the big cat. However, despite their efforts to track the leopard’s movement for about six hours, they couldn’t find any pug marks or scat in the area. “We were informed about the leopard by the airport staff around 7 am. The cameras we examined on Monday were near Gopanpally village close to the airport. The leopard was seen walking on the road near the area designated for cargo warehouses,” said Shyam Kumar, forest range officer, Shamshabad. He added: “We will examine the remaining CCTV footage from the area on Tuesday.” The CCTV footage seen on Monday showed a leopard walking along a well-lit road adjoining the boundary wall around the airport’s runway. The animal then jumped over the boundary wall, with barbed wires, and disappeared into a thicket. A Shankaran, a senior forest department official said, “The locality is a natural habitat for leopards as there is access to water, and the locale is rich in prey such as peacocks and hares. The animal has no reason to move into human habitat. So, there is no need to fear about any conflict.” Meanwhile, the first ever count of Telangana’s leopards, conducted alongside last year’s tiger census, which was released in December 2020, has put the spotted cat population at 334 in and around tiger habitats across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/leopard-sighted-at-rgia-but-leaves-no-trace-of-pugmarks/articleshow/80336823.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 19, 2021||Bhopal||Married man 1st to be held under MP ‘love jihad’ law||BARWANI: Madhya Pradesh police on Monday made the first arrest under the new ‘love jihad’ ordinance on the basis of a complaint filed by a 22-year-old woman in Barwani. She has alleged that a married man sexually abused her for four years by going under a false name and pretending to be from her community. The ruse broke when he started pressuring her to change her religion for marriage, Barwani Kotwali police station in-charge Rajesh Yadav told TOI. The accused, Sohail Mansuri alias Sunny, has been booked under Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Ordinance 2020 and IPC sections 376 (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 294 (obscene act). According to the complaint, the woman met Sohail four years ago in Palsud town of Barwani, about 170km from Indore, where he had shifted. Sohail worked as a driver but also played music at parties and events. “Sohail met the girl at a function, introduced himself as Sunny and said he belongs to her community. They exchanged mobile numbers. Very soon they entered into a relationship. He established physical relations with the girl by giving her various inducements,” the inspector said. Some time ago, Sohail revealed his true identity and began pressuring her to change her religion so that they could marry, she alleges, adding that he beat her several times when she refused. ‘Love jihad’ accused was married and father of a childYadav said the woman then began gathering information on him and found that his real name is Sohail and that he is married and is the father of a child. Sohail was arrested on Monday. “Since the crime was committed in Palsud, the case is being transferred to that police station,” Yadav said. On January 10, the state government notified Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion ordinance 2020, making marriage by forced conversion, coercion and allurement a punishable offence. It is yet to be endorsed by the assembly. It’s a non-bailable charge and carries a prison term of two to five years, plus hefty fines. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/married-man-1st-to-be-held-under-mp-love-jihad-law/articleshow/80335425.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Agra||Too many accidents due to dense fog: Agra mayor urges CM Yogi to ban traffic on e-ways||AGRA: Citing too many recent accidents due to low visibility caused by dense fog on expressways in UP, Agra mayor Naveen Jain has sent a letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath urging him to stop traffic movement for 12 hours (from 8pm to 8am) on Agra-Lucknow and Yamuna expressways. At least 10 people were killed and several injured in separate accidents on expressways in the past two weeks. Mayor Naveen Jain, who is also the president of the All India Council of Mayors, told TOI, “Low visibility caused by dense fog is resulting in major accidents on Yamuna expressway and Agra-Lucknow expressway. Due to adverse weather conditions, relief work also gets delayed. Often, we read news about deaths on expressways. Most of these accidents take place late in the evening or early morning. In public interest, I have requested CM Yogi Adityanath to ban movement of vehicles on expressways for 12 hours from 8pm to 8am." On the first day of new year, eight persons, including two Delhi residents, were killed and seven others were injured in three separate road accidents that occurred within a span of seven hours on the Yamuna expressway in Mathura’s Surir area and Agra-Lucknow expressway in Etawah. All the three accidents took place in the early hours. There have been several cases of vehicle pile up as well on the e-ways in the past three weeks. According to the UP state transport department report on road accidents, 45,572 accidents took place in 2019. Out of these, 19 percent (8,031) were reported due to dense fog. These accidents claimed 3,781 lives and 5,350 people sustained injuries. The 2020 report is yet to be released. In 2019, IIT Delhi had conducted a road safety audit of Yamuna expressway. According to the audit report compiled on the basis of the analysis of accidents from 2012 to 2018, it mentioned that 235 accidents occurred due to dense fog. Out of these, 64 percent accidents took place between 6pm and 6am. Earlier on January 3, two days after the death of eight persons in separate accidents on e-ways due to low visibility caused by fog, Agra resident and a senior advocate KC Jain, had written a letter to CM Yogi urging him to stop the movement of vehicles on Yamuna and Agra-Lucknow expressways during poor visibility, especially between 1am and 4am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/too-many-accidents-due-to-dense-fog-agramayor-urges-cm-yogi-to-ban-traffic-on-e-ways/articleshow/80334403.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 19, 2021||Goa||‘Goa to set up panel to scout for IIT land’||MARGAO: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday said a committee, comprising IIT representatives among others, will consider alternative locations in the state to set up the IIT campus. “We don’t want a problem like this to occur again,” Sawant said, referring to the six-month long agitation by the villagers of Melauli against the setting up of an IIT campus there. The agitation had intensified over the last couple of weeks forcing the state government to rethink its stand and scrap the IIT project at Melauli, Sattari. But, Sawant said, “the IIT will come up in Goa and the government is serious about it”. “That’s why this four-five-member committee will look at all other available options and after taking into consideration all aspects, the government will take a final decision,” he told reporters here. This is the third time where stiff local opposition has forced the government to move the IIT project. Earlier, plans for the IIT campus were scrapped after local opposition to the project in Canacona and Sanguem in South Goa. IIT-Goa is presently functioning from its temporary base at the Goa Engineering College campus at Farmagudi, Ponda, since 2016. Goa was allotted an IIT by the central government in 2014. “This government wants to make Goa ‘swayampurna’ but some people are misreading this as an attempt to destroy Goa. They need to open their eyes and read this properly. Those who tried to sell Goa cannot teach me. After 60 years a chief minister has decided to make Goa self-sufficient,” he said. It isn’t going down well with the opposition that villagers who didn’t have necessities of a house, toilet, electricity and water have started getting these facilities from the panchayat he said. “People are ready to support the party and the government and have shown this in the recently conducted ZP elections,” the chief minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-to-set-up-panel-to-scout-for-iit-land/articleshow/80336792.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Jaipur||15 adverse events on Day 2 of vaccination||JAIPUR: A Sawai Man Singh Hospital’s neurologist Dinesh Khandelwal admitted to ICU soon after receiving Covid-19 vaccine on Monday morning due to anxiety. He remained under observation for four hours before doctors allowed him to go home after his condition improved. “He went in almost in unconscious state due to anxiety after getting the vaccine shot. On clinical examination, he was found not to have any serious adverse event. We kept him under observation as a precautionary measure. At 3pm, he went home,” said Dr Rajesh Sharma, medical superintendent, SMS Hospital. Dr Khandelwal got the vaccination done early on Monday morning when the Covid-19 inoculation drive resumed on Monday after a break of Sunday. Fifteen such persons complained of adverse events following immunisation on Day 2. Twenty-one persons suffered from adverse events on Day 1 (Saturday) of the vaccination drive. The health department officials said that majority of them had complained of nausea and vomiting. Among those 15 complained of adverse events, three each were in Jaipur and Pali, two each in Kota and Udaipur, and one each was reported from Alwar, Barmer, Bikaner, Dungarpur and Nagaur. “No hospitalisation was required in all the cases except four hours stay of a neurologist in SMS Hospital following adverse event,” said the official. In the state, the vaccination drive of health care workers is being organized at 167 session sites across the state. Jaipur has 21 vaccination sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/15-adverse-events-on-day-2-of-vaccination/articleshow/80336825.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Sealdah flyover opens to traffic 7 hours before schedule||Kolkata: Sealdah flyover was thrown open to traffic at 11pm on Monday, seven hours before schedule as the East-West Metro tunnel borer dug safely past the structure. The flyover was supposed to remain out of bounds to traffic till 6am on Tuesday. But work was expedited following requests from Kolkata Police that is keen to open the Sealdah flyover to traffic from early Tuesday to avoid a repeat of Monday’s congestion in central Kolkata. Police had actually requested Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC) to clear the flyover by Monday afternoon. Though engineers of ITD ITD-Cementation that is executing this section of the tunnel did accelerate the TBM, it still needed time till late evening. A portion of it was closed since 11pm on Friday to facilitate tunnelling for the East-West Metro corridor. While the lower traffic count on Saturday and Sunday meant there weren’t too much congestion during the weekend, Monday proved a pain for those commuting through central Kolkata.  In addition to hike in vehicle count in this belt, political rallies added to the woes. Vehicles crawled on Creek Row, Ganesh Chandra Avenue, Central Avenue, MG Road, Amherst Street, Surya Sen Street, BB Ganguly Street and Nirmal Chandra Street all afternoon as five rallies, big and small, impeded traffic flow. With gatherings at Wellington Square, Khadya Bhawan and RR Avenue, traffic was forced on to CR Avenue. Buses moving towards the city centre had to be diverted via Maniktala towards CR Avenue. “We managed to keep CR Avenue moving though movement was slow. We could have done much better if we had the Sealdah flyover at our disposal,” said an officer. Once the three arterial roads slowed down, it had a ripple effect on Lenin Sarani and SN Banerjee Road as well. Police also improvised according to the situation and stopped buses from entering Amherst Street to prevent the snarl from choking the area. In the evening, buses were diverted from College Street-MG Road Crossing instead of Surya Sen Street. “Evening traffic was smoother as rallies had concluded by then,” said an officer. Unlike the last time (October 2) when tunnel boring machine (TBM) Urvi had crossed the flyover, the current stint has been longer. While digging the eastbound tunnel, Urvi took two-and-a-half days to cross the 25-m distance across the flyover. This time, four nights and three days were needed to cover the same distance. The difference, officials said, was because unlike October when Urvi was on its last leg of tunneling when it reached Sealdah, it is on its “initial” drive for the other tunnel this time and pace of excavation is always slow in the beginning. Urvi and sibling TBM Chundi had started digging the Esplanade-Sealdah stretch in early 2019, but the latter hit an aquifer and buildings collapsed in Bowbazar after large scale subsidence. Urvi is currently completing Chundi’s job, bridging the 800m gap of the west-bound tunnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sealdah-flyover-opens-to-traffic-7-hrs-before-schedule/articleshow/80335426.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Rumour mills at play, have faith in govt: Telangana animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav||HYDERABAD: State animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav appealed to the people to have faith in the government’s vaccination programme. While reviewing the inoculation drive in Hyderabad district, the minister directed the health workers to educate people about the vaccine. “Don’t believe in false rumours about the vaccination programme. The vaccine is safe and the government is committed to the welfare of the people. Telangana stood as a role model in the country as well as the Indian vaccine is being produced here,” Srinivas Yadav said at the review meeting held at the Hyderabad collectorate. “The vaccination drive started in the state from January 16. As the population in the city is high, more doses will be allocated in a few days. People should take proper precautions while taking the vaccine. To allay the fears of people, the authorities should inform everyone about the vaccination programme on a daily basis,” Yadav said. Home minister Mahamood Ali said that priority is being given to frontline warriors. “It is time to remember the selfless service rendered by the police, health and sanitary workers. They have to be vaccinated first. At every centre a minimum of 50 people are getting inoculated,” Mahamood Ali said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rumour-mills-at-play-have-faith-in-govt-min/articleshow/80336820.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Jaipur||Raj Class X topper to witness R-Day parade from PM’s box||Jaipur: Class X Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) topper from Rajasthan Ananya Solanki has received an invitation from the ministry of education to witness Republic Day parade from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s box.Solanki is the only student from Rajasthan and among the 50 from all over the country who have received this invitation. She scored 498 out of 500 in 2020 Class X board examination and was the second topper all India. Her total percentage was 99.8%.“I was very shocked and surprised. I didn’t expect this to happen and feel very proud of myself. Watching the parade from the PM’s box will be a lifetime opportunity and I expect to meet PM Narendra Modi as well,” said Ananya with joy.A student of Neerja Modi School, Jaipur, Ananya’s father Shailendra Solanki is an orthopaedic surgeon and mother Ruchira Solanki is CEO of Tagore Public School. She passed Class X from CBSE board and now have switched to IB board.Explaining her daughter’s plan, her mother Ruchira said, “In IB board, students can take combination subjects. So, with science subjects she has opted for history and political science. We are aiming to get her into Ivy League schools in USA for studying Liberal Arts. It a dedication of my daughter for studies for which we are really proud of.”Ananya will travel to New Delhi on January 25 and all the expenses will be borne by education ministry. According to the invitation letter received she has to go through a Covid test to be able to sit for the parade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-class-x-topper-to-witness-r-day-parade-from-pms-box/articleshow/80336790.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||HC refuses to intervene in GHMC Act amendment||Hyderabad: Telangana high court on Monday made it clear that it will not take up an urgent legal examination of the amended provisions of the GHMC Act which allow legislators to vote in the GHMC mayoral election in their capacity as ex-officio members. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice A Abhishek Reddy said this to senior counsel S Satyam Reddy who made a mention before the court on his PIL. Satyam wanted the court to examine the legal validity of the amendment made to the GHMC Act. The term of the current GHMC council is ending on Feb 10. “The notification for the mayoral poll will be issued before that. I urge the court to take up the pending PIL on a priority basis,” he said. However, the judges reminded him that the amendment to the Act was effected in 2016. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-refuses-to-intervene-in-ghmc-act-amendment/articleshow/80336827.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 19, 2021||Jaipur||Low turnout at RU, constituent colleges||Jaipur: First day of re-opening of higher education institutes saw low turnout at Rajasthan University. In constituent colleges of Rajasthan University, around 20% final year under graduate students appeared, but in post-graduation, the number was even lower.Colleges and universities were opened for the students in final year and for research scholars. In Maharani College, not more than 25% students of UG final year students appeared. “The strength was poor on Monday, but we are expecting that it will improve within a week. Many students are out of station and many have to shift back to Jaipur. So, it will take some time,” said a faculty of Maharani College.Similar situation was seen in Maharaja College where not more than 20% students turned up for the classes. Authorities said that they didn’t expect a good strength on first day, but expect the numbers to improve with time. In PG the situation was even bad as not even 5% students turned up. In many departments especially of humanities not more than 5,000 appeared and some department didn’t receive a single student.Rajiv Jain, vice-principal of university said, “It will take time for students to come back to universities. Many students are yet to be back to Jaipur. Our hostel will be opening soon and admission process for the hostels have started. We expect the number of students in classrooms to improve.” Authorities expect that with admission in hostels, students will start coming to classes. Until the hostel rooms are allotted the number of students will not rise in the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/low-turnout-at-ru-constituent-colleges/articleshow/80336768.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: 11-year-old boy, kidnapped for ransom, found murdered||JAIPUR: An 11-year-old boy who went missing while flying kites on January 15 was found murdered on Monday when his body was found in a sack at an isolated house almost 2.5km from his house at Nai Ki Thadi under Amber police station limits. Police have arrested one person who had kidnapped him for ransom and later killed him. “According to police, the family of Arsalan Qureshi had filed a missing complaint with Amber police on January 15, stating that the boy was flying kites in the locality and later went missing. However, police got some clues based on which the boy’s body was found. “Since this was a missing case of an 11-year-old boy, we activated our special team and men in plain clothes. We found that the accused Asif, 21, was clicking pictures of the boy on January 15. Thus, based on this, we detained and interrogated him. He confessed that he killed the boy and gave out the location where the body was dumped,” Paresh Deshmukh, DCP (North), told TOI. On the motive of the murder, he said, “The accused Asif was unemployed and was aware that if he will ask for a ransom of at least Rs 3 lakh from Mohammad Qureshi, 39, the latter might give it. Thus the accused kidnapped the boy on the pretext of buying him some kites. Later, he gagged the boy and strangulated him. Though the accused claimed that he just wanted to ensure the boy keeps mum and put a cloth in his mouth, he accidently died. It is a clear case of kidnapping and murder.” After killing the child, the accused dumped the body in an isolated house almost 2.5km away from the residence of the boy. “He had also put some bricks to conceal the sack containing the body,” Deshmukh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/11-yr-old-boy-kidnapped-for-ransom-found-murdered/articleshow/80336821.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Rajkot||Three killed, 6 hurt in head-on car collision near Khambhaliya||RAJKOT: Three persons died and six others were injured in a head-on collision between two cars near Sonaradi village in Jamnagar district on Monday morning. The accident took place as the tyre of a car on its way to Dwarka from Ahmedbad bust and it veered on the wrong side and collided with car coming from the opposite direction from a village in Devbhumi Dwarka district around 6am. Police said that a 20-year-old girl from Bhatiya village of Devbhumi Dwarka who was on her way to Khambhaliya for her college exam died on the spot. Other two victims were identified as Dinesh Rabari (30) and Jagdish Desai (32) who were coming from Ahmedabad. Six injured persons were taken to hospital in Khambhaliya. Later, they were referred to Jamnagar as their injuries were grievous. One of the cars turned turtle while the other car’s front body got mangled due to high speed collision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-killed-6-hurt-in-head-on-car-collision-near-khambhaliya/articleshow/80335435.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Agra||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat arrives in Vrindavan for meeting with Sangh members||AGRA: Rashtriya SwayamSevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat arrived in Vrindavan on Monday as part of his three-day visit to attend a meeting of the organisation. According to RSS leaders, Bhagwat will chair the executive committee meeting, which is likely to be attended by 30 RSS functionaries of Braj region on Tuesday. No specific agenda for the meeting has been decided, but it is likely to be aimed at raising funds for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. On Wednesday, the RSS chief will address the ‘vibhag pracharaks’ of various organisations linked with the Sangh. Around 60 people will be attending the meeting. Later in the day, Bhagwat will inaugurate a girls’ school — Ramkali Devi Saraswati Balika Vidya Mandir which built recently for educating 1,000 girls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-arrives-in-vrindavan-for-meeting-with-sangh-members/articleshow/80334408.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Dehradun||CM directs vigilance dept to act tough in two cases of alleged corruption reported over a decade ago||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, while reviewing two matters of alleged corruption which were reported over a decade ago, directed the personnel and vigilance departments to take a tough stand against those involved in “unlawful” activities. In the first case, the CM has directed officials for recovery from employees who were found guilty of corruption. The issue is linked with 'improper' utilisation of medicines purchased with the funds provided by the Union government. In the matter, which dates back to 2009-10, the medicines exceeded their expiry date in Roorkee Drug Warehouse, but were not utilised. From the funds provided by the Centre, Kit-A, Kit-B, ASHA kits of medicines were purchased but due to non-utilisation, the medicines crossed their expiry date. Now, the CM has directed for a departmental probe into the matter and called for recovery of funds from officials and employees who were found guilty. The other case relates to the misuse of funds. Between 2002 and 2007, funds meant for ‘gool’ (a small drain for irrigation of farming fields) were allegedly siphoned off without actual construction of the structure in Bhimtal area of Nainital district. The matter was probed by the Justice BC Kandpal commission. On the basis of the findings of the irrigation department and vigilance department, the CM has approved departmental action against three employees, who were posted in Bhimtal when the scam surfaced. All three accused employees have retired now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-directs-vigilance-dept-to-act-tough-in-two-cases-of-alleged-corruption-reported-over-a-decade-ago/articleshow/80334417.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 19, 2021||Jaipur||Night curfew lifted and relaxation in holding religious and social functions||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, at a high-level Covid review meeting, decided to lift night curfew in force at 13 district headquarters and the closure of the markets from 7pm to 6am, in view of the continuous decrease in Covid-19 cases over a period of time.He has also decided to relax the rule of mandatory prior approval of the district collectors for holding various social, religious and political functions. The chief minister said that despite the decline in Covid cases, there should be no slackness in following the Covid protocol of wearing masks, maintaining social distance and avoiding crowds. He warned of imposing restrictions if people do not follow the protocol. Gehlot also directed to reduce the rate of RT-PCR testing in private hospitals and labs from Rs 800 to Rs 500. The chief minister said the situation of Covid in the state is very much under control. The state’s recovery rate has increased to 97.53 per cent against the national average of 96.58 per cent. The number of active cases is also continuously decreasing. Positive cases have come down to zero in many districts. In order to ensure availability of beds in private hospitals for patients with other critical illnesses, the number of beds reserved for Covid in private hospitals with a capacity of more than 100 beds have been reduced from 40 per cent to a minimum of 10 beds. 73.79 per cent of health workers vaccinated on day one During the review of vaccination programme, he said on day one on Saturday, 73.79 per cent health workers got vaccinated in the state, which is about 10 per cent more than the national average of 63.66 per cent. He said the vaccine is completely safe and in order of priority, all the corona warriors should be vaccinated without any hesitation. Secretary medical education Vaibhav Galaria informed that the number of Covid patients admitted to RUHS is only 24. He said on the first day, 12,258 health workers got vaccinated at 167 centres. In Jodhpur, Ajmer, Bundi and Alwar, 100% vaccination targets were achieved. He informed that control rooms have been set up in each district to give further impetus to vaccination. Those who must get vaccinated are also being informed through SMS and phone calls. Approval to include treatment of Covid and hemodialysis in Ayushman insurance scheme The chief minister decided to include Covid and hemodialysis in the list of packages of Ayushman Bharat Mahatma Gandhi Rajasthan Health Insurance Scheme. To ensure the benefit of health insurance scheme to the patients with these two diseases, the state government will bear an additional financial obligation of Rs 41 crore per year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/night-curfew-lifted-and-relaxation-in-holding-religious-and-social-functions/articleshow/80336830.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Nashik||Man gets 3 yrs of RI for causing hurt||Nashik: A man accused in a case of voluntarily causing hurt was found guilty of the offence and has been sentenced to three years of rigorous imprisonment by the additional chief judicial magistrate A M Shah on Monday. He has also been slapped with a combined fine of Rs 5,500. The convict has been identified as Vishal Gagansingh Rawat, a resident of Tapovan, Panchavati. As per a release by the prosecution cell of the city police, an offence was registered with the Panchavati police on September 6, 2018, in which Rawat was accused of beating up a person for no reason. The latter suffered serious injuries, including a fracture on his nose, and also lost Rs 10,000. The victim Duryodhan Ramchandra Konge of Geetainagar, Takli, was walking when the accused assaulted him. He was arrested under sections 326, 325 and 427 of the IPC. The case was investigated by assistant sub-inspector of police A M Sarode. A B Karande was the assistant public prosecutor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-gets-3-yrs-of-ri-for-causing-hurt/articleshow/80334390.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Jaipur||Schools in Jaipur reopen with 50% capacity after 10 months||JAIPUR: Private and government schools in Jaipur started functioning from Monday onwards with an average response from students. The attendance at government schools was considerably higher, while in private schools, particularly in a few, the attendance was quite low. In Subodh Public School, students entered maintaining social distancing after sanitizing their hands. Students of senior classes worked in science laboratory as well to practice for the upcoming board exams. In Kapil Gyanpeeth Public School, over 80% students from classes IX to XII were present on Monday. School authorities said because of the board exam, students are more inclined towards classroom teaching. Although Maharani Gayatri Devi School didn’t conduct regular classes, students appeared for practical classes from 11am to 1pm. In many private schools, the response was low as parents are still observing the scenario. Meanwhile, in government schools, the response was good as most of the students from economically weaker section were not able to attend online classes. Most of the government schools arranged for sanitisers and masks with the help of donors. Kumud Sharma, principal of Mahatma Gandhi Girls’ School, said the response of students was good. “We received over half our strength per class and expect the number to grow further. On January 14, we celebrated a Bhamashah festival in which many people donated hand sanitisers, spraying machines and foot sanitisers. We cannot rely on the government machinery for everything,” said Sharma. Similar views were expressed by Anurag Sharma, principal of Government School Bajaj Nagar, who said they have sanitised the building with the help of a donor. “The response has been good so far in our school. Although we expect the number to rise in the coming days as students are worried about the board exams as well,” Sharma said. According to the orders, online and offline classes will continue simultaneously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/schools-reopen-with-50-capacity-after-10-months/articleshow/80336811.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Goa||In Goa, more centres to give jabs on Friday, Saturday||PANAJI: A week after Goa participated in the nationwide launch of the Covid-19 vaccination programme, the state will conduct inoculations at more centres on Friday and Saturday. The proposed points are the community health centres at Pernem, Curchorem, Canacona and Valpoi, and primary health centres in Bicholim, Ponda and Sakhali and the Panaji, Vasco and Mapusa urban health centres. The proposed centres, besides the seven used last weekend, will give the jab to 100 healthcare workers a day. On Saturday, the seven centres gave the first dose of the Covishield vaccine to 426 health workers. Healthcare workers will also get the jab at the state vaccination store of the directorate of health services (DHS) at the ESI hospital, Margao. Among private hospitals, three are on the list — Vision hospital in North Goa, and Grace and Victor hospitals in South Goa — but a health official said they haven’t yet spoken to the hospital managements seeking their willingness. On Saturday, a delay in sharing the beneficiary list with vaccination centres resulted in only a fraction of those on the list getting the jab. At GMC, the state’s main vaccination centre, only 42 got the vaccine, since many didn’t turn up. However, the health official said that this time, the list would be shared at least 48 hours in advance, and that last time, the delay was due to technical difficulties on the portal. He said that beneficiary lists come through the Co-Win portal. “This time, though we will try and share beneficiary lists with vaccination centres in time, it depends on how the portal works,” he said. All centres will be given doses proportionately, since the directorate of health services hasn’t received enough vaccine to inoculate all those who have registered. On the last count, over 18,000 HCWs had registered on the Co-Win portal. Last week, Goa received 23,500 doses of Covisheild. Thus, the DHS has decided to vaccinate 10,500 HCWs, and the remaining ones will get the jab after the next batch of vaccines is received.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-goa-more-centres-to-give-jabs-on-fri-sat/articleshow/80336816.cms||Bindiya Chari
January 19, 2021||Goa||Traders rely on local poultries as buyers return after initial fears||PANAJI: As the ban on chicken supply from other states continues in Goa, traders have begun to source birds from poultries in the state and near the Goa border in a bid to ensure that their business does not see a drop. Vendor Alfredo Dias has been sourcing chickens from the interiors of Goa to cope with the ban on bringing in chicken from other states. The downside of making this purchase, however, is that the traders are compelled to pay a slightly higher price to the local supplier compared to their regular suppliers in the neighbouring states. Another trader, who runs the Afroz Chicken store in the Panaji market, has started sourcing the birds from a poultry owner at Verna. “Buyers are slowly returning and our sales are picking up,” he said, adding that chicken prices will soon go back to Rs 149 per kg. Live chicken is currently being sold at Rs 139-145 per kg and dressed chicken is going at Rs 159-169 per kg. “The apprehension surrounding the avian influenza (bird flu) is slowly beginning to dissipate. It is very common for this outbreak to occur during winter and then subside,” said president of the All Goa Poultry Association, Jaikrishna Naik, who has been sourcing birds from border areas like Sindhudurg after showing fitness certificate to the state police to allow the birds to pass. The association was going to write to the chief minister to lift the ban, but has now decided not to do so as buyers after the initial apprehension are slowly starting to return. Royal Foods, which has its own poultry in Goa and carries out retail sale as well as institutional supply of chicken, said that the demand for chicken is slowly increasing. “We are ISO certified and maintain quality and hygiene standards owing to which many buyers are placing orders with us. Our farms are maintained scientifically and so our bird do not have any disease,” said general manager at Royal Foods, Shivanand Sawant. Director of animal husbandry and veterinary services, Santosh Desai told TOI that the department is awaiting intimation from the central government to lift the ban on chicken supply||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/traders-rely-on-local-poultries-as-buyers-return-after-initial-fears/articleshow/80336907.cms||Nida Sayed
January 19, 2021||Vadodara||Burglars do not spare slum dweller’s shanty!||VADODARA: Necessity-driven burglars in Sanskarinagri have even not shirked from robbing the poor slumdwellers! A driver in Nizampura, told police that thieves entered his locked house in Azadnagar slums in Karodiya on Sunday and stole Rs 1.2 lakh valuables including cash. Chirag Nakum told the police that when he and his family members had gone to Padra between Saturday and Sunday for a relative’s wedding and upon return realized about the theft when he opened an iron box under the bed to take out his wife’s jewellery. Gold and silver jewelleries worth Rs 1.2 lakh and Rs 2,000 cash were missing from the box. A farmer’s house in Jambuva was also targeted by thieves on Sunday. Pankaj Patel said that thieves latched him from outside and stole gold jewellery worth Rs 1.1 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/burglars-do-not-spare-slum-dwellers-shanty/articleshow/80335462.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Residents oppose Thackeray statue at Colaba||Mumbai: BMC on Sunday placed Shiv Sena founder, the late Bal Thackeray’s statue at a traffic island on M G Road at Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Chowk in Colaba. While it is wrapped for now, officials said some work was pending before it is inaugurated. Some residents opposed the installation, citing a 2013 Supreme Court order, which states that no statues must be installed on public roads. Vice admiral (rtd) I C Rao, president of Apli Mumbai, an NGO, said residents had opposed it in December 2019. “There is a 2013 SC order which states that no statues can be installed on public roads. The safety of pedestrians is affected, and when there are events when the statue will be garlanded, the road will be closed. Ours is a safety issue and not political. There will be hundreds of people taking selfies and it will create a traffic problem. There is no space on the traffic island,” Rao said. Rao said the SC ruling came when the Kerala government wanted to install a statue of the late N Sundaran Nadar, former deputy speaker of Kerala legislative assembly on a traffic island. It applies to all states and Union Territories. Mumbai collector (city) Rajiv Nivatkar said he will seek more information on the issue. Shiv Sena corporator Yashwant Jadhav, who heads the civic standing committee, said, “Balasaheb Thackeray’s sacrifice for Mumbai is unparalleled. So everyone wants a tribute fit for him. The island previously selected was too small. At the current location there is enough space for people to step in and pay homage to Balasaheb. All relevant permission is in place. No Mumbaikar will oppose Balasaheb’s statue. Those opposing it are being used for political motives,” Jadhav said. BMC officials said they had taken permission from Mumbai Heritage Conservation Committee (MHCC) and other authorities. Additional municipal commissioner (city) Sanjeev Jaiswal did not respond to a query from TOI. BMC’s revised plan said the nine-foot tall statute has been installed at a traffic island between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya (museum) and National Gallery of Modern Art on M G Road, a little away from the earlier proposed site at a traffic island on Shahid Bhagat Singh Road. BJP corporator from Colaba, Makrand Narvekar, said the statue should be installed in accordance with rules and no court orders must be violated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/residents-oppose-thackeray-statue-at-colaba/articleshow/80335777.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 19, 2021||Nashik||NMC gets Rs 4cr to set up RT-PCR lab||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has received Rs 4 crore from the Nashik district planning funds for an RT-PCR laboratory, which will be set up at the Bytco hospital in the city. At present, the NMC has been sending the throat swab samples of suspected Covid patients to the private lab in Mumbai and to the lab at the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu), Aurangabad. The lab at Bytco hospital will help the officials conduct tests in the city. Apart from Covid tests, the lab will also help the NMC conduct tests for other viral diseases free of cost. “We have just received the funds under the district planning funds and we are also in the process of floating a tender to procure RT-PCR and other required machines and equipment,” said Avesh Palod, the city Covid officer of NMC. “Once the lab is set up, we will apply to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for its permissions to start operations in the lab,” he added. In December 2020, district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal had directed the civic body to set up the RT-PCR lab at its new Bytco hospital. Bhujbal had also promised the funds under the district planning funds. Accordingly, the Nashik Municipal Corporation had started preparations to set up the lab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-gets-rs-4cr-to-set-up-rt-pcr-lab/articleshow/80334406.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 19, 2021||Jaipur||Ensure safety of students: Child rights commission||Jaipur: The child rights commission has issued an advisory to the education department regarding the opening of schools in the state after ten months.The advisory said that the schools need to ensure that all guidelines for Covid are followed so that there is no outbreak.“As the schools have reopened, it is crucial that all the guidelines are followed to ensure that children are not affected by the virus. For this, we have asked the district administration as well as our officials to conduct inspections of schools to check if all precautions are being taken and there is no laxity. As the schools have opened after ten months, schools and students will have to change the normal way of working keeping in mind the pandemic which has not gone away as yet. We will be monitoring the situation closely and conducting regular checks of the schools,” said an official of Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ensure-safety-of-students-child-rights-commission/articleshow/80336828.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Goa||Goa municipal polls deferred by three months||PANAJI: The state  commission (SEC) on Monday postponed the upcoming election by three months due to the Covid vaccination drive. The election to 11 municipalities and the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) is now likely to be held alongside the ward elections to village panchayats and ZPs. SEC Chokha Ram Garg said that the postponement is till April 2021, and election date will be determined by the commission. This is the second time the elections at municipalities have been postponed. In August 2020, the polls, scheduled for October 18, 2020, were delayed by the SEC for three months. The CCP’s five-year term is set to expire on March 14. The SEC had proposed the election on February 28. ‘Polls to be held together later for better management’In September, the government had advised the commission that the election may be postponed and held only after the norrnalisation of the Covid-19 pandemic. On January 12, the department of urband development sent the SEC a letter raising concerns about crowds during the campaign period, which may have implications for Covid management. The government also requested the SEC to hold the elections to the municipal councils and CCP together in order to avoid a prolonged code of conduct period, which could halt development works and allied activities. The SEC said that the election process involves holding of public meetings, rallies and processions during the campaign period, and enforcing health protocols and regulating the number of participants at these gatherings would be a serious issue. He also said the commission is aware that the officials responsible for holding elections are those working as deputy collectors, mamlatdars, etc, who would also be engaged in the management of the vaccination drive. Garg said that thus, it wouldn’t be appropriate to burden them with the additional responsibility of holding elections. He thus said the prevailing circumstances are exceptional, and would cause genuine difficulties in holding a free and fair civil election. The SEC thus concluded that the election to the 11 municipal councils, CCP, by-elections to village panchayats and the Navelim ZP constituency “shall be conducted together for better management and to avoid prolonged period of code of conduct if elections are (held) on different dates”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-municipal-polls-deferred-by-3-months/articleshow/80336826.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||860 high scorers take FYJC seats, 97,000 still unfilled in Mumbai region||MUMBAI: Despite their high scores in Class X, nearly 860 students who secured more than 80% have claimed first-year junior college (FYJC) seats in the last stage of the admission process. On Saturday, as admissions closed for round two of the first-come, first-served (FCFS) phase, there are still over 97,000 seats vacant at various colleges in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. As over 12,000 students FYJC aspirants were still without a college at the end of five rounds of admission, the education department decided to host the FCFS round that allows students to claim vacant seats during slots allotted to them. Starting January 13, students with a score of 90% of more in class X were allowed to claim seats on FCFS basis for two days. As many as 50 students confirmed admission in this round. The process opened for students with a score of 80% and above the next day. Until 8 pm on Saturday, as admissions concluded for this group, 812 students had claimed a seat. “There are more seats than applicants but the demand for a select few colleges is extremely high. The cut-offs at many of these colleges did not drop below 90% in the five rounds. However, there could have been stray vacant seats which opened up due to a cancellation or the college surrendering a quota vacancy. If a student was willing to take a risk, they might have got in,” said an official. All students can participate in the FCFS round but if already admitted, they must cancel their seat before claiming another one. The education department will allow students with a score of 70% or more to claim seats starting today. Admissions under this round will continue up to January 30. There are over 3.2 lakh seats in MMR for nearly 2.1 lakh aspirants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/860-high-scorers-claim-fyjc-seats-only-in-last-stage/articleshow/80337676.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 19, 2021||Jaipur||Kota has ‘blockbuster’ first day||JAIPUR: Kota witnessed a ‘blockbuster’ opening of its lifeline coaching institutes after a gap of nine months on Monday. Data corroborated from different sources said that over 25,000 students have enrolled for the offline classes in the last week alone. The institutes were closed since the lockdown was announced on March 22, which crippled the economy of the city. The coaching areas — New Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, Indira Vihar, Talwandi, Jawahar Nagar and Landmark City, were abuzz with activities. Every coaching institute welcomed its students in a traditional style by offering prayers and applying vermilion on their foreheads. “Our complexes have come alive with students returning. As per the guidelines, we have started classes with 50% strength and all complexes had full attendance on Day 1,” said Nitesh Kumar Sharma, marketing manager of a coaching major in Kota. It comes as a surprise for the coaching institutes to see students walking in from far-off states like the North East and down South. Harshita Kumari of Bihar was among the first to step in her institute at 7.30am to attend her 8am class. “It was an emotional moment for me to re-attend the physical classes after seven months. I had left Kota during the evacuation of students in May and happy to return,” said Kumari, who is in class XI and here to prepare for JEE. The second-biggest stakeholders, hostel owners, have taken a sigh of relief to see their rooms occupied by students. Manish Jain, who runs a 65-bed hostel at Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, is elated to have majority of his slots occupied. “I have been monitoring students round-the-clock by myself. Sanitising the entire compound twice along with providing food in the rooms to ensure that students feel safe and secure,” said Jain. The entire city has left no stone unturned to provide safe, secure and all possible facilities to students. The market associations tied up balloons and welcomed students by providing discounts. Also, the most surprising part is the appearance of roadside vendors who were missing since the lockdown. The report says that stakeholders in Kota — coaching institutes, hostels, transporters, canteens, lifestyle businesses and real estate agents, have generated employment in both formal and informal sector to 10,000 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kota-has-blockbuster-first-day/articleshow/80336824.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Agra||BJP SC Morcha protests against makers of web series ‘Tandav’ in Aligarh||AGRA: The Scheduled Caste Morcha of BJP’s Aligarh unit on Monday staged a protest against the makers of the newly released web series ‘Tandav’ for allegedly hurting religious sentiments of the Hindu community and demanded a ban on it. The activists also burnt the effigy of Saif Ali Khan and filed a police complaint against the series’s director, producer and actors. However, no FIR was registered till the filing of this report. The controversy over the series stems from a scene which the activists claimed has hurt the religious sentiments of the Hindu community and insulted their Gods and Goddesses. Talking to the media, the organisation's city president Sandesh Raj said, “No one can tolerate indecent language against their Gods and Goddesses.” He said not only the web series, Amazon Prime should also be banned for hurting religious sentiments of the community. A day earlier, an FIR was lodged in Lucknow against an official of Amazon, series director, producer, and writer of the web series— Ali Abbas Jafar, Himanshu Krishna Mehra and Guarav Solanki for allegedly projecting Hindu Gods in a bad light.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bjp-sc-morcha-protests-against-makers-of-web-series-tandav-in-aligarh/articleshow/80334418.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Nashik||Bodies of missing woman & child fished out of water bodies||Nashik: The body of a 25-year-old woman, who had been missing along with her three-year-old daughter since January 3, was fished out of the Godavari river in Nashik on January 7. A week later, on January 14, the child’s body was found in the Gandhi Talav. Panchavati police have now registered a case of accidental death. The deceased have been identified as Jyoti Rathi, a resident of Kamatwade in Nashik, and her daughter Jiya. Jyoti had gone to Marhal in Sinnar taluka to meet her parents on January 2 as her father was unwell. After staying with her parents for a day, Jyoti left for Nashik with her daughter on January 3. A person from the neighbourhood dropped them at the Nandurshingote bus stand. Jyoti was supposed to call her parents after reaching her marital home. When her parents did not get the call, they called Jyoti’s husband who told them that she had still not reached. They then started making enquiries about Jyoti from friends and relatives. When Jyoti’s parents did not get any information about her whereabouts, they registered a missing complaint at the Wavi police station on January 4. Meanwhile, on January 7, Panchavati police found the body of a woman floating in the Godavari river near the Ramwadi bridge in Nashik. On January 14, a girl’s body was fished out of the Gandhi Talav. Since the Wavi police had alerted the city police about the missing woman and her daughter, the relatives of the deceased were called to identify the bodies. Though the bodies were disfigured, relatives identified them to be that of Jyoti and her daughter’s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bodies-of-missing-woman-child-fished-out-of-water-bodies/articleshow/80334402.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Aurangabad||Vaccine reaction is sign of antigen working: Experts||Aurangabad: In the eight districts of Marathwada 406 Covid vaccine recipients have reported mild post-vaccination symptoms since Saturday. The fact that not even one of the 2,890 beneficiaries has developed any serious reaction, has come as good news for the health authorities. Health officials have maintained that getting some post-vaccination symptoms is evidence that antigens have started working. Aurangabad division’s deputy director of health Swapnil Lale told TOI: “Getting a mild fever, headache or swelling at the site of the vaccine shot is scientific evidence of the antigen causing antibody stimulation. It is a sign that the vaccine is working.” Echoing him, Latur division’s health deputy director Eknath Male said getting vaccination symptoms is obvious and no different from the response a beneficiary gets after being injected with BCG, measles and DPT injections. As per the figures obtained from the health department, Aurangabad has reported 132 cases of “response to the vaccination.” A majority of them have been reported from the AMC-based vaccination booths. While Jalna district has reported 76 cases, Parbhani 85, Hingoli six, Nanded 11, Osmanabad 30, Latur 32 and Beed 34. Nanded collector Vipin Itankar, who is a doctor by qualification, too said, “Vaccines, on entering the body, stimulate antibody mechanism and this causes symptoms like fever, chills, headache and even vomiting.” As per the officials, in most cases, the recipients were discharged after being kept under observation for two to five hours. On day-1 of the vaccination drive on Saturday, in Aurangabad district, out of 1,000 listed beneficiaries, 647 took the jab. Of the 400 beneficiaries listed in districts of Jalna and Parbhani, only 287 and 371 took the jabs, respectively. Hingoli turned out to be the only district where all the 200 listed beneficiaries got themselves vaccinated. Out of 600 listed beneficiaries, only 379 turned up in Latur district and of 300 listed in Osmanabad, 213 got the shots. In Nanded, out of 500 listed, 252 turned up, while out of 500 listed in Beed district, 491 can for the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/vaccine-reaction-is-sign-of-antigen-working-experts/articleshow/80334429.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 19, 2021||Dehradun||120 new Covid-19 cases, six deaths surface in U’khand||Dehradun: Uttarakhand recorded 120 new cases of novel coronavirus on Monday. With this, the case tally rose to 94,923 in the state. Also, six more coronavirus-related deaths pushed the toll of the virus to 1,617. According to the health department, 11,730 Covid-19 samples tested negative on Monday. Among the new infections, the maximum of 38 were recorded in Nainital, followed by 36 in Dehradun, 23 in Haridwar, 10 in Udham Singh Nagar, four cases each in Almora and Uttarkashi, three in Chamoli, and one each in Pithoragarh and Rudraprayag districts. No new case of Covid-19 was reported from Bageshwar, Champawat, and Pauri districts, said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Among the six deaths recorded on Monday, four were reported from Dehradun and one each from Haldwani and Rudrapur districts. Meanwhile, 330 people recovered from Covid-19 on Monday, taking the number of cured cases to 89,882 and the recovery rate to 94.6%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/120-new-covid-19-cases-six-deaths-surface-in-ukhand/articleshow/80334431.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Siraj goes from rookie to rock star in 3 Tests in Oz||Hyderabad: In less than a month, Hyderabad pacer Mohammed Siraj seems to have gained the sort of maturity that one gains only with the hard grind of a few years in international sport. He has gone from being a greenhorn rookie in the Boxing Day Test to taking on the responsibility of being the spearhead of the Indian bowling attack against Australia in the Brisbane Test. His five-wicket haul packed off the mighty Aussies earlier than expected in the second innings, helping him to gain a few more inches in stature. All of three Tests old, the 26-year-old was pitchforked into the leader’s role after Jasprit Bumrah missed the fourth Test with an abdominal injury. So, from waiting a whole session and 26 overs before getting to bowl on debut, to becoming Bumrah’s opening partner in Sydney and now acting as spearhead, Siraj has shown that he has it in him to survive in arduous conditions. The toughest choice he made in life was to not return home after his father and inspiration, Mohammed Ghouse, passed away during the initial days of the Australian tour. His family supported him fully in his decision to stay back in Australia and Siraj made every opportunity count thereafter. An emotional Siraj broke down during the national anthem in Sydney, remembering his father’s words. But he was also not shy to report the boorish crowd to the umpires after being the target of racial abuse. “I am thankful that I got five wickets,” Siraj told newsmen on Monday. “It was a very tough situation for me because I lost my dad recently. It was my mother who motivated me and asked me to be strong. So, I was mentally strong, and my focus was on making sure my dad's dream of seeing me play for India comes true. Thank God, it got accomplished today. Let's see what happens tomorrow.” With 13 wickets from three matches, Siraj joined a select list of debutants with most wickets in Australia. He shares the space with the likes of Ben Stokes (15 from 4 Tests), Peter Lever (13 from 5 Tests) and Courtney Walsh (13 from 5 Tests). Virender Sehwag, Sachin Tendulkar and VVS Laxman lauded his effort on Monday. “The boy has become a man on this tour. Siraj, leader of the attack in his first Test series and he has led from the front,” Sehwag tweeted. “Well done Mohammed Siraj on your first fifer and Shardul Thakur on your important all-round performance which has kept the Test rather interesting so far and more importantly, the Test series alive,” Tendulkar tweeted. “Very proud of you, Siraj! Not easy to stay on in Australia after losing your father but I am sure your commitment and passion for the game would make him very proud. Congrats on your maiden five-wkt haul. Many more to come. Keep it up,” tweeted VVS Laxman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/siraj-goes-from-rookie-to-rock-star-in-3-tests-in-oz/articleshow/80337678.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Jaipur||Pvt schools file SLP in SC on HC’s tuition fee order||Jaipur: Some of the private school managements had approached the Supreme Court challenging the high court order on school fees.The Supreme Court on Monday deferred hearing in the case of recovery of fees of private schools for the academic session 2020-21 during the pandemic to January 25. The court has also given exemption to the applicant school operators and institutions to provide copy of SLP to the state government’s lawyer.The Supreme Court gave this instruction on the SLP of the Managing Committee Sawai Mansingh Vidyalaya and Society of Catholic Education Institutions and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pvt-schools-file-slp-in-sc-on-hcs-tuition-fee-order/articleshow/80336831.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Nashik||Professionals working from home to pay regular residential property tax to NMC||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to levy regular property tax rates on the residences of professionals — including lawyers, chartered accountants (CA) and doctors — who have been using their homes as offices. Currently, the civic levies three-times more than the normal residential tax rate for the portion of a home that a property owner uses to practise his or her profession.Pradeep Chaudhari, the deputy municipal commissioner (taxation), said 100 such practitioners had approached the NMC seeking levy of regular property tax rates on their residences. “There is also the Supreme Court judgement of 1984 on the levy of regular property tax for professionals like CAs, lawyers and doctors, who are working from their residences,” he said.Some professionals had also moved the district court, where the judgement was given in their favour. Therefore, the NMC administration has decided to levy regular property charges as per the residential property tax rates.The civic body has prepared the proposal and it will be tabled at the NMC general body (GB) meeting on Tuesday for approval.“The civic body should have respected the court judgement and should have applied regular property tax instead of the non-residential property tax rate. There are many professionals, apart from CAs, lawyers and doctors, who are working from their homes now,” said Ravi Rathi, the former chairman and senior member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), Nashik.“Since the Covid outbreak, many are working from home. It is not a commercial but a human resource activity. This is a welcome move that the civic body has finally proposed the decision of levying a regular property tax,” said Rathi.The NMC does not have data on the number of professionals working from home in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/professionals-working-from-home-to-pay-regular-residential-property-tax-to-nmc/articleshow/80334413.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 19, 2021||Surat||‘Delay in group insurance premium can’t hit individual’||SURAT: In an important judgment with regard to the group medical insurance policy, the Valsad District Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission observed that individual policy holder’s risk cover in such group policies cannot start only after the insurance company receives the premium. The commission said there may be a delay in the process of collecting all employees’ premium and depositing the bulk amount by the company or department in the bank. Going by its observation, the consumer court ordered Oriental Insurance Company Ltd to reimburse Valsad-based head constable (Armed), Haresh Desai, his mediclaim amount of Rs 1.5 lakh with seven percent interest effective from September 2017. It also awarded compensation of Rs 2,500 Desai. Paramount Health Service (TPA) Pvt Ltd denied paying Desai the claim amount stating that when the cop had taken treatment, the police department did not pay the premium for the policy and it was paid much later. The consumer court also observed that in group medical insurance policy, risk cover exists till the fixed date. According to case details, Desai, a resident of Bhutsar village in Valsad district, approached the consumer court alleging Oriental Insurance Company Ltd and its TPA (Paramount Health Service and Insurance Pvt Ltd) denied reimbursing his claim for medical treatment. Desai had also made Valsad SP and DGP (Gujarat) office as party to his complaint. Desai argued that insurance premium amount is being deducted from his salary by the police department as part of his service and group medical insurance policy. This amount is paid to the insurance company and its TPA. He stated that Rs 3,354 had been deducted from his salary in September, 2015 against his policy period that started from August 01, 2015. During this policy period, Desai fell sick on November 21, 2015 and had to be operated upon after which he was discharged on December 03, 2015. The medical bills for his treatment came up to Rs 6.13 lakh and he later filed a claim for the reimbursement from the insurance company. However, it was denied. Manager of Paramount Health Services argued that Desai’s policy started from August 01, 2016 whereas he had taken treatment in 2015. Therefore, his claim can’t be reimbursed as his medical insurance cover starts only after the company receives a premium. When Desai took treatment, his premium was unpaid rendering him ineligible for reimbursement. Desai’s advocate argued that a card from the insurance company was provided to his client which states that the policy period starts from August, 01, 2015. Desai also produced documentary evidence of premium for his policy being deducted from his salary in September, 2015. The company also said that it had received a premium on November 30, 2015, but did not reveal when the TPA deposited the premium amount to the insurance company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/delay-in-group-insurance-premium-cant-hit-individual/articleshow/80335501.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Make helmets & seatbelts way of life, says Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said wearing helmets, seatbelts and driving responsibly should be a “way of life” just like masks, sanitisers and hand hygiene practices became a habit during the pandemic. Thackeray proffered the advice while launching the Road Safety Month on Monday. “Citizens need a ‘booster dose’ of road safety awareness at regular intervals just like the vaccine,” he said. The government has set a target of further reducing fatalities in the state by 10%. In 2020, 11,452 lives were lost across the state while 20,137 people were injured in 25,456 mishaps. Speaking at the function at Sahyadri guest house, the chief minister issued directives to officials to ensure Maharashtra “does not figure” in any list of statistics for mishaps across the country. It currently ranks second in the country for road fatalities on state and national highways as well as expressways. The chief minister suggested every accident black spot should have a trauma care centre nearby. There are 1,324 such spots across the state. Thackeray said in foreign countries saving the lives of animals on the road was also important. “The same should be part of road safety measures here,” he said. “There should also be measures to check road fatigue among drivers, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/make-seatbelts-helmets-way-of-life/articleshow/80337681.cms||Somit Sen
January 19, 2021||Nashik||Petrol price peaks in Nashik city at Rs 92.14/l||Nashik: Petrol price in the Nashik city shot up to an all-time high of Rs 92.14 per litre on Monday — up from Sunday’s Rs 91.9 per litre. The previous peak was on October 4, 2018, when each litre of petrol cost Rs 91.79 per litre. Diesel price also went up from Sunday’s Rs 80.70 per litre to Rs 80.96 per litre on Monday. Diesel price too had touched a record high recently. The fuel price rise has left Nashik city residents upset and concerned. “There has been a continuous rise in fuel prices over the past few months. This has put a strain on our monthly budget. Our salaries have already been reduced by 20% due to Covid pandemic. Now, the rise in fuel prices is another burden. Rise in fuel prices means inviting inflation,” said Bipin Gavande, a private company employee. Even the farmers are wary of diesel price rise. “Farmers use tractors and many farming activities are done using tractor-mounted equipment. Farmers need diesel to use the tractors. Ploughing and other rates have already increased over the last six months and a continuous rise in diesel prices will further increase the cost of production,” said Nivrutti Nyaharkar, a farmer, adding that the government needs to provide diesel to farmers at the minimum rates. “Fuel prices depend on international crude prices, dollar exchange rates, various taxes of the state and central governments and adoption of the daily rate change method by the Centre,” said Vijay Thakare, the vice-president of the Federation of All Maharashtra Petrol Dealers’ Association (FAMPEDA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/petrol-price-peaks-in-nashik-city-at-rs-92-14/l/articleshow/80334419.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Nashik||Officials call before adding names to vaccine list||Nashik: The district authorities have called up the vaccine beneficiaries before finalising their names in the list that will be used during the drive on Tuesday.“Since the turnout on the first day (Saturday) of the vaccination drive was low, we called up the beneficiaries through our centre heads. We counselled them and sought their permission for including their names in the list that is being uploaded on CoWIN, which will send SMSes about their appointments at the respective vaccination centre,” said Nikhil Saindane, the nodal officer for the Covid-19 vaccination programme in Nashik.“Apart from seeking permission to put their name in the list, we also wanted to address rumours related to the vaccine. Only those who agreed to take the vaccine were listed for the programme,” Saindane added.He said the centre heads would be talking to the beneficiaries on Tuesday morning again to comfort them and see if they are confident to visit the vaccination booths. “No one would be forced to take the vaccine,” he said.The officer said the quotes and photographs of the beneficiaries who took the vaccine shots on the first day — including those who are healthy as well as those who developed minor side effects — were sent to the social media groups of the beneficiaries and the officers. “They are like ambassadors and, therefore, their quotes were carried in the groups to help people understand the situation. The people who have already taken the shots either were fit and normal, or had developed some pain in the hand, or felt feverish etc. But they are okay now,” Saindane noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/officials-call-before-adding-names-to-vaccine-list/articleshow/80334436.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Upper castes’ ultimatum to Telangana govt on EWS quota||HYDERABAD: Upper caste communities in Telangana, who constitute 20-22% of population, have issued an ultimatum to state government to implement 10% quota in education and jobs for economically weaker sections (EWS) within the communities. Stressing that lakhs of students and youth are being deprived of reservation in professional courses and jobs, they set a deadline (January 30) to the government to implement the quota, failing which they would resort to protests. Community leaders said implementation of 10% EWS reservation would not come in the way of enhancing reservations of Muslims to 12% and STs to 10% in the state. Towards pursuing their demands, Reddy, Brahmin, Velama, Vysya and Kamma welfare associations have decided to come together and exert pressure on the TRS government. They said except for implementing 10% EWS reservation in 2019-20 NEET-based admissions in the state, the government had not implemented it in educational courses and jobs. The NDA government at the Centre extended 10% reservation to EWS in the general category ahead of 2019 general elections in what was seen as a gamechanger. Tulasi Srinivas of Telangana Brahmana Seva Sangh Samakhya said several representations to the government had fallen on deaf ears. “Thousands of students have lost an opportunity of availing reservations in the last two years. Left with no other option, we have decided to first request the government to implement it or else we would hit the streets,” he said. Brahmins, Velamas and Vysyas roughly constitute 3% of the population in both Telugu states, while Reddys constitute 7% and Kammas 5% of the population. While the TRS government tried to keep the Brahmin community in good humour by forming the Telangana Brahmin Samkshema Parishad in 2017, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had promised to set up special corporations for other upper castes like Reddys and Vysyas. The community leaders pointed out that there was no stay order on implementation of the EWS quota by any court in other states or by the Supreme Court. Reddy Jagruthi founder-president Pitta Srinivas Reddy recalled that over 50,000 EWS students from upper castes had applied for admission into various engineering and professional courses for the coming academic year. Though Eamcet-based admission forms had an EWS option, the government did not implement it. Srinivas Reddy said though the central law gave flexibility to states to fix the reservation based on population of a particular general category community, the state has not done it till now. “We will be holding a massive public meeting if the government does not come out with dates to implement the EWS quota by this month-end,” he warned. The coming together of the associations of various upper caste communities assumes significance as they enjoy a considerable influence among voters. “With the changed political scenario after Dubbak and GHMC elections, the government cannot afford to sit over the issue. It has to take a decision sooner or later,” said a political analyst. Telangana State Planning Board vice chairman B Vinod Kumar said the government was aware of the demands being put forward by the upper castes and other communities. “Several representations have been submitted, some of which state that the population of a few communities is less than 10%. As a result quota for these communities should be less than 10%. The government is seriously looking into these issues,” he told TOI. Telangana State Council of Higher education chairman T Papi Reddy said they have written to the government and are awaiting orders for implementing the EWS quota for admissions into educational institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/upper-castes-ultimatum-to-t-govt-on-ews-quota/articleshow/80337682.cms||Roushan Ali
January 19, 2021||Ranchi||Steel giant asks squatters to vacate airport site hutments||Bokaro: Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) has again asked squatters to vacate the hutments at Dundibagh area or be removed forcibly, indicating that a demolition drive will soon be launched to make way for construction of a boundary wall for the upcoming airport. The squatters residing in illegal hutments on the premises of the earmarked airport has been posing hurdles in construction work. This is the second time in 18 months BSL has initiated the process to clear more the 300 illegal hutments. In August, 2019, BSL management along with the district administration conducted a demolition drive but the encroachers returned to the hutments soon after. As the work on the airport is moving at a fast pace, the district administration and the BSL management are racing against time to complete the project. BSL’s chief of communication Manikant Dhan said the illegal occupants have been asked to leave. “The encroachment on BSL’s land will soon be evacuated,” he said. Recently, the district administration asked BSL to remove squatters from its land for the development of the airport under phase-II of Regional Connectivity Scheme (UDAN). Bokaro is one of the four airports to be developed in Jharkhand. “More than 90% construction work for the expansion of Bokaro airport is complete. The remaining work comprises construction of a boundary wall and cutting of trees. The construction of a wall at Dundibagh side under Sector-12 police station started last week and its completion will end a major hurdle in airport expansion,” AAI sources said. Evacuation of illegal hutments is also mandatory, for which BSL has initiated the process. A week ago, deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh chaired a meeting with officials of AAI, forest, BSL and police and asked them to speed up the activities. AAI officials said the completion of boundary wall and removal trees will make airport functional for commercial flight operation by April 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/steel-giant-asks-squatters-to-vacate-airport-site-hutments/articleshow/80335756.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 19, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Teachers strict on Covid norms in schools, atmosphere tense||RANCHI: The Guru Nanak Public School here is open but there were only a handful of students on the campus on Monday morning. All of them wearing masks but a sense of worry can be seen on their faces. The academic atmosphere in the educational institutes, which were reopened recently, is now an entirely different scene after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. In the schools, as students moved towards their respective classes, the teachers kept an eye on them from various corners of the campus and issued a stern warning if they get close to each other. The principal of Guru Nanak Public School, Dr Manohar Lal, said he constantly kept directing the teachers on how to ensure prevention of the Covid-19 infection. Gesturing to a teacher on the third floor of the building, he shouted,” Do not let the students stand on the corridors. Make them sit in classes in an organized manner.” Similar is the scenario at the Jawahar Vidya Mandir Shyamli. Every student is checked with thermal guns before allowing them into the school. Inside the classes, they are made to sit on alternate benches with some classrooms having on a few students. However, large groups of students were seen in the practical classes. Along the corridors, the students were constantly reminded of the necessity to maintain social distancing. School principal Samarjit Jana said the management has taken up the measures following the government directive. A senior teacher, B N Jha, has been assigned the specific duty to ensure its implementation, he said. Ritika Prasad, a Class XII student, said, “It is important to come to the school for the practical classes. Besides, we are able to clear our doubts better during the interaction.” Another Class XII student, Ritik Kumar, said “I had decided to join the classes as soon as the school opens. It is important from the examination point of view. However, the happiness which I got while attending school is, however, missing.” “The school atmosphere has changed much. Now, we are not allowed to mingle with friends as before. Our parents are also very concerned while sending us. They take care that we wear masks and use the sanitisers. However, I feel quite safe inside the school,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/teachers-strict-on-cov-norms-in-schools-atmosphere-tense/articleshow/80335710.cms||Sanjay Sahay
January 19, 2021||Ranchi||All samples for avian flu negative, birds could have died of cold: Animal husbandry department||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Monday heaved a sigh of relief after no case of bird flu was detected following testing of over 4,000 samples of dead birds collected from across the state. State animal husbandry department officials said the deaths could have resulted from severe cold or electrocution but expressed concern whether the negative results of the samples for avian influenza could have been the outcome of an unscientific collection of the samples. As close to a dozen states across the country reported an outbreak of the avian flu, the state issued an alert and safety protocols to handle the dead birds. State animal and husbandry department director Nancy Sahay said they are not letting their guards down and heightened vigil will continue in all 24 districts. She said, “Some 4,000 plus samples were sent for tests and luckily all results are negative for the avian influenza virus. But we will continue with the vigil.” Nancy also said all deaths in the state so far were wild birds and no poultry livestock was affected. “We didn’t find any deaths among the poultry birds here unlike the trend in other states, which is a plus point. In cases of deaths of birds in the wild, there is not much we could do. Still, all our districts are on alert and they are sending daily reports to the headquarters. If any bird death is reported, the sample is sent for testing,” she said. The director added that following the latest directives from the Centre, the department is not focusing on imposing fresh bans as any such a move would create a scare among the public or the traders. “All that one should do is to cook properly before consuming chicken and other poultry products. Moreover, in India, there is no history of bird flu transmission from birds to humans, so far,” she said. State nodal officer for bird flu, A K Singh, said, “Till Monday, we have collected and sent 4,280 samples for testing and all returned negative. We are of the view that most of the deaths occurred due to cold stroke,” he said. Departmental sources, however, sounded concerned over the “unscientific” collection of samples in many cases following which many were declared unfit for confirmatory testing by the Kolkata-based laboratory. “For example, samples of two dead crows sent from Jamshedpur in the first week of January were decomposed and couldn’t be tested. Similarly, samples from Dumka, too, were declared null and void because of improper collection and delay in sending them to the lab. “In such a situation, we would never know even if those birds were infected,” remarked an official. Sahay conceded the delay in the arrival of samples from a few districts but said corrective steps have been taken. “Earlier, all districts used to send samples first to Ranchi and then they were sent to the Kolkata lab, which took a few days time. Ideally, samples should reach the lab at the earliest. Hence, we have issued orders to all districts to directly send the samples to the lab so as to reduce the time frame,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/all-samples-for-avian-flu-ve-birds-could-have-died-of-cold-animal-husbandry-dept/articleshow/80335142.cms||ASRP Mukesh
January 19, 2021||Ranchi||Jharia fire zone residents refuse to relocate to new flats||SINDRI: Land title holders living in the fire zones of the Jharia coalfield on Saturday refused to move to the new flats being constructed under the Jharia Rehabilitation Scheme in the Belgaria township and demanded that the district as well as the BCCL administration provides them with plots of land, cost of building houses and a compensation package. The title holders made their decision known to the authorities concerned during the direct-communication meeting with the Dhanbad district administration at the Dhanbad town hall. Dhanbad DC Uma Shankar Singh and BCCL CMD Gopal Singh along with senior district administration officials were present at the meeting. The district administration had divided the entire fire-area into 12 zones and invited 10-12 land title holders from all the zones to place their views on the rehabilitation proposal. Addressing the meeting, DC Uma Shankar Singh said, “The district administration wants to prepare a concrete rehabilitation proposal keeping the safety, security and facilities of the common people in mind for which public participation is a must. The suggestions of the land title holders will be sent to the central government for incorporation in the rehabilitation proposal.” BCCL CMD Gopal Singh said that the PSU and the public were both getting affected adversely by the delay in finalization of the rehabilitation proposal and called upon the beneficiaries to have faith on the BCCL management and cooperate with the plan. However, the land title holders from different localities rejected the appeal. They also demanded stopping of the mining activities in areas from where displacement is taking place till finalization of rehabilitation proposal, saying heavy blasting and pollution have made their life miserable. The beneficiaries said the new rehabilitation areas should have ample employment and self-employment opportunities. Charging the BCCL management with patronizing anti-social elements among the outsourcing companies, the land title holders claimed that despite the provision for 20% employment to landowners, they were not provided jobs. Similarly, residents of the Jharia township demanded that the district administration allows land revenue deposits till finalization of rehabilitation proposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharia-fire-zone-residents-refuse-to-relocate-to-new-flats/articleshow/80335203.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 19, 2021||Jamshedpur||Registration for second phase of Covid vaccine drive begins in Jharkhand||RANCHI: The registration of frontline workers for free vaccination against Covid-19 has started in Jharkhand, the state department of health, medical education and family welfare said on Monday. While the first phase of inoculation aims to cover 1.31 lakh health workers who voluntarily signed up for the jabs of Covishield vaccine, the second phase will target approximately 2.5 lakh frontline workers across 24 districts. The frontline workers, who were at the forefront in the battle against the pandemic along with health workers, include police personnel, home guards, sanitation workers of civic bodies and ambulance and hearse drivers. “The registration window for frontline workers will remain open till January 25. Only then we will be able to estimate their numbers,” Ravishankar Shukla, director of State Health Mission, told TOI. “The registration of health workers was done by the state health department and the registration of frontline workers will be done by their respective departments,” Shukla said. Notably, the state department of home, jail and disaster management and the department of urban development have been entrusted with identification and registration of the beneficiaries for the second phase. Jharkhand Police spokesperson IG Saket Kumar Singh was unavailable for comments when contacted to enquire about the number of police and home guard personnel who will be signed up for the inoculation drive. While the registration of the second phase is underway, the identification of 70 lakh people, including those with co-morbidities is yet to take off. “We are awaiting guidelines from the Union ministry of health and family welfare on the identification of the beneficiaries. As soon as we receive the guidelines, the identification process will begin," Dr Ajit Prasad, nodal officer of the state vaccination cell, said. Jharkhand launched the vaccination drive at 48 centres across 24 districts with a target of 4,800 on Day One on Saturday. However, 1,600 of the 4,800 registered beneficiaries did not turn up to take the shots on Day One. Initially, Jharkhand had planned to launch the vaccination drive at 129 centres, it was slashed to to 48 following directives from the Centre for better mobilisation of resources and utilization of the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/registration-for-2nd-phase-of-vax-drive-begins/articleshow/80342966.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 19, 2021||Ranchi||4 deaths, 100 cases, 131 recoveries in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand reported four Covid-related deaths on Monday, taking the casualty figure in state to 1,054, while the number of fresh cases and the number of recoveries were 100 and 131 respectively. As per government data, as many as 1,17,786 people have been infected till date and 1,15,542 have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 98.06%. The number of active cases in Jharkhand currently stands at 1,190. The four deaths were reported from Bokaro (two), Dhanbad (one) and Ranchi (one). Ranchi reported 44 cases, followed by East Singhbhum with 12 while 15 districts recorded cases in single digits. Deoghar, Dumka, Giridih, Khunti, Koderma, Pakur and Sahebganj did not report a single case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/4-deaths-100-cases-131-recoveries-in-state/articleshow/80335814.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Jamshedpur||All samples for avian flu negative, birds could have died of cold: Animal husbandry department||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Monday heaved a sigh of relief after no case of bird flu was detected following testing of over 4,000 samples of dead birds collected from across the state. State animal husbandry department officials said the deaths could have resulted from severe cold or electrocution but expressed concern whether the negative results of the samples for avian influenza could have been the outcome of an unscientific collection of the samples. As close to a dozen states across the country reported an outbreak of the avian flu, the state issued an alert and safety protocols to handle the dead birds. State animal and husbandry department director Nancy Sahay said they are not letting their guards down and heightened vigil will continue in all 24 districts. She said, “Some 4,000 plus samples were sent for tests and luckily all results are negative for the avian influenza virus. But we will continue with the vigil.” Nancy also said all deaths in the state so far were wild birds and no poultry livestock was affected. “We didn’t find any deaths among the poultry birds here unlike the trend in other states, which is a plus point. In cases of deaths of birds in the wild, there is not much we could do. Still, all our districts are on alert and they are sending daily reports to the headquarters. If any bird death is reported, the sample is sent for testing,” she said. The director added that following the latest directives from the Centre, the department is not focusing on imposing fresh bans as any such a move would create a scare among the public or the traders. “All that one should do is to cook properly before consuming chicken and other poultry products. Moreover, in India, there is no history of bird flu transmission from birds to humans, so far,” she said. State nodal officer for bird flu, A K Singh, said, “Till Monday, we have collected and sent 4,280 samples for testing and all returned negative. We are of the view that most of the deaths occurred due to cold stroke,” he said. Departmental sources, however, sounded concerned over the “unscientific” collection of samples in many cases following which many were declared unfit for confirmatory testing by the Kolkata-based laboratory. “For example, samples of two dead crows sent from Jamshedpur in the first week of January were decomposed and couldn’t be tested. Similarly, samples from Dumka, too, were declared null and void because of improper collection and delay in sending them to the lab. “In such a situation, we would never know even if those birds were infected,” remarked an official. Sahay conceded the delay in the arrival of samples from a few districts but said corrective steps have been taken. “Earlier, all districts used to send samples first to Ranchi and then they were sent to the Kolkata lab, which took a few days time. Ideally, samples should reach the lab at the earliest. Hence, we have issued orders to all districts to directly send the samples to the lab so as to reduce the time frame,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/all-samples-for-avian-flu-ve-birds-could-have-died-of-cold-animal-husbandry-dept/articleshow/80342946.cms||ASRP Mukesh
January 19, 2021||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand: Turnout dips to 61% on Day 2 of vaccine drive||RANCHI: The second day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, which resumed after a day’s break, was smooth as none of the 48 centres across the state reported any technical glitches or major adverse reactions on any recipient. However, the turnout of beneficiaries remained low and fell to around 61%, lower than the 66% reported on Saturday. Officials were expecting a rise in numbers on Monday after prominent healthcare workers from state capital had taken the vaccine and urged others to come forward. Talking to TOI, Dr Ajit Prasad, nodal officer for the vaccination drive in Jharkhand, said: “Of the 4,786 beneficiaries selected for Day Two, 2,923 out of enlisted for the second day turned up.” Meanwhile, the numbers of vaccination centre in the state remained 48 even as a new addition was done at Rims campus. “Due to the closure of a vaccination centre at Karra in Khunti district, our count remains 48,” said Prasad. He added, “None of our centres faced any technical glitches with the Co-WIN application. A few mild adverse reaction were reported in beneficiaries, but they were provided management for same.” Health care experts, however, said the turnout numbers are not disappointing and they will work towards creating more awareness about the efficacy of the jab. Dr Devesh Kumar, public health expert and professor of community medicine at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), said: “Any figure above 60% is good. Having said that, we shouldn’t stop here and should do everything possible to increase the turnout, but that will not happen overnight.” Making sense of the 5% drop in the turnout figure, Devesh said: “There can be several reasons -- it can be academic, it can be official work or other engagaements of beneficiaries and a bit of hesitancy. If we focus on busting the myths among people, the turnout will start improving. For instance, the vaccination centre at Rims became functional on Monday and we too reported a turnout of around 60%. But that is because a section of undergraduate students have examinations and post-graduate students have other professional commitments like duties.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/turnout-dips-to-61-on-day-2-of-vax-drive/articleshow/80342992.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 19, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Turnout dips to 61% on Day 2 of vaccine drive||RANCHI: The second day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, which resumed after a day’s break, was smooth as none of the 48 centres across the state reported any technical glitches or major adverse reactions on any recipient. However, the turnout of beneficiaries remained low and fell to around 61%, lower than the 66% reported on Saturday. Officials were expecting a rise in numbers on Monday after prominent healthcare workers from state capital had taken the vaccine and urged others to come forward. Talking to TOI, Dr Ajit Prasad, nodal officer for the vaccination drive in Jharkhand, said: “Of the 4,786 beneficiaries selected for Day Two, 2,923 out of enlisted for the second day turned up.” Meanwhile, the numbers of vaccination centre in the state remained 48 even as a new addition was done at Rims campus. “Due to the closure of a vaccination centre at Karra in Khunti district, our count remains 48,” said Prasad. He added, “None of our centres faced any technical glitches with the Co-WIN application. A few mild adverse reaction were reported in beneficiaries, but they were provided management for same.” Health care experts, however, said the turnout numbers are not disappointing and they will work towards creating more awareness about the efficacy of the jab. Dr Devesh Kumar, public health expert and professor of community medicine at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), said: “Any figure above 60% is good. Having said that, we shouldn’t stop here and should do everything possible to increase the turnout, but that will not happen overnight.” Making sense of the 5% drop in the turnout figure, Devesh said: “There can be several reasons -- it can be academic, it can be official work or other engagaements of beneficiaries and a bit of hesitancy. If we focus on busting the myths among people, the turnout will start improving. For instance, the vaccination centre at Rims became functional on Monday and we too reported a turnout of around 60%. But that is because a section of undergraduate students have examinations and post-graduate students have other professional commitments like duties.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/turnout-dips-to-61-on-day-2-of-vax-drive/articleshow/80335077.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 19, 2021||Ranchi||Registration for second phase of Covid vaccine drive begins in Jharkhand||RANCHI: The registration of frontline workers for free vaccination against Covid-19 has started in Jharkhand, the state department of health, medical education and family welfare said on Monday. While the first phase of inoculation aims to cover 1.31 lakh health workers who voluntarily signed up for the jabs of Covishield vaccine, the second phase will target approximately 2.5 lakh frontline workers across 24 districts. The frontline workers, who were at the forefront in the battle against the pandemic along with health workers, include police personnel, home guards, sanitation workers of civic bodies and ambulance and hearse drivers. “The registration window for frontline workers will remain open till January 25. Only then we will be able to estimate their numbers,” Ravishankar Shukla, director of State Health Mission, told TOI. “The registration of health workers was done by the state health department and the registration of frontline workers will be done by their respective departments,” Shukla said. Notably, the state department of home, jail and disaster management and the department of urban development have been entrusted with identification and registration of the beneficiaries for the second phase. Jharkhand Police spokesperson IG Saket Kumar Singh was unavailable for comments when contacted to enquire about the number of police and home guard personnel who will be signed up for the inoculation drive. While the registration of the second phase is underway, the identification of 70 lakh people, including those with co-morbidities is yet to take off. “We are awaiting guidelines from the Union ministry of health and family welfare on the identification of the beneficiaries. As soon as we receive the guidelines, the identification process will begin," Dr Ajit Prasad, nodal officer of the state vaccination cell, said. Jharkhand launched the vaccination drive at 48 centres across 24 districts with a target of 4,800 on Day One on Saturday. However, 1,600 of the 4,800 registered beneficiaries did not turn up to take the shots on Day One. Initially, Jharkhand had planned to launch the vaccination drive at 129 centres, it was slashed to to 48 following directives from the Centre for better mobilisation of resources and utilization of the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/registration-for-2nd-phase-of-vax-drive-begins/articleshow/80335102.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 19, 2021||Ranchi||Take RT-PCR test before entry: Residential schools in Ranchi to students||RANCHI: From RT-PCR tests, frequent sanitisation to ensuring there’s proper social distancing among students, the residential schools in Ranchi are taking all possible measures to keep the virus at bay in their respective premises. Ever since the government gave the green signal to reopen schools for Class X and XII board examinees, schools like Vikas Vidyalay, for example, have made it compulsory for the pupils to get themselves tested for Covid-19 48 hours prior to their entry. Ratnesh Kumar, an official at the school, said a residential doctor ensures this before allowing any student in. Ensuring social distancing is not an issue for the school either as it has plenty of rooms and every student has his/her own room. The entire campus is fumigated frequently and the authorities have installed sanitisers at various points for the students. Signs have been put up across the campus, asking everyone to maintain social distancing. Taurian World School, located on the outskirts of the city, has put in place an elaborate plan that ranges from checking its students’ temperature at regular intervals to making them practise yoga and exercise to build up their immunity. School principal Dr Subhash Kumar said, “As soon as the directive regarding reopening schools was issued by the government, we devised a plan to ensure safety on campus. A task force was set up which outlined the requirements that need to be fulfilled once the school reopens. Our priority was to take care of every one’s health on campus, besides covering the syllabus of the board exams.” The school has refrained from filling up its hostels at full capacity and it sanitises the students’ hands and bags as soon as they come to school from hostels on bus. W John Multipurpose School said all the measures issued by state government and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations are being followed at their hostels. Schools said that even though 80% of the parents had given consent to send their children to school, only 65% have turned up so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/take-rt-pcr-test-before-entry-residential-schools-to-students/articleshow/80335775.cms||Sanjay Sahay
January 19, 2021||Jamshedpur||4 deaths, 100 cases, 131 recoveries in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand reported four Covid-related deaths on Monday, taking the casualty figure in state to 1,054, while the number of fresh cases and the number of recoveries were 100 and 131 respectively. As per government data, as many as 1,17,786 people have been infected till date and 1,15,542 have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 98.06%. The number of active cases in Jharkhand currently stands at 1,190. The four deaths were reported from Bokaro (two), Dhanbad (one) and Ranchi (one). Ranchi reported 44 cases, followed by East Singhbhum with 12 while 15 districts recorded cases in single digits. Deoghar, Dumka, Giridih, Khunti, Koderma, Pakur and Sahebganj did not report a single case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/4-deaths-100-cases-131-recoveries-in-state/articleshow/80342801.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 19, 2021||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand: Teachers strict on Covid norms in schools, atmosphere tense||RANCHI: The Guru Nanak Public School here is open but there were only a handful of students on the campus on Monday morning. All of them wearing masks but a sense of worry can be seen on their faces. The academic atmosphere in the educational institutes, which were reopened recently, is now an entirely different scene after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. In the schools, as students moved towards their respective classes, the teachers kept an eye on them from various corners of the campus and issued a stern warning if they get close to each other. The principal of Guru Nanak Public School, Dr Manohar Lal, said he constantly kept directing the teachers on how to ensure prevention of the Covid-19 infection. Gesturing to a teacher on the third floor of the building, he shouted,” Do not let the students stand on the corridors. Make them sit in classes in an organized manner.” Similar is the scenario at the Jawahar Vidya Mandir Shyamli. Every student is checked with thermal guns before allowing them into the school. Inside the classes, they are made to sit on alternate benches with some classrooms having on a few students. However, large groups of students were seen in the practical classes. Along the corridors, the students were constantly reminded of the necessity to maintain social distancing. School principal Samarjit Jana said the management has taken up the measures following the government directive. A senior teacher, B N Jha, has been assigned the specific duty to ensure its implementation, he said. Ritika Prasad, a Class XII student, said, “It is important to come to the school for the practical classes. Besides, we are able to clear our doubts better during the interaction.” Another Class XII student, Ritik Kumar, said “I had decided to join the classes as soon as the school opens. It is important from the examination point of view. However, the happiness which I got while attending school is, however, missing.” “The school atmosphere has changed much. Now, we are not allowed to mingle with friends as before. Our parents are also very concerned while sending us. They take care that we wear masks and use the sanitisers. However, I feel quite safe inside the school,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/teachers-strict-on-cov-norms-in-schools-atmosphere-tense/articleshow/80342928.cms||Sanjay Sahay
January 19, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports 81 new Covid cases, lowest single-day surge in seven months||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 81 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, the lowest single-day surge in the last seven months. Only one fatality was reported in the last 24 hours. The cumulative caseload in the state rose to 8,86,066 and the death toll increased to 7,141. According to the latest bulletin, that state performed a total of 27,861 Covid-19 tests in the last 24 hours, including 7,083 rapid antigen tests, to detect 81 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of 0.29 per cent. The state has performed 1.26 crore tests so far with an overall positivity rate of 7.03 per cent. Meanwhile, 263 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours. The total number of recoveries has now climbed to 8,77,212. The lone casualty reported in the last 24 hours was from Visakhapatnam district. As of Monday, Andhra Pradesh has 1,713 active Covid-19 cases. All 13 districts of Andhra Pradesh reported less than 20 cases on Monday. Kadapa district reported 19 cases, the highest in the state, followed by Chittoor which reported 15 cases and Guntur 13. Nine other districts reported less than 10 cases while Anantapur reported no new cases on Monday. This is the second time since May that Andhra Pradesh reported less than 100 cases in a day. On January 15 the state had reported 94 cases and one death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-81-covid-cases-lowest-single-day-surge-in-seven-months/articleshow/80334525.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Over 14,000 health workers get vaccinated||VISAKHAPATNAM: A total of 14,606 healthcare workers were administered the vaccine for Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh on Monday. Officials of the health department said that not a single case of ‘adverse events following immunisation’ (AEFI) was reported. The vaccination programme was taken up in 316 locations across Andhra Pradesh on Monday.  Each session site is supposed to cater to 100 beneficiaries per day. East Godavari district saw the highest turnout on Monday with 1,923 people receiving the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/over-14k-health-workers-get-vaccinated/articleshow/80334530.cms||---
January 19, 2021||India||After row, makers of web series issue apology; FIR lodged in UP||NEW DELHI: Makers of the controversial web series ‘Tandav’ on Monday issued an unconditional apology for the “offensive” content of the programme and said the cast and crew had no intention to offend any religion or religious beliefs, nor outrage any institution or political party. The apology came even as a case for defamation and hurting religious sentiments was registered against Bollywood writer-director Ali Abbas Zafar and actors Saif Ali Khan and Zeeshan Ayyub on a complaint by BJP MLA Veer Vikram Singh at Katra police station in UP’s Shahjahanpur district on Monday. A four-member police team from Lucknow also left for Mumbai on Monday to investigate into another FIR lodged at Lucknow’s Hazratganj police station against the producers of web series for “promoting enmity on grounds of religion”.  A detailed statement was issued by the series’ producer Himanshu Mehra and its director Ali Abbas Zafar on Twitter, hours after representatives of Amazon Prime Video held a virtual meeting with officials of the information & broadcasting ministry. The web series ran into controversy soon after its release on Amazon Prime on Friday after BJP legislators filed complaints claiming that the series had “insulted Hindu gods and goddesses”. The I&B ministry stepped in and sought an explanation from Amazon Prime Video representatives. The developments put the spotlight, once again, on lack of regulation of online content, especially that available on Over The Top (OTT) platforms like Amazon, Netflix and Disney Hotstar among others, which has seen several shows running into trouble with audiences and authorities. Sources in the ministry said while the Centre was keen that the industry should self-regulate instead of the government having to act as a “censor”, there is a view that OTT platforms should be brought under a broad set of guidelines as well as an independent regulator, like the Press Council of India is for the print industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-row-makers-of-web-series-issue-apology-fir-lodged-in-up/articleshow/80338248.cms||Swati Mathur
January 19, 2021||India||Shivraj seeks ban, Mayawati wants scenes deleted||NEW DELHI: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan called on Union I&B minister Prakash Javadekar on Monday and demanded an immediate ban on the web series ‘Tandav’. In Indore and Bhopal, BJP workers burnt posters of Tandav and urged people to unsubscribe from Amazon. Indore BJP SC wing president Rajesh Shirodkar said they would file an FIR against the makers of web series on Tuesday. Wading into the controversy, BSP president Mayawati also demanded that scenes to which objections have been raised should be removed to maintain peace in the country. “Objections have been raised against some scenes in the web series ‘Tandav’ which have hurt religious, caste and other feelings. It would be appropriate if such scenes are deleted so that the environment of peace and brotherhood in the country is not disturbed,” she said. National Commission for Women chairperson Rekha Sharma said the web series portrays farmers and university students in a bad light and has a lot of offensive content. Sharma said she was yet to watch the entire series and would take suo motu cognisance if she found anything objectionable against.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shivraj-seeks-ban-mayawati-wants-scenes-deleted/articleshow/80338256.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Teen couple commits suicide days after getting married in Guntur district||VIJAYAWADA: A young couple committed suicide by hanging themselves to death from a tree at Sattenapalli town in Guntur district on Monday. The deceased have been identified as 19-year-old Kiran, a construction worker, and 18-year-old Pradeepthi, an intermediate second-year student. According to Sattenapalli police, the incident came to light in the early hours after locals at Viveknanda Nagar area found the two hanging from a tree and informed the police.  Preliminary inquiry revealed that Kiran and Pradeepthi were in a romantic relationship for some time and wanted to get married. However, families of both were strictly against the union. Braving disapproval, the young couple eloped and got married a few days ago. On Monday, they were found dead. Police suspect that the couple took the extreme measure in fear of the consequences of their decision to elope. The dead bodies were sent to Sattenapalli government hospital for post mortem. A case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/teen-couple-dies-by-suicide-days-after-getting-married/articleshow/80334590.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Vizag saw drop in Sankranti burglaries this year: Police||VISAKHAPATNAM: The city police’s efforts to increase use of Locked House Monitoring System (LHMS) at home, increased night patrols and other steps have helped bring down the much-feared burglaries during Sankranti season this year. A total of five burglaries were reported this year, a significant drop from usual, police say. DCP (crimes) V Suresh Babu said that between January 12–17, the Sankranti vacation, five burglaries were reported. Burglars managed to decamp with 140 grams of gold and a little bit of cash. Last year Sankranti season, Vizag saw 20 burglaries. In 2019, the city saw thieves break into 28 homes. In 2019, the number of burglaries was as high as 49. “We managed to curtail burglaries with increased night patrolling, intensified vehicular check-ups, deployment of police personnel at entry points to the city,” the DCP said. LHMS, city police’s house monitoring system, also saw wider use this Sankranti. Police said that over 3,200 people have used the app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-saw-drop-in-sankranti-burglaries-this-year-police/articleshow/80334621.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Heritage enthusiasts to build gate to protect 2,000-year-old Buddhist site||VISAKHAPATNAM: After months of waiting, heritage lovers finally got permission to construct a gate at the foothills of the 2000-year-old Pavuralakonda Buddhist heritage site on Monday. Earlier, heritage enthusiasts had complained that the site had become a hub of unruly bikers, boozers and anti-social elements that were littering the area. According to a section of heritage enthusiasts, the archaeology department had remained nonchalant about their repeated complaints. So they decided to themselves raise funds to build the gate to protect the site. Earlier in January, a temporary barricade made of boulders was placed at the site on the insistence of heritage enthusiasts. But the barricade was removed and trespassing continued. At the time, the commissioner of archaeology and museums had said that if anyone was interested to pool in funds, she would grant permission for a gate. Finally, on Monday, the archaeology department accorded permission to ‘erect the gate and signage boards at Pavuralakonda Buddhist site with the support of Jayshree Hatangdi and a group of heritage enthusiasts of Visakhapatnam’. Heritage narrator and Intach member Jayshree Hatangdi, who has taken up the initiative said, “Several heritage enthusiasts including many naval personnel recently visited the site and expressed interest in contributing financially towards heritage conservation of Visakhapatnam district. With the permission given today, we will take up construction work immediately.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/heritage-enthusiasts-to-build-gate-to-protect-2000-year-old-buddhist-site/articleshow/80334638.cms||Sulogna Mehta
January 19, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Man arrested for damaging tridents at Kakinada temple||KAKINADA: East Godavari police on Monday arrested a person for allegedly damaging two tridents at Sri Nookalamma temple at Kondayya Palem in Kakinada on January 9. The accused has been identified as Vanumu Lakshmana Rao, a butcher by profession. According to the police, the accused, in an inebriated state, entered the temple between 10:20pm and 10:30pm and damaged the tridents. Some people passing by noticed Lakshmana Rao damaging the tridents but did not interfere as the accused was in an inebriated state. At 6am on January 10, the temple priest found that the two tridents were partially broken. On directions of the police, the temple management looked at the CCTV footage in which they found a person breaking into the temple the previous night. The accused was identified from the CCTV footage. East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi said that there is need to install a sufficient number of CCTV cameras at places of worship, places where there are public gatherings and other important institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/man-arrested-for-damaging-tridents-at-kakinada-temple/articleshow/80334642.cms||Samson Raj
January 19, 2021||Bengaluru||Ballari man suffered from high BP, diabetes||BALLARI/BENGALURU: A 43-year-old Group D employee of Sandur taluk hospital died of a heart attack on Monday, two days after he was vaccinated against Covid-19. Nagaraj, who worked as an attender, came to work at the hospital as usual but soon complained of dizziness and collapsed. Sandur, in Ballari district, is about 314 km from Bengaluru. “Nagaraj suffered chest pains at around 9.30am. It was a massive heart attack. A post-mortem examination will be done and we will have to wait for the report. It could be sheer coincidence,” district health officer Dr BL Janardhan told TOI, adding that the attender suffered from diabetes and hypertension. Nagaraj was shifted to a private hospital and died at about noon. “The preliminary adverse event following immunization (AEFI) meeting has said the death is not because of the vaccine. However, post-mortem is being done,” said Pankaj Kumar Pandey, commissioner, health and family welfare department. The state health department said the death was due to cardiorespiratory arrest. “None of the other healthcare workers who took the vaccine from the same vial had any other adverse events,” the health and family welfare department tweeted. Ballari deputy commissioner Pavan Kumar Malpati said it was too early to draw conclusions. “The committee on AEFI will look into it. I request everyone to wait and not speculate on the cause of death,” he said. Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar pointed out that Nagaraj had diabetes and other comorbidities. “He received the first dose on Saturday and had no complaints of side effects till 9am on Monday,” Sudhakar said. Health department authorities said Nagaraj was doing well post-vaccination. “He suffered an acute myocardial infarction. On Monday, he was asked to get medicine from the pharmacy. He reportedly collapsed near the pharmacy,” a department source said. Nagaraj was part of the first batch in the state to be vaccinated on Saturday, the very first day of the national vaccination drive. He was administered Covishield.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ballari-man-suffered-from-high-bp-diabetes/articleshow/80338276.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
January 19, 2021||Nagpur||At 391 — Vid reports lowest daily Covid cases in 6 months||Nagpur: Monday brought a major relief for Vidarbha region as all 11 districts together reported only 391 new cases of Covid-19. Before this, less than 391 cases were reported on July 28 last year — about six months ago. On the other hand, the number of daily recoveries continued to remain around 700. Total 727 patients recovered in the day. This improved the Vidarbha’s recovery rate, which is now nearing 95%. One of the reasons behind detection of fewer new cases could be reduced number of Covid-19 tests. On an average, daily 4,000 tests are conducted in Nagpur. On Monday, this number was 2,578. The numbers were less in other districts too. Akola had only 150 tests, Bhandara 263, Wardha 156, Amravati 189, Yavatmal 257, Buldhana 388, and Chandrapur 108. Covid toll of Vidarbha reached 6,829 on Monday with 14 deaths in the region. These include Nagpur 9, Bhandara 2, Chandrapur 1, Amravati 1, and Yavatmal 1. Out of Nagpur’s 9 deaths, four were from Nagpur city, 2 from Nagpur rural and 3 from other districts/states. Vidarbha’s case fatality rate is 2.57%, which is still more than state and national average. At present, 7,043 patients are under treatment in the region, which is about 2.7% of total cases reported till date. This hints low hospitalization rate; another good indicator of curbing the spread of virus. Barring Nagpur and Buldhana, no district in Vidarbha reported more than 50 new cases on Monday. Day’s 391 new cases came from Nagpur 150, Buldhana 70, Yavatmal 45, Amravati 27, Bhandara 23, Akola 21, Gondia 19, Washim 16, Wardha 14, Gadchiroli 4, and Chandrapur 2. On the other hand, 727 recoveries came from Nagpur 394, Gondia 63, Yavatmal 49, Buldhana 44, Bhandara 41, Wardha 40, Amravati 28, Akola 27, Chandrapur 15, Washim 15, and Gadchiroli 11. Out of total 2.61 lakh cases till date, more than 2.51 lakh have recovered.Chandrapur: The district reported 2 new Covid cases on Monday. The day also saw 15 recoveries and one Covid casualty. Chandrapur had registered new Covid cases in single digit in the first week of May last year. As on Monday, the district’s caseload has reached 22,852, while the number of total recoveries stands at 22,208. The district has seen total 383 Covid deaths till date. Now, 262 patients are under treatment.Gadchiroli: Only 4 new cases were reported in the district, which is arguably lowest in last many weeks. Also, 11 patients recovered on Monday. This took the total number of cases in the district to 9,281 and recoveries to 9,060. Recovery rate of the district is 97.62%. No death was reported on the third consecutive day on Monday. The toll remained unchanged at 105. Now, the district has 116 patients under treatment, which is lowest in Vidarbha.Amravati: Death of a 67-year-old man from the city took the district's toll to 410 even as there were 27 new cases and 28 recoveries were registered on Monday. While the caseload is 20,797, recoveries are 20023, leaving 364 active cases under treatment.Yavatmal: A 55-year-old man from Arni died. The district toll is now 421. Out of the 274 reports, 45 tested positive. Currently, 425 are active positive patients undergoing treatment in various Covid-19 Care Centres across the district. Wardha: With 14 testing positive on Monday, the caseload touched 9,700. In all, 31 patients were discharged, while recoveries reached 9,090. Now, there are 317 active positive patients in the district.Gondia: The district reported 19 new cases, and 63 recoveries in the last 48 hours. Gondia now has 14,023 total cases and 13,656 recoveries. The Covid toll is at 181. Total 186 patients are under treatment in the district. Recovery rate of Gondia is 96.8%.Bhandara: The district reported 23 new cases and the total number of Covid-19 cases in Bhandara surpassed 13,000 mark on Monday. On the other hand, 41 patients recovered in the day. This took total recoveries to 12,397. Recovery rate here is 95.34%. Total 289 patients are under treatment.Akola: The district received reports of 150 tests out of which 21 were found positive, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases in Akola to 11,169. On the other hand, 27 patients recovered in the day taking the total to 10,241. Akola’s recovery rate is nearly 92%. The district reported no death due to Covid-19 on Monday. The toll remained at 328. Total 600 patients are under treatment.Buldhana: Out of 388 reports, 70 were positive in Buldhana while 44 patients recovered from Covid-19 on Monday. This took the number of total cases to 13,381 and recoveries to 12,857. The toll in Buldhana is 159. Total 365 patients are still under treatment.Washim: The district reported 16 new cases, 15 recoveries and no Covid casualty on Monday. This took the caseload of Washim to 6,921, recoveries to 6,604 and 164 patients are under treatment in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/at-391-vid-reports-lowest-daily-covid-cases-in-6-months/articleshow/80335786.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 19, 2021||Nagpur||Caes against fake deals worth Rs2500 crore registered||Nagpur: Cases involving fake transactions to the tune of over Rs2400 crore have been registered by the directorate general of goods and services tax intelligence’s (DGGSTI) Nagpur unit as on December 31. The Nagpur zone covers Vidarbha and Marathwada regions of the state.The DGGSTI is the investigation wing of the central GST department.According to the DGGSTI, 97 cases of fake invoices were registered till December end in Nagpur zone. It was found that fraudulent input tax credit (ITC) to the tune of Rs482 crore was claimed by business entities by booking fraudulent entries worth over Rs2400 crore in their books.The fake transactions were recorded for sale of a whole gamut of commodities ranging from supari, (beetle nut), textiles to iron and steel by shell firms.Sleuths found dummy firms registered by submitting fake documents to carry on the fraudulent ITC racket.The DGGSTI has been recovered up to Rs57 crore out of the amount of ITC wrongly claimed in these cases, states a press release issued by the department.The DGGSTI has made 21 arrests in these cases. As many as six cases accused had to remain in judicial custody for 46-60 days till bail was granted. “This was because the bail was rejected at different courts considering the gravity of the cases,” said a source. Those arrested include proprietors, partners and directors of the dummy entities.ITC is the proportionate reduction in the final GST liability on the basis of duty paid during purchase of inputs or services by a firm. It has been found that fake purchases are being registered by businesses with the intention to claim fraudulent ITC. The DGGSTI special drive against fake claims continues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/caes-against-fake-deals-worth-rs2500-crore-registered/articleshow/80335843.cms||Shishir Arya
January 19, 2021||India||Ward boy died of cardiogenic shock: Autopsy||BAREILLY: The autopsy report of the ward boy in Moradabad, who died a day after he was given a vaccine for Covid-19, which was released by hospital authorities on Monday has said the 46-year-old went through “cardiogenic shock (when the heart can’t pump enough blood for the body) with septicemic shock because of cardio-pulmonary disease”. However, chief medical officer Dr MC Garg said Mahipal Singh’s death can’t be related with the vaccine shot he got last week on Saturday. “There are no side effects (of the vaccine),” Garg added. The viscera has been preserved for further tests. TOI had reported the death on Sunday. Citing the post-mortem report, additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal, said “cardiac arrest was the cause of death”. Mahipal’s son-in-law Sachin Kumar said, “He felt unwell after the vaccination and was taking rest at home. We cannot rely on the autopsy report alone as it doesn’t tell the reason that led to the heart attack. He was quite fit and never had any heart-related problems in the past.” We will discuss with family members and take necessary steps thereafter.” The autopsy was conducted by a panel of three doctors. TOI contacted one of the doctors in the panel and asked if it was possible to ascertain the exact reason that triggered the cardiogenic shock without the viscera report. He replied: “Only the lab report of viscera can confirm the exact factors that triggered it.” When and asked about the possibility of the vaccine’s sideeffects in the case, he said, “We have shared our opinion with the CMO but the official version can only be given by him.” Dr Garg added, “We had asked people, who were sick, to skip the vaccination but he (Mahipal) didn’t share the information then. After his death we came to know that he was suffering from pneumonia a few days ago... 91 staff were vaccinated with Mahipal and nearly 480 in the entire district. All of them are fine. Yes, few had fever and a few vomited but that is normal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ward-boy-died-of-cardiogenic-shock-autopsy/articleshow/80338282.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 19, 2021||Nagpur||It’s a difficult balancing act on e-scooters for city cops||Nagpur: The e-scooters, known by their brand name Segway, introduced in Mumbai and Nagpur by state home minister Anil Deshmukh a few days ago do not seem to be turning out to be a smooth ride for city police.Considered complimentary to foot patrolling, the scooters are expected to increase ‘visible policing’. However, its effects are yet to be seen or felt in city after their introduction at limited locations. They have been deployed between Vayusena Nagar and Futala Lake, and Seminary hills (from Gittikhadan police station), Walkers’ Street (from Sadar police station) and Gandhisagar Lake (from Ganeshpeth police station). Four scooters are with Gittikhadan police station, three with Ganeshpeth cops, and two with Sadar police, while one is being used for training purposes. City police are now focusing on training and getting accustomed to the scooters, said CP Amitesh Kumar.The scooters require some practice to get the balance right. City cops are trying to get accustomed to manoeuvring with the motion console under the feet, the speed and rhythm of it’s movement. Though some cops seem to be mastering the movement without much hassle, others are taking time to start operating it smoothly.Senior inspector Sunil Chavan of Gittikhadan police station said he has already mastered the techniques, but some of his staffers are still getting used to it. Senior inspector Arun Vakal of Sadar police station said the scooters are good for increasing police visibility and marking their presence. “Many offences are prevented just by police visibility. Criminals always think twice before committing any crime if they spot police personnel in the vicinity,” he said. “The e-scooters are a good alternative to foot patrolling,” said the inspector.Some of the cops have, however, expressed uncertainty about the future of scooter patrolling. “The constables who are yet to get accustomed to balance and movement cannot even drive it out of the police station and reach the place of patrolling. Oncoming bikers and motorists too are not able to gauge it’s speed and movement,” said a cop.“The scooter is of no use in chasing criminals. On bad or potholed roads, this scooter is a complete no-no,” he said. Ganeshpeth police are also facing a queer problem, with the road outside their police station having a slope. “While moving up the slope, the scooters need to be tackled smartly. The speed has to be regulated while coming down, or else there could be an accident,” said a police source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/its-a-difficult-balancing-act-on-e-scooters-for-city-cops/articleshow/80335857.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 19, 2021||Mumbai||Media restraint must in ongoing cases: Bombay HC||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Monday, in a significant judgment on a clutch of PILs against “sensationalism” by broadcast media in the coverage of death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, said the media should restrain itself and “avoid or regulate” its coverage and debates and discussions during ongoing criminal investigations of cases. The media should convey what is “informative, but in public interest, instead of what according to the media the public is interested in,” it directed. It said media must “avoid character assassination” while reporting on suicides. The HC said “trial by media interferes with administration of justice” and amounts to contempt of court. Significantly, the HC held “police are not obliged to divulge” information, especially one sensitive to the case being investigated. Avoid interviews with victims, witnesses & kin, HC tells mediaWe have considered it appropriate to remind investigation agency to maintain secrecy and not divulge information,” said the bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni. The HC also held that the “Ministry of Information and Broadcasting has abdicated its statutory function”. Senior counsel Devadatt Kamat, for one of the petitioners, had argued that duty includes the power to cancel the licence of broadcasting houses in extreme cases of violation of programme code. The HC held ‘media trial’ is also a violation of programme code that governs news channels. The HC said Mumbai police should consider appointing a nodal officer to brief media on developments in major cases, as suggested by senior counsel Arvind Datar who had appeared for the News Broadcasting Association (NBA). The HC set out guidelines for media reporting, especially in cases of death by suicide, and said media must restrain from reporting or airing discussion that would obstruct administration of justice or lay bare the privacy of the accused or victim. “No report, discussion, debate or interview should be presented by the press or media which could harm the interest of the accused being investigated or the witness in the case… with a view to satiate the stealing of march over competitors.” The HC said, “Accordingly we direct the press, media to exercise restraint and refrain from printing or displaying any news item and or initiating any discussion or debate in ongoing crime scene investigations including in cases of suicidal deaths.” The HC said media must avoid doing interviews with victims, witnesses or any other family members. It must also “avoid analyzing statements whose evidence will be vital during trial, publishing confessions made to police by an accused and trying to make people believe that it is a piece of evidence which is admissible before a court… without letting the public know the nitty gritty of the Evidence Act.” Media ought not use “photographs of accused and thereby facilitating their identification, criticizing the investigation agency… pronouncing on the merits of the case…recreating or reconstructing of a crime scene and depicting how the accused committed the crime, predicting the proposed or future course of action that ought to be taken in a particular direction to complete the investigation and leaking sensitive and confidential information from material collected by the investigating agency,” said the 253-page judgment. The PILs were filed by eight former top cops of Mumbai police including MN Singh, filmmaker Nilesh Navlakha, a voluntary body called, In Pursuit of Justice, Advocate Asim Sarode and Prernaa Arora. The excops had contended news channels were unfairly critical of Mumbai police’s probe into the actor’s death. Navlakha’s PIL also sought orders for broadcasters to comply with the programme code. The HC did not accept a suggestion to stay for 15 days any order passed by the government against a channel, saying if the court allows it, it would be entering in the realm of legislation. The HC, by its judgment, disposed of four PILs and dismissed one. The HC said while the Press Council of India (PCI) has guidelines for print media on reporting of suicide cases, which are not per se binding on electronic media, till such time guidelines are framed for broadcast media, they should adopt the PCI guidelines “in letter and spirit”. The HC framed and answered five legal questions, one of which was “whether media trial in respect of matters pending investigation of criminal complaint or within whether the regime of self-regulation adopted by TV news channels would have any sanctity in statutory framework.” “The answer is in the negative,” said the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/media-restraint-must-in-ongoing-cases-bombay-hc/articleshow/80338284.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 19, 2021||India||Not all side effects are adverse events: Experts||PUNE: Experts stressed that all flu-like symptoms — fever, headache, body ache, tiredness and chills — were adverse reactions or side effects of a vaccine if they happened within 48 hours of the vaccination and they resolved on their own. They explained that not all side effects were adverse events (AE) and not all adverse events were related to the vaccine. The terms should be used very cautiously, said experts. “‘After this, therefore because of this’, is a very common fallacy in human logic. Not every Y that follows X is caused by X. It could be just coincidental,” said vaccine scientist Prasad Kulkarni. There may be AEs that are not related to the vaccine. “These unrelated events may occur either due to pre-existing known or unknown medical condition of the patient or due to causes which have nothing to do with the vaccine,” he said. In clinical trials across the globe, AEs occur. One of the purposes of clinical trials is to find out the AEs caused by the drug under trial. “This helps to define the safety profile of the vaccine during the trial phase. Investigating every instance of AE helps find out which AEs are vaccine-related,” said senior paediatrician Sharad Agarkhedkar. For example, if somebody gets a vaccine and meets with an accident, then it becomes an AE, but it is obviously not related. If a child gets a pentavalent vaccine and gets fever the next day, it is also an AE and it is related to the vaccine, he added. “Hence, when authorities put down everything that happens, including fever to accident, under AEFI (adverse event following immunisation), we need to know that not every instance is vaccine-related,” Agarkhedkar said. “All medicinal products, including vaccines, have adverse events and adverse drug reactions,” said Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Indian Medical Association’s Hospital Board of India, Pune chapter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/not-all-side-effects-are-adverse-events-experts/articleshow/80338289.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 19, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Attendance thin as schools reopen for classes X and XII with distancing measures in place||NEW DELHI: Ravi Sahoo finally got to meet his classmates after 10 long months when his school reopened on Monday. The Class X student of a government school revealed that his mother was reluctant to send him back to school for fear of Covid-19, but he had urged her to talk to his teachers. When she finally acquiesced, the 17-year-old hurried to school with two masks and a bottle of sanitiser in his bag to be greeted by a cheery school gate adorned with marigold flowers. Sahoo’s isn’t the exemplary case, however. The attendance registers on Monday showed how many students of classes X and XII were held back from school by their parents. In Sahoo’s institution, Kautilya Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya in Chirag Enclave, only 20% of the 700 class X and XII students were present on the day. School principal C S Verma said, “We hope more children will return soon. Seeing other students, parents will begin to feel confident.” Ayush Sharma, Class XII student of Mount Abu Public School, Rohini, was impatient to return to school. Welcomed warmly by their institution, Sharma and his friends were strictly advised to remain in their classroom bubbles. At Sardar Patel Vidyalaya in central Delhi, though just eight students reported for their preboard exams, those who did observed a few new things. Class XII student Amitoj Singh found spots marked where students could stand to converse, sanitiser machines and wash basins at regular intervals and the Covid operating regulations pasted prominently. The Sardar Patel student was accompanied by his mother, Jagdish Kaur, a doctor who works with World Health Organization. Kaur said, “The infection rate is going down and people are venturing out to offices. The schools are taking all precautions and the kids are confident, so hopefully things will get back to normal now.” Government Boys’ Senior Secondary School, Ghitorni, too had dismal attendance with just six of 84 Class XII students present on Monday. Class X had a better day with 36 of 162 students returning. To ensure not more than 15 students sitting in a classroom, the three sections of Class X were divided into nine groups. One of the Class X students, Himanshu Vishwakarma, said, “I had missed my friends a lot and was happy to come back to school.” Government Co-Ed Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Sector 8, Rohini, was a happy contrast, with 60% of the students attending classes. “Resumption of classes is good because students of government schools don't have the kind of facilities to persevere with online classes,” ruminated school principal A K Jha. Megha Thakur, Class X student, exemplified such access-denied students. When her parents left for work every day, she didn’t have a phone to log in for classes. “I was so excited when the government announced that schools would reopen,” she laughed. However, many private schools will reopen a few days later. Springdales School, Pusa Road, was one of them. Principal Ameeta Mulla Wattal explained, “Some students requested to be excused because they had applied to sit for JEE in February and wanted to prepare for those exams. Their parents are fine with them returning to school and are confident about the precautionary steps we have taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-back-with-covid-baggage/articleshow/80338295.cms||Shradha Chettri
January 19, 2021||India||Suvendu Adhikari takes up the gauntlet||NEW DELHI: Trinamool-turned-BJP politician Suvendu Adhikari on Monday joined the high-voltage poll battle unfolding in Nandigram. He told a BJP gathering in south Kolkata that he would quit politics if he couldn’t defeat Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee by no less than “half a lakh” votes. “I came to hear that the Trinamool supremo will be contesting from Nandigram. My party is not a private limited company like Trinamool, in which candidates are announced from a public gathering. Let BJP give the ticket to me from Nandigram or to anyone else. Take it from me, I will defeat the Trinamool supremo by half a lakh votes or I will quit politics,” Suvendu said at the end of a BJP roadshow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/suvendu-adhikari-takes-up-the-gauntlet/articleshow/80338322.cms||Rohit Khanna
January 19, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Minimum temperature rises, no major change likely in next three days||NEW DELHI: Delhiites got slight relief from the cold on Monday as the minimum temperature increased to 9 degrees Celsius, two degrees above normal. The maximum temperature was recorded at 19.6 degrees Celsius. Met officials said there would be no major variation in maximum and minimum temperatures for the next three-four days. Track the pollution level in your cityAccording to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), moderate fog was recorded at Safdarjung station as the visibility dropped to 400 metres during morning hours while shallow fog was observed at Palam station. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD, stated: “It is predicted that there would be no major change in temperature in the next three to four days. However, minor variation in temperature may take place. Shallow to moderate fog is likely during the same period.” Met officials said as the easterly winds were blowing towards Delhi, the temperature was on the rise. IMD forecast shows that the minimum and maximum temperature on Tuesday will be around 8° and 21 degrees Celsius, respectively. Shallow to moderate fog is expected on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality remained in ‘very poor’ category on Monday. The overall air quality index of the national capital was 372.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-minimum-temperature-rises-no-major-change-likely-in-next-three-days/articleshow/80338327.cms||---
January 19, 2021||India||Talks with govt: First sign of rift among farmer unions||NEW DELHI/KURUKSHETRA: In what could be the first signs of a crack among farm unions involved in talks with the government, two non-Punjab leaders — Gurnam Singh Chaduni of BKU (Haryana) and Shiv Kumar Kakkaji of Sarv Hind Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh (Madhya Pradesh) — sparred with each other over a political outreach by Chaduni. Attributing comments to Kakkaji, a vernacular daily reported on Monday that Chaduni allegedly took a large sum of money from a party to bring down the government in Haryana and was also promised a ticket. Though Kakkaji denied making such allegations, it enraged Chaduni who called the former an “RSS agent”. Read AlsoTractor parade on Republic Day on, it’s our right: UnionsThe farm organisations have reiterated that they will hold a tractor parade in Delhi on Republic Day at all costs. They held a meeting on Monday to review the preparedness for the proposed tractor parade.Chaduni clarified the meeting with political parties was organised in his personal capacity and he would not attend such meetings in future. His remarks against Kakkaji and the latter’s outburst before their umbrella body, Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), on the BKU leader on Sunday created a lot of unease within the group. Though SKM, in its first statement during the day on Monday, sought to distance itself from Chaduni saying the Morcha was not associated with his meeting with parties and that it had formed a committee to inquire into the matter, it later issued a second statement seeking to repair the damage. Read AlsoPolice, not court, to decide on nod for tractor rally: Supreme CourtAttorney General K K Venugopal said the Centre and the Delhi Police thought it fit to apprise the SC of the ground situation as the court has taken charge of the farmers’ agitation. However, the bench clarified that it was a mistake to think in these terms when it had intervened on a very limitedOn Chaduni’s meeting at Constitution Club with leaders of different parties including Congress and AAP, SKM said, “Any organisation and party is free to extend its support. However, SKM and the movement will not have any direct engagement with any political party.” Seeking to clarify his position, Kakkaji released a video message saying, “A daily newspaper has published a news regarding Gurnam Singh Chaduni ji, in which they have stated that it is Kakkaji’s claim that Chaduni has taken Rs 10 crore. I did not make any such a statement... Chaduni ji is my friend and I worry about him. Whatever decision was taken yesterday (on Sunday), it was done in the meeting. I refute this statement published in a vernacular newspaper.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/first-sign-of-rift-among-farm-unions/articleshow/80338332.cms||Vishwa Mohan
January 19, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: EOW arrests former MD of NSEL for commodity fraud||NEW DELHI: The Economic Offences Wing of Delhi Police has arrested the former managing director of National Spot Exchange Limited (NSEL) in a case of commodity trading fraud. Anjani Sinha has allegedly introduced policies in violation of the instructions of the forward market commission and lured investors by assuring fixed returns. “He was nabbed from Mumbai on Sunday evening. He was produced in the Borivali court in Mumbai and has been granted transit remand. He is being brought to Delhi,” joint commissioner (EOW) O P Mishra said. The case was registered on the complaints that the directors of a brokerage firm, Integrated Commodity Trades Pvt Ltd, located on Barakhamba Road had cheated complainants by inducement and misrepresentation regarding commodity trading on NSEL’s platform. The complainants have alleged that they were induced to invest in the commodity market that was undertaken by the accused as a trading and clearing member of NSEL, presenting it to be safe and regulated by the government authorities. But fictitious stocks were allegedly traded on the exchange as a result of which the settlement of contracts was not done on the day of maturity, causing loss to the complainants. According to the complainants, they had lost almost Rs 8 crore between July 12 and August 13 in 2013. “The accused caused wrongful loss of Rs 7.5 crore to three complainants and misappropriated the funds for its own use. NSEL has caused a gross total fraud of Rs 5,600 crore to 13,000 victims,” Mishra said. A company spokesperson termed the NSEL crisis as an engineered one. “Though it was solvable, it was not solved, with a view to throw ‘63 moons’ out of the exchange business.” He added, “The probe agencies have traced the entire money trail of Rs 5,600 crore to the 22 defaulting entities and it’s established that not a single paisa has come to NSEL, 63 moons or its founder. Even Bombay High Court has observed that the entire money trail is with the 22 defaulting entities.” Despite this, he claimed, all targeted actions have been concentrated against NSEL, 63 moons and its founder, “who are actually the biggest sufferers”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-eow-arrests-former-md-of-nsel-for-commodity-fraud/articleshow/80338336.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Nagpur||After 5 hours, only 124 jabbed in Nagpur||Nagpur: After a break of two days, Covid-19 vaccination for health care workers resumed at five centres in the city on Tuesday. After five hours only 124 had been vaccinated. At 2.30pm, 14 had got the jab at Pachpaoli Hospital, 40 at IGGMCH, 17 at Daga Hospital, 26 at GMCH and 27 at AIIMS. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation's (NMC) Pachpaoli Women’s Hospital was ready at 9am to administer vaccine to 100 selected doctors, nurses, technicians, attendants etc from the civic body-run hospitals. The fist beneficiary — Nikhat Sultana Akram Baig — came for the vaccination around 10.30am and took the jab. Total eight health care workers of NMC availed the benefit at this centre in first two hours. Co-WIN application reportedly generated random timing of 9am to 5pm instead of slots. Therefore, vaccination programme is being happening like an election polling in which beneficiaries turning up as per their convenience. The target is to vaccinate 500 health care workers in the city on Tuesday. On Day-1, only 270 (54%) came for the inoculation. Around 22,500 health care workers were registered in the city. The NMC had planned 60 centres for covering 6,000 health care workers per day but the government had restricted number of centres at five.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-5-hours-only-124-jabbed-in-nagpur/articleshow/80344808.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 19, 2021||Goa||Wind up digging, other works in Panaji by March, MLA tells depts||Edited. 365 words. Times News Network Panaji: Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate, in a meeting with several government departments on Monday, urged them to complete ongoing works in the state capital by March. He also asked the departments to finish all digging activity in Panaji by March-end so that resurfacing of the roads could be completed before the monsoon. During the meeting, which was held at the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) office, the legislator expressed his ire at the lengthy delay in completion of the Neugi Nagar bridge and the danger posed due to the confusion in the traffic flow at the city’s entrance. “The main work pending with the Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) is the incomplete bridge at Neugi Nagar, Mala. It has given an assurance that work will be completed by February-March. Further, after the new bridge was built, there is a lot of confusion at the Panaji circle where it is difficult to know where to turn to enter into the city or leave the city at night,” said CCP mayor Uday Madkaikar, who was present at the meeting. According to Madkaikar, the Panaji MLA issued a “strict warning” to GSIDC to ensure that all works in the state capital are completed as soon as possible. The GSIDC, Goa Natural Gas, Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Ltd, PWD, Goa Sewerage Corporation, and the other departments submitted their road-cutting plans that were approved by the CCP on the condition that work will be completed before April. The electricity department is replacing 4,000 poles in Panaji that have either fallen or are 10 years old. Along with the poles, the department will also change the power lines. The water supply department has also sought permission to complete pipeline work, including laying of new pipelines and creation of new water supply connections. The mayor said that because of the Covid-19 pandemic, most work was delayed for seven to eight months as departments had to grapple with a shortage of labour and funds and other curbs imposed on them by the state government. He said the CCP will hold a review meeting in a month’s time, while CCP commissioner Sanjit Rodrigues will take a status update every eight days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wind-up-digging-other-works-in-panaji-by-march-mla-tells-depts/articleshow/80336385.cms||---
January 19, 2021||India||Policy must cater to both sides, says Ghanwat on eve of panel’s first meet||NEW DELHI: A day before the Supreme Court-appointed committee holds its first meeting to discuss modalities to carry forward consultations with farmers, one of the members, Anil Ghanwat of Shetkari Sanghatana, on Monday said a policy could be designed in such a way that those who want freedom (to sell outside regulated markets) should get it and those who want support (price and otherwise) should get what they want. “We can come together, sit together and discuss what farmers want. We can deliver what they want. Policy can be designed to accommodate the wishes of both sides,” he told TOI in a conversation on how to take forward the process when the unions opposed to the laws have said they will not appear before the panel. The committee members will meet among themselves on Tuesday and will start consultations with farmers’ representatives from January 21. Meanwhile, the 10th round of talks between the Centre and the unions, scheduled for Tuesday, has been postponed to Wednesday. Though the SC-appointed panel’s consultations, to begin with, will involve those farmers who want to discuss the issue with it, Ghanwat did not rule out the possibility of reaching out to the protesting farmers at their biggest protest site. “We’ll keep inviting them (unions opposed to the laws). If they continue to maintain their stand of not appearing before the panel, we may even try to reach out to them at Singhu border as we sincerely want their suggestions,” he said. Agriculture agri economists and policy experts Ashok Gulati and P K Joshi are the other two members of the panel. The fourth, Bhartiya Kisan Union chief and ex-Rajya Sabha member Bhupinder Singh Mann, opted out of the panel. Besides meeting farmers, the panel will also hold discussions with traders, exporters, millers and other stakeholders before finalising its report, Ghanwat said. Ghanwat’s remarks showing flexibility in the panel’s approach assume significance, given the stalemate where both the government and the unions have refused to budge. While the government has made it amply clear that repeal of the laws was not on the table, farmers’ leaders want nothing less than repeal. The talks on Wednesday will be held in the backdrop of the unions’ criticism of the Centre over notices by the NIA to those who have been supporting the farmers’ movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/policy-must-cater-to-both-sides-says-ghanwat-on-eve-of-panels-first-meet/articleshow/80338342.cms||Vishwa Mohan
January 19, 2021||Goa||Will decide later if I’ll take vaccine: CM||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that he wasn’t aware if any politicians have shown willingness to take the Covid-19 vaccine. He said that according to guidelines, healthcare workers are given priority. “Being a doctor, I could have put my name, but I couldn’t because I’m not in practice,” he said. “The second priority group will be those above 50. I don’t fall in this list (either). I will be in the third list, and at that time, I will take a call,” he told reporters. When asked why the government didn’t organise any programme to celebrate Opinion Poll Day, Sawant said there were bigger priorities — the vaccination programme and the international film festival of India (Iffi) inauguration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-decide-later-if-ill-take-vaccine-cm/articleshow/80336446.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Delhi||Man attacked in Ghazipur, dies later; kin allege robbery||NEW DELHI: A 40-year-old man was killed after he was allegedly attacked by a group of men in east Delhi’s Ghazipur early on Sunday. A policeman spotted the man lying by the roadside and helped him contact his family. The man was then admitted in a hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries a few hours later. Police suspect robbery as the motive behind the attack as his family alleged that he had around Rs 4,000 in cash on him that was missing. The man, Roshan Lal, worked as a cook at a hotel in Vaishali. Lal’s family told the cops that the incident happened around 5 am near Ghazipur Underpass when Lal was walking back to his home in Trilokpuri after work. A head constable of the Rajasthan Armed Constabulary, who was passing by Ghazipur, spotted Lal lying on the road side around 5.30am. Lal told the policeman that three-four unidentified men forced him to eat something before thrashing him. The constable then helped him speak to his family over the phone. “Lal was then admitted to Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital, from where he was later referred to Safdarjung. He died later in the afternoon during treatment. However, there are no visible injuries on his body. It is possible that he died of internal wounds but we are waiting for the autopsy reports to ascertain the cause of death,” said a senior police officer. Police said Lal’s family has alleged that it’s a case of robbery. “His family suspects that he resisted a robbery attempt, during which he was assaulted that led to his death,” a police officer said. Lal’s Aadhaar and ATM card was found on him. DCP (East) Deepak Yadav said CCTV footage is being scanned to establish the sequence of events. “Legal proceedings have been initiated in the case,” the DCP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-attacked-in-ghazipur-dies-later-kin-allege-robbery/articleshow/80338349.cms||---
January 19, 2021||India||NIA clarifies to farm outfits, says 40 called only as ‘witnesses’||NEW DELHI: As farmers’ outfits spearheading the agitation against new agricultural laws criticised NIA notices to around 40 persons including those associated with the ongoing protests, sources in the Central probe agency said the concerned persons had been summoned merely as witnesses and not as suspects. This, as per official sources, was because the investigators believe the witnesses may be in possession of information regarding the conspiracy by banned terrorist outfits like Sikhs for Justice and Babbar Khalsa International, etc, to cause disaffection in India and incite people to rise in rebellion against the government of India. “The witnesses have been summoned under Section 160 of the Criminal Procedure Code as NIA believes they are in the know of certain facts and circumstances of the case registered against SFJ and other pro-Khalistan outfits on December 15, 2020. The FIR very clearly states the charges against SFJ, Babbar Khalsa International, Khalistan Tiger Force and Khalistan Zindabad Force as well as their leaders accused in the case – Gurpatwant Singh Pannun of SFJ, Paramjit Singh Pamma of BKI and Hardeep Singh Nijjar of Khalistan Tiger Force, all of whom are now banned under UAPA. The charges include inciting rebellion against Government of India and arranging funds from abroad and sending them through NGOs to pro-Khalistan elements here for carrying out terrorist acts and disruptive activities here,” an NIA officer told TOI. Among those summoned by the NIA on different set of dates are farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa, Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu, UK-based journalist Jasveer Singh Muktsar and those associated with Khalsa Aid and various other Sikh and Punjab-based outfits. The NIA notices have been slammed by farmers’ bodies as attempts by the government to use its law enforcement agencies to break the farmers’ agitation. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday asked: “Do these farmers look like secessionists and terrorists?”. He accused the government in New Delhi of resorting to “reprehensible and oppressive tactics” in their desperation to undermine the peacefully protesting farmers’ fighting spirit. NIA, of course, had a different take. “NIA has summoned these witnesses over a period of few days to question them on facts of the SFJ case that it believes they are in the know of, and which can help the agency establish the charges against the accused in the case. The witnesses called are not just farmers or agriculturists but from a cross-section of professions and so the notices should not be read in the context of ongoing farmers’ protests,” said the officer. The officer added that the statement of the witnesses would be recorded under Section 161 of CrPC and thus shall have no legal value, unlike a statement recorded under Section 164 of CrPC that is admissible in court. “The witnesses are free to go after their examination is complete,” said the official. As for refusal by some witnesses like Baldev Singh Sirsa to appear before NIA, NIA sources said the agency will follow the due process of law. “We may send another set of summons to such persons, impressing upon the need for their cooperation in the probe against SFJ and other banned terrorist outfits,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nia-clarifies-to-farm-outfits-says-40-called-only-as-witnesses/articleshow/80338352.cms||Bharti Jain
January 19, 2021||Kochi||Oommen Chandy to lead Kerala UDF, but won’t be CM face||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Ahead of the assembly elections, the Congress high command has brought back former Kerala CM Oommen Chandy to the helm of UDF. This comes after a meeting between state party leaders and Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi on Monday. The high command has constituted a committee headed by Chandy to spearhead Congress’ election process. Leader of the opposition Ramesh Chennithala will be part of the committee. Party member A K Antony said Ramesh and Chandy will both contest polls. But, UDF will not be projecting anyone as the chief ministerial candidate and the high command will decide on the same after the election. “High command has made it clear that this time most candidates of the Congress will be new faces,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/chandy-to-lead-kerala-udf-but-wont-be-cm-face/articleshow/80338356.cms||---
January 19, 2021||India||After Morarji Desai, Narendra Modi second PM to head Somnath Trust||NEW DELHI: The Shree Somnath Trust on Monday unanimously elected PM Narendra Modi as its next chairman as the post was vacant after the incumbent Keshubhai Patel passed away recently. Modi attended the meeting of the trust held via video conferencing in which trustees paid tributes to Patel. After the trustees chose Modi, he expressed hope that the trust will be able to “further improve infrastructure and help establish stronger connection of pilgrims with our heritage”. Home minister Amit Shah congratulated the PM in a tweet. “I’m confident the trust, headed by Modiji, will further enhance the dignity and grandeur of Somnath temple,” he said in the tweet. Modi is only the second PM after Morarji Desai to head the trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-morarji-desai-narendra-modi-second-pm-to-head-somnath-trust/articleshow/80338363.cms||---
January 19, 2021||Bengaluru||Turf Club, Mysore Race Club come under RTI: Karnataka HC||BENGALURU: The Bangalore Turf Club Limited (BTCL), Mysore Race Club Limited (MRCL) and Bengaluru establishments of the Ladies Club and Institute of Engineers come under the Right to Information Act-2005, the high court has said. The court dismissed their petitions challenging a series of orders passed by the Karnataka Information Commission (KIC) during 2013-15, directing them to provide information under the Act, holding that they are ‘public authority’ under section 2(h). They had challenged these orders, contending that they did not qualify as ‘public authority’, as the state government didn’t have any kind of say in their functioning. However, relying on the Supreme Court’s stand in Association of Unified Tele Services Providers and others Vs. Union of India ( 2014) case, Justice PB Bajanthri noted that since the state’s largesse has been extended to the petitioners under lease deeds — they are holding lease lands on behalf of the people and are accountable — they do fall under the definition of ‘public authority’. The court pointed out that both BTCL and MRCL have been given huge indirect financial aid in the form of concessions, when the market value of land leased to them is considered. Also, no information has been provided to the high court vis-a-vis the lease agreement entered to between the government and Ladies Club and Institute of Engineers (India), it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-turf-club-mysore-race-club-come-under-rti/articleshow/80335164.cms||---
