January 20, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Education department moots 45-day bridge course||BENGALURU: The education department is mooting an intensive bridge course for government school students at the beginning of the next academic year in order to address the learning gap that may have been created by the year-long break in schooling due to Covid-19. Every year, bridge courses are held for a period of 15-30 days to refresh students’ memory after the two-month summer break. However, this year, students, especially in primary school, hardly got to be on campus owing to the pandemic. Thus far, apart from two months of Vidyagama and radio sessions, primary school children have not been engaged in lessons at all. Experts point out that the Ebbinghaus forgetting curve, which emerged in the 1800s, says three months of missing school leads students to forgetting one month of what they have learnt. Therefore, the department believes an intensive bridge course is important next year. The department plans to suggest to the government at least a 45-day programme when schools reopen for the next academic year in July 2021. “Usually, the bridge course starts and ends with a formal assessment. However, we do not want to conduct a test next year for the bridge course and scare away children from school. As it is, it might be difficult to get them back to schools. Instead, we are hoping to have a very joyful and playful way of learning. The assessments will be informal,” said a senior official of the Samagra Shikshana Karnataka. The alternative academic calendar that is already in place for Vidyagama works on similar lines. “Usually, a class is a mix of students of various capabilities. The bridge classes generally target those who need remedial learning. However, next year, all students would need help as they missed out on learning this year,” the official added. Teachers will be trained through District Institute for Education and Training (DIETs.) The pedagogy is being prepared and will be ready by the time schools reopen in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/education-dept-moots-45-day-bridge-course/articleshow/80353322.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt's e-procurement portal hacker in CID custody||BENGALURU: Criminal Investigation Department sleuths probing the alleged hacking of the Karnataka government’s e-procurement portal have taken prime accused G Srikrishna alias Srik into 14-day custody for questioning. CID officials took Srikrishna into their custody from Central Prison, Parappana Agrahara, where he had been lodged since January 12. Arrested by Central Crime Branch (CCB) sleuths on multiple criminal charges, including hacking into websites and drug peddling on November 18, CCB had kept Srikrishna in their custody for around 45 days (between November 18 and January 12). The e-portal was hacked in August 2019. The fraud came to light when financial consultant staff from the e-procurement portal were checking the approved list of earnest money deposit refunds, during which an unauthorised instruction for refund of Rs 7.4 crore was noticed. Soon, the message was passed to the bank handling the payment, directing them to stop all payments. By then, Rs 11 crore had been siphoned off by the miscreants. Later, a complaint was filed with the cybercrime wing of CID and during preliminary investigation it was found that a spy tool had been used to unauthorisedly access the portal. “We will seize Srikrishna’s laptop and other electronic devices he used during the hacking. We need digital forensic evidence to frame charges against him,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-e-procurement-portal-hacker-in-cid-custody/articleshow/80353323.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Business||Nothing stops companies from processing data in India itself: Paytm CEO||NEW DELHI: Expressing support for data localisation, Paytm founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma on Tuesday said data generated in India should be processed within the country. Speaking at the 15th India Digital Summit, Sharma said there is nothing that stops companies from processing data in India itself. He added that companies need to look at India beyond as just a market, given the massive opportunity it presents. "India is an open market, we welcome foreign companies, we need to put them to the same laws and orders... Beyond that, may the best product win. "I'm not saying a product, just because it is made in India, will be superior. Ultimately the superior product wins," he said. He added that while many tech products were built in the US previously, these are now being developed in India -- a trend that will accelerate further in the next five years. "I think India will make the world's most superior products, and that is why we will win,” he said. In the past too, Sharma had endorsed data localisation. Data sovereignty is an issue that the Indian government is looking at addressing through its data protection law to ensure privacy, safety and security of user data. These include provisions around the handling of data of adults and minors, storage within the Indian borders and penalties for non-compliance. Sharma also dismissed any concerns around job losses from transitioning to an 'Aatmanirbhar' digital economy. Sharma said a few thousand jobs that foreign investment generates will be far outweighed by the long-term benefits of homegrown digital enterprises. To a question on the influence of Chinese investors on Paytm, Sharma said the company operates independently. "On our board and operations, I can say that we run all our software technology platform by ourselves. No shareholder has a say on what we should do. Effectively, all shareholders are treated as commercial shareholders. The board seats and the board control is in India's hand," he said. He added that the company has shareholders not only from China, but also Japan and the US, and that "every one of them is a very influential corporate governance-led shareholder."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nothing-stops-companies-from-processing-data-in-india-itself-paytm-ceo/articleshow/80353553.cms||---
January 20, 2021||India||Expose govt agency's failure in reducing road deaths by putting out data in public monthly, says Gadkari||NEW DELHI: Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday asked his ministry to expose the failures of all government agencies in reducing road deaths by putting the number of fatalities every month in public domain. He asked whether officers and policy makers would get sensitised about the rising number of road deaths only when someone in their family dies in road traffic crashes. Speaking at the National Road Safety Council meeting, Gadkari told the Transport Research Wing, “Please publish all data on road deaths every month. Let everyone get exposed how they have failed. Let people pull us up, question us about failures and then only everyone will work. Let people ask questions to every MP, MLA and every department why they are unable to put checks on road fatalities.” He added officers and politicians work when people start making demands and seek their accountability. “When people start pulling up, officers and politicians work. Even I should not be spared,” Gadkari said. The minister said all stakeholders have to work together to reduce road deaths. He said when the entire country could work together to fight coronavirus which killed 1.5 lakh people this year, why can’t they come together for road safety since annually 1.5 lakh people are getting killed in road traffic crashes. “Will you not become sensitive until someone dies in your family in a road crash? Will you go for phase-wise reduction of deaths? This is one area where we need immediate action. We can’t wait,” Gadkari said. Taking aim at non-performers in government, the minister said, “We should encourage those who are doing well and should get rid of those who keep on moving files from one table to another."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/expose-govt-agencys-failure-in-reducing-road-deaths-by-putting-out-data-in-public-monthly-says-gadkari/articleshow/80353668.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 20, 2021||World||Bells and candlelight to honor 400,000 Covid-19 dead on eve of US presidential handover||WASHINGTON: From the Lincoln Memorial to the Empire State building, landmarks across the United States will be illuminated on Tuesday evening as part of a ceremony led by President-elect Joe Biden to honor the nearly 400,000 Americans who have died from Covid-19. The commemoration, spearheaded by Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris hours before they take the helm of a country in crisis, represents the federal government's first nod to the staggering death toll from the pandemic. Biden and Harris will lead a lighting ceremony at the Reflecting Pool at the Lincoln Memorial at 5:15 p.m. ET (2215 GMT), followed by a moment of silence and 400 bell tolls at the National Cathedral to symbolically honor the Covid-19 dead. "Hundreds of towns, cities, tribes, landmarks, and communities all across the country have committed to joining the tribute in a national moment of unity," Biden's inaugural committee said in a statement. The United States was on track to reach two grim Covid-19 milestones on Tuesday - 24 million infections and 400,000 lives lost, according to a Reuters tally. The country has recorded more than 200,000 new cases and 3,220 deaths on average over the last seven days. Among the other landmarks participating in the lighting ceremony were the Empire State building in New York City and the Space Needle in Seattle, according to the statement. The inaugural committee said it was encouraging Americans to light candles in their windows and churches to ring their bells in a show of unity. The ceremony marks the beginning of a new era in the country's battle against Covid-19 under Biden, who has pledged to make coronavirus relief a top priority when he takes office on Wednesday under unprecedented security measures in the nation's capital. Biden will inherit a grieving and sickened nation from President Donald Trump, who critics say was to blame for a disjointed and ineffectual response to the pandemic, resulting in the United States having the highest Covid-19 death toll in the world. On Tuesday, his last full day as president, Trump had no public events scheduled, although US Vice President Mike Pence was planning to convene the White House Coronavirus Task Force for its last meeting under his watch. Many of Biden's policy plans fly in the face of the Trump administration's approach to combating the pandemic. They include a mask mandate that would apply to federal properties, planes and buses and a recommitment to the World Health Organization after Trump's withdrawal from the agency. Biden will also face the daunting task of overseeing the nation's Covid-19 vaccine distribution and administration. The United States is trailing in its vaccination goal, with only 12.3 million shots administered out of more than 31 million distributed as of Jan. 15, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. States, tasked with rolling out their own vaccine programs, have lamented a lack of funding and support from the federal government. Some localities say they do not have adequate supply to meet demand. Mayor Bill de Blasio on Tuesday warned New York City will run out of vaccine doses as soon as Thursday and will be forced to cancel many appointments if it does not get resupplied quickly. "We will have literally nothing left to give as of Friday," de Blasio told a news conference. Biden has said he will seek a $1.9 trillion spending proposal that includes funding for accelerating the distribution of coronavirus vaccines, and Democrats, who now hold a slight majority in Congress, hope to prioritize state and local aid in the next stimulus deal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/bells-and-candlelight-to-honor-400000-covid-19-dead-on-eve-of-us-presidential-handover/articleshow/80353883.cms||---
January 20, 2021||World||Pakistan opposition demand swift verdict against Imran and his party in graft case||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), the anti-government alliance of opposition parties, on Tuesday held a protest rally outside the Election Commission of Pakistan (ECP) in Islamabad, demanding a swift verdict in a foreign funding case against the ruling Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI). The foreign funding case was filed in November 2014 by Akbar S Babar, a founding member of PTI, alleging serious financial irregularities in the party’s accounts. The allegations included illegal sources of funding, concealment of bank accounts in Pakistan and abroad, money laundering, and using private bank accounts of PTI employees as a front to receive illegal donations from the US and countries in Europe and Middle East. The ECP is expected to hear the funding case against the ruling party on Wednesday. Addressing the mammoth rally, ex-prime minister Nawaz Sharif’s daughter and vice-president of Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) Maryam Nawaz said the PDM parties had gathered outside the ECP to remind it of its constitutional obligations. Terming the PTI foreign funding case the “biggest fraud in Pakistan’s history”, she said that cases against her father were expedited and decided within days but the ECP had only held 70 hearings of the case against PTI since 2014. “Today the PDM and public ask you, if you (PM Imran Kahn) did not steal, then why did you try to stop the case 30 times?” Maryam said, referring to requests submitted by the PTI in the court that the ECP could not decide the foreign funding case. “If you (Imran) were so innocent why did you give applications to keep the proceedings secret? Maryam asked. “This means theft took place and very big theft was done,” she added. Maryam said the State Bank of Pakistan had identified 23 secret accounts of the PTI which, according to her, were being operated through Imran’s signatures. “The person crying chor-chor (thief) turned out to be the biggest thief,” Maryam said, alleging that funds had come into Imran’s accounts through ‘hundi’ channels. She also alleged that Imran had received funds from Israel and India, saying: “Do you know who funded him from India? BJP member Inderjeet Dosanjh. And the Israeli who funded him was Barry Sisheps.” The rally was also addressed by other opposition leaders, including PDM chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman and former PM Raja Pervez Ashraf. Ahead of the rally, authorities had completely sealed the ECP headquarters and buildings surrounding it with concrete blocks and barbed wire. More than a thousand security officials, including police and 300 personnel of paramilitary force, were also deployed outside the ECP building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistan-opposition-demand-swift-verdict-against-imran-and-his-party-in-graft-case/articleshow/80354036.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
January 20, 2021||World||Two Sikh men remanded in custody to face trial over use of samuri sword in large brawl at Southall||LONDON: Two Sikh men have appeared in a north London court charged with affray (group fight in a public place) and threatening others with a samuri sword following a large fight involving around 30 Asian men in Southall. Police were called just after midnight on Saturday night to respond to a huge brawl involving various weapons, including swords, knives and bottles, between around 30 Asian men on King Street in Southall, just minutes walk from two gurdwaras, the Gurdwara Sri Guru Singh Sabha, a prominent gurdwara frequented by Indian-origin Sikhs, and the Gurdwara Guru Nanak Darbar, which has a large Afghan Sikh sangat. A Metropolitan Police spokesperson said: “Police were called at around 12.20am on Sunday, 17 January, to reports of a large group of around 30 males fighting with various weapons, including knives and swords. Officers attended and arrested two men, both aged in their 20s, on suspicion of violent disorder and affray. There were no reported injuries. Police are appealing for witnesses to come forward as enquiries continue.” Sukwir Singh, 22, and Lakha Singh, 29, both of Norwood Gardens, Southall, appeared at Willesden Magistrates' Court on Monday. They were both charged with affray as well as unlawfully and intentionally threatening another person with a samuri sword in a public place in such a way that there is an immediate risk of serious physical harm to that person. They did not enter a plea and were remanded in custody to appear at Isleworth Crown Court on 15 February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/two-sikh-men-remanded-in-custody-to-face-trial-over-use-of-samuri-sword-in-large-brawl-at-southall/articleshow/80354103.cms||NAOMI CANTON
January 20, 2021||World||Vaccine hesitancy amongst UK’s South Asian diaspora a worry||LONDON: Vaccine hesitancy amongst the South Asian diaspora in Britain could delay the end of the pandemic as a high uptake is needed amongst all communities to achieve herd immunity. President of BAPIO (British Association of Physicians of Indian Origin) Dr Ramesh Mehta said, “There is hesitation amongst a significant number of BAME groups in the UK for vaccination. We believe there is fake news circulating on social media.” He said the key concerns British Asians have are about unknown side effects, especially in the long-term, and rumours the vaccines contain animal products, such as beef or pork. UK vaccines regulator MHRA has confirmed both the AstraZeneca and Pfizer/BioNTech Covid-19 vaccines do not contain any components of animal origin. News of 29 elderly people with underlying health conditions dying in Norway after receiving the Pfizer’s vaccine “has not helped” Mehta said. A small number of Indian-origin NHS doctors were even “sceptical” about the vaccine, he added. Mehta said one of the problems was that information from the NHS and Department of Health was not being communicated in local languages. “BAPIO is committed to supporting the vaccines,” he said. “We are holding webinars with communities and advising them to get the shot. If a large number refuse it will delay the end of the pandemic and they will be much worse off if they catch Covid-19,” he said. Rajnish Kashyap, general Secretary of the Hindu Council UK, met the minister for Covid vaccine deployment, Nadhim Zahawi, last week to discuss the issue. “We pointed out to him that there is lot of hesitancy within the Indian-origin community because of fake news on social media and worries about long-term side effects," he said. He shared with the minister a survey carried out by the newly-formed Oxford University-backed think tank, the 1928 Institute, which researches British Indians, which found that 56% of British Indians would take the Covid-19 vaccine and 31% were unsure. "We have offered Hindu temples to be utilised for giving the vaccine,” he added. General practitioners (GPs) are reporting that some South Asian patients are refusing the vaccine or agreeing to take it and then not turning up for appointments. A recent poll, commissioned by the Royal Society for Public Health, found that whilst 79% of white respondents would take a Covid-19 vaccine, only 57% of BAME people would be happy to have the coronavirus vaccine, despite being the groups hardest hit by Covid-19. The report found the lowest willingness to be vaccinated is in Asian respondents. “It is estimated that we need a coverage rate of between 75% and 90% to achieve herd immunity from Covid-19, depending on the efficacy of each vaccine and the duration of immunity,” the report states. “Herd immunity is community-specific, and we must ensure there are no pockets of the country where coverage rates are allowed to fall below what is required.” At much as 19% of BAME respondents said they would trust the view of someone on social media delivering information about the Covid-19 vaccine compared to 17% who would trust politicians. Amongst Asian respondents, the opinions of friends and family were more widely trusted (63%) than those of a nurse (59%) and local pharmacist (55%), and were ranked equally with that of a GP. NHS England’s Dr Harpreet Sood said, “We have been working to battle misinformation in multiple ways, including by working with social media companies and engaging directly with communities, but it’s also important that we celebrate that large numbers of these diverse communities have taken up the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/vaccine-hesitancy-amongst-uks-south-asian-diaspora-a-worry/articleshow/80354228.cms||NAOMI CANTON
January 20, 2021||Business||Despite India’s objection, WhatsApp continues to defend controversial privacy update||NEW DELHI: Facing the heat from the Indian government which asked it to withdraw a controversial privacy update over data-sharing plans with Facebook, instant messenger WhatsApp reiterated once again that personal messages remain completely encrypted and the proposal is aimed only at making business messaging effective. "We wish to reinforce that this update does not expand our ability to share data with Facebook. Our aim is to provide transparency and new options available to engage with businesses so they can serve their customers and grow. WhatsApp will always protect personal messages with end-to-end encryption so that neither WhatsApp nor Facebook can see them,” the company said, adding that, “We are working to address misinformation and remain available to answer any questions." On Tuesday, the Centre asked the Facebook-owned instant messenger to “respect the informational privacy and data security of Indian users” and withdraw its controversial privacy update programme in the country. Sources said the government raised “strong concerns” over the privacy update programme rolled out globally which would allow the company to share certain data of WhatsApp users with its parent Facebook and other platforms such as Instagram. “Given the huge user base of WhatsApp and Facebook in India, the consolidation of this sensitive information also exposes a very large segment of Indian citizens to greater security risks and vulnerabilities creating a honeypot of information,” the government said, as it sent a detailed questionnaire to the company and its CEO Will Cathcart.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/despite-indias-objection-whatsapp-continues-to-defend-controversial-privacy-update/articleshow/80354353.cms||Pankaj Doval
January 20, 2021||India||Major dies of bullet injury in Kupwara, police say suicide||INDIA/JAIPUR: Major Fayazullah Khan, 29, of the 6 JAK Rifles was found dead in his room in Kupwara on Monday with a bullet pierced through his head. J&K police have registered a case of suicide and launched a probe into the incident. His mortal remains are likely to be brought to Jaipur, where he belonged to, on Wednesday. The officer was posted in Kupwara for the last two years and was unmarried. His family, which stays in Vaishali Nagar in Jaipur, claimed that there was minimal chance of him taking his life. DSP Rasheed Ahmad said a bullet had entered through his chin and exited from the other side of the head. “It looks like a case of suicide though a probe has been initiated,” he said. Senior superintendent of police, Kupwara, Shriram Ambarkar said, “Initial reports suggest that the 29-year old officer reportedly committed suicide while on duty at Jogi Post in Teethwal area of Tanghdar sector.” His family members, however, are doubting the theory. “On Sunday, Fayazullah spoke to his father and he seemed a bit disturbed as he was not being granted leave. Fayazullah’s father asked him not to be worried and said he seemed to have calmed down. There seemed to be no reason for him to die by suicide. He had 10 years of service left and had enough training to not get perturbed over small issues,” Fayazullah’s uncle Shafi Khan told TOI. The family was expecting his mortal remains to reach Jaipur by Tuesday night but were informed by officials that the Major had tested positive for Covid due to which the remains were being sent by road and are likely to reach by Wednesday. “We had made arrangements for the burial. But, we found out that there was a likelihood of investigation into his death once his body reached Jaipur. However, we do not have any clear message regarding this yet,” said Shafi. “We came to know that there were bullet wounds and injury marks on his body. It could be that he was attacked. The government needs to intervene. We have hardly heard anything from the authorities all through the day. We should have sent a family member to Kupwara to bring back the body”, added Shafi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/major-dies-of-bullet-injury-in-kupwara-police-say-suicide/articleshow/80354427.cms||M Saleem Pandit
January 20, 2021||Srinagar||Split in PAGD: Sajad’s party withdraws from Gupkar Alliance, accuses pact members of fielding proxies in DDC polls||SRINAGAR: The seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) split on Tuesday after Sajad Lone announced the withdrawal from the alliance of his Peoples Conference and accused alliance constituents of fielding proxies in the recently concluded District Development Council elections across J&K. Six mainstream parties — NC, Peoples Democratic Party , Peoples Conference, Indian National Congress, Awami NC and CPM — had on August 22 last year signed the “Gupkar Declaration” to fight for restoration of special status to Jammu and Kashmir. However, Congress distanced itself from the PAGD. Farooq Abdullah was unanimously nominated as PAGD chairman. Finally, seven mainstream parties — NC , PDP, Peoples Conference, Awami National Conference, JK Peoples Movement, CPM and CPI — came together to give form to the alliance. Lone claimed in a letter to Farooq Abdullah that the purpose and aims of the PAGD were not being followed on the ground in letter and spirit. “This alliance needed sacrifice. Every party had to sacrifice its gains on the ground and allow space to fellow allies. But, instead, no constituent of the Gupkar Alliance was willing to relinquish space and fought against each other in Kashmir province during the recently held DDC polls and not against the perpetrators of August 5, 2019. Thus, it was a vocally gleeful moment for the perpetrators…” Lone wrote. Meanwhile, in Jammu, Farooq Abdullah said in reference to the DDC polls: “All eyes are watching how National Conference has emerged as a big political force in Jammu and Kashmir in its own right.” Lone told Farooq Abdullah that it was now difficult for Peoples Conference to stay on and pretend that nothing had happened. “People know that blinded by political greed we fielded candidates against each other and the question they are asking is: ‘If we can’t trust the PAGD leadership on something as basic as a DDC seat, how can we trust them for larger issues,’” Lone said, adding that the alliance constituents might have inflicted “irreversible damage” on themselves and “on the very people that we are supposed to represent”. “Trust between allying partners who have been rivals all along can be very elusive and extremely fragile. Proxies have made it perpetually elusive,” he said. “There has been a breach of trust between partners which we believe is beyond remedy. The majoritarian view in our party is that we should pull out of the alliance in an amicable manner rather than waiting for things to get messier. And I am confirming that we will no longer be a part of the PAGD alliance,” he said. Lone, however, made it clear in his letter that his party was divorcing the alliance and not its objectives. “We will continue to adhere to the objectives that we set out when this alliance was made. And the PAGD leadership should be assured that we will extend support on all issues which fall within the ambit of stated objectives. We have issued clear instructions to all party leaders not to issue any statements against PAGD or its leaders,” the letter read. “…the sad reality that emerges is that in a majority of places the party fielding the candidate on behalf of PAGD was left to fend for itself and secured the votes that his party managed. In most places other parties were silent bystanders or, worse, compounded the problem by fielding proxy candidates,” Lone said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/split-in-pagd-sajads-party-withdraws-from-gupkar-alliance-accuses-pact-members-of-fielding-proxies-in-ddc-polls/articleshow/80357850.cms||M Saleem Pandit
January 20, 2021||India||Split in PAGD: Sajad’s party withdraws from Gupkar Alliance, accuses pact members of fielding proxies in DDC polls||SRINAGAR: The seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) split on Tuesday after Sajad Lone announced the withdrawal from the alliance of his Peoples Conference and accused alliance constituents of fielding proxies in the recently concluded District Development Council elections across J&K. Six mainstream parties — NC, Peoples Democratic Party , Peoples Conference, Indian National Congress, Awami NC and CPM — had on August 22 last year signed the “Gupkar Declaration” to fight for restoration of special status to Jammu and Kashmir. However, Congress distanced itself from the PAGD. Farooq Abdullah was unanimously nominated as PAGD chairman. Finally, seven mainstream parties — NC , PDP, Peoples Conference, Awami National Conference, JK Peoples Movement, CPM and CPI — came together to give form to the alliance. Lone claimed in a letter to Farooq Abdullah that the purpose and aims of the PAGD were not being followed on the ground in letter and spirit. “This alliance needed sacrifice. Every party had to sacrifice its gains on the ground and allow space to fellow allies. But, instead, no constituent of the Gupkar Alliance was willing to relinquish space and fought against each other in Kashmir province during the recently held DDC polls and not against the perpetrators of August 5, 2019. Thus, it was a vocally gleeful moment for the perpetrators…” Lone wrote. Meanwhile, in Jammu, Farooq Abdullah said in reference to the DDC polls: “All eyes are watching how National Conference has emerged as a big political force in Jammu and Kashmir in its own right.” Lone told Farooq Abdullah that it was now difficult for Peoples Conference to stay on and pretend that nothing had happened. “People know that blinded by political greed we fielded candidates against each other and the question they are asking is: ‘If we can’t trust the PAGD leadership on something as basic as a DDC seat, how can we trust them for larger issues,’” Lone said, adding that the alliance constituents might have inflicted “irreversible damage” on themselves and “on the very people that we are supposed to represent”. “Trust between allying partners who have been rivals all along can be very elusive and extremely fragile. Proxies have made it perpetually elusive,” he said. “There has been a breach of trust between partners which we believe is beyond remedy. The majoritarian view in our party is that we should pull out of the alliance in an amicable manner rather than waiting for things to get messier. And I am confirming that we will no longer be a part of the PAGD alliance,” he said. Lone, however, made it clear in his letter that his party was divorcing the alliance and not its objectives. “We will continue to adhere to the objectives that we set out when this alliance was made. And the PAGD leadership should be assured that we will extend support on all issues which fall within the ambit of stated objectives. We have issued clear instructions to all party leaders not to issue any statements against PAGD or its leaders,” the letter read. “…the sad reality that emerges is that in a majority of places the party fielding the candidate on behalf of PAGD was left to fend for itself and secured the votes that his party managed. In most places other parties were silent bystanders or, worse, compounded the problem by fielding proxy candidates,” Lone said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/split-in-pagd-sajads-party-withdraws-from-gupkar-alliance-accuses-pact-members-of-fielding-proxies-in-ddc-polls/articleshow/80354491.cms||M Saleem Pandit
January 20, 2021||Jammu||Split in PAGD: Sajad’s party withdraws from Gupkar Alliance, accuses pact members of fielding proxies in DDC polls||SRINAGAR: The seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) split on Tuesday after Sajad Lone announced the withdrawal from the alliance of his Peoples Conference and accused alliance constituents of fielding proxies in the recently concluded District Development Council elections across J&K. Six mainstream parties — NC, Peoples Democratic Party , Peoples Conference, Indian National Congress, Awami NC and CPM — had on August 22 last year signed the “Gupkar Declaration” to fight for restoration of special status to Jammu and Kashmir. However, Congress distanced itself from the PAGD. Farooq Abdullah was unanimously nominated as PAGD chairman. Finally, seven mainstream parties — NC , PDP, Peoples Conference, Awami National Conference, JK Peoples Movement, CPM and CPI — came together to give form to the alliance. Lone claimed in a letter to Farooq Abdullah that the purpose and aims of the PAGD were not being followed on the ground in letter and spirit. “This alliance needed sacrifice. Every party had to sacrifice its gains on the ground and allow space to fellow allies. But, instead, no constituent of the Gupkar Alliance was willing to relinquish space and fought against each other in Kashmir province during the recently held DDC polls and not against the perpetrators of August 5, 2019. Thus, it was a vocally gleeful moment for the perpetrators…” Lone wrote. Meanwhile, in Jammu, Farooq Abdullah said in reference to the DDC polls: “All eyes are watching how National Conference has emerged as a big political force in Jammu and Kashmir in its own right.” Lone told Farooq Abdullah that it was now difficult for Peoples Conference to stay on and pretend that nothing had happened. “People know that blinded by political greed we fielded candidates against each other and the question they are asking is: ‘If we can’t trust the PAGD leadership on something as basic as a DDC seat, how can we trust them for larger issues,’” Lone said, adding that the alliance constituents might have inflicted “irreversible damage” on themselves and “on the very people that we are supposed to represent”. “Trust between allying partners who have been rivals all along can be very elusive and extremely fragile. Proxies have made it perpetually elusive,” he said. “There has been a breach of trust between partners which we believe is beyond remedy. The majoritarian view in our party is that we should pull out of the alliance in an amicable manner rather than waiting for things to get messier. And I am confirming that we will no longer be a part of the PAGD alliance,” he said. Lone, however, made it clear in his letter that his party was divorcing the alliance and not its objectives. “We will continue to adhere to the objectives that we set out when this alliance was made. And the PAGD leadership should be assured that we will extend support on all issues which fall within the ambit of stated objectives. We have issued clear instructions to all party leaders not to issue any statements against PAGD or its leaders,” the letter read. “…the sad reality that emerges is that in a majority of places the party fielding the candidate on behalf of PAGD was left to fend for itself and secured the votes that his party managed. In most places other parties were silent bystanders or, worse, compounded the problem by fielding proxy candidates,” Lone said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/split-in-pagd-sajads-party-withdraws-from-gupkar-alliance-accuses-pact-members-of-fielding-proxies-in-ddc-polls/articleshow/80357849.cms||M Saleem Pandit
January 20, 2021||Business||Manthan, RichRelevance join to form Algonomy||BENGALURU: Bengaluru-based retail analytics provider Manthan and US-based RichRelevance said they have completed their merger and the combined entity will be called Algonomy. In November 2019, the two had announced a joint go-to-market strategy and had indicated that a merger was likely. Manthan founder Atul Jalan, who will serve as CEO of Algonomy, said the name reflects the transformation of retail into an algorithmic business, with customers interacting through digital channels, and retailers depending on new digital technologies for everything from cataloguing, merchandising, and pricing to promotions and marketing. Algonomy combines Manthan’s cloud retail analytics expertise with RichRelevance’s personalisation software to create a single platform for real-time AI-based decisioning. The company said it has more than 400 leading retailers, consumer brands, quick serve restaurant chains, and convenience stores as customers. These include Walmart, eBay, Aldi, Boots, Carrefour, Staples, Woolworth, Swarovski, Tiffany, Future Group, McDonald’s, Pizza Hut, KFC and Domino’s. Dolly Vora, head of marketing & Innovation at Pizza Hut UK, said Algonomy is an apt name “as you have a strong background in infusing algorithmic intelligence into businesses to help them prosper. Look forward to the next wave of innovation, from Algonomy.” Sarath Jarugula, who previously served as the CEO of RichRelevance and is now the chief product officer at Algonomy, said that with more than 300 pre-built algorithms for the retail industry, plus the ability to add custom algorithms and decisioning criteria, along with deep learning AI capabilities, Algonomy offers a robust, real-time machine learning solution built for the retail industry. “Rather than sifting through piles of data, retailers can harness machine learning to derive actionable insights, set strategies, and achieve goals, while retaining granular control of algorithmic behaviour,” he said. Manthan and RichRelevance both had received significant funding from venture funds. Singapore-based investment company Temasek and venture firm Norwest Partners were Manthan’s big funders. Jalan said a couple of more acquisitions and a fund raise are expected soon to more rapidly grow the business. “We are looking at a Nasdaq listing in 2023. A year and a half ago, I would not have even thought of this, but the business has grown so much in recent times, and digital has become so strategic to retail, that the environment has changed radically. We have organically grown 35-40% in each of the past two years,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/manthan-richrelevance-join-to-form-algonomy/articleshow/80354593.cms||Sujit John
January 20, 2021||Delhi||With a rise in pet snatching, here’s how to keep your pooch safe||Earlier this month, a mix-breed shih tzu was snatched in Gurgaon by two men on a bike. The dog’s parents announced a reward of `1 lakh and shared posters to find the stolen pet. Soon, the dog was found after an anonymous tip. The incident has renewed the focus on pet snatchings in NCR, something that resurfaces every few months in the region. Many such incidents have happened over the years, which is why it’s important to be vigilant when you walk your pet outside. Animal activists, pet parents and those working for animal welfare share precautions that you should take to avoid pet snatching. From illegal breeding to sale of expensive dogs, reasons why dogs are snatchedKaveri Rana Bhardwaj, President, People For Animals (PFA) Gautam Buddh Nagar, says, “The main focus of snatching is on illegal breeding. Pet parents should get their pets sterilised, as such dogs are of no use to any breeder. Also, snatchings happen when someone is keeping an eye on you or when someone close to you is giving information about your dog.” Amit Chaudhery, founder and steward of Earth Quotient, and former president, PFA Gurgaon, adds that some dogs are snatched by those looking for fancy breeds. “If someone wants a pedigree dog and not want to pay for it, they’ll snatch or steal someone’s dog,” he says. Microchip pets to make tracing easy in case of snatching Chetna Joshi, an animal activist from Gurgaon, says, “Getting a chip implanted in pets is essential, but not many understand the importance of this. However, this alone isn’t the solution. Even if a dog is chipped, authorities generally do not have sensors to track it. So, they also need to create a basic infrastructure so that stolen dogs can be tracked without delay. Most importantly, illegal back-alley breeders need to checked because they usually orchestrate snatchings.”  Pravin Kora from a pet boarding service in Gurgaon says that the need of dogs for dog fights, and kidnappings for ransom are other major reasons behind pet snatching. Offering a Reward helps in cases of pet snatchingA stolen dog is usually found through an anonymous tip. This is where rewards help a lot. “People will never do something for free. When you add the money angle, you are giving them a point of interest. Otherwise, your dog is of no interest to them. Domestic helps help a lot in tracking a dog in such cases,” says Kaveri Rana Bhardwaj from PFA. Since a stolen dog is usually found through an anonymous tip, this is where rewards help a lotAmit Chaudhery from Earth Quotient adds, “If the animal is stolen, a police complaint must be done. We help people with police complaints; posters are made in Hindi and English, offering people a handsome amount in case the pet is found, and these are circulated around places where you suspect (the pet might be found). Lastly, inform RWAs, social media and animal groups. The strategy is to put up posters, give a phone number and you’ll certainly get a call. But you should not go alone, take cops or four-five people.” Precautions to take to avoid pets’ snatchingPets are most vulnerable if they are walking alone outside. “The other time they’re vulnerable is when they are with dog walkers. I can’t trust my dog with a walker. And these incidents happen only with pedigree and imported dogs,” says Kaveri. Talking about how one can be better prepared in such a situation, Amit shares, “I’d say attach a microchip to your pet. If you microchip your animal, it can be easily traced no matter where the dog is taken. And there are some elementary precautions that one can follow. For instance, if someone is trailing you or coming behind you or sideways on a two-wheeler, hold your pet tight, change your direction and tighten the leash. Also, carry a walking stick so that it can be used to shoo them away. If the dog is snatched, take a picture of the registration number of the vehicle, and the culprit will be caught within minutes. Taking a picture of the vehicle will anyway help.” Changing your route and timings can also help. Pravin says, “Don’t go to desolate areas to walk your pet, and do a background check of your walker. Tell them to be vigilant, focus on the dog and not get busy with phone calls, etc. Another important thing is to not update your location on social media. People have public accounts of their pets, and they update their real-time location, which makes it easy for anyone to snatch your pet. Along with this, how you hold the leash and the type of collar you have also plays an important role in avoiding such incidents.” Many pet parents say that decisions like choosing accommodation are taken only after taking into consideration the dogs’ safety and walking areasTimings and area for walks also important: Pet parentsSouth Delhi resident Amisha Kumar, who has three dogs, says, “Early morning or late evening walk in places where there aren’t many people around is risky. Smaller dogs are more at risk – bigger ones can handle themselves to an extent.” In many cases, pet parents say that decisions like choosing an accommodation is also done after taking into consideration the dogs’ safety. Siddhant Chauhan, a pet parent from Gurgaon, tells us, “Even things like where we want to live are determined, to an extent, by the thought of our dogs’ safety. We live in a gated society, so it’s safe to take the dogs for a walk. Often, we have thought about moving to a more open place, but most such places are in slightly remote localities. In such a scenario, taking the dogs for a walk can be dangerous.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-a-rise-in-pet-snatching-heres-how-to-keep-your-pooch-safe/articleshow/80347687.cms||Riya Sharma
January 20, 2021||Gurgaon||With a rise in pet snatching, here’s how to keep your pooch safe||Earlier this month, a mix-breed shih tzu was snatched in Gurgaon by two men on a bike. The dog’s parents announced a reward of `1 lakh and shared posters to find the stolen pet. Soon, the dog was found after an anonymous tip. The incident has renewed the focus on pet snatchings in NCR, something that resurfaces every few months in the region. Many such incidents have happened over the years, which is why it’s important to be vigilant when you walk your pet outside. Animal activists, pet parents and those working for animal welfare share precautions that you should take to avoid pet snatching. From illegal breeding to sale of expensive dogs, reasons why dogs are snatchedKaveri Rana Bhardwaj, President, People For Animals (PFA) Gautam Buddh Nagar, says, “The main focus of snatching is on illegal breeding. Pet parents should get their pets sterilised, as such dogs are of no use to any breeder. Also, snatchings happen when someone is keeping an eye on you or when someone close to you is giving information about your dog.” Amit Chaudhery, founder and steward of Earth Quotient, and former president, PFA Gurgaon, adds that some dogs are snatched by those looking for fancy breeds. “If someone wants a pedigree dog and not want to pay for it, they’ll snatch or steal someone’s dog,” he says. Microchip pets to make tracing easy in case of snatching Chetna Joshi, an animal activist from Gurgaon, says, “Getting a chip implanted in pets is essential, but not many understand the importance of this. However, this alone isn’t the solution. Even if a dog is chipped, authorities generally do not have sensors to track it. So, they also need to create a basic infrastructure so that stolen dogs can be tracked without delay. Most importantly, illegal back-alley breeders need to checked because they usually orchestrate snatchings.”  Pravin Kora from a pet boarding service in Gurgaon says that the need of dogs for dog fights, and kidnappings for ransom are other major reasons behind pet snatching. Offering a Reward helps in cases of pet snatchingA stolen dog is usually found through an anonymous tip. This is where rewards help a lot. “People will never do something for free. When you add the money angle, you are giving them a point of interest. Otherwise, your dog is of no interest to them. Domestic helps help a lot in tracking a dog in such cases,” says Kaveri Rana Bhardwaj from PFA. Since a stolen dog is usually found through an anonymous tip, this is where rewards help a lotAmit Chaudhery from Earth Quotient adds, “If the animal is stolen, a police complaint must be done. We help people with police complaints; posters are made in Hindi and English, offering people a handsome amount in case the pet is found, and these are circulated around places where you suspect (the pet might be found). Lastly, inform RWAs, social media and animal groups. The strategy is to put up posters, give a phone number and you’ll certainly get a call. But you should not go alone, take cops or four-five people.” Precautions to take to avoid pets’ snatchingPets are most vulnerable if they are walking alone outside. “The other time they’re vulnerable is when they are with dog walkers. I can’t trust my dog with a walker. And these incidents happen only with pedigree and imported dogs,” says Kaveri. Talking about how one can be better prepared in such a situation, Amit shares, “I’d say attach a microchip to your pet. If you microchip your animal, it can be easily traced no matter where the dog is taken. And there are some elementary precautions that one can follow. For instance, if someone is trailing you or coming behind you or sideways on a two-wheeler, hold your pet tight, change your direction and tighten the leash. Also, carry a walking stick so that it can be used to shoo them away. If the dog is snatched, take a picture of the registration number of the vehicle, and the culprit will be caught within minutes. Taking a picture of the vehicle will anyway help.” Changing your route and timings can also help. Pravin says, “Don’t go to desolate areas to walk your pet, and do a background check of your walker. Tell them to be vigilant, focus on the dog and not get busy with phone calls, etc. Another important thing is to not update your location on social media. People have public accounts of their pets, and they update their real-time location, which makes it easy for anyone to snatch your pet. Along with this, how you hold the leash and the type of collar you have also plays an important role in avoiding such incidents.” Many pet parents say that decisions like choosing accommodation are taken only after taking into consideration the dogs’ safety and walking areasTimings and area for walks also important: Pet parentsSouth Delhi resident Amisha Kumar, who has three dogs, says, “Early morning or late evening walk in places where there aren’t many people around is risky. Smaller dogs are more at risk – bigger ones can handle themselves to an extent.” In many cases, pet parents say that decisions like choosing an accommodation is also done after taking into consideration the dogs’ safety. Siddhant Chauhan, a pet parent from Gurgaon, tells us, “Even things like where we want to live are determined, to an extent, by the thought of our dogs’ safety. We live in a gated society, so it’s safe to take the dogs for a walk. Often, we have thought about moving to a more open place, but most such places are in slightly remote localities. In such a scenario, taking the dogs for a walk can be dangerous.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/with-a-rise-in-pet-snatching-heres-how-to-keep-your-pooch-safe/articleshow/80350843.cms||Riya Sharma
January 20, 2021||Noida||With a rise in pet snatching, here’s how to keep your pooch safe||Earlier this month, a mix-breed shih tzu was snatched in Gurgaon by two men on a bike. The dog’s parents announced a reward of `1 lakh and shared posters to find the stolen pet. Soon, the dog was found after an anonymous tip. The incident has renewed the focus on pet snatchings in NCR, something that resurfaces every few months in the region. Many such incidents have happened over the years, which is why it’s important to be vigilant when you walk your pet outside. Animal activists, pet parents and those working for animal welfare share precautions that you should take to avoid pet snatching. From illegal breeding to sale of expensive dogs, reasons why dogs are snatchedKaveri Rana Bhardwaj, President, People For Animals (PFA) Gautam Buddh Nagar, says, “The main focus of snatching is on illegal breeding. Pet parents should get their pets sterilised, as such dogs are of no use to any breeder. Also, snatchings happen when someone is keeping an eye on you or when someone close to you is giving information about your dog.” Amit Chaudhery, founder and steward of Earth Quotient, and former president, PFA Gurgaon, adds that some dogs are snatched by those looking for fancy breeds. “If someone wants a pedigree dog and not want to pay for it, they’ll snatch or steal someone’s dog,” he says. Microchip pets to make tracing easy in case of snatching Chetna Joshi, an animal activist from Gurgaon, says, “Getting a chip implanted in pets is essential, but not many understand the importance of this. However, this alone isn’t the solution. Even if a dog is chipped, authorities generally do not have sensors to track it. So, they also need to create a basic infrastructure so that stolen dogs can be tracked without delay. Most importantly, illegal back-alley breeders need to checked because they usually orchestrate snatchings.”  Pravin Kora from a pet boarding service in Gurgaon says that the need of dogs for dog fights, and kidnappings for ransom are other major reasons behind pet snatching. Offering a Reward helps in cases of pet snatchingA stolen dog is usually found through an anonymous tip. This is where rewards help a lot. “People will never do something for free. When you add the money angle, you are giving them a point of interest. Otherwise, your dog is of no interest to them. Domestic helps help a lot in tracking a dog in such cases,” says Kaveri Rana Bhardwaj from PFA. Since a stolen dog is usually found through an anonymous tip, this is where rewards help a lotAmit Chaudhery from Earth Quotient adds, “If the animal is stolen, a police complaint must be done. We help people with police complaints; posters are made in Hindi and English, offering people a handsome amount in case the pet is found, and these are circulated around places where you suspect (the pet might be found). Lastly, inform RWAs, social media and animal groups. The strategy is to put up posters, give a phone number and you’ll certainly get a call. But you should not go alone, take cops or four-five people.” Precautions to take to avoid pets’ snatchingPets are most vulnerable if they are walking alone outside. “The other time they’re vulnerable is when they are with dog walkers. I can’t trust my dog with a walker. And these incidents happen only with pedigree and imported dogs,” says Kaveri. Talking about how one can be better prepared in such a situation, Amit shares, “I’d say attach a microchip to your pet. If you microchip your animal, it can be easily traced no matter where the dog is taken. And there are some elementary precautions that one can follow. For instance, if someone is trailing you or coming behind you or sideways on a two-wheeler, hold your pet tight, change your direction and tighten the leash. Also, carry a walking stick so that it can be used to shoo them away. If the dog is snatched, take a picture of the registration number of the vehicle, and the culprit will be caught within minutes. Taking a picture of the vehicle will anyway help.” Changing your route and timings can also help. Pravin says, “Don’t go to desolate areas to walk your pet, and do a background check of your walker. Tell them to be vigilant, focus on the dog and not get busy with phone calls, etc. Another important thing is to not update your location on social media. People have public accounts of their pets, and they update their real-time location, which makes it easy for anyone to snatch your pet. Along with this, how you hold the leash and the type of collar you have also plays an important role in avoiding such incidents.” Many pet parents say that decisions like choosing accommodation are taken only after taking into consideration the dogs’ safety and walking areasTimings and area for walks also important: Pet parentsSouth Delhi resident Amisha Kumar, who has three dogs, says, “Early morning or late evening walk in places where there aren’t many people around is risky. Smaller dogs are more at risk – bigger ones can handle themselves to an extent.” In many cases, pet parents say that decisions like choosing an accommodation is also done after taking into consideration the dogs’ safety. Siddhant Chauhan, a pet parent from Gurgaon, tells us, “Even things like where we want to live are determined, to an extent, by the thought of our dogs’ safety. We live in a gated society, so it’s safe to take the dogs for a walk. Often, we have thought about moving to a more open place, but most such places are in slightly remote localities. In such a scenario, taking the dogs for a walk can be dangerous.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/with-a-rise-in-pet-snatching-heres-how-to-keep-your-pooch-safe/articleshow/80350844.cms||Riya Sharma
January 20, 2021||Goa||Goa end with another win, but it’s too late||Captain Amit Verma saved his best for the last at the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 tournament, smashing an unbeaten 72 off 46 balls to help Goa register a 16-run victory over Vidarbha in Indore on Tuesday. Goa finished fourth behind Madhya Pradesh, Saurashtra and Rajasthan on 12 points with three wins and two losses. Batting first, Goa scored 156-6 in 20 overs. Vidarbha, who lost all their matches, could manage 140-8. Goa’s pace trio of Felix Alemao, Lakshay Garg and Vijesh Prabhudesai did enough damage to stall Vidarbha's charge. Felix provided the breakthrough to get rid of opener Jitesh Sharma when he was caught by Lakshay. Though Akshay Wadkar (21), Mohit Raut (15), Apoorv Wankhede (27) and Akshay Karnewar (31) tried their best, none of them could bat long. Felix was the most successful bowler with three for 27 in four overs, while Lakshay claimed two wickets for 28. Vijesh and left-arm orthodox Darshan Misal took a wicket each. Earlier, Goa failed to get a good start. Openers Eknath Kerkar, Aditya Kaushik and Amogh Desai returned to the pavilion in the powerplay with 23 on board. Amit and Snehal Kauthankar (35, 31b, 1x4, 2x6) steadied the ship with a 66-run partnership before Snehal got out in the 15th over. Amit cut loose and hammered eight fours and three sixes. Though he lost partners at the other end, the captain ensured that Goa had runs on the board to defend. Darshan's cameo of 13 from six balls also helped the cause. Vidarbha's right-arm medium pacer Yash Thakur took three wickets for 36. Brief scores: Goa 156-6 (Amit Verma 72*, Snehal Kauthankar 35; Yash Tahkur 3-36, Aditya Thakare 2-18) bt Vidarbha 140-8 (Akshay Karnewar 31, Apoorv Wankhede 27, Felix Alemao 3-27, Lakshay Garg 2-28)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-end-with-another-win-but-its-too-late/articleshow/80355054.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Delhi||Vaccination drive: 49% turn up for shots in Delhi, walk-ins fill absentee slots||NEW DELHI: On the third day of the Covid-19 vaccination programme in Delhi on Tuesday, 48.7%, or 4,936 of 10,125 healthcare workers scheduled to be injected, turned up at the city’s 81 centres. Though the percentage was lower than the record on the first day last Saturday, the total number of recipients on Tuesday was the highest till now. As in the previous rounds, the slots of the absentees were filled by individuals who volunteered to receive the jab. The number of adverse events was lower at 16 cases on Tuesday than in the earlier two rounds. According to a government report, one recipient of Covaxin among the 224 at six centres complained of minor adverse reactions, while 15 of the 4,712 people who were administered Covishield at 75 centres did the same. As earlier, there were a few glitches with the enabling Co-WIN platform, which also contributed to the low turnout. At Lok Nayak Hospital, for instance, the app included in Tuesday’s list some health workers who had already been inoculated. A government official said that the turnout would in all likelihood rise in the coming days. The official explained, "The facility to add a beneficiary has been incorporated in the Co-WIN app and this will enable officials to accommodate people willing people to take the shots." Also, senior doctors and officials in hospitals volunteered to receive the jab on Tuesday to reassure and encourage the circumspect staffers. The district and hospital authorities are also conducting counselling sessions for recipients. Indeed, TOI saw several department heads and directors baring their arms for the injection on Tuesday, setting an example for others. Dr Suraj Bhan, medical director, Medeor Hospital, Qutub Institutional Area, said that people shouldn’t have hesitations. "I got vaccinated today. There is no need to panic," he asserted. "The vaccines are an outcome of rigorous scientific effort." Dr Arun Dewan, senior director, critical care, Max Hospital, Saket, reiterated that both the vaccines were absolutely safe. Dr Ashwini Dalmiya, chairman, vaccination committee, Delhi Medical Council, said the medical body will address the hesitancy of 500 healthcare workers from across the capital at an online meeting on Wednesday. "We decided on the meeting on seeing the low turnout at the vaccination booths. Experts will address the meeting and answer questions related to the shots," said Dalmiya. The reluctance of the priority group to fully embrace the vaccination exercise was also highlighted at the joint meeting of hospital nodal officers with district officials. A participating nodal officer said, "We were told to stress on counselling, distribute badges post-vaccination to motivate people, arrange selfie points and encourage those who took the jab to share pictures and experiences on social media." Dr Shweta, nodal officer for Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital, said, "We discussed the issues with the district officials and they have assured us their IT department will resolve the technical glitches. On our part, we are not leaving any stone unturned to motivate people to line up for vaccination." Vaccination centre officials have already been instructed to make sure the listed people received information personally rather than through the app. While 28 people were inoculated on Tuesday at GTB Hospital, only nine turned up at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital. "Despite no reports of post-vaccination reactions in our hospital, staffers are suspicious and reluctant," rued Dr Ajeet Jain, RGSSH nodal officer. "I have asked my team to counsel them, resolve their queries and even help them talk to others who have already received the vaccine. We will also adhere to the directions issued by the district administration." An administrator at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital similarly reported that many people selected for inoculation through the Co-WIN app weren’t present on Tuesday, though 100 workers were vaccinated. "Some claimed they were out of station, others said they had some personal problems," the administrator said. "We allowed other doctors and volunteering staff to receive the shots in their place."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vaccination-drive-49-turn-up-for-shots-in-delhi-walk-ins-fill-absentee-slots/articleshow/80355721.cms||---
January 20, 2021||India||Supreme Court’s agriculture panel sets up portal to get views of individual farmers||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court-appointed committee for deliberations on the three farm laws on Tuesday notified a dedicated portal, allowing even individual farmers to submit views on the contentious legislations, and decided to hear at least 20 organisations on the first day of consultations on January 21. It also said repeal of laws, as demanded by protesting agri unions, was “not on the cards”. Getting down to work, the panel finalised a roadmap of activities for two months to prepare its recommendations that it will submit to the court. It will soon send invitations to both pro- and anti-farm law groups for their views. State governments will also be consulted. Those unions and associations, which may not be able to be present before it physically because of the pandemic, will be consulted through video conference. “Repeal of laws is certainly not on the cards. If the laws are repealed, it will be a dead end. No government will then ever try to reform the farm sector in India in the next 50 years,” said Anil Ghanwat, one of the three members of the panel, while emphasising that the Committee would work impartially. This is contrary to the demand by farm unions, mainly from Punjab (with some from Haryana and west UP) who are demanding that the laws be scrapped. The unions opposed to the central farm laws have, however, maintained that they would not appear before the panel and rather prefer to try to reach at solutions through discussing the issues with the government and continue with their protests till their core demands – repeal of laws and legal guarantee to MSP – are met. Their tenth round of talks with the government will be held on Wednesday. Emerging from the meeting held at NASC Complex at Pusa, Ghanwat, president of the Maharashtra-based farm outfit Shetkari Sanghatana, said the Committee is keen to have views of all concerned on the subject so that it can give suggestions which will definitely be in the interests of the farmers of India. Agriculture economist and former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs & Prices (CACP) Ashok Gulati and former director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) Pramod Joshi are other two members of the Committee. The panel was set up by the Supreme Court on January 12 for the purpose of “listening to the grievances of the farmers relating to the farm laws and the views of the government and to make recommendations” within two months. The Committee would also hold discussions with state governments, state marketing boards and other stakeholders such as Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) and cooperatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/supreme-courts-agriculture-panel-sets-up-portal-to-get-views-of-individual-farmers/articleshow/80355760.cms||Vishwa Mohan
January 20, 2021||Business||Withdraw controversial privacy update programme for Indians: Govt to WhatsApp||NEW DELHI: In deepening troubles for WhatsApp in India, the Centre has asked the Facebook-owned instant messenger to “respect the informational privacy and data security of Indian users” and withdraw its controversial privacy update programme in the country. Sources said the government has raised “strong concerns” over the privacy update programme rolled out globally, which would allow the company to share certain data of WhatsApp users with its parent Facebook and other platforms such as Instagram. “Given the huge user base of WhatsApp and Facebook in India, the consolidation of this sensitive information also exposes a very large segment of Indian citizens to greater security risks and vulnerabilities creating a honeypot of information.” A detailed questionnaire has been sent to the company as part of the communication from the IT ministry to the WhatsApp CEO Will Cathcart. TOI was the first to report on the government’s concerns over WhatsApp’s privacy update in its edition dated January 14. A questionnaire sent to WhatsApp on the matter remained unanswered. Read AlsoDespite India’s objection, WhatsApp continues to defend controversial privacy updateFacing the heat from the Indian government which asked it to withdraw a controversial privacy update over data-sharing plans with Facebook, instant messenger WhatsApp reiterated once again that personal messages remain completely encrypted and the proposal is aimed only at making business messagingThe government is particularly displeased with two others measures that have been proposed by WhatsApp as part of the upgrade, the first being a forced adoption plan for users to either accept the update or be ready to be booted out of the ubiquitous platform, the sources said. The other concern for the government is the seemingly-lenient privacy update for Europeans (in view of the citizen data protection law) vis-à-vis the plan for India and users here. The government said that the Indian government is also in the process of formulating a data protection law for India, and undertaking any such privacy update is not suitable at this hour. “Since Parliament is seized of the issue, making such a momentous change for Indian users at this time puts the cart before the horse. Since the Personal Data Protection Bill strongly follows the principle of ‘purpose limitation’, these changes may lead to significant implementational challenges for WhatsApp should the Bill become an Act.” On different privacy update programme for European subscribers, the government said it is a “differential treatment” for users in India. “…the differential and discriminatory treatment of Indian and European users is attracting serious criticism and shows lack of respect for the rights and interests of Indian citizens, who form one of the largest user bases for WhatsApp. Such a differential treatment is prejudicial to the interests of Indian users and is viewed with serious concern by the government.” The IT ministry said the Indian government “owes a sovereign responsibility to its citizens to ensure that their interests are not compromised”. On the ‘all-or-nothing approach’ adopted by the company with regards to accepting the privacy update, the government said that this method takes away any meaningful choice from Indian users. “This approach leverages the social significance of WhatsApp to force users into a bargain, which may infringe on their interests in relation to informational privacy and information security. It is expected that Facebook will value the principles of privacy and consent as laid down by the Supreme Court of India in its judgment of Justice (Retd.) K S Puttaswamy vs Union of India (2017).” The government has asked the company to provide details of difference between WhatsApp privacy policies in other countries and India. The exhaustive list of questions (14 in total) sent to the company includes queries around the exact categories of data that the company collects from Indian users. Also, the government asked the company to give details of the permissions and user consent that it seeks from users, and thereafter provide utility of each of these with respect to the functioning and specific service provided. “Does WhatsApp conduct profiling of Indian users on the basis of their usage of application? What nature of profiling is conducted?” the government asked. Also, the government wants to know whether WhatsApp captures information about other apps running on the mobile device of the user? “If yes, what information is being captured by the app and what purpose is it being collected and used?” The government also asked the company details about the server where the data of Indians is stored, and seeking information on whether it provides access to third parties to access a user’s personal data. Also, the government asked WhatsApp whether its app harvests user data. “Has the company faced any action in any country for surreptitiously harvesting user data?” Watch Govt asks WhatsApp to withdraw proposed changes to privacy policy for Indian users||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/withdraw-controversial-privacy-update-programme-for-indians-govt-to-whatsapp/articleshow/80355853.cms||Pankaj Doval
January 20, 2021||India||Cong, Left: Who gave Balakot information to Arnab Goswami?||NEW DELHI: Slamming Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami’s WhatsApp chat contents, available in the public space, as "anti-national", Congress MP Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday asked who in the security establishment divulged the Balakot operations to a journalist before the strikes. He said the occurrence carried the risk of alerting Pakistan and putting the Air Force in harm’s way. Calling it a "criminal act", he alleged the leak would not be investigated because it was possible that Goswami got the secret information from top quarters. Left leaders Sitaram Yechury and D Raja also criticised the Modi government over its continued silence on the WhatsApp chat leaks and exposures made by Mumbai Police in their chargesheet against Goswami. CPM general secretary Yechury asked whether the government was complicit in the "grave implications for national security" that Mumbai Police’s exposures had raised, while referring to the fraudulent manipulation of TRPs. He also said the government must be made to answer. CPI chief D Raja, on the other hand, said he was "disturbed" by the silence not only of the PM but also of defence minister Rajnath Singh, who despite repeatedly speaking of India’s security and sovereignty, had not explained how "crucial military secrets were leaked to one channel". "Modi owes an answer to the nation," he added. Stressing on the implications of the revelations, Rahul said, "If Goswami’s WhatsApp has it, Pakistanis know it. I want to know if the PM told Goswami about it or the defence minister or the NSA or the home minister. This is a criminal act. Who gave and who received, both should go to jail." He added, "These people call themselves patriots but there is nothing patriotic about putting our Air Force at risk, about taking political advantage so that Pakistanis know our IAF is coming. The distressing thing was that when our CRPF boys were killed, somebody was saying ‘this is going to be very good for us’. That is an anti-national act and I don’t like that language."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cong-left-who-gave-balakot-information-to-arnab-goswami/articleshow/80355929.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Surat||15 labourers asleep by roadside run over by truck near Surat||SURAT: Fifteen migrant labourers, including a toddler, who were asleep on a pavement, were crushed to death by a speeding truck near Kim, 40 km from here, around Monday midnight. The truck driver lost control after hitting a tractor-trolley loaded with sugarcane coming from the opposite direction on the four-lane Kim-Mandvi state highway. The vehicle ran over the labourers sleeping on the pavement constructed over a drainage line and crashed into a roadside cabin. The dead include eight women, six men and a one-year-old girl. Around 21 labourers were sleeping there. Some had come for work around a week ago while some had come around a month ago. Of the 15 victims, 13 were from Banswara district of Rajasthan. They worked as daily wagers at construction sites, mostly in the nearby sugarcane fields. While one victim was identified as 19-year-old Rahul Mahida from Ratlam in Madhya Pradesh, another was from Surat. People living nearby woke up to loud wails of victims and heart-wrenching scenes were witnessed at the accident site with mutilated bodies and blood seen all over the place. While 12 died on the spot, three others succumbed during treatment at a Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) hospital. “The truck’s front window pane got shattered after hitting the sugarcane hanging out of the tractor and it blocked the driver’s vision. He claimed the accident happened as the steering wheel jammed and he lost control,” said Usha Rada, Surat (rural) SP. Truck driver Purnalal Kevat (26) and cleaner Sudama Yadav (24) were also injured in the accident and are being treated. The driver was booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder, attempt to commit culpable homicide not amounting to murder and rash driving along with various sections of the Motor Vehicle Act. PM Narendra Modi expressed grief over the accident. “The loss of lives due to a truck accident in Surat is tragic. My thoughts are with the bereaved families. Praying that the injured recover at the earliest. Ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the accident in Surat. Rs 50,000 each would be given to those injured,” PMO tweeted. Describing the incident as heart-wrenching, Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot too announced a similar ex gratia for the 13 from Rajasthan. Those who survived remember the cries of their family members. “I couldn’t understand what had happened. I searched for my wife and she was in a pool of blood,” said Manish Mevuliya alias Mahida, 27, whose wife Anita died in the accident due to severe head injury. Manish was sleeping beside Anita but survived with minor injuries. He is in a deep shock. The labourers came to Kim around 20 days ago and worked as daily wage workers at a nearby construction site. Kamlesh Mahida, 21, who suffered multiple injuries as the truck tyre brushed his head, said, “I don’t know how I survived. I am worried about my wife who has a serious head injury,” he said. His wife Pinka said, “I only remember writhing in pain due to an injury on my head. My head would have gotten crushed completely.” Despite bitter cold, the labourers were living on the pavement with children and a bundle of clothes and blankets. They earn around Rs 200 to Rs 250 as daily wages. Truck driver Purnalal Kevat, 26, said, “I don’t know how many people died since I could not come out of the truck as its cabin was crushed and I got stuck. But I am extremely pained by the deaths.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/15-labourers-asleep-by-roadside-run-over-by-truck-near-surat/articleshow/80355966.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
January 20, 2021||India||Ahead of polls, BJP & TMC in fight to claim Netaji’s legacy||NEW DELHI: The Centre and West Bengal government on Tuesday sparred over the legacy of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on Tuesday with Culture and Tourism Minister Prahlad Singh Patel announcing that Netaji’s birth anniversary will be celebrated as ‘Parakram Diwas’ with the Trinamool Congress insisting that the day should be celebrated as ‘Desh Prem Diwas’. The Modi government plans large-scale countrywide celebrations on the occasion of the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji on January 23. It is also aimed at bolstering BJP’s claim that Congress has ignored contributions of leaders other than those belonging to the Nehru-Gandhi family. Patel said PM Narendra Modi will attend the first ‘Parakram Diwas’ programme in Calcutta on January 23 and inaugurate an exhibition on the grounds of National Library to mark the occasion. TMC MP Derek O’Brien said West Bengal has been celebrating January 23 as ‘Subhas Diwas’ and added that CM Mamata Banerjee’s demand that January 23 be declared a national holiday in Netaji’s honour is yet to be accepted by the Centre. Another TMC MP Saugata Roy said the Centre’s announcement is not enough and that Netaji “deserved much better”. He said Banerjee would lead a procession in Bengal to observe the day. PM Modi, Patel said, will felicitate prominent members of Netaji’s Indian National Army and their family members. The culture ministry will also showcase a 400 metre-long canvas painted by over 200 Patua artists from Bengal, showcasing Netaji’s life. The Centre will also trace Netaji’s legacy to other parts of India. In Cuttack where Netaji was born and studied, Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan will participate in a programme. A programme will also be held in Haripura village in Gujarat's Surat district, where Bose was elected president of the Indian National Congress in 1938. Patel said the culture ministry is also considering building a memorial in honour of the nearly 26,000 martyred members of the INA. In 2016, Modi had celebrated Bose’s birthday with his family members at his official residence. Bose’s grand nephew Chandra Kumar Bose is an active BJP leader in West Bengal. The Centre has formed a 85-member high-level committee under the PM to plan year-round programmes to mark Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary. The members of the committee include Union ministers, MPs from Bengal, a few chief ministers, historians and other distinguished citizens. A year ago, the government declassified 304 files related to Netaji, a long pending demand of the freedom fighter’s followers and family members. The fight between BJP and TMC to appropriate Netaji’s legacy has intensified just months ahead of assembly elections in Bengal. Watch Netaji being used as a poll prop: Mamata Banerjee on celebration of Subhas Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary as ‘Parakram Diwas’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ahead-of-polls-bjp-tmc-in-fight-to-claim-netajis-legacy/articleshow/80356016.cms||---
January 20, 2021||India||Republic illegally used Doordarshan’s DTH platform, says Congress||MUMBAI: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday said that the state government will be seeking legal opinion on whether action can be taken against Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami under the Official Secrets Act, 1923, for leaking sensitive information in purported chats with former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta. Read AlsoSurvey at least 5 lakh homes to rate viewership, stop rigging: PanelNEW DELHI: Amid the raging controversy over the alleged manipulation of TV viewership figures, a four-member government-appointed committee to strengthen the TRP ratings system has said at least 5-lakh homes should be sampled against the existing 50,000 to ascertain viewership data and to ensure theDeshmukh was speaking to mediapersons after a Congress delegation led by party general secretary Sachin Sawant met him to demand that action be taken against Goswami for leaking information related to the Pulwama attack and the Balakot strikes. In the purported chats Goswami told Dasgupta three days before the Balakot strikes that “something big will happen.” Read Also‘Ex-CEO of BARC can use influence if he’s granted bail’During arguments on former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta’s bail plea before a sessions court on Tuesday, the defence submitted that so far, no possible person who could be deceived by the alleged TRP manipulation -- advertisers, channels or broadcasters -- had filed a complaint of cheating or criminalDeshmukh said he will hold a meeting with senior police officials to understand whether the state could take any action in this case. “I have sought legal opinion if action can be initiated by the state under Section 5 of the Official Secrets Act.” He said the Centre should take note of the chats as they are directly related to national security. Read AlsoWhatsApp chats prove Arnab Goswami-ex-BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta collusion to rig ratings, says NBAThe NBA said that the collusion between Goswami and Dasgupta had led to Republic TV’s viewership numbers being boosted while “fraudulently manually reducing ratings of other channels”. It demanded that BARC make a “a clear statement about the veracity of its ratings” in the period under audit andRead AlsoTRP scam: Shock, outrage on social media over Arnab Goswami and ex-BARC CEO's WhatsApp chatsNEW DELHI: The leaked WhatsApp conversations between Republic TV executive editor Arnab Goswami and former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) Partho Dasgupta has brought to the fore evidence of alleged collusion to influence TV ratings. The purported WhatsApp conversations between theDeshmukh said, “We have taken serious note of the leaked WhatsApp chats between Goswami and Dasgupta. In the chat Arnab mentions the Balakot airstrike two days before it actually happened. It’s a serious threat to national security if such sensitive information was leaked,” he said. Read AlsoPakistan PM angry over reports Arnab Goswami knew about Balakot strikeImran Khan took to Twitter to respond to Indian media reports of an exchange on the WhatsApp messaging service between popular Indian TV anchor Arnab Goswami and Partho Dasgupta, the former head of a TV rating company.Read AlsoNCP demands JPC on purported chats between Goswami, DasguptaThe Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Monday asked the government to set up a Joint Parliamentary Committee to probe the purported chats between Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and former Broadcast Audience Research Council head Partho Dasgupta.Sawant said, “We demand that Goswami should be arrested immediately in view of the fact that he disclosed information pertaining to defence secrets. Further, it should be probed if he shared the information with any other persons.” Read AlsoCongress youth wing files complaint against Arnab GoswamiThe National Student's Union of India (NSUI) has filed a complaint against Republic TV's Arnab Goswami accusing him of treachery against the country. The complaint was filed by NSUI national secretary Roshan Lal Bittu in Chandrapur district of Maharashtra.Sawant alleged that Republic TV has also illegally used the DTH (direct to home) platform of Doordarshan without any agreement with Doordarshan, and a formal complaint was made to the Central ministry in this regard, but no action was taken. “All-out efforts were made to fraudulently enhance TRPs (television rating points),” Sawant said. Arnab Goswami, Partho Dasgupta nexus exposed in whatsapp chat:Full detailsSawant said they have demanded action by the Economic Offences Wing with regard to use of the DTH platform as Republic operates from Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/republic-illegally-used-doordarshans-dth-platform-says-congress/articleshow/80356044.cms||---
January 20, 2021||India||‘Ex-CEO of BARC can use influence if he’s granted bail’||MUMBAI: During arguments on former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta’s bail plea before a sessions court on Tuesday, the defence submitted that so far, no possible person who could be deceived by the alleged TRP manipulation -- advertisers, channels or broadcasters -- had filed a complaint of cheating or criminal breach of trust. Dasgupta’s lawyers pointed to the prosecution’s arguments that TRPs were allegedly manipulated to get more revenue from advertisements, which is a Rs 32,000 crore industry. “This argument presumes, without any evidence, that advertisers base their advertisement expenses on TRP. Even going by that assumption, advertisers are not naive persons – they are fully aware that TRP is based on only 44,000 barometers, that is, sample data of 0.0003% of the total Indian population,” defence advocate Shardul Singh, who appeared along with Arjun Singh Thakur, said. Dasgupta is accused of misusing his official position and conniving with ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd and Arnab Goswami to manipulate TRPs and bring Republic TV to the No. 1 position. The supplementary chargesheet states that Dasgupta received a huge kickback from Republic TV from which he brought jewellery and other valuables. He was arrested in the TRP manipulation case on December 24. Read AlsoSurvey at least 5 lakh homes to rate viewership, stop rigging: PanelNEW DELHI: Amid the raging controversy over the alleged manipulation of TV viewership figures, a four-member government-appointed committee to strengthen the TRP ratings system has said at least 5-lakh homes should be sampled against the existing 50,000 to ascertain viewership data and to ensure theThe prosecution opposed the bail plea and cited the WhatsApp chats between Goswami and Dasgupta, in which the former assured him of help from the government. The prosecution said this showed their proximity. It said there was a possibility of Dasgupta using his influence if granted bail. The court is likely to pronounce its order on the bail plea on Wednesday. After his bail plea was rejected by the magistrate court on January 4, his lawyers moved the sessions court. Read AlsoRepublic illegally used Doordarshan’s DTH platform, says CongressMUMBAI: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday said that the state government will be seeking legal opinion on whether action can be taken against Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami under the Official Secrets Act, 1923, for leaking sensitive information in purported chats with former BARC CEODasgupta’s defence lawyers cited his health issues and admission to JJ Hospital’s ICU last week. They said the doctors had indicated to the family that Dasgupta had developed “diabetic ketoacidosis,” which is known to cause life-threatening diabetic coma. The defence said that keeping him in jail might lead to recurrence. During arguments, the defence also said the prosecution’s submission that as CEO, Dasgupta was running BARC was incorrect. “The highest body of BARC is its board – the applicant (Dasgupta) was not the member of the board – applicant was only an employee who resigned in November 2019. Allegation is all post that,” the defence said. The defence also said the jewellery, watches, etc. cited by the prosecution are legally and officially accounted for. The defence also said that while the prosecution had effectively said that Dasgupta had breached guidelines issued by TRAI, they did not have statutory force. “They (guidelines) are not act or rules made by the Parliament or state legislature. Therefore, no question of any crime guidelines or no question of legislative wisdom,” the defence said. It said Dasgupta was not a flight risk and had no influence in BARC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ex-ceo-of-barc-can-use-influence-if-hes-granted-bail/articleshow/80356069.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 20, 2021||World||Germany extends, tightens partial lockdown to mid-February, says Merkel||BERLIN: Germany extended and toughened a partial lockdown to February 14, Chancellor Angela Merkel said Tuesday, in a bid to halt coronavirus transmission and prevent virus variants believed to be more contagious from propagating in the country. Companies are asked to allow workers to work from home in order to reduce traffic on public transport. Medical masks -- that is surgical or the higher protection FFP2 masks -- are also required in public transport or essential shops such as supermarkets which have been allowed to stay open. Schools, non-essential shops, restaurants, leisure and sporting facilities will remain closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/germany-extends-tightens-partial-lockdown-to-mid-february-says-merkel/articleshow/80356083.cms||---
January 20, 2021||India||Survey at least 5 lakh homes to rate viewership, stop rigging: Panel||NEW DELHI: Amid the raging controversy over the alleged manipulation of TV viewership figures, a four-member government-appointed committee to strengthen the TRP ratings system has said at least 5-lakh homes should be sampled against the existing 50,000 to ascertain viewership data and to ensure the ratings system is not manipulated. Read AlsoArnab Goswami &amp; ex-BARC CEO chats go viralThe chats document a constant flow of communication between Dasgupta and Goswami and chats between former BARC’s chief operating officer Romil Ramgarhia and Republic TV CEO Vikas Khanchandani. Dasgupta is in judicial custody, while Ramgarhia and Khanchandani are out on bail.Read AlsoRepublic illegally used Doordarshan’s DTH platform, says CongressMUMBAI: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday said that the state government will be seeking legal opinion on whether action can be taken against Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami under the Official Secrets Act, 1923, for leaking sensitive information in purported chats with former BARC CEOThe recommendations, submitted to the government last week, also emphasise the need to increase the footprints of the sample survey to cover more rural parts as well as increase coverage in hitherto untapped regions. Read AlsoNCP demands JPC on purported chats between Goswami, DasguptaThe Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Monday asked the government to set up a Joint Parliamentary Committee to probe the purported chats between Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and former Broadcast Audience Research Council head Partho Dasgupta.Read AlsoWhatsApp chats prove Arnab Goswami-ex-BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta collusion to rig ratings, says NBAThe NBA said that the collusion between Goswami and Dasgupta had led to Republic TV’s viewership numbers being boosted while “fraudulently manually reducing ratings of other channels”. It demanded that BARC make a “a clear statement about the veracity of its ratings” in the period under audit and“A state like Jammu & Kashmir, and some regions of the northeast, for instance, did not have any barometres to measure TRPs. With the sampling being largely city-centric, the current ratings mechanism does not give a true picture of viewership habits in India. This needs to change,” a top ministry source said. Read Also‘Ex-CEO of BARC can use influence if he’s granted bail’During arguments on former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta’s bail plea before a sessions court on Tuesday, the defence submitted that so far, no possible person who could be deceived by the alleged TRP manipulation -- advertisers, channels or broadcasters -- had filed a complaint of cheating or criminalRead AlsoTRP scam: Shock, outrage on social media over Arnab Goswami and ex-BARC CEO's WhatsApp chatsNEW DELHI: The leaked WhatsApp conversations between Republic TV executive editor Arnab Goswami and former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) Partho Dasgupta has brought to the fore evidence of alleged collusion to influence TV ratings. The purported WhatsApp conversations between theThe official also said the government is likely to look at technological solutions to universalise samples and also take into account ‘TV on mobile’, the new platform through which a large number of viewers are now accessing content. Read AlsoPakistan PM angry over reports Arnab Goswami knew about Balakot strikeImran Khan took to Twitter to respond to Indian media reports of an exchange on the WhatsApp messaging service between popular Indian TV anchor Arnab Goswami and Partho Dasgupta, the former head of a TV rating company.The committee headed by Prasar Bharati chief executive Shashi Shekhar Vempati was appointed by the government to review the ‘Guidelines on Television Rating Agencies in India’ in November last year. Read AlsoCongress leaders demand JPC probe into Arnab Goswami’s WhatsApp chatsCongress leaders have asked the government to institute a JPC inquiry into the ‘Chatgate’ involving Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami and former BARC head Partho Dasgupta, contending that there was evidence that he was privy to the Balakot air strikes that were “planned” by the BJP regime purely withUnion I&B minister Prakash Javadekar, while receiving the report, had said the ministry will study its recommendations and may send some guidelines and directions to the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) on the ratings system. Arnab Goswami, Partho Dasgupta nexus exposed in whatsapp chat:Full detailsBARC had imposed a three-month pause on rating individual news channels in October last year after a “TRP scam” was unearthed by Mumbai police. It had said it would utilise the time to augment current standards of measuring and reporting data. However, it has not resumed issuing fresh ratings following the expiry of the three-month period on January 15. When contacted, a BARC spokesperson said, “The review with the tech committee is ongoing and we will intimate our stakeholders and media at the appropriate time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/survey-at-least-5-lakh-homes-to-rate-viewership-stop-rigging-panel/articleshow/80356179.cms||Swati Mathur
January 20, 2021||Bengaluru||Rs 74 lakh seized from customs officer, wife at Bengaluru airport||BENGALURU: A high drama ensued at Bengaluru’s Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) on Tuesday morning when an off-duty customs officer flying to Lucknow refused to open his cabin luggage for security check and amid his altercation with the CISF personnel, his wife, who was in the queue for frisking, suddenly ran to the restroom complaining of dizziness. It was subsequently found that the officer was carrying Rs 74 lakh unaccounted cash and expensive gadgets and jewellery and his wife had hidden Rs 10 lakh cash and two iPhones in an airport bathroom to evade the authorities. KIA sources said the incident unfolded around 9.30am when the man, identified as Mohammed Irfan Ahmed, 35, a customs superintendent posted in Chennai with 11 years’ experience, and his wife Mumtaz Tahzeem, were attempting to clear security check to fly to Lucknow. CISF officers on duty spotted something unusual inside his handbag and attempted to physically inspect it, but he refused to cooperate. He tried to use his official position to wriggle out of the formality, but the officers did not budge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rs-74-lakh-seized-from-customs-officer-wife-at-airport/articleshow/80356186.cms||Petlee Peter
January 20, 2021||India||IBC tweaks valid, says Supreme Court, rejects homebuyers’ plea||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday upheld the amendments in Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) under which it has been made mandatory that a minimum 100 or 10% of the total home-buyers of a project were needed to initiate insolvency proceedings against a builder for not delivering flats or commercial shops on time. A bench of Justices R F Nariman, K M Joseph and Navin Sinha ruled that the amendment in the law is valid and there was no illegality. The court dismissed a batch of petitions filed by homebuyers from across the country questioning the validity of the amendment. After the homebuyer was brought within the ambit of financial creditors under IBC, insolvency proceedings could be triggered off by even one aggrieved buyer. It was alleged that the law could be misused and even one aggrieved homebuyer could initiate insolvency proceedings which could affect the interest of other homebuyers. The law thereafter was changed and Sections 3, 4 and 10 were amended. Approving the new law, the court said, “It is, as if, the legislature intended to apply its brakes in the form of asking the applicants to obtain the consensus of a minimum number of similar stakeholders, before the applications could be further processed.” The bench also upheld the validity of Section 32A of IBC as per which the liability of a corporate debtor for an offence committed prior to the commencement of the corporate insolvency resolution process shall cease, and the corporate debtor shall not be prosecuted for such an offence from the date the resolution plan has been approved by the Adjudicating Authority under Section 31. “The boundaries of this court’s jurisdiction are clear. The wisdom of the legislation is not open to judicial review. Having regard to the object of the Code... the interests of all stakeholders including the imperative need to attract resolution applicants who would not shy away from offering reasonable value as part of the resolution plan if the legislature thought that immunity be granted to the corporate debtor as also its property, it hardly furnishes a ground for this court to interfere,” the bench said. “The provision is carefully thought out. It is not as if the wrongdoers are allowed to get away,” it said in its 465-page verdict.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ibc-tweaks-valid-says-supreme-court-rejects-homebuyers-plea/articleshow/80356205.cms||---
January 20, 2021||India||Panchayat casts out man for conversion||BIJNOR: A man in a village in UP’s Bijnor has been excommunicated by the village panchayat for allegedly converting to Christianity recently. The panchayat was held on Monday. According to villagers, spiritual discourse is conducted in the house of one Param Singh Saini every Sunday by some members of the Christian community. Villagers have objected to it, but Saini announced himself as a Christian Village head Satish Kumar said, “We tried to make him understand that changing religion is not good, but he was obstinate and did not change his mind. Villagers then decided to boycott him socially.” Police said they probing the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/panchayat-casts-out-man-for-conversion/articleshow/80356247.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 20, 2021||India||Covid-19: India sees 13.8k cases, 45% of them in Kerala||NEW DELHI: Kerala accounted for nearly 45% of the all fresh cases recorded in the country on Tuesday. The state reported 6,186 positive cases, the second highest single-day count in January, while 13,821 fresh infections were detected in the country. Meanwhile, for the first time since June 26 last year, the count of active cases in the country fell below the 2 lakh mark on Tuesday, as most states continued to report more recoveries than new infections. Kerala and Maharashtra, where 2,294 new cases were recorded, together contributed more than 61% of India’s case count on Tuesday. Maharashtra's tally, however, has decreased in the past few days whereas the pandemic continues to rage in Kerala. The test positivity rate in Kerala stood at 9.34%, the state government said while the count of active cases crossed 70,000 as the state saw 4,296 recoveries. There were 160 deaths from the virus on Tuesday, higher than the toll in the previous two days, when 145 and 131 fatalities were recorded. Maharashtra continued to report the highest number of deaths at 50, followed by Kerala (26), Bengal (11), Delhi and Chhattisgarh (both 10). Kerala and Maharashtra were the only two states to report fresh cases in four figures on Tuesday. Karnataka had the third highest case count at 645, followed by Tamil Nadu (543), Gujarat (485) and Bengal (412). In all these states, however, the pandemic appears to be on the wane, with daily numbers on the decline. A day after recording the lowest cases in over 250 days, Maharashtra and Mumbai saw a marginal increase in daily Covid-19 cases. Mumbai reported 473 cases and eight fatalities. With this, the total cases in the city were 3,03,625 and the total fatalities stood at 11,259. On Tuesday, there were less than 50,000 active cases in Maharashtra. The Centre again highlighted that Maharashtra had the second highest active cases in India after Kerala. Delhi continued to report a decline in cases with 231 new infections and 10 deaths in the city on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-india-sees-13-8k-cases-45-of-them-in-kerala/articleshow/80356258.cms||---
January 20, 2021||India||No consensus at WTO on IP waiver for Covid-19 vaccine||MUMBAI: World Trade Organisation (WTO) members took up the “game changing” waiver proposal submitted jointly by India and South Africa at the TRIPS Council even as opposition from rich countries continued, leading to no consensus. The members on Tuesday agreed on continued consideration of the proposal but made clear they remain far from reaching a consensus, sources told TOI. While there was no indication of changes in their well-known positions at the informal meeting of the TRIPS Council held Tuesday, some 30 members engaged in advancing the discussion and extensively exchanged views on this issue after the series of meetings held since the proposal was initially submitted on October 2 last year. The proposal seeking waiver of intellectual property (IP) on Covid-19 drugs and vaccines has huge implications for developing countries which are finding it tough to access life-saving Covid-19 vaccines. Rich countries have cut huge deals, monopolising the global supply of vaccines, posing a serious risk to equitable access for the world’s poorest and most vulnerable, with the world “on the brink of a catastrophic moral failure”. The intellectual property (IP) waiver would allow all countries to choose to neither grant nor enforce patents and other IPs related to Covid-19 drugs, vaccines, diagnostics and other technologies for the duration of the pandemic, until global herd immunity is achieved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-consensus-at-wto-on-ip-waiver-for-covid-19-vaccine/articleshow/80356272.cms||---
January 20, 2021||World||Biden State pick to review Yemen Huthi terrorist label 'immediately'||WASHINGTON: President-elect Joe Biden's pick to be secretary of state, Antony Blinken, said on Tuesday that he would quickly revisit the outgoing administration's designation of Yemen's Huthi rebels as terrorists, fearing it could make the humanitarian crisis there far worse. "We would propose to review that immediately to make sure that what we're doing is not impeding the provision of humanitarian assistance," Blinken said at his confirmation hearing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Outgoing US President Donald Trump's administration announced the last-ditch move on January 11, nine days before Biden takes over on Wednesday. The United Nations and aid groups warned it risks worsening an already dire humanitarian crisis. The Iran-backed Huthis are facing a bloody offensive led by US ally Saudi Arabia, with millions in the country depending on aid to survive. The Huthis, who control much of the north of the war-ravaged country, warned Tuesday they would respond to any action against them following their US classification as "terrorists." "We are ready to take all necessary measures against any hostile act," they said in a statement. The designation is expected to halt many transactions with Huthi authorities, including bank transfers and payments to medical personnel and for food and fuel, due to fears of US prosecution. Stephane Dujarric, spokesman for UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres, called on the United States to reverse the move. "Our position on this has not changed," Dujarric said. "We call on the government to reverse that decision." "Our concern from the beginning, that we expressed very clearly, is the impact on the commercial sector," he said. "The vast majority of food and other basic supplies that comes into Yemen comes in through the commercial sector."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-state-pick-to-review-yemen-huthi-terrorist-label-immediately/articleshow/80356281.cms||---
January 20, 2021||India||China’s close ally Cambodia seeks Indian vaccine donation||NEW DELHI: One of Beijing’s closest allies in the region, Cambodia, is looking at India for Covid-19 vaccines. Days after receiving a million vaccine doses from China in donation, Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen himself sought a similar donation from India saying Chinese vaccines won’t be enough for the southeast Asian country. The Cambodian Prime Minister congratulated India for launching what has been described as the world’s largest vaccination drive, while making the point in a meeting with Indian ambassador Devyani Khobragade that Cambodia required millions of doses even after the Chinese donation. While Hun Sen had earlier declared that Cambodia would only use WHO-certified vaccine, he later accepted Beijing’s donation of a million doses of China’s Sinopharm vaccine citing the urgency of the situation. China alone though can only meet a fraction of Cambodia’s need for vaccines as the Asean nation seeks inoculation of 70-80 per cent of its total population of 16 million. Cambodia is seen as China’s staunch ally within Asean, as a country which aligns with Beijing on all major foreign policy issues and promotes China’s strategic interests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chinas-close-ally-cambodia-seeks-indian-vaccine-donation/articleshow/80356321.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Business||Covid hits savings for kids’ education||MUMBAI: The pandemic has caused major change of priorities for urban Indians as far as their savings are concerned. People are saving less for marriages, kids’ education or for small luxuries like cars and vacations. They are setting aside more for retirement, health and untimely death of the breadwinner. According to an annual survey conducted by Max Life, the awareness and actual purchase of insurance by households has jumped during the last one year. But there is a general feeling of being less secure than before, thanks to the fallout of the pandemic. “The overall protection quotient has gone up as Indians are more aware of insurance protection. Life insurance ownership has gone up 5 percentage points to 71% (among respondents), but the percentage of respondents feeling secure has come down from 60% to 57%,” said Max Life Insurance CEO Prashant Tripathy. He added that this lower level of security was after a vaccine being available, but was understandable given the pain and hardship caused by the pandemic. The survey brought out that insecurity is higher among millennials as compared to non-millennials. According to Tripathy, this was because they were not as settled in their careers as older people. Besides buying more term insurance than last year, the number of respondents having a critical illness cover doubled too. One of the key findings of the survey is that the self-employed have for the first time overtaken salaried in ownership of term insurance. As against last year when 28% salaried and 26% self-employed owned health covers, this year the ratio was 24% and 31% respectively. Going by geography, North India recorded the highest drop in level of feeling of security. As against 68% respondents who felt secure last year, this year it was only 61%. The West actually saw the feeling of security marginally improve from 53% to 54%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-hits-savings-for-kids-edu/articleshow/80354563.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Patna||Katihar DM asks COs to identify land for landless||KATIHAR: The Katihar district administration has expedited the process of providing land to the beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) and deadline for the same has also been fixed. Circle officers (COs) have been directed to identify land for distribution among the landless. Katihar DM Kanwal Tanuj on Tuesday said: “We have launched a special drive in the district for identifying lands for the landless and the displaced. At least 6,000 beneficiaries have been screened under the scheme, out of which 1,000 have already been allocated land. Out of the remaining 5,000 beneficiaries, around 3,000 are staying on government land, while some are staying on private lands. They will be provided Baasgeet purcha (land certificate).” Tanuj also said, “Some people, who were displaced due to floods and staying on lands which have been acquired about two decades ago, will also be allotted lands under the PMAY scheme.” He added: “Around 240 persons were given Baasgeet purchas, besides government land has been identified for distribution among such people. At least 330 have been identified as displaced and COs have been given instructions to complete the task by January 31,” The DM said that cases of at least 930 landless people have been settled under the PMAY. “Apart from this, for 1,650 displaced people living on embankments or roadside, officials have been asked to find suitable land for them,” Tanuj said. “We have also identified 176 people living on the same chunk of land under the Manihari block of the district, for allotment of land under the PMAY. “Though, they are staying on a private land and its owner has shown interest to dispose of the land to the government, negotiation for which is going on. Financial assistance of Rs 60,000 is also provided to the beneficiaries to construct houses under the PMAY.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/katihar-dm-asks-cos-to-identify-land-for-landless/articleshow/80352307.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Patna||Met: Cold day conditions likely in some parts of Bihar for next 3 days||PATNA: Cold day to severe cold day conditions are very likely at isolated places in Bihar over the next three days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) stated on Tuesday. Moderate to dense fog is also expected at most places in the state over the next couple of days. Dehri recorded the lowest minimum temperature at 5 degrees Celsius on Tuesday morning while the minimum temperature at Patna and Gaya stood at 9.4 and 7.6 degrees C respectively. As per the Patna weather bulletin, districts in south-west and south-central Bihar, including Buxar, Bhojpur, Rohtas, Jehanabad, Patna and Gaya, are expected to be colder than rest of the state over the next two days. The minimum temperature is expected to be in the range of 6-9 digress C, while the maximum is likely to be around 17-20 degrees C in the south-west and central parts of the state on Wednesday and Thursday. As per the IMD norms, cold day condition is declared when minimum temperature touches 10 degrees C or low and there is a departure of 4.5-6.4 degrees C in maximum temperature on two consecutive days. However, there was slight respite from biting cold with fog dissipating in the afternoon hours, paving way for Sunlight. Accordingly, the maximum temperature at Patna surged from 15.2 degrees C on Monday to 20.6 degrees C on Tuesday. Gaya and Bhagalpur too recorded maximum temperature at 22.2 and 21.5 degrees C, respectively. Dense fog was witnessed at Patna, Gaya, Bhagalpur and Purnea and many other places since Monday night till Tuesday morning. The visibility was 200 metres or less at several places, including Patna, Purnea, Bhagalpur, Supaul and Gaya. “The visibility was at its lowest owing to the dense fog from Monday night to Tuesday morning owing to dense fog. This was due to moisture feeding from the Bay of Bengal via Sikkim for the last two days, but it is gradually reducing,” said Amit Sinha, an officer at Patna Meteorological Centre. He said cold and dry northwesterly winds are strengthening in the region. “Accordingly, no significant drop in minimum temperature is expected in eastern parts of the state, but it may plunge in rest of the state,” Amit said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/met-cold-day-conditions-likely-in-some-parts-of-bihar-for-next-3-days/articleshow/80352699.cms||Piyush Tripathi
January 20, 2021||Business||Cos can halve ‘busyness’ by reducing needless meetings||By Prabir JhaAs yet another year picks its momentum, a question that worries me about many firms is the ‘Busyness Quotient’ (not business) in their culture. As I understand their organisational challenges, I am amazed to hear of how busy everyone is. Being busy with the right things is a wonderful thing. And yet most people complain of being busy with so many other things. And are engaged, more than what is optimal, with even the right things. And we all know what too many chefs do to the broth. So much so that busyness has become a cultural scourge in companies — impacting health, morale and, most importantly, the business itself. Firms have often created their own busyness, beyond scale-up opportunities, cyclical pressures and, sometimes, raw passion. Let me try and share the key themes I see and help companies and individuals get to work to be more efficient and effective: * Poor organisational design: In many organisations, matrix or otherwise, there is plenty of overlap in roles — both horizontally and vertically. Lack of clarity in accountability, responsibility and ownership is a muddle that keeps everyone humming. But not always does all that busyness add up. Often, activities create more alibis, missed opportunities and thanklessness. In many workplaces, there is a huge need to redraw their structures, which in many cases have their roots more in history than contemporary needs. Who really needs to deliver what together with whom and by when is not all that complex. But our silos, structures and boxes can make sure of plenty of activity, but less substantive outcomes. And of course, everyone then needs the obvious — more people. And the circus continues. Almost always, I find client companies need to simplify their architecture. * Quality of talent: Equally, I find many companies struggling but not shying away from mediocre talent. It is about inadequate skills, expertise, experience and perspective. The inability to call out overgrown but often anachronistic talent encourages the habit of long endless hours. Getting the wrong guys in the job push longer hours. The unwillingness to push back, prioritise or say ‘no’ is part inability, part wilful. Some see it as commitment and loyalty. But it breeds inefficiency. And in times of intense competition, this sense of busyness is not even reasonable bravado. An honest talent scrub can bring order in the hours, not just intensify the misplaced noise. * Poor managers: Even if the structure and talent pass muster, several institutions are plagued with poor managerial capability. Many have truly risen to levels of incompetence, preferring to do a job two levels lower than where they are. Several firms have not even invested adequately in helping prepare them for managerial responsibilities. They have preferred to promote to fence-in their good individual contributors, who continue with the same work habits. They get away continuing to do long hours at jobs that indeed are not theirs, rather than getting things done. Poor talent-picking, excessive micromanagement, sub-par delegation capability, low trust among team members and mediocre review methods are very common issues with many managers. Hence, not only do they slave their long hours, they enjoy seeing their teams busy, even if nothing of value is getting created. They truly value time getting stretched by their teams, not sharper closures. Insecure managers will also prefer being anywhere and everywhere, to be seen by the powers that be. At times they are not even fully aware of the brief and often they may be seen as not sharing visibility with those who have done it. This sets off disengagement and attrition of the best and the long hours get longer for those who remain. * Leadership practices: Many organisational habits, including long slavish hours, reflect the challenges with leadership philosophy. Several top bosses love overflowing rooms at reviews. Many don’t stick to the agenda or time. As one leader once shared, if he does not discuss for at least 50% more time than scheduled and an agenda beyond what is listed, people will not think he was good enough! Most companies are guilty of too many meetings, and of poor quality at that. Many seniors also have a clutch of people walking in to assist them, though remaining mostly silent. No wonder hours are wasted where not everyone adds any value. But surely many are busy, across levels of meetings. And preparation for these meetings and calls often involve more effort than the main task itself. I believe we can reduce busyness by half by just eliminating the number of meetings and its attendant upstream preparedness. * Culture creates busyness: Ultimately, organisations become what they celebrate. If it is long hours, intruded weekends, meandering meetings — that is the culture that spreads across companies, from the board down. I am amazed that no one sees the disengagement on the faces of so many. You don’t need to solve for productivity challenges when your culture creates it by default. Late sittings and long hours rather than smart work gets gamed. And, finally, the system caves in — each one play-acting to be a culture-fit and please the system. Smarter workflows, technology enablement, sharper accountabilities, rewarding a new set of behaviour and holding leadership to a higher standard of inspiration & behaviour is what will strategically fight the curse of busyness. Hiring and empowering better talent is a paradigm of value-add beyond a sub-optimal cost mindset. Companies have so much to gain if they just got less busy and more honest about going faster. This year on, let’s measure our success not in the hours that we clock, but more in what our hours clock for us. (The writer is the founder & CEO, Prabir Jha People Advisory)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-can-halve-busyness-by-reducing-needless-meetings/articleshow/80354226.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Madurai||Madurai MP slams unplanned smart city works at meet||Madurai:The first meeting of the Smart City advisory committee for Madurai held on Tuesday highlighted the non-participation of people and elected representatives as drawbacks in the implementation of the smart city programme.The committee has district collector T Anbazhagan as chairman and the MP as co-chairman. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Madurai MP Su Venkatesan said that the Union government had chalked out rules and regulations clearly before implementing the smart city programme. “It has been specified that the advisory committee should be convened at least thrice a year, but it had not been convened even once in the last four years.”He said that it was the failure of the AIADMK government that eight out of the ten smart city programmes implemented in the state at a cost of nearly Rs10,000 crore did not have chief executive officers to head the programme. “Instead, the corporation commissioners in the capacity of special officers are burdened by the smart city works,” he said.Almost all the smart city works in Madurai were implemented in an arbitrary manner without consulting people or the traders who were the beneficiaries of the programme. The roads were dug up around the temple, and the Periyar bus stand project is going to add to the congestion in the city, he said. “It is disheartening that Madurai’s air quality in the last few days is worse than that of Chennai. The unplanned smart city work is one of the major reasons,” said Venkatesan. The committee has specified to the implementing authorities to reduce the number of shops at the Periyar bus stand by one third to reduce congestion.Madurai Central MLA P T R Palanivel Thiagarajan said that like the district development coordination and monitoring committee (DISHA), this committee too had not been convened because as an MLA he had not been aware of it. Corporation commissioner S Visakan said that measures would be taken to address the issues raised by the committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-mp-slams-unplanned-smart-city-works-at-meet/articleshow/80355018.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Patna||Flight ops at Patna airport hit due to dense fog||PATNA: As low visibility conditions continue to disrupt schedule at the Patna airport, two flights each of IndiGo and SpiceJet could not take off due to fog late on Monday evening. On Tuesday, the first flight landed at 11.58 am, owing to poor visibility. With the minimum runway visual range visibility dropping below 500m at 9 pm on Monday, SpiceJet’s SG 768 Bengaluru to Patna was diverted to Kolkata first, however, it reached Patna at 9.45 but the flight (SG-767) could not take off for Bengaluru, forcing its passengers to spend the night at the airport. IndiGo’s flight 6E- 5373 Mumbai-Patna also failed to operate due to bad weather. Both flights left the city for its destination on late Tuesday afternoon. Irked by the cancellation, several flyers vented their anger on social media. One flyer Siddharth wrote on Twitter, “Extremely chaotic situation at Patna Airport. Now SG 767 has been called cancelled. No alternate solution provided by the airlines (sic).” Another flyer, Rahul Kumar, who hails from Jehanabad said he spent the night at Patna airport as he got no accommodation in Patna. “No arrangement was made by SpiceJet for the passengers. The IndiGo airlines provided a facility to stay for their passengers, but we were left on our own to deal with the situation as if it was our fault. The flight departed on Tuesday at 1 pm for Bengaluru,” he complained. The airport’s deputy general manager (air traffic management), Santosh Kumar said two flights were diverted on Monday due to fog while the flight operations were also affected on Tuesday morning owing to poor visibility. According to weathermen at the Patna Meteorological Centre, the minimum visibility dropped to 50metre at 8.30 am while it was around 500m at 10 am and 600m at 11 am on Tuesday. “The required RVR visibility of 1,000m (800m general visibility) was achieved after 11.30 am and the flight operations started at 11.50 am,” a weatherman Kamal Singh Gupta said. IndiGo’s 6E- 345 between Bengaluru and Patna was the first flight that arrived at the city airport at 11.58 am, which was supposed to reach at 11.35 am. While six flights before 6E-345 were re-scheduled and landed after 12.30 pm. According to airport sources, altogether 27 flights out of 43 were delayed due to bad weather in Patna, some flights encountered minor delays. Total 11 flights suffered more than two hours delay including SpiceJet’s SG- 8741 from Delhi, which landed at Patna airport at 2.41 pm, which was scheduled to reach for 8.20 am. The other flights include seven of SpiceJet (Guwahati, Chennai, Mumbai-2, Pune, Amritsar and Hyderabad) two each of IndiGo (Mumbai and Delhi) and GoAir (Delhi). Around 12 flights got delayed by one hour. The delay of arriving flights led to bunching of aircraft affecting their departures and the other scheduled flights as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/flight-ops-at-patna-airport-hit-due-to-dense-fog/articleshow/80352764.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 20, 2021||Business||Sebamed vs HUL: HC says no fault in ad||TNN Mumbai: As the war of the soap ads progressed to another round before the Bombay high court, both manufacturers caught a whiff of victory. Sebamed soap’s maker came out feeling fresher as the Bombay high court found “nothing disparaging” in its banner, which “only reflects” that it is better than Dove soap, made by Hindustan Unilever (HUL). In some reprieve for HUL, too, the HC directed USV to drop the reference to Lux and Pears, to Rin or any other detergent bar in its ads. Justice B P Colabawalla said the advertising by USV comparing Lux and Pears to a washing detergent and its pH levels “not only disparages and belittles plaintiff’s (HUL’s) soaps but misleads the public” into believing that they are “as harsh on your skin as a washing detergent”. The Judge said it “cannot be permitted as pH level is not the sole determinant for a soap’s mildness”. But the HC said, if the reference to Rin is dropped, the ads can still be aired. On January 11, Justice Colabawalla had in urgent ex parte orders fully restrained the “disparaging” advertising by USV of its portrayal of HUL’s well-known soaps — Lux, Pears, Dove and its detergent soap Rin. After USV filed its application and pointed to a caveat it had filed, the HC vacated its January 11 order and heard the matter afresh on January 12-13 and passed its detailed 41-page interim orders on Tuesday. The HC allowed, without any changes, the advertisement titled ‘Doodh Jaise safed soap ka sach’ comparing Sebamed with Dove. The HC said in USV’s other ads comparing Sebamed with Lux and Pears, it is “allowed to air and/or display the two advertisements without any reference to the Rin detergent bar or any other (washing) detergent soap”. They can be aired in a modified form and similarly hoardings and any online adverts by USV too must drop the detergent reference when comparing Lux or Pears, said the HC. Virag Tulzapurkar, appearing for HUL objected to USV using pH levels in its ads as they were misleading the viewers. Senior counsel Venkatesh Dhond, for USV, said the company would replace the words ‘safe’ and ‘not safe’ in its website to ‘ideal’ and ‘not ideal’ when referring to pH scale for soap. The HC accepted Dhond’s statement as an “undertaking” and directed the changes be made. USV’s advocate Rohan Kadam on Tuesday sought a stay of the order, but the HC said USV cannot be allowed to continue to advertise “in a manner which disparages” the HUL products. However, Justice Colabawalla gave USV 10 days “to pull down any physical hoardings and modify them to ensure compliance” with its order. The HC posted the matter to March 16 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebamed-vs-hul-hc-says-no-fault-in-ad/articleshow/80354489.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Patna||Driver dies as tanker falls into water body||PATNA: A tanker carrying 12,000 litres of diesel fell into a water body, causing oil spill near Gandar village under the Taraiyya police station area in Saran district on Tuesday. The driver of the tanker, Anil Kumar (30), died in the accident. His body remained trapped in the tanker at the time of going to press. A heavy-lift equipment sent by the National Highways Authority of India failed to pull out the loaded tanker. Diesel was leaking continuously from the tanker. A fire tender was also rushed to the spot to meet any exigency. SHO of Taraiyya police station Rajesh Kumar said the Anil was a resident of Parsauna village under the Parsa police station area in Saran. “His co-driver, Mohammad Rashid (25), was rescued and rushed to the hospital,” the SHO said. Assistant sub-inspector Sumant Kumar said Indian Oil authorities have also reached the spot. Saran DM Nilesh Ramchandra Deore said he has requested the project director of NHAI to send heavy-lift crane to the site to pull out the tanker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/driver-dies-as-tanker-falls-into-water-body/articleshow/80352329.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Patna||Panchayat polls: BJP forms teams in districts||PATNA: The BJP has decided to set up a five-member committee in each district to select the candidates for the upcoming panchayat elections to be held in April-May. According to sources in the party, the members of the committee will suggest the names of the contestants for the six posts of ward member, gram panchayat, panch, sarpanch, mukhiya, panchayat samiti member and district board member. Though panchayat elections in the state are not held on party lines, the exercise is aimed at strengthening the support base of the party at the grassroots level. The district presidents have been asked to prepare the list of the candidates keeping reservations in mind. Meanwhile, the state election commission asked all the district magistrates not to set up polling booths in old and dilapidated buildings. Besides, no polling station will be located in a radius of 100 metres from the residential premises of the mukhiyas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/panchayat-polls-bjp-forms-teams-in-districts/articleshow/80352930.cms||Ramashankar
January 20, 2021||Patna||Nab killers of IndiGo official without delay, Nitish Kumar tells DGP||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday sought an update from DGP Sanjeev Kumar Singhal on the progress the police have so far made in its investigations into the murder of IndiGo’s station manager at Patna airport Rupesh Kumar Singh, who was shot dead in front of Kusum Vilas apartment at Punaichak in Patna on January 12. The CM, who was chairing a high-level meeting, asked the DGP to crack the murder case early and ensure arrest of those involved in the crime. Nitish also asked the DGP to ensure quick action against criminals in other cases pending in districts. “Police must act sternly against criminals. Any inaction on the part of the police will not be tolerated,” the CM said. Meanwhile, the DGP told reporters after coming out of the meeting that according to preliminary investigations, a dispute over award of tender for parking at the airport led to Rupesh’s murder. “More investigation is required to crack the case and arrest criminals,” he said. The DGP denied any smuggling angle in the murder. On Monday, a senior IPS officer involved in the investigation had also told TOI that police are probing Rupesh murder case from several angles, including dispute over parking at airport. “Three contractors are handling parking at the airport. They have already been interrogated,” the senior IPS officer had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nab-killers-of-indigo-official-without-delay-nitish-tells-dgp/articleshow/80352866.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 20, 2021||Patna||Covid testing crosses 2-crore mark in Bihar||PATNA: The Covid testing figures in Bihar cross the 2-crore mark on Tuesday as the health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted in the evening that the corresponding figure stood at 2,00,63,688. The 24-hour testing figure stood at 88,650. Meanwhile, altogether 189 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Bihar on Tuesday, taking the corresponding tally up to 2,59,071. Active cases of Covid-19, on the other hand, stood at mere 3,102 with a whopping 2,54,508 recovered patients to date. As per the daily Covid bulletin issued by the state health department, one person died in the past 24 hours. However, three deaths were also reported by the AIIMS-Patna on Tuesday. The deceased persons included one each from Patna, Bhojpur and Chhapra. No death was reported at the NMCH, Patna. However, four new patients each were admitted at NMCH as well as AIIMS- Patna. Of the 189 fresh Covid cases reported in the past 24 hours, the highest number of 63 cases was reported from Patna. Among other districts, 12 cases were reported from Saran, and 10 cases each from Begusarai, Muzaffarpur and Vaishali. Meanwhile, altogether 595 people recovered from the infection in the past 24 hours, taking the tally for cured persons in the state to 2,54,508. With new cases and discharged patients, Bihar’s recovery rate improved to 98.24% as on Tuesday evening, which was 1.58 % higher than the national average of 96.66%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-testing-crosses-2-crore-mark-in-bihar/articleshow/80352717.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Patna||Only 50% beneficiaries turn up for Covid vaccination on Day 3||PATNA/BIHARSHARIF: Only 50.1% of the healthcare workers registered for vaccination on the third day turned up at their respective centres to get the shots on Tuesday, marking almost 11% fall in turnout compared to 62% coverage on the inaugural day of the inoculation drive against Covid-19 on Saturday and 51.2% on the second day on Monday. Only 14,013 out of the 27,987 beneficiaries registered on CoWIN app for vaccination on third day received the shots at 298 centres in the state on Tuesday as the remaining 13,974 either did not turn up or refused to take the vaccine, according to the health department. So far, 47,402 healthcare workers have got their first dose of vaccines — 46,568 of Covishield and 834 of indigenous Covaxin. On Tuesday, 13,727 beneficiaries got Covishield shots and 286 of Covaxin. Total 1,490 people have been deployed by the health department to oversee the vaccination drive at the 298 selected centres. The drive will be undertaken only on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. In Patna district, overall 52% of the registered beneficiaries got their first dose on the third day. According to the district administration data, total 2,551 beneficiaries got vaccinated against 4,368 registered at 17 sites. The maximum coverage was at AIIMS-Patna where 280 got vaccinated against the target of 300. Guru Gobind Singh Hospital in Patna City had the lowest turnout in the district as only 68 people got vaccinated against 262 registered for Tuesday. The state government had identified 4.7 lakh beneficiaries for the first phase of vaccination. The healthcare workers, who received the first dose will get the second one the 28th day. In Nalanda, 490 beneficiaries at ten centres were administered the vaccine on Tuesday. This was the lowest. On Monday, 590 healthcare workers had received the shots in the district. On Saturday, 570 in Nalanda and 280 in Sheikhpura districts were successfully vaccinated. There was no complaint about any complications. As a confidence building exercise among the potential recipients, Nalanda civil surgeon Ram Singh and other medical officers had received the shots on Monday. Regarding the low turnout, Singh said it seemed it was due to lack of confidence among the beneficiaries. Nalanda DM Yogendra Kumar Singh on Tuesday reviewed the progress with health officials and the task force members and gave them necessary instructions required for the purpose. Civil surgeon Singh was among the officials present on the occasion. Altogether 5,505 healthcare workers in Nalanda and 380 in Sheikhpura have been registered for the first phase of the vaccination drive. Two ANMs fall ill after vaccination: Two auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs), Rubi Kumari and Rajkumari Devi, fell sick after getting vaccinated at Janmasthan Private Nursing Home, Ramnagar, in West Champaran on Monday. Rubi started vomiting and developed headache after receiving the shot and was referred to Government Medical College & Hospital, Bettiah. Rajkumari felt uneasiness and was referred to local primary health centre. She was released after a few hours. But Rubi was still undergoing treatment, deputy superintendent of the Bettiah hospital, Dr Shrikant Dubey said. Sources said barring the private nursing home, there was no complaint from any of the nine vaccination centres in West Champaran. (With inputs from Tirthraj Kushwaha in Bagaha)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/only-50-beneficiaries-turn-up-for-covid-vaccination-on-day-3/articleshow/80352707.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 20, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: Village offers to cover any damage to tractors||JIND: Pai in Kaithal district, one of the biggest villages in Haryana, announced that farmers of the village would cover the loss caused by damage to tractors which are to participate in the proposed tractor rally in Delhi on January 26. People from a cross-section of society participated in a mahapanchayat held in the village and assured all possible help in the ongoing agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws. An announcement is being made through a public address system mounted on a tractor asking residents to provide milk, firewood, money and whatever else they can during the protest. In Haryana, farmers in various districts, especially Jind, Kaithal, Hisar, Fatehabad, Dadri, Sirsa, Bhiwani, Kurukshetra Yamunanagar and others are preparing for the Delhi tractor march to press their demand for repeal of the three agri laws. Donations are being collected at village level in Haryana from landless to landed farmers to fuel the tractors. On the lines of Jind district, farmers in other districts are collecting money per acre. Those who do not have land are donating in accordance with their capacity. Rammehar Dhul alias Bittu, a resident of Pai village, said, “There are around 5,000 houses in the village and we are collecting money from everyone. People of all communities are extending help. We are collecting Rs 200 per home and one may donate more. In the mahapanchayat, we decided that villagers will bear any loss if reported in tractors. Moreover, around 300 tractors are expected to participate in the tractor parade, which will leave the village for Tikri border on January 22.” Farmers from other districts will start their march on January 22. It will continue till January 26. The ones who are near Delhi borders will leave their villages on the same day or January 25 but those who live further away will move on January 22.  Kandela khap in Jind district, one of the prominent khaps in Haryana, which faced similar protest in 2002 during the then INLD government, held a panchayat on Tuesday. The khap has set a target of providing 1,000 tractors from its area. Several villages attended the panchayat and said they would ensure that 1,000 tractors participated in the proposed tractor parade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/village-offers-to-cover-any-damage-to-tractors/articleshow/80355027.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Patna||‘Pregnant, lactating women shouldn’t take Covid vaccine shots’||PATNA: In its advisory released on Monday, the State Health Society (SHC) said though the anti-Covid vaccines were safe and effective, people having allergies to food and drugs, pregnant and lactating women and those below 18 years of age should not take the shots. The Bharat Biotech, which has developed Covaxin, has also advised the immune-compromised people to avoid taking the vaccine shots. Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari said all the vaccination centres have already been directed not to give shots to critically ill or immune-compromised health workers like pregnant women and those with medical history of allergy to food or drugs. Both the Covaxin and Covshield vaccines are being used for immunisation drive in the state. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) registered 100% vaccination on the first two days, but the figure dropped to 80 % on Tuesday, said hospital’s superintendent Dr C M Singh. He added no case of reaction from the Covaxin was recorded at the hospital. While a large number of health workers of the AIIMS-P are yet to be vaccinated, some are hesitant to take the shots. “It is true that some health workers are in wait and watch mode before taking vaccine shots,” Dr Singh said. At Patna medical College and Hospital (PMCH) too, the vaccination rate was 100% on the first two days. However, it declined to 77% on Tuesday. PMCH superintendent Dr Bimal Karak said about 10 health workers were denied vaccination due to their medical conditions. “They will be given the vaccine shots later on. Pregnant and lactating women and those with severe allergy conditions are not being vaccinated,” Dr Karak said, adding there was no side effect of the Covaxin being administered at the PMCH vaccination centre. The vaccination was slow at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) as only 31 and 28% of the target of 100 was achieved on the first two days. NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh said some health workers were sceptical over the efficacy of the vaccines. “The hospital authorities counselled them to shed off fears and take the shots,” he said. Dr L B Singh, superintendent of Mahavir Cancer Sansthan, said people undergoing treatment for cancer, either radiotherapy or chemotherapy, would not be given the vaccine shots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pregnant-lactating-women-shouldnt-take-covid-vaccine-shots/articleshow/80352787.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Pune||Pune: Second vaccine lot leaves for various cities||PUNE: A large consignment of Covishield vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII) was transported from the city airport and also by road to various states early on Tuesday.  It was, however, not clear if the consignment was part of a new purchase order or was the pending load from the first order, as SII officials did not respond to TOI’s query till the time of going to the press. A Kool-Ex Cold Chain Limited official told TOI that doses of the vaccine were sent to Unicef centres located in different parts of the country via road late on Monday evening. “The doses were sent to cities such as Delhi, Jhansi, Mumbai, Kurukshetra, Gwalior, Bareilly, Agra, Meerut,” the official said.  “On Tuesday, SpiceJet shipped 122 boxes of Covid-19 vaccine weighing 4.1 tonnes from Pune to Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bhubaneswar, Patna and Leh. The airline carried 38 boxes of Covid-19 vaccine to Patna, 35 to Vijayawada, 30 to Hyderabad and 28 to Bhubaneswar. A box of vaccine will reach Leh from Pune via Delhi on Tuesday,” a SpiceJet spokesperson said. "Continuing its support in nation’s fight against Covid-19, IndiGo today transported 1,347 kgs of Vaccine equating to 528,000 doses from Pune to Chandigarh via flight 6E 6515. The shipment will further be moved to Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh," a spokesperson of the airline said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/second-vaccine-lot-leaves-for-various-cities/articleshow/80355003.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 20, 2021||Patna||LJP chief slams Nitish over ‘poor’ law and order in Bihar||PATNA: The killing of IndiGo’s station manager at Patna airport Rupesh Kumar Singh provided an ample opportunity to LJP chief Chirag Paswan to corner CM Nitish Kumar once again over the law and order issue. The two-time LJP MP from Jamui on Tuesday alleged that a sense of fear and insecurity has enveloped the people. “Back to back murders, including those of influential people, in recent past have created a fear psychosis among the people,” he alleged. Talking to reporters after reaching the city from New Delhi, Chirag said CM Nitish Kumar should intervene to improve law and order in the state as also holds the home portfolio. “We will observe the performance of the new government for six months,” he said. The LJP chief said many ministers were holding different departments due to inordinate delay in expansion of state cabinet. Chirag also met the bereaved family members of Rupesh in Saran district before leaving for Jamui. LJP spokesperson Shrawan Kumar Agarwal, in a statement issued on Tuesday, said the party would urge the Centre to order a CBI probe to unravel the truth behind the killing of Rupesh. HAM(S) chief and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, however, defended Nitish. “For how long Chirag stays in Bihar? He remains out of the state for most of the time. Yet he is feeling scared of crime.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ljp-chief-slams-nitish-over-poor-law-and-order-in-bihar/articleshow/80352916.cms||Ramashankar
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Kolis displaced by JNPT threaten to stop ships from January 21||MUMBAI: Fishermen families displaced by JNPT have threatened to stop movement of ships from January 21 as they have not been compensated. Displaced Kolis have been living in a transit camp, Hanuman Koliwada, for 40 years. Suresh Damodar Koli, head of the village reforms committee, said, “Our only demand to implement promises made to resettle us as per government norms.” He said JNPT had agreed at meetings with Union minister Nitin Gandkari, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and others to resettle project-hit on 17 hectares in Dronagiri, for which Rs 6.2 crore had been committed. The then Raigad district collector had filed an affidavit on May 2, 2017, with Lok Ayukta, promising to allot the land for Sheva village displaced families, Koli said. In all 256 families had been displaced from Sheva, but now they have increased to 600, Koli said. JNPT was to train project-hit and give them jobs. Now, the fishing community is being denied its legitimate, constitutionally guaranteed right to fish, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kolis-displaced-by-jnpt-threaten-to-stop-ships-from-jan-21/articleshow/80353092.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Business||High demand, synthetic options sweep jhaadu market||MUMBAI: The humble ‘jhaadu’ — an otherwise low-involvement category — is sweeping the market with innovation. The tradition of buying a new jhaadu every Diwali has taken roots in several households. What’s brought the broom into the spotlight is a growing direct involvement of the consumer in this category since the pandemic. However, given that the lockdown coincided with the peak harvest season (January-March), the price of phool jhaadu grass (which is bundled together to make a jhaadu) doubled in auctions to Rs 140 per kg in 2020 (from about around Rs 72 in 2019), said industry sources (see graphic). The cultivation of phool jhaadu grass (tiger grass), mainly in the northeast, also supports livelihoods in the rural/tribal belts of the region. Nandakumar H N, CEO of Vibhava Industries, which makes the most jhaadu volumes by brand — ‘Monkey 555’ — said, “This year, the auction is expected to open at around Rs 100. It could subsequently stabilise at Rs 70-72.” The market is highly fragmented with around 20 crore brooms being sold annually at an average Rs 60-80 per broom. The Rs 1,500 crore market has about 3,000 players, and is said to be growing at 5% annually. “The quality of flooring has improved significantly. This makes dust quite visible, prompting households to clean rooms more than once a day. This has led to an increase in demand,” said Nandakumar, who produces over 1 lakh brooms every day. On an average, households purchase up to three natural grass brooms in a year. What’s typical of a new broom is the ‘bhusa’, or dust it sheds, for the first few days as flower pods dry and fall during the process of sweeping. The quicker a broom stops shedding dust, the premium is its value (over Rs 130 per unit). Jatin Gala, COO of Freudenberg Gala Household Product, said, “There are certain pain points associated with brooming, such as the dust it sheds in the initial days. This is what prompted us to do research and come out with a synthetic ‘no dust’ jhaadu, which will last a whole year and will be functional from day one.” Synthetic brooms are priced upwards of Rs 150, which is more than double the price of a regular natural grass broom. This has upgraded consumers on value, making brooms a high-interaction category. “Traffic of our ‘no dust’ brooms on e-commerce sites is growing by the day. We have sold more than 3 crore of these brooms in the last seven years,” said Gala, who leads the market in value terms with a 19-20% share. There are still new players entering the market. Aditya Pittie, MD & CEO of Pittie Group, which has come up with ‘Chakaachak’ brooms (including a synthetic variant), believes pricing is going to be the key to drive growth. Chakaachak has been priced 15% cheaper than national brands like Gala, making it a challenger. Pittie said the category has the potential for national consolidation. The synthetic jhaadu segment has also attracted the attention of Chinese players. However, the ‘Monkey 555’ brand hasn’t entered the synthetic jhaadu segment. Nandakumar believes only natural grass jhaadus can remove the finest dust. “We are planning to come out with an eco-friendly ‘green’ broom that does not contain plastic. We are studying how to enhance the longevity of grass and would launch it this year,” said Nandakumar. He said the price fluctuations of tiger grass would not be an impediment to continue in the natural segment. “We have built relationships with traders for over 25 years. We have often given them advances and have also nurtured them during crises, when prices were falling, by buying additional crop,” he added. As to whether synthetic jhaadus could overtake natural ones, Gala said, “One doesn’t know when the tipping point will come. It could be near as we have been consistently communicating to the consumer about the convenience offered by a synthetic broom.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/high-demand-synthetic-options-sweep-jhaadu-mkt/articleshow/80354781.cms||Namrata Singh
January 20, 2021||Delhi||HC seeks reply on victims’ plea seeking increase in aid||New Delhi: Delhi High Court has sought response of the Centre and the AAP government on a plea seeking enhancement of compensation provided to the victims of the communal violence in northeast Delhi last year. Justice Prathiba M Singh issued notice to both the governments seeking their stand on the petition by people claiming to be the victims of the riots. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. The petitioners have sought enhancement of Rs 10 lakh interim relief provided under Delhi government’s assistance scheme for the victims of the communal violence to Rs 15 lakh. The court directed the governments to file their responses within four weeks and listed the hearing on April 9. The AAP government had promised to provide compensation up to Rs 10 lakh in cases of death, Rs 5 lakh for permanent incapacitation, Rs 2 lakh for serious injuries, Rs 20,000 for minor injuries, and Rs 5,000 for loss of animals. It had also announced Rs 5 lakh for complete damage to residential units, Rs 2.5 lakh in case of substantial damage and Rs 5 lakh in case of uninsured commercial units as compensation for loss of property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-seeks-reply-on-victims-plea-seeking-increase-in-aid/articleshow/80365941.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 20, 2021||Patna||Devotees take part in bhajans||PATNA: Thousands of Sikh devotees on Tuesday participated in an impressive ‘Nagar Kirtan’, commonly known as shobha yatra (procession) at Gai Ghat gurdwara on the second day of the three-day Prakashotsava celebrations to mark the 354th birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh. CM Nitish Kumar will participate in the celebrations at Takht Sri Harmandir Ji Patna Sahib Gurdwara on Wednesday. Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan has extended his greetings on the occasion. The ‘shobha yatra’ started from the Gai Ghat gurdwara on the beats of drums as the devotees recited ‘Gurbaani’. The procession converged at Takht Sri Harmandir Ji gurdwara in Patna City at 6pm. Gatka (a martial arts of the Sikhs) was the main attraction for many on the occasion. The religious preachers and jathas from other gurdwaras across the country also participated in the cultural events. Satnam Singh from Golden Temple, Giani Pinderpal Singh and Rajinder Singh from Ludhiana enthralled the devotees with kirtan and bhajan. Many social organizations put up refreshment stalls to provide ‘sherbet’ and other snacks to the devotees. Round-the-clock langars have been organized on variouse gurdwara premises like Kangan Ghat Gurdwara, Guru Gobind Singh Girl’s School and near Kachori Gali. Daljeet Singh, superintendent of Takhat Sri Harmandir Ji Prabandhak Committee said, “Langar was also arranged at four different places for devotees.” People of all religious groups come forward for the celebration. All the Covid safety protocols were followed during the shobha yatra and other cultural events,” he said. The 48-hour-long ‘akhand path’, which started at midnight at the gurdwara, will conclude on January 20 midnight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/devotees-take-part-in-bhajans/articleshow/80352233.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 20, 2021||Chandigarh||Delhi-Katra expressway: Farmers’ panel threatens indefinite protest||Patiala: The Delhi-Katra Expressway Kisan Sangharsh Committee members on Tuesday threatened to go on indefinite strike if the land acquisition process for the construction of Delhi-Katra expressway is not halted immediately. They made the announcement after a meeting with state government officials earlier in the day. The committee was formed to halt the acquisition process of land and houses notified for the construction of Delhi-Katra expressway and discuss compensation after the issue of three agricultural laws enacted by the central government is resolved. The member claimed that the SDMs were not halting the acquisition process despite several protests and requests over the past two months. Committee (Sangrur) president Harmanpreet Singh Jeji said, “We held a meeting with the OSD to the Punjab CM and explained our demands. We want the acquisition process to be halted till the issue of farm laws is resolved and the agitating farmers are back home. Our fertile lands are being acquired for the highways despite the fact there are already a number of highways are constructed in Punjab. Our state is an agrarian state and farmers will be ruined after their land is acquired. In many cases, well-furnished houses and business entities, including dhabas and poultry farms, will be acquired. Moreover, the acquisition will divide the landholdings of farmers and they will also have to cover a large distance to reach his other part of landholding on the other side of the expressway. The OSD to CM will soon give us another date of hearing after meeting the CM on this issue. If the government fails to pay any heed to our demands, we would resort to indefinite protest in Patiala.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/delhi-katra-expressway-farmers-panel-threatens-indefinite-protest/articleshow/80354999.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 20, 2021||Patna||One IAS, 5 IPS officers shifted||PATNA: The state government transferred one IAS and five IPS officers on Tuesday. M R Naik was appointed IG of the Bihar Military Police (BMP). He would hold the additional charge of IG (traffic). The post has been newly created for the traffic police of the state and Naik will be the first to hold the post. A 1998 batch officer, Naik was earlier posted as IG (railway). K S Anupam has been posted as IG (modernisation). Anupam, who is also a 1998 batch officer, is on childcare leave till February 28, this year. BMP-15 battalion commandant Sanjay Kumar Singh has been appointed as SP (prohibition). He replaced Rakesh Kumar Sinha who has now been posted as SP in the special branch. BMP-12 battalion commandant Ravi Ranjan Kumar in Saharsa has been given additional charge as commandant of BMP-15 battalion based in Valmiki Nagar in Bagaha in place of Singh. Pankaj Kumar has been appointed SP in the economic offences unit (EOU) in Patna. Earlier, he was posted as SP at IG office of Tirhut range in Muzaffarpur. A newly promoted IPS officer, Chandrashekhar Prasad Vidyarthi, has been posted as joint secretary in the department of revenue and land reforms. Vidyarthi was till posted as additional SP in Patna. Begusarai settlement officer Jiut Singh has been appointed as town commissioner of Purnia municipal corporation. Singh is a newly promoted IAS officer and was recently posted in Begusarai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-ias-5-ips-officers-shifted/articleshow/80352835.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Business||Sensex jumps 834 pts on bigger US stimulus hopes||TNN Mumbai: In a one-way trade backed by strong global cues on Tuesday, the sensex rallied 834 points or 1.7% to 49,398 by close of trade. In the process, the index also recouped most of the over 1,200-point loss that it had witnessed since touching an all-time intraday high at 49,795 points on January 13. The day’s gains added about Rs 3.5 lakh crore to investors’ wealth with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 195.9 lakh crore. On the NSE, the Nifty closed 240 points, also 1.7%, higher at 14,521. According to LKP Securities head (research) S Ranganathan, the markets began on a positive note on support from global cues with Janet Yellen, the incoming US treasury secretary, calling for a much larger stimulus to bolster that country’s response to the pandemic. The gains in the afternoon trade were supported by hopes of positive foreign flows next month due to change in MSCI indices. “FPI (foreign portfolio investor) inflows of Rs 17,500 crore this month and hopes of strategic divestment have pushed bears on the back foot,” Ranganathan wrote in a note. A section of market players here are also concerned about the implications of Yellen’s statement on Tuesday that the US tax cut of 2017, which favoured the wealthy, should be reversed. Tuesday’s strong gains, however, came despite muted foreign fund net buying, while domestic funds were net sellers. End-of-the-day data on the BSE showed that while FPIs were net buyers at Rs 258 crore, domestic institutions were net sellers at Rs 199 crore. Additionally, the gains came despite the rising number of infections in several parts of Europe and concerns about the economic condition in those regions. Dealers feel muted foreign fund flows may not be good news for the Indian market, more so after the over $23-billion net inflows that the Indian market witnessed between October and December last year. Compared to an average daily net inflow of about Rs 2,800 crore during November and December, in January it has come down to about Rs 1,250 crore, according to CDSL data. In Tuesday’s session, HDFC, Reliance Industries and ICICI Bank contributed the most to the sensex’s gains. Of the 30 index constituents, only three — ITC, Tech Mahindra and M&M — closed in the red. In the broader market, compared to every two stocks, one stock closed lower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-jumps-834-pts-on-bigger-us-stimulus-hopes/articleshow/80354851.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Vadodara||Vaccination Day 2: Better turnout at rural hospitals||Vadodara: Covid-19 vaccination rate in hospitals located outside the city limits was much better than that in the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) areas on the second day of vaccination on Tuesday. While 98% of the registered health professionals and workers were vaccinated in Vadodara rural, 80% were vaccinated in VMC areas.Of 10 vaccination centres selected in the city and district for vaccination on Tuesday, nine were private hospitals including those involved in medical education as well as trust-run hospitals. The only public hospital was the GMERS Hospital at Gotri.Those who got vaccinated on the day included city BJP president Dr Vijay Shah, MS University syndicate member and GMERS Hospital’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Sheetal Mistry as well as president of Parul University Dr Devanshu Patel.The four vaccination centres in Vadodara rural achieved 98% target on Tuesday which was much higher compared to the first round on Saturday when Vadodara district had recorded 79% vaccination target.Chief district health officer Dr Uday Tilawat informed that of the 301 beneficiaries who had registered, 296 got the first shots of the Covid-19 vaccine on Tuesday. “At the vaccination centre at Sterling Hospital, Bhayli, the vaccination was 115% — as 76 corona warriors against 66 who had registered — got the shots,” he said.At Parul Sevashram Hospital, 94 out of 95 who had registered, at Dhiraj Hospital, 70 out of 80 who had registered and at Goraj Seva Ashram, 55 out of 60 who had registered got the vaccine shots.In VMC areas, 564 persons had registered but 449 turned up. Sterling Hospital in the Racecourse area had registered 100 persons and all of them were vaccinated. At GMERS Hospital, 88 persons were registered and 89 got vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vaccination-day-2-better-turnout-at-rural-hospitals/articleshow/80351499.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Business||Startups tap venture debt to extend runways without upsetting valuations||Chennai: As equity funding became dearer and Covid-19 hit valuations in the startup world, venture debt has emerged as the go-to option for entrepreneurs keen to avoid raising funds at haircuts.Many venture debt firms have witnessed increased deal flow and disbursements, some by around 20% in 2020. For others the ‘best quarter ever’ was October to December as startups sought capital to stabilize operations without diluting equity. Sectors seeing tailwinds from Covid-19 such as Software as a Service (SaaS), e-commerce, health tech, edtech and logistics closed venture debt deals during the year. Dunzo, ShareChat, Bounce, BoAT Lifestyle and LivSpace were a few companies that raised venture debt in 2020. “The pandemic brought in a realisation for founders that black swan events can create a lot of uncertainty and their next round of funding may get delayed. As a result, some entrepreneurs looked toward venture debt to create extra cushion contingency planning, extending their runways, and working capital management among other things. From an aggregate funding standpoint we had 17%-18% growth over last year,” Ashish Sharma,chief executive officer (CEO) , Innoven Capital, said.InnoVen saw its biggest quarter ever during the October to December 2020 period closing almost eight to nine transactions just in December alone.Vinod Murali, managing partner at venture debt firm Alteria Capital said the firm funded 19 companies in 2020 — similar to the number in 2019 — despite low activity between April-July. The company also hit the road to raise its second fund of Rs 1,000 crore in 2020 obtaining Sebi approval.“The demand for venture debt [also] increased sharply as equity rounds were taking longer due to more intensive processes coupled with the fact that many companies did not want to price their rounds when they were still recovering from Covid,” he said.“Founders are now also weaving in debt to fund specific projects or focused end uses as there is a better awareness of cost of capital,” Murali said. Arun Natarajan, founder of research firm Venture Intelligence said venture debt deals tend to shoot up during crisis situations. “For startups worried about resetting valuations and for those who need access to faster funds during an economic crisis, venture debt is suitable,” he said. Ankur Bansal, co-founder and director of BlackSoil estimates there has been almost a 2X surge in venture debt funding from around $217 million in 2019 to $ 427 million in 2020. “No equity dilution, limited diligence, faster turnaround, creating credit history & using debt financing to finance the working capital requirements are some of the material benefits working with venture debt structure,” he said.Blacksoil closed its maiden fund raising around Rs 110 crore from various investors in 2020.Despite taking a cautious approach to new deals, BlackSoil said it still managed to deploy around Rs 250 Cr across 20+ deals in calendar year 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/startups-tap-venture-debt-to-extend-runways-without-upsetting-valuations/articleshow/80353731.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
January 20, 2021||Business||100-yr-old CSB to transform into new-age lender||TNN Mumbai: The 100-year-old CSB Bank (formerly Catholic Syrian Bank), which is now majority owned by Canadian-billionaire Prem Watsa’s Fairfax Group, has charted a route to transform itself into a new-generation private bank. CSB is the first private bank to be taken over by a foreign investor. A new-age lender is like the new-generation private banks which are characterised by use of technology for operations, digital channels for customer engagements and verticals for different businesses. Announcing its results on Tuesday, the bank introduced its new senior management team that will help drive the change. The board also announced a voluntary retirement scheme for employees aged over 50 who have put in at least 10 years of service. C V R Rajendran, the bank’s MD & CEO, said that they were open to acquisitions although there was nothing in the pipeline. He said that 223 employees were eligible for the scheme and, should they opt for it, it will cost the bank Rs 80 crore. The third quarter saw the bank’s net profit rise 88% to Rs 52 crore from Rs 28 crore a year earlier. The bank’s advances were up 22%, while deposits were 21% higher. The loan growth was largely on account of a 60% jump in gold loans, which now account for 40% of all loans. According to Rajendran, gold loans are the safest asset as there was a 25% margin on the loan to asset value on its portfolio. “If the price of gold falls and the loan to value rises to 90%, a recovery mechanism gets activated,” he said. Speaking on the road map for transformation, Pralay Mondal, president and in charge of retail, SME and operations, said the bank would gradually expand its product portfolio, initially through partnerships with credit card issuers and fintechs. The bank has a capital adequacy ratio of over 21%, of which 19% was tier I capital. It has also cleaned up its loan books with gross non-performing assets (NPAs) falling to Rs 235 crore as on December 31, 2020 from Rs 387 crore as on September 30, 2020. Gross NPA as percentage of advances is at 1.77% as on December 31, 2020, where as it was 3.04% as on September 30, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/100-yr-old-csb-to-transform-into-new-age-lender/articleshow/80354317.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Patna||Now, Jeevika didis to stitch school uniform for students||PATNA: The state government has made it mandatory for the agencies concerned to supply uniform stitched only by Jeevika didis to government schools for students up to class XII. The state cabinet approved the education department’s proposal at its meeting on Tuesday. The government school students will get the new uniform under the ‘CM Balak/Balika Poshak Yojana’ from the next academic session. At present, around 2.35 crore students are enrolled in the government primary schools across the state. Of them, 51.6% are boys and the remaining 48.4% are girls. The number of students studying in the secondary and the higher secondary schools stood at 36,619,42. Authoritative sources said the decision would benefit around 1.1 crore women associated with over 10 lakh women self-help groups (SHGs). Earlier, money was directly credited to the bank accounts of the enrolled students. Earlier, the state cabinet had given its nod to ‘Didi ki Rasoi’ project. Under the scheme, food cooked by ‘Jeevika didis’ was to be supplied to the government hospitals for the patients undergoing treatment. In another decision, the cabinet approved home department’s proposal to increase the minimum age limit of constable recruitment in the state police from existing 20 years to 21 years. The art, culture and youth affairs department’s proposal to form ‘Bihar Government Museum Clerical Grade (recruitment and service conditions) Rules, 2021 was also cleared. It was also decided to invest half of the compensation money granted to the next of kin of those killed in terrorist attacks, communal violence and landmine explosions in fixed deposits for three years. The remaining half of the money will be paid in cash to the beneficiaries. As per the provisions, the dependants of such victims are paid Rs5 lakh as compensation. While 70% of the amount is paid by the central government, the remaining 30% is given by the state. Principal secretary of cabinet coordination department Sanjay Kumar said that altogether 17 proposals related to the environment, forest and climate change department, general administration department, agriculture department, science and technology department, revenue and land reforms department and health department were approved at the meeting. Budget session from Feb 19: The Budget session of state legislature will be held from February 19 to March 24. According to the decision taken at the cabinet meeting on Tuesday, the session will start with a joint address by governor Phagu Chauhan. The economic survey report will be laid on the floor of the House the same day. The budget for fiscal 2021-22 will be presented on February 22. The debate on the governor’s address will be held the same day, followed by the government’s reply on February 23. The supplementary budget will be presented on February 24. The debate on department-wise income and expenditure will take place on February 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-jeevika-didis-to-stitch-school-uniform-for-students/articleshow/80352852.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Business||Cognizant buys Magenic Tech||Chennai: Cognizant Technology Solutions has acquired Magenic Technologies, a privately-held custom software development services company headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota for an undisclosed sum. Magenic is Cognizant’s third acquisition in 2021. This will expand key strategic focus areas — digital engineering, data and artificial intelligence, cloud, and the Internet of Things Upon completion of the acquisition, Magenic associates will become part of Cognizant Softvision. The acquisition is expected to expand Cognizant’s product engineering capabilities, adding 475 employees in the US across seven locations and more than 350 employees in Manila, Philippines, a Cognizant statement said. Magenic provides agile software and cloud development, DevOps, experience design, and advisory services for Fortune 500 clients and others.The company works across a range of industries, including financial services, professional services, insurance, pharmaceutical, and manufacturing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cognizant-buys-magenic-tech/articleshow/80353763.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 20, 2021||Meerut||Son’s wife & in-laws thrash 60-year-old mother, critical||Meerut: A 60-year-old woman was brutally thrashed, allegedly by the wife of her younger son and the latter’s relatives in Bulandshahr on Tuesday. Police interrogation revealed the woman and her daughter-in-law started living in the same house from February 2020, but never got along together. The woman is in critical condition and a police probe has been set up.The incident took place in Bulandshahr’s Sinkandrabad area. Police said the accused called in her relatives and had her mother-in-law thrashed. They later fled from the spot.The woman was admitted to a government medical facility, from where she was referred to a higher centre. She continues to be in critical condition. The woman’s elder son Manoj and younger son Sachin are both placed outstation. Manoj told police: “My younger brother got married in February 2020. Since then, his wife Preeti started living with our mother Savitri, but they did not get along well with each other. After they fought over some issue, Preeti called in her relatives. It was only after they brutally thrashed our mother that neighbours came to the rescue upon hearing the commotion.”The woman’s elder son has filed a complaint in the matter and a probe has been ordered by police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/sons-wife-in-laws-thrash-60-year-old-mother-critical/articleshow/80352353.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 20, 2021||Madurai||Plea to allow those on poll duty to vote through EVM||Madurai: The Madras high court on Tuesday ordered notice to the Election Commission of India (ECI) and state government on a plea which sought to permit people engaged in election duty to cast their votes through EVM instead of postal ballots in all elections.A division bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice M M Sundresh was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by S Pandidurai, a teacher from Theni district.The petitioner stated that ECI is working with an objective to ensure that 100% votes are cast during elections. As per the Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961, voters on election duty are entitled to vote by post. However, most of the people who are engaged in election duty are facing hardships to cast their votes through the present system of postal ballots due to several procedures..According to a study during the Tamil Nadu state legislative assembly election in 2011, of the total 3,07,174 voters only 1,29,413 postal votes were cast. Of the total 1,29,413 postal votes cast, 23,319 were declared invalid.He further stated that when compared to the polling percentage through postal ballots system, the polling percentage is more in the EVMs. He suggested that special EVMs can be set up for those deployed on election duty at all the constituencies and polling can be conducted a few days prior or after the election for such people instead of the present postal ballot system.Since there was no response to the representation, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench seeking the authorities to ensure 100% votes are cast by those engaged on election duty. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-allow-those-on-poll-duty-to-vote-through-evm/articleshow/80354997.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Patna||Lovebirds commit suicide as families deny marriage||PATNA: In a shocking incident, two lovebirds allegedly committed suicide in Jamui on Tuesday by jumping before a train after their families did not allow them to marry. Their mutilated bodies were recovered from the railway tracks between Katauna and Chaura railway halt under Malaypur police station area early Tuesday morning. Malaypur police station SHO Vijay Kumar said that deceased were identified as Govinda Kumar (22) and Julie Kumari (19). “Both were natives of Lathane in Chaura panchayat under Town police station area of Jamui,” he said and added that the spot of suicide is around 2km from their village. Kumar said the boy’s body was lying on the Down track and that of the girl on the opposite side. “Prima facie it seems both had put their heads on the tracks. The boy’s head had got severed and his body was dragged for at least 25 metres,” he said. Kumar said preliminary investigation revealed that they had been in relationship for the last several months and belonged to same caste. Both were missing since Monday night. “However, their family members had not reported anything to police,” the SHO said. He said Danapur railway control room had informed the Jamui police about it around 6.15am. “Police identified Govinda from some documents recovered from his purse. Later, his family members reached there and identified his body. The girl’s family members also identified Julie,” he said. Jamui SDPO Rakesh Kumar said both families lived in the same locality at Delhi and worked in factories there. “Both families had returned to Jamui almost a month back,” he said. He said even though both families belonged to the same caste, they were not ready to marry them. “No suicide note was recovered. The bodies had been handed over to the two families after postmortem. They would be quizzed soon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lovebirds-commit-suicide-as-families-deny-marriage/articleshow/80352201.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 20, 2021||Patna||Patna zoo to get 2 lionesses from Hyderabad soon||PATNA: Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, commonly known as Patna zoo, will soon get two lionesses from Hyderabad zoo in exchange of a female giraffe as part of animal exchange programme. This will be the first animal exchange for Patna zoo after the outbreak of Covid-19 in March last year. A proposal has been sent to the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) for the animal exchange between Patna zoo and Nehru Zoological Park, Hyderabad. The exchange programme with the Hyderabad zoo will be carried out to relocate the surplus animals in captivity and replenish depleting animal species at Patna zoo. Patna zoo director Amit Kumar said the exchange would boost the zoo’s captive breeding plans and also attract the visitors. “Once the proposal is approved by CZA, the necessary processes will begin. However, it will take some time to finish all the formalities. The population of lion at the city zoo has declined. We have just two lions at present. The arrival of lionesses, therefore, will be a big boost for the zoo. In return, we will give a female giraffe to Hyderabad zoo. The city zoo has five giraffes, including four female.” An 18-year-old hybrid lioness, ‘Urvashi’, had passed away at Patna zoo this month due to old age. She was brought from Bokaro zoo in February 2004. In November 2020, a seven-and-a-half-year old lion, ‘Sheru’, had died due to septicaemia shock. The last animal exchange programme of Patna zoo had taken place in December 2019, when an Indian male rhinoceros and a pair of Himalayan black bear reached the city zoo from Assam State Zoo-cum-Botanical Garden under the animal exchange programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-zoo-to-get-2-lionesses-from-hyderabad-soon/articleshow/80352965.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 20, 2021||India||Modi government trying to create monopolies, says Rahul Gandhi||NEW DELHI: Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday accused Modi government of trying to create monopolies through a handful of crony capitalists “who are close to the PM and are owning this country”, calling the controversial farm laws as the first step in this direction. He said the ruling BJP has “captured and it controls” the institutions — free media, judiciary and Parliament — that the opposition requires to fight and the latter was being treated like “the British treated the brown-skinned people who were not allowed to speak”. Asked about the Supreme Court-appointed expert committee on farm laws, he said, “I don’t want to comment on the Supreme Court but the entire country is seeing the reality of the SC.” Underlining that all his previous warnings like on Corona or China had been mocked but they had come true, Rahul accused the Modi government of not “protecting the country”. “China is watching India’s weakness. China has a strategic vision to shape the world. India has no strategic vision. China has tested India twice — in Doklam and Ladakh. Its testing. If China is not given a clear message, if India does not make a strategy, China will not keep quiet and will exploit it. And when it does, it will hurt and the government will not be able to prevent it” he noted. To repeated questions about BJP President JP Nadda questioning his commitment to farmers, Rahul shot back, “Nadda was not there in Bhatta Prasaul, Modi was not there. Rahul was there. I did not see Nadda. But who is Nadda, is he my professor or country’s professor? Why should I keep answering him?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/modi-government-trying-to-create-monopolies-says-rahul-gandhi/articleshow/80356329.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Madurai||All 7 Maoist suspects in Kodaikanal arms training case set free||Madurai: The principal district court in Dindigul on Tuesday acquitted all seven Maoist suspects who were arrested in connection with the Kodaikanal arms training case of 2008 as the charges against them could not be proved. The incident happened on April 19 that year when the special task force (STF) conducted a surprise raid at Vadakounji in Kodaikanal on receiving information that Maoists were imparting arms training to tribals.In the exchange of fire with the police, one of them, Naveen Prasad, was killed while the others fled and went under cover. Kodaikanal police registered a case and began investigating. The seven others said to be accomplices of the deceased – Kannan, Neelamegam, Reena Joyce Mary, Shenbagavalli, Kalidas, Bhagat Singh and Ranjith – were arrested between 2011 and 2016.They were booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, Arms Act, The Explosive substances Act and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Defence counsel M Kannappan told TOI that the 300-page chargesheet was filed in 2016. The trial commenced before the principal district judge (PDJ) court in Dindigul on November 18, 2019. The prosecution listed 67 witnesses including former Tamil Nadu home secretary Niranjan Mardi, a senior police officer from the forensic department, 16 STF personnel and revenue department personnel. In all, 44 of them appeared before the court during trial.The prosecution also produced before the court 210 material objects including 13 AK 47 guns used by the STF during the exchange of fire. “They also produced a gun that was broken into two as the weapon used by the accused. It was also not sent for the test. The accused were booked under UAPA but the formalities in this connection were not followed by the police,” Kannappan said.Trial of the sensational case concluded on December 15, 2020. On Tuesday, Ranjith and Neelamegam, who are out on bail, appeared before the court while Reena, who was lodged in the special prison for woman in Vellore, was also produced before the court. Kannan and Shenbagavalli, who were in the Madurai prison, and Kalidas and Bhagat Singh, who were in Trichy prison, appeared via video conferencing. Kannappan said that all of them were acquitted as the prosecution could not prove the charges against them under the 16 sections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/all-7-maoist-suspects-in-kodaikanal-arms-training-case-set-free/articleshow/80355028.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Madurai||Admissions open for MPhil courses at MKU||Madurai: The Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) Evening College has opened admission process to various M Phil courses for the academic year 2020-2021. The last date is January 29.In a notification, MKU said that admissions are open for M Phil courses for 22 subjects - Commerce, Tamil, Chemistry, English, Physics, Mathematics, Zoology, Bio-Medical science, Economics, History, Business Administration, Botany, Bio-Medical science, Computer science, Bio Technology, Sociology, Education, Computer Application, Journalism and Mass Communications, Library Science, Gandhian Studies, Tourism Management, and Political Science. Applications can be downloaded from the university website at www.mkuniversity.ac.in. Admission is on the basis of marks of M Phil qualification test and the candidates will be ranked and selected based on the reservation policy of the state government. Students are required to pay Rs 500 towards the cost of application. However, SC/ST students are exempted if they produce an attested copy of the community certificate. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/admissions-open-for-mphil-courses-at-mku/articleshow/80355053.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Madurai||Man gets 14 years jail, 15k fine for murdering wife||Dindigul: The Mahila Court here awarded 14 years imprisonment to a man who was found guilty of murdering his wife in July 2014. The couple Sivakumar (aged 38 in 2014) who sold tender coconuts for a living and his wife Malliga, 25, lived in Chokkapillaipatti village near Nilakottai in Dindigul district. The couple frequently quarrelled as the man did not give money for running the family. On the day of the murder, a quarrel left Malliga in tears and lamenting in front of their house when Sivakumar hacked her to death. Vilampatti police station registered a case and arrested the accused. On completion of the trial before the Mahila Court, sessions judge S Purushothaman awarded Sivakumar (now 50-years-old) 14 years imprisonment and also slapped a fine of Rs 15,000. The jail term will be extended by six months in the event of failure to pay the fine. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-gets-14-years-jail-15k-fine-for-murdering-wife/articleshow/80355051.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Kochi||Kochi: KWA sewerage wing moots 7 decentralized STPs for corporation||KOCHI: The vertical sewerage wing under Kerala water authority will submit a preliminary report on the current condition of sewage water treatment in Kochi to the department this month. The report will also propose setting up of more than seven treatment plants within corporation limits, on decentralized model. At present, the district has only one sewage treatment plant (STP) maintained by KWA, which is more than five decades old and has a capacity of 4.5mld. Construction of a new plant of 5mld is under way in the same compound in Elamkulam. According to the vertical sewerage wing, Kochi corporation with a population of six lakh people, generates around 180mld sewage water, which is more than 40 times the capacity of existing plant. Though various agencies proposed to set up STPs, the proposals remained on the paper owing to protest from local people. The proposed plant by CSML in West Kochi has reached nowhere. STPs are mandatory for buildings with 2,000msq area and above. Though buildings construct STP to get dangerous and offensive licence, maintenance of the plants are near nil. The economic review report of 2020 had pointed out that Ernakulam has only 28km sewerage network whereas Thiruvananthapuram has 602km network under Kerala Water Authority. Around 68% of the total population are urban ones in the district, calling for the immediate intervention since the laxity will exacerbate the pollution of waterbodies by dumping sewage or releasing the poorly treated effluent water from the institutions. “The opposition we face currently from local residents is because of lack of awareness. Nowadays we have advanced technology to treat sewage water and it will not cause any problems. We are planning to utilize the treated and recycled water for industrial and irrigation purposes. The water, treated nearly to the drinking water standard, can also be discharged into waterbodies. A city like Kochi can only opt for decentralized STPs. As per our estimate, 180mld sewage water is generated in corporation limit considering the 200mld drinking water supply. We will propose names of seven places including a five-acre land under KWA, to set up STPs. We need to conduct engineering survey report on the land, where we plan to set up the plants,” said Mohammed Rafi, superintending engineer of the wing in Ernakulam. Meanwhile an official of Amrut project said government has given approval to set up three STPS in Edakochi North, Edakochi South and Perumbadappu in West Kochi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kwa-sewerage-wing-moots-7-decentralized-stps-for-corp/articleshow/80352364.cms||T C Sreemol
January 20, 2021||Bhopal||Ban on transfer of govt staff to be lifted for April: MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan told his cabinet colleagues on Tuesday that the ban on transfers and postings of state government employees will be lifted for one month from April 1 to 30. Ministers can transfer employees within their departments during this time. Briefing the media after the cabinet meeting on Tuesday, home minister Narottam Mishra said, “The chief minister specified that transfer policy in the state will be made more transparent at the administration level and transfers on humanitarian grounds will also be considered.” Addressing the cabinet meeting, chief minister Chouhan also said that the government will take a firm stand against illicit and lethal liquor mafia. “Chief minister will speak on this issue with district collectors and SPs today over video conferencing. He told the cabinet that liquor mafia will not be tolerated and stringent, punitive action will be taken starting today,” the home minister said. Chouhan also reminded council of ministers that budget will be presented next month. Hence, all ministers should pay attention to the requirements of their departments. The cabinet was informed about record purchase of paddy by the state government this year. Though Narottam Mishra did not give statistics, he said, “Madhya Pradesh ranked first in wheat production also. And now there has been record bumper production of paddy which has been acquired by the state government. For those who are making too much noise over MSP (minimum support price), we want to clarify that paddy has been acquired at MSP rates.” Mishra said that Rojgar Mela will be held across the state on Wednesday. “Ministers have been told to attend these employment carnivals where they want. Those ministers who are in Bhopal can accompany the chief minister at the Rojgar Mela here,” the minister said. According to the home minister, “In every cabinet meeting, one minister will have to give presentation on his department. Today, a presentation was made on the energy department. It was also decided that 6 lakh income tax payers who are getting power subsidy will no longer be eligible for it. Chief minister has instructed the department to omit income tax payers from the subsidy scheme,” Narottam Mishra said. The power` subsidy was introduced by the former Kamal Nath government under the Indira Griha Jyoti Yojana. In this scheme, consumers irrespective of caste, creed or income received 100 units of power for Rs 100 only, upto the total consumption of 150 units per month. It meant that if a consumer used upto 150 units per month, then he or she automatically became a beneficiary under the scheme. The first 100 units was charged at Rs 100 only. Narottam Mishra explained that some A-class government officials were also getting the benefit of the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-ban-on-transfer-of-govt-staff-to-be-lifted-for-april/articleshow/80353257.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Phoney rape case as revenge||AHMEDABAD: To take revenge for a cheating case filed against them, two men conspired to frame two textile traders in a rape case, the city crime branch said on Tuesday. The crime branch said that the conspirators — Irfan Ansari and Ajay Kodwani — paid Rs 1 lakh to a woman from Andhra Pradesh to accuse the traders, Rajkumar Budrani and Sushil Bajaj, of raping her. The traders had filed a cheating complaint in 2019 against Ansari and Kodwani. The traders had given Rs 1 lakh to Ansari and Kodwani, which was never returned. The crime branch said that Ansari and Kodwani had to spend 40 days in jail, which stoked a grudge in them against the traders. Ansari and Kodwani persuaded their friend Neeraj Gupta to become part of their conspiracy. Then Ansari asked his friend Fazlurehman Ansari to find a woman for the plot. Fazlurehman talked with the woman from Vijayawada who had come to the city in October. It was decided that Gupta will set up a shop in Gomtipur where the woman will be employed. The plan was to call the traders to the shop to take their money and file the false rape complaint on the same day. The traders showed up on November 1; their money was not given. According to the plan, the woman along with Ansari and others approached the Women’s Police Station (East) and filed a complaint of rape. As a representation was given to city police commissioner Sanjay Srivastava by an association of textile traders, the investigation was handed over to the crime branch. The sleuths began finding the tell-tale signs of a conspiracy. They even learnt that Ansari had asked his cousin to arrange for semen. A bed sheet was stained with the semen and broken bangles were scattered over it. But the crime branch found that the semen on the bed sheet did not match the samples taken from the traders. Eventually, Ansari and Kodwani confessed that they had constructed a fake crime. Police submitted a report to a local court on Tuesday to release the traders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/phoney-rape-case-as-revenge/articleshow/80353313.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Madurai||Rajini ready to depose via videoconference||Tuticorin: Actor Rajinikanth on Tuesday expressed interest in deposing through video conference before the one-member justice (retired) Aruna Jagadeesan commission probing the riots and police-firing on the 100th day of the anti-Sterlite protest in Tuticorin in May 2018 that claimed 14 lives. Since the actor could not appear before the commission for the second time on Tuesday, his counsel S Elambharathi appeared on his behalf and informed the commission about his decision. The counsel said the actor, who is unable to appear due to the pandemic, has also sent a written representation to the commission on Tuesday. “He has stated that he is ready to answer questions though video conference. Now, all courts are functioning through video conference. It is the new normal. Last March, he responded to the questionnaire given by the commission. He is ready to answer another questionnaire,” the counsel told reporters.Stating that the commission had responded saying that it does not have video conference facility, the counsel said that they were willing to give two or three months’ time for appearance in person and even ready to conduct the hearing in Chennai. “The commission said that it will consider the representation and pass the order,” he added.The reason for summoning the actor was his comment (intrusion of anti-social elements) after visiting the riot-hit city on May 30, 2018. Rajinikanth told reporters that he knew who was behind it and that he would reveal it at the right place. Rajinikanth was first asked to appear before the commission on February 25 last year. Citing inconveniences, he sought exemption.Since the actor started taking part in shootings, the commission summoned him for the second time -- on December 21, 2020 -- and asked him to appear at their Tuticorin camp office at 10am on January 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rajini-ready-to-depose-via-videoconference/articleshow/80355040.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Rajkot||Bootlegger escapes via lock-up roof||Palanpur: A 35-year-old undertrial bootlegger who was arrested from Unjha taluka escaped from police custody on Sunday, leaving cops baffled. Vikramsinh Kitawat, a notorious bootlegger and resident of Aalka huda village of Rajsamand district of Rajasthan, fled from the lock up of the police station, said police sub inspector T B Wala.“The accused escaped after pulling off the metal sheet of the roof,” said Wala, adding that the police station is old and the lock up is behind it. “We have detailed information regarding his whereabouts and will nab him soon,” he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bootlegger-escapes-via-lock-up-roof/articleshow/80352367.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Madurai||Missing chain found in patient’s home||Tuticorin: Weeks after a woman patient at the Thoothukudi Government Medical College and Hospital lost her five sovereign gold chain worth Rs 1.85 lakh, police have recovered it from the house of another patient. CCTV footage from the hospital helped recover the chain, which was later handed over to the rightful owner by the superintendent of police (SP) of Tuticorin district S Jayakumar on Tuesday. The incident took place on December 30, last year. S Sampathkumar, 42, of Sonaganvilai near Tiruchendur took his ailing mother S Inbamani, 75, to the hospital. She was waiting in the queue to take a scan when she told by the staff to remove her chain. She placed it at a spot and was taken for the scan. On returning, she found the chain missing. Based on a complaint lodged by Sampathkumar the Tuticorin south police had registered a case and investigating. After watching the CCTV footage in the hospital, police grew suspicious of a man who was standing next to Inbamani and started tracing him. He was identified as M Oorkavalan, 45, of Keela Thattaparai in Tuticorin.“He had come to the hospital for the treatment of his 21-year-old son. He took the jewellery and did not know where to hand it over. He neither had any criminal antecedence nor any intention to sell or pledge the stolen jewellery. We recovered it from him and gave him a warning,” the SP told TOI. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/missing-chain-found-in-patients-home/articleshow/80355029.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Pune||Pune civic body to extend services of staffers engaged in Covid duty on contract||PUNE: The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to give extension to the staffers engaged on contract in Covid-19 services. As many as 177 staffers, including doctors, pharmacists, staff nurse and lab technicians, will be available to the civic body for pandemic-related work following the extension. The committee has also given approval for proposals to pay the exam fees of municipal school students who will appear for the secondary school certificate (SSC std X) and higher secondary certificate (HSC, std XII) board exams. The civic administration wants the staff for medical services. Since the pandemic is not over yet, we still need the manpower. So, a decision was taken to give them extension,” said Hemant Rasane, chairman, standing committee. As per the proposal, extension will given for 45 days. MahaMetro revenue sharing plan gets nodThe standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has accepted the report of Metro Rail Corporation, which suggested that a decision on revenue sharing with the civic body be taken by the state government, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-extend-services-of-staffers-engaged-in-covid-duty-on-contract/articleshow/80355052.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ex-army officer’s son nabbed with 43 booze bottles, 3 permits||AHMEDABAD: The son of a retired army officer was arrested with 43 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor worth Rs 1 lakh from M N Jhala College campus on RC Technical College Road in Sola. Police arrested Rushi Oza, a 42-year-old resident of Ghatlodia, on Tuesday evening and also seized three liqour permits issued to defence personnel from him. While one belonged to an army captain, the other belonged to a colonel. Inspector JP Jadeja of Sola police said that the cops were tipped off that Oza had parked a car laden with liquor bottles on the college campus. A police team reached the spot and caught him red-handed. Cops found out that Oza used the three permits to buy premium liquor which he used to sell to various customers in areas like Jagatpur, Bodakdev, Satellite, and Vastrapur. “He used to park his car at random places. Whenever his customers asked for liquor, he would take a scooter to deliver the consignment to their doorstep,” said police. The accused was earlier held in prohibition case in 2013 and was booked under PASA also, said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ex-army-officers-son-nabbed-with-43-booze-bottles-3-permits/articleshow/80353341.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Madurai||Elderly doctors lead way in receiving Covid vaccination||Madurai/Chennai: With those above 60 years of age with co-morbid conditions being especially vulnerable to developing severe forms of Covid-19, elderly healthcare professionals are taking the lead in receiving the Covid-19 vaccine to protect themselves.Many elderly doctors had partially or fully stopped their practice since the pandemic began. Dr D Ramasubramanian, a senior neurologist and retired professor, said he has now got the vaccine shot for better protection and has not shown any adverse reaction. “I’m a diabetic, hypertensive and a cardiac patient on drugs. Now, hours after taking the vaccine, there has been no side effects at all. The process for getting the vaccine was also smooth and fast,” he said. The 79-year-old doctor said he has been providing only video consultations after the pandemic began and is looking to resume his clinical practice after receiving the second dose. Dr A S Rathnam, 84, who has been living with a pacemaker for the past four years, said he took the vaccine in the faith that it would provide him some immunity. “My children made me stop my regular practice when the Covid-19 pandemic began. I have been regularly going for check-ups to be safe. With age, our immunity comes down, so by taking the vaccine, there would be some immunity gained,” he said. The doctor said he experienced mild pain in joints after taking the vaccine which completely subsided after a while. Dr M Kala, a 66-year-old dermatologist, said the benefits of the vaccine outweigh the possibility of side effects. Indian Medical Association (IMA), Madurai has been advising elderly practitioners in the private sectors to get vaccinated. Meanwhile, the state vaccinated 9,446 beneficiaries - 9,305 with Covishield and 141 with Covaxin - till 7pm on Tuesday, when the state added 543 cases and nine deaths to the Covid-19 registry. In the last four days 25,908 healthcare providers received the vaccine in Tamil Nadu. “More people are coming forward to get themselves vaccinated. Our health workers have also managed to overcome some of the teething problems they were facing at the start,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. On Tuesday, at least seven districts overshot their targets for vaccination. For instance, Kovilpatti health unit vaccinated 140 beneficiaries against the targeted 100 in a session. Over all, the state has covered 56% of the population it targeted for the day. Some districts like Tiruvarur continue to vaccinate less than a quarter of the people targeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/elderly-doctors-lead-way-in-receiving-covid-vaccination/articleshow/80355055.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
January 20, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Active Covid-19 cases drop to 1,660 in AP||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 179 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,86,245. The toll increased to 7,142 as one more patient succumbed to the novel coronavirus. As many as 231 patients were discharged from various treatment facilities on Tuesday. There are currently 1,660 active cases with 8,77,443 cumulative recoveries and 7,142 deaths, translating to a recovery rate of 99%. Chittoor reported 40 new infections on Tuesday, followed by Krishna (35), Guntur (24), Visakhapatnam (18), East Godavari (15) and Kurnool (11). The remaining seven districts posted single-digit case numbers. While the active case load is less than 300 in all the districts, it is fewer than 100 in six districts. Anantapur became the sixth district to achieve the 99% recovery rate mark after Kurnool, East Godavari, West Godavari, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam. Vizianagaram district has only 33 active cases. Andhra Pradesh tested 39,099 Covid-19 samples and detected 179 new cases on Tuesday, reflecting a case positivity rate of about 0.5%. The daily case positivity rate has remained under 0.6% for the last two weeks. The state has so far conducted 1.26 crore Covid-19 tests with an overall positivity rate of 7%. This is somewhat higher compared to the national average of 5.6%. The state’s mortality rate remained stable at 0.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/active-covid-19-cases-drop-to-1660-in-ap/articleshow/80352371.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||High school teachers face double workload in Kerala||KOCHI: Though schools have reopened partially for senior students after 10 months to help them prepare for the upcoming board examinations, the Covid-19 restrictions are giving a tough time to teachers. They have to take the same lectures for one class twice or thrice as students in a class are divided into multiple groups to ensure social distancing and sessions have to be taken separately for each group. In addition, online classes too have to be taken to supplement what is taught during offline classes. With the online classes for Class X as part of the ‘First Bell’ project telecasted in Victers channel having ended, teachers have to ensure that students receive the lectures on relevant topics either online or offline. “ The main focus now is to prepare students for the model exams. The sessions in the school will be supplemented with online classes. Students were asked to come prepared to ask their doubts in each subject and teachers were given duty accordingly. But clearing of doubts usually ends up in detailed lecturing on each topic just like normal classes,” said a high school teacher in Ernakulam. Initially, classes having 60 students were split into four groups with 15 each students and the teacher has to repeat the same session three more times. Now with more relaxations in the restrictions, the number of students has increased in each group thus reducing number of groups. Teachers said that they expected the state government to at least postpone the dates of examinations further so that students get enough time to prepare for the exam. “The government has already said that portions will not be reduced and now they issued focus area with the preface that the topics mentioned in it are important for discussions and analysis. However, many teachers have complained that it is ambiguous as students are skipping other portion with the hope that questions from that lesson will not be there in the board exams,” said aided higher secondary teachers’ association S Manoj. The situation is more difficult in CBSE schools as they are not following the online classes telecasted in Victers and each school have to prepare online classes on their own.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/high-school-teachers-face-double-workload/articleshow/80357870.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Thane||Day 2 of vaccination: Lower turnout in Maharashtra, Mumbai ‘manages’ 50%||MUMBAI: The second day of Covid-19 vaccination in the state on Tuesday saw a lower turnout of healthcare workers opting for the shot, while Mumbai managed to log the same attendance (50%) as the first day on Saturday. This happened despite the health authorities introducing friendly measures such as “walk-in appointments” (in Mumbai) and keeping booths open till 7pm. Moreover, glitches in the Co-WIN software resulted in fewer healthcare workers being called for the shots; at KEM Hospital, Parel, the daily target was reduced to 300 as against 500. The statewide figure dropped from 64% on Day 1 to 52% on Tuesday, with 14,883 healthcare workers (out of 28,500) taking the shot. State health services head, Dr Archana Patil, however, refused to equate the low turnout with vaccine hesitancy. “One cannot deduce hesitancy based on the turnouts of just two days,” she said. Around 7.86 lakh healthcare workers, including 1.3 lakh in Mumbai, are scheduled to get vaccinated in the first phase. Day 2: Some turn up at centres but refuse to take the vaccineOut of a total of 28,500 beneficiaries who were scheduled to be vaccinated across the state on Tuesday, only 14,883 or 52% took the shot. The state-wide figure was 64% on Day 1 of the vaccination drive last Saturday. In Mumbai, only 1,597 out of the 3,200 healthcare workers who were shortlisted for Day 2 got vaccinated. On Saturday, 1,926 out of the targeted 4,000 potential recipients got vaccinated in Mumbai. The city even saw seven refusals on Tuesday. BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said a new provision in the Co-WIN application allowed centres to vaccinate beneficiaries whose names are already registered. Using this provision, many who didn’t have a prior appointment for Tuesday but wanted to get vaccinated and came to the centres, could take the vaccine. “Over 200 vaccinations were done on Tuesday using this option,” she said. The BMC health authorities also called more people than the scheduled number to ensure that even if a few failed to turn up, the daily target of 4,000 could be met. The BMC had appealed to the state government on Monday to allow walk-in appointments and call more than the scheduled numbers. The state government accepted the request, and the Co-WIN app now allows for recipients to be adjusted under a category called ‘add beneficiary’. A senior BMC officer said, “We have a database of 1.3 lakh health workers who are scheduled to get vaccinated. Daily 4,000 people are targeted for vaccination, but some fail to make it due to prior commitments, so we decided to fill that space by allowing walk-in vaccination and calling health worker before their schedule.” The ward medical officers have a list of health workers living in the area under their jurisdiction, so whenever there is a low turnout, the ward-level health officials can call up people from the list. “The officers will contact private or government hospitals nearby and ask for healthcare workers to be sent for vaccination before their schedule,” said a BMC official. Meanwhile, several centres on Tuesday also saw refusals from healthcare workers after they arrived at the facilities. At BYL Nair Hospital in Mumbai, there were around six to seven refusals. Two refusals were recorded at Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital in Kandivli. A doctor said the two came to the centre and even went through the registration process, but developed some apprehension and left without taking the vaccine. Nair hospital dean Dr Ramesh Bharmal said efforts were made to counsel those who refused. “Vaccination is voluntary. We can only counsel,” he said. Across the state, vaccine was given at 274 centres. “There were no serious adverse effects, and vaccination will continue tomorrow (Wednesday),” said state health secretary (principal) Dr Pradeep Vyas. Dr Patil said confidence-building measures need to be put in place. “Also, as Co-WIN gets more streamlined, we are expecting the numbers to increase,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/some-refuse-to-take-vax-at-centres-on-day-2/articleshow/80357139.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 20, 2021||Kochi||Study calls for parking guidance system in Kochi||KOCHI: A comprehensive study report prepared by National Transportation Planning and Research Centre (Natpac) on traffic and transportation in Kochi city proposes to develop a parking guidance and information (PGI) system to address the parking woes of Kochi-ites. The report was prepared following the direction of the government and a final draft has been submitted to the town and country planning department. PGI system will assist drivers looking for parking spaces and direct them to those areas where occupancy levels are low. The objective is to reduce search time, which in turn reduces congestion on surrounding roads. It has been noted that more than 7,000 vehicles are parked on roadsides in the city during peak hours respective of each road. Two-wheelers account for 68% of vehicles parked on roadsides followed by cars (22%). Autorickshaws, goods vehicles and buses constitute the rest of the 10%. Roads in Palarivattom linking Kakkanad, Kaloor and Vytilla recorded the highest accumulation of parked vehicles with 750 ECS (equivalent car space). The Natpac team, which covered 11 roads in the city for the study, also noted that 87% of users parked their vehicles for not more than 30 minutes. “The transportation proposals that Natpac put forward are for the next 20 years’ perspective. The town planning department will include the proposals in their masterplan and they can take measures like freezing of land for projects. Government should also bring in policies like imposing high fee for registration of multiple vehicles by an individual, putting in force stringent measures against running private vehicles in the city limits and imposing high parking fee or removing street parking to encourage public transportation mode. Through such measures, the government can discourage people to abdicate private transportation and thereby encourage public transportation,” says S Shaheem, head of transportation planning and engineering division in Natpac. The report puts forward a parking scheme for the city at six major locations and four places in the periphery by setting up multi-storeyed parking complexes. Local body officials need to provide suitable incentives to parking bidders to encourage private parties to allow underutilised lands for parking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/study-calls-for-parkingguidance-system-in-city/articleshow/80352372.cms||T C Sreemol
January 20, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Businessmen raise concern over power cuts, high tariff||LUDHIANA: A delegation of city businessmen on Tuesday met chief engineer of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) Varinderpal Singh to discuss various problems related to industry like unscheduled power cuts, high cost of power, complex procedures in obtaining various permissions, etc. Other senior officials of the department too were present in this meeting in which several important matters came up for discussion. Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), who was leading the business delegation, said, “First and foremost problem discussed with the chief engineer was the unscheduled power cuts, which are most probably taking place due to non-maintenance. These power cuts cause huge disruption in the production and other processes of the industry and therefore these need to be plugged at the earliest. Besides this, another major issue which we discussed was the capping of power tariffs for industry as the rates of industrial power in Punjab are very high and this puts our industry at great disadvantage in terms of cost of production.” Pankaj Sharma, general secretary of CICU, added, “Besides high power rates, another major issue bothering us is the complexities in obtaining power connection and other permissions. We want the PSPCL to modify the guidelines and make the process more simpler. We also demanded stationing of adequate staff in focal point division.” According to Gautam Malhotra, vice president of CICU, “The issue of levying fixed charges and electricity duty on power bills has become a very serious issue and the entire industry is of the view that at least fixed charges should be waived for us. We have also suggested that the PSPCL should give 50% rebate in power tariffs during night consumption.” Meanwhile, the chief engineer assured the businessmen that the issue of unscheduled power cuts would be resolved soon and other matters would also be taken up with the higher authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-raise-concern-over-power-cuts-high-tariff/articleshow/80353344.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Goa||Compulsory to implement MV Act: Gadkari||Panaji: Minister for road transport and highways, Nitin Gadkari, on Tuesday told state transport minister Mauvin Godinho that it is compulsory for the state to implement the Motor Vehicle (Amendment) Act, which proposes huge penalties for traffic violations. Ministers from around 20 states had a video conference with Gadkari on Tuesday over various issues related to transport ministry. Speaking to TOI Godinho said that he will once again put up the proposal before the cabinet on Wednesday for implementation of the act. Godinho said Gadkari told the ministers that the Centre has enacted the act very consciously. “Giving any relaxation to implement the act does not arise because the whole idea behind enacting the act is to bring new culture among Indians and to cultivate good driving habits,” Gadkari told the ministers. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, on Monday, had said the decision on implementation of the MV Act will be taken on Wednesday. However, ports minister Michael Lobo said that he will oppose the implementation of the act at least for a year as most roads in the state are in a bad shape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/compulsory-to-implement-mv-act-gadkari/articleshow/80355071.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 20, 2021||Trichy||Trichy tops in disbursal of loans under Mudra scheme in state||Trichy:The lending institutions in Trichy district have sanctioned Rs 2,264 crore as loans under Prime Minister Mudra Yojana (PMYY) scheme during the financial year 2019-2020, the maximum amount sanctioned among the districts in the state. With MSMEs, small traders and agro-based startups benefitting from the loans varying between Rs 50,000 to Rs 10 lakh, Trichy was ranked the seventh best performing district in the total loan amount sanctioned across India under Mudra (micro units development and refinance agency) scheme surpassing the metropolitan cities including Chennai. The shift in people aspiring to become entrepreneurs after the Covid-19 outbreak and the liberal attitude of the lending institutions were stated as the reasons for Trichy’s achievement. As per the statistics available in the annual report released by Mudra, around 6.16 lakh beneficiaries have availed the collateral-free loans in the financial year in Trichy. The sum sanctioned in Trichy is close to 1% of the entire fund sanctioned under the initiative across the country. While Trichy achieved 7th rank, Chennai district that sanctioned a sum of Rs 2,001 crore was placed at 10th spot, the only other district from the state in the top 10 ranks across the country. Tamil Nadu for the second straight year has topped the performance by sanctioning a sum of Rs 35,017 crore during 2019-2020. “Many of the youngsters who had returned to their native places post the pandemic have opted to start their own businesses. We received a lot of applications seeking funds after the government relaxed the lockdown norms,” G Raveendran, general manager, district industries centre, told TOI. Most of the Mudra scheme beneficiaries preferred the food and beverage sector, grocery shops, and cab service. “Banks were told to encourage Mudra loans,” V Sathyanarayanan, the lead district bank manager, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-tops-in-disbursal-of-loans-under-mudra-scheme-in-state/articleshow/80355056.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 20, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Day 2 of vaccination: Lower turnout in Maharashtra, Mumbai ‘manages’ 50%||MUMBAI: The second day of Covid-19 vaccination in the state on Tuesday saw a lower turnout of healthcare workers opting for the shot, while Mumbai managed to log the same attendance (50%) as the first day on Saturday. This happened despite the health authorities introducing friendly measures such as “walk-in appointments” (in Mumbai) and keeping booths open till 7pm. Moreover, glitches in the Co-WIN software resulted in fewer healthcare workers being called for the shots; at KEM Hospital, Parel, the daily target was reduced to 300 as against 500. The statewide figure dropped from 64% on Day 1 to 52% on Tuesday, with 14,883 healthcare workers (out of 28,500) taking the shot. State health services head, Dr Archana Patil, however, refused to equate the low turnout with vaccine hesitancy. “One cannot deduce hesitancy based on the turnouts of just two days,” she said. Around 7.86 lakh healthcare workers, including 1.3 lakh in Mumbai, are scheduled to get vaccinated in the first phase. Day 2: Some turn up at centres but refuse to take the vaccineOut of a total of 28,500 beneficiaries who were scheduled to be vaccinated across the state on Tuesday, only 14,883 or 52% took the shot. The state-wide figure was 64% on Day 1 of the vaccination drive last Saturday. In Mumbai, only 1,597 out of the 3,200 healthcare workers who were shortlisted for Day 2 got vaccinated. On Saturday, 1,926 out of the targeted 4,000 potential recipients got vaccinated in Mumbai. The city even saw seven refusals on Tuesday. BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said a new provision in the Co-WIN application allowed centres to vaccinate beneficiaries whose names are already registered. Using this provision, many who didn’t have a prior appointment for Tuesday but wanted to get vaccinated and came to the centres, could take the vaccine. “Over 200 vaccinations were done on Tuesday using this option,” she said. The BMC health authorities also called more people than the scheduled number to ensure that even if a few failed to turn up, the daily target of 4,000 could be met. The BMC had appealed to the state government on Monday to allow walk-in appointments and call more than the scheduled numbers. The state government accepted the request, and the Co-WIN app now allows for recipients to be adjusted under a category called ‘add beneficiary’. A senior BMC officer said, “We have a database of 1.3 lakh health workers who are scheduled to get vaccinated. Daily 4,000 people are targeted for vaccination, but some fail to make it due to prior commitments, so we decided to fill that space by allowing walk-in vaccination and calling health worker before their schedule.” The ward medical officers have a list of health workers living in the area under their jurisdiction, so whenever there is a low turnout, the ward-level health officials can call up people from the list. “The officers will contact private or government hospitals nearby and ask for healthcare workers to be sent for vaccination before their schedule,” said a BMC official. Meanwhile, several centres on Tuesday also saw refusals from healthcare workers after they arrived at the facilities. At BYL Nair Hospital in Mumbai, there were around six to seven refusals. Two refusals were recorded at Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital in Kandivli. A doctor said the two came to the centre and even went through the registration process, but developed some apprehension and left without taking the vaccine. Nair hospital dean Dr Ramesh Bharmal said efforts were made to counsel those who refused. “Vaccination is voluntary. We can only counsel,” he said. Across the state, vaccine was given at 274 centres. “There were no serious adverse effects, and vaccination will continue tomorrow (Wednesday),” said state health secretary (principal) Dr Pradeep Vyas. Dr Patil said confidence-building measures need to be put in place. “Also, as Co-WIN gets more streamlined, we are expecting the numbers to increase,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/some-refuse-to-take-vax-at-centres-on-day-2/articleshow/80357141.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Day 2 of vaccination: Lower turnout in Maharashtra, Mumbai ‘manages’ 50%||MUMBAI: The second day of Covid-19 vaccination in the state on Tuesday saw a lower turnout of healthcare workers opting for the shot, while Mumbai managed to log the same attendance (50%) as the first day on Saturday. This happened despite the health authorities introducing friendly measures such as “walk-in appointments” (in Mumbai) and keeping booths open till 7pm. Moreover, glitches in the Co-WIN software resulted in fewer healthcare workers being called for the shots; at KEM Hospital, Parel, the daily target was reduced to 300 as against 500. The statewide figure dropped from 64% on Day 1 to 52% on Tuesday, with 14,883 healthcare workers (out of 28,500) taking the shot. State health services head, Dr Archana Patil, however, refused to equate the low turnout with vaccine hesitancy. “One cannot deduce hesitancy based on the turnouts of just two days,” she said. Around 7.86 lakh healthcare workers, including 1.3 lakh in Mumbai, are scheduled to get vaccinated in the first phase. Day 2: Some turn up at centres but refuse to take the vaccineOut of a total of 28,500 beneficiaries who were scheduled to be vaccinated across the state on Tuesday, only 14,883 or 52% took the shot. The state-wide figure was 64% on Day 1 of the vaccination drive last Saturday. In Mumbai, only 1,597 out of the 3,200 healthcare workers who were shortlisted for Day 2 got vaccinated. On Saturday, 1,926 out of the targeted 4,000 potential recipients got vaccinated in Mumbai. The city even saw seven refusals on Tuesday. BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said a new provision in the Co-WIN application allowed centres to vaccinate beneficiaries whose names are already registered. Using this provision, many who didn’t have a prior appointment for Tuesday but wanted to get vaccinated and came to the centres, could take the vaccine. “Over 200 vaccinations were done on Tuesday using this option,” she said. The BMC health authorities also called more people than the scheduled number to ensure that even if a few failed to turn up, the daily target of 4,000 could be met. The BMC had appealed to the state government on Monday to allow walk-in appointments and call more than the scheduled numbers. The state government accepted the request, and the Co-WIN app now allows for recipients to be adjusted under a category called ‘add beneficiary’. A senior BMC officer said, “We have a database of 1.3 lakh health workers who are scheduled to get vaccinated. Daily 4,000 people are targeted for vaccination, but some fail to make it due to prior commitments, so we decided to fill that space by allowing walk-in vaccination and calling health worker before their schedule.” The ward medical officers have a list of health workers living in the area under their jurisdiction, so whenever there is a low turnout, the ward-level health officials can call up people from the list. “The officers will contact private or government hospitals nearby and ask for healthcare workers to be sent for vaccination before their schedule,” said a BMC official. Meanwhile, several centres on Tuesday also saw refusals from healthcare workers after they arrived at the facilities. At BYL Nair Hospital in Mumbai, there were around six to seven refusals. Two refusals were recorded at Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital in Kandivli. A doctor said the two came to the centre and even went through the registration process, but developed some apprehension and left without taking the vaccine. Nair hospital dean Dr Ramesh Bharmal said efforts were made to counsel those who refused. “Vaccination is voluntary. We can only counsel,” he said. Across the state, vaccine was given at 274 centres. “There were no serious adverse effects, and vaccination will continue tomorrow (Wednesday),” said state health secretary (principal) Dr Pradeep Vyas. Dr Patil said confidence-building measures need to be put in place. “Also, as Co-WIN gets more streamlined, we are expecting the numbers to increase,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/some-refuse-to-take-vax-at-centres-on-day-2/articleshow/80355087.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 20, 2021||Bhopal||Shivraj Singh Chouhan disburses Rs 224cr to Sambal scheme beneficiaries||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday transferred around Rs224 crore in the bank accounts of 10,285 beneficiaries of the state government’s ‘Sambal’ scheme, at a function held in Minto Hall. Chouhan claimed that the scheme has been designed in a manner that it supports a poor person even before he or she is born and exists beyond their death. BHOPAL: A couple gets Rs4,000 before birth of their child, Rs16,000 after birth, while financial assistance is provided for studies, ration, housing and treatment; and after death, a grant is provided to the bereaved family, said the chief minister. He said that the previous government had discontinued the scheme but his government has started it again and every poor person is being registered under the scheme. Chouhan said that the government has set the goal that every family will have a pucca house and tapped water by the year 2024. He said that everyone has a right over resources of the country. Those who earn more will be taxed and those who are deprived will be helped, the CM said. He also interacted with some Sambal beneficiaries through video conferencing. Talking to Mumtaz Bano from Betul district, he said, “Sambal, Sarkar Aur Shivraj Apke Sath Hai (Sambal, government and Shivraj are with you).” Bano, who had lost her husband to cancer, told the chief minister that the Rs2 lakh grant that she received from would go in opening a grocery shop and rearing goats. Talking to some other women beneficiaries of the scheme, he asked them “not to feel alone”. Assuring them help, he asked them to properly utilise the amount received under the scheme and send children to school. Labour minister Brijendra Pratap Singh and BJP state president VD Sharma also spoke on the occasion. Praising the scheme, Singh Said that it is proving to be of great help to poor families. Sharma said that the ‘Sambal; scheme is being praised all over the country. During difficult times of Covid-19 also, the scheme provided support to poor families, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-disburses-rs-224cr-to-sambal-scheme-beneficiaries/articleshow/80353288.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to get 4 more real-time air quality monitoring stations||CHANDIGARH: The Union government has approved four more real-time air quality monitoring stations for the city. With this, the number of the stations for the city has increased to five. The previous year, the UT administration had submitted before the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that there would be five such stations by 2021. TimesViewMore real-time air quality monitoring stations in the city will provide a more correct picture of the overall air quality in the city which can vary in residential areas, industrial belt, commercial sectors and stretches on the roadside. As air pollution impacts community health as well as the economy, significance of the air quality data makes having highly accurate real-time monitoring systems vital. This will in turn lead to better prevention plans and interventions and perhaps result in lessening of the burden of disease.In its reply to the NGT in 2020, the UT had submitted “As per the city’s population, it requires three manual and five continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations (CAAQMS). Therefore, abiding by the orders of NGT, Chandigarh has five manual air monitoring stations and one CAAQMS has been installed in Sector 25. Two more are in procurement stage and as per the orders of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), two more will be procured in 2021”. The city’s air quality had improved during the coronavirus lockdown but returned to the old levels once businesses and other activities resumed following the unlock guidelines. 1 real-time monitoring stn in Sec 25 At present, there is one realtime monitoring station in Sector 25, Panjab University (PU). It was inaugurated by UT administrator V P Singh Badnore on July 16, 2019. The station provides information on ambient air quality along with individual readings of eight parameters. The administration also collects data manually and sends it to CPCB after 24 hours. The Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) measures the level of pollution by installing air quality monitoring devices at five locations—Punjab Engineering College, Sector 12; Imtech, Sector 39; Industrial Area; Kaimbwala village; and Sector 17—covering institutional, industrial, rural and commercial areas, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-to-get-4-more-real-time-air-quality-monitoring-stations/articleshow/80353338.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
January 20, 2021||Chandigarh||Two of 28 Mohali rebels rejoin SAD||Mohali: Two days after 28 members quit the Shiromani Akali Dal, two rejoined it on Tuesday. SAD supremo Sukhbir Singh Badal pacified them, claims former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra, party's man in charge of Mohali civic elections.The two were among the five on the first list of candidates for councillor. They are Akali Dal (women) president Kuldeep Kaur Kang and SAD-Mohali Backward Class cell president Gurmukh Singh Sohal. Chandumajra said: “There is no actual rift in the SAD. We will pacify the other rebels as well, like today were were able to get back two with the intervention of Sukhbir Singh Badal.”The former MP was silent on the suspension of former mayor Kulwant Singh from the party's primary membership, which is what triggered the latest rebellion. Kulwant Singh declared to contest the elections independently under the banner of his Azaad Group. He said: “The expulsion came as a surprise to me, as I had never spoken against the party. I will win independently like the last time. The people of Mohali know whom to reward for the city's development.”Delimitation: SC hearing tomorrowJanuary 21 is next hearing in the Supreme Court on the delimitation of Mohali wards. Hearing a petition that challenged the Punjab and Haryana high court's dismissal orders, the Supreme Court's division bench of Chief Justice of India Sharad Arvind Bobde, justice A S Bopanna, and justice V Ramasubramanian had directed the Punjab local bodies department to file its reply. Sukhdev Singh Patwari, Bachan Singh, and others had petitioned against delimitation AAP gains members in NayagaonThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) gained momentum in the Mohali civic elections when several prominent villagers of Nayagaon joined it on Tuesday in the presence of Punjab leader of opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema and state-unit in-charge and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh.The Delhi legislator said the party was gaining member day by day because of the Arvind Kejriwal government's good performance in Delhi on the education and health fronts. Nayagaon's Jagdev Singh Maloya and former MC president Harbant Singh Bajwa signed up the new members.The group includes social workers Kulwant Singh and Hazura Singh Babla, former Block Samiti member Babu Ram, Satpal Sakhi of Nayagaon's Valmiki Sabha, Bhupinder Singh of Nayagaon's ex-servicemen's wing, Adarsh Society president Sonu Bhatia, Om Prakash Bhardwaj and Bhupinder Singh of Bajwa Trust, and youth workers Satish, Mahinder Singh, and Simran Bhateja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/two-of-28-mohali-rebels-rejoin-sad/articleshow/80353346.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Thane||Thane societies to be liable for deaths of sanitation workers||THANE: Thane municipal corporation has proposed a policy to hold residential societies or commercial units liable to pay monetary compensation in case of deaths of workers reported while undertaking cleaning work of septic drains within their premises. Bharat Bhivapurkar, deputy city engineer (drainage), TMC, said despite manual scavenging being banned following Supreme Court orders, there have been instances of private contractors continuing to employ them. “Despite the ban, there have been cases of residents hiring such workers which have led to fatalities. However, as there was no policy in place, relatives of the deceased were made to run around seeking compensation. The idea of formulating a policy is to set accountability,” he said. TimesViewThe decision to make housing societies liable for deaths caused in the act of manual scavenging flows from SC judgments which have banned the practice. The civic body must also do its bit to ensure all residential areas are covered by sewage infrastructure so that citizens are not forced to depend on private contractors, who exploit cheap labour for such work.As per the proposal, monetary compensation of Rs 10 lakh as mandated by the SC is to be paid to the kin of deceased by those hiring them. The policy proposes to empower the corporation to compensate the victims’ kin in case the society doesn’t do so within 30 days and later recover the same by adding it to their property tax bills. The corporation justified the policy by underscoring the plight of relatives of three workers who died at a Ghodbuinder Road complex in 2019. The societies have the option of approaching the corporation to clean the sewers, but they often exploit cheap labour without taking adequate precautions. BJP leader and MLC Niranjan Davkhare said, “Holding residents liable in such incidents shows the administration is inept in performing its basic responsibilities.” Activist Jagdish Khairalia said, “Waste disposal is the corporation’s liability and should not be thrust on societies.” Hundreds of residential complexes along Ghodbunder Road use septic tanks as they have not been connected to the sewerage disposal lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-socs-to-be-liable-for-deaths-of-sanitation-workers/articleshow/80355878.cms||Manoj Badgeri
January 20, 2021||Kochi||KCBC to set a stage for theatre artists||KOCHI: Extending a helping hand to theatre artists who are struggling for shows due to the pandemic, the Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council’s media commission has launched a series of welfare schemes for the community, including setting up a space for stage performances at the Pastoral Orientation Centre (POC) in Kakkanad. Secretary of the media commission Fr Abraham Irimbinikal said the first in the series of projects would be to create a space for theatre artists to stage their performances. “A society, art lovers and theatre enthusiasts roots (Alter), is being formed to assist the theatre artists. The plan is to screen such performances at POC every month,” said Fr Irimpinikal. The priest added that training sessions and discussions for scriptwriters, directors and actors of professional dramas will be organised by the media commission. The sessions will be led by prominent personalities and artists from the sector, including M Thomas Mathew, TM Abraham and John T Vekkan. Meetings will be held for those who run drama troupes as well, Fr Irimpinikal said. He said the commission has been holding an annual drama fest for the past several years and they were able to understand several problems of the community from this experience. He added that the difficulties of the theatre artists worsened during the pandemic and the schemes launched by KCBC aims to support to the community. All the programmes will be held following the Covid protocol, the priest said. ‘Alter’ will be inaugurated by KCBC president Cardinal Mar George Alencherry on January 24. The function will be presided by POC director Fr Jacob Palackappilly. Drama, ‘Annam’ would be staged on the same day. The entry to the performance would be limited by tickets. Media commission also invited artists and drama groups to get in touch with the commission to perform in the coming months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kcbc-to-set-a-stage-for-theatre-artists/articleshow/80352395.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Surat||Nod to rape survivor to abort pregnancy||SURAT: The Surat district and sessions court on Tuesday allowed a 17-year-old rape survivor to terminate her 21-week pregnancy. According to cased details, the minor girl was abducted by accused Hiresh Chaudhary (21) four months ago from her house under Mahuva police station jurisdiction. Her mother had lodged a missing complaint with the police then. During investigation, police traced Chaudhary and nabbed him on December 28 last month and rescued the minor girl. One medical examination it was found that the girl was 19 weeks pregnant. Chaudhary, a casual labourer, was arrested and booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and The Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act. On knowing about the girl’s pregnancy, her mother filed a plea before the Surat court seeking permission to terminate her daughter’s pregnancy on the grounds that the unborn child would be considered as ‘illegitimate’ by the society and would create a problem for the minor in the future. The girl’s mother further mentioned that her daughter herself was a child and won’t be able to taken care of the baby. Bardoli circle inspector D K Chaudhary produced the report of the penal of doctors who examined the girl’s pregnancy before the court. Doctors too stated that if the girl’s pregnancy continues, she is likely to face physical as well as mental trauma. The doctors, therefore, recommended termination of pregnancy. Based on the doctor’s report court allowed termination of pregnancy and order the gynaecology department of the New Civil Hospital in Surat to proceed with consent from the girl’s parents. Court also ordered the investigating officer to take samples from the foetus for DNA matching with that of the accused. “After the termination of the pregnancy, the medical papers and DNA reports should be submitted. The investigating officer is also directed to submit the report of the victim’s mental and physical health to the court,” the court ordered. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/nod-to-rape-survivor-to-abort-pregnancy/articleshow/80352392.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
January 20, 2021||Ludhiana||Residents want practical, permanent solution to traffic chaos||Ludhiana: In the ongoing road safety month, city residents hope to get rid of the traffic chaos. The most affected areas are Gill Road flyover, Dugri road near Phase-1 market crossing, Dugri road near Model Town crossing, Kochar market chowk, Cheema chowk flyover, Gill Road, Shastri Nagar chowk, division number 3 chowk and Basti Jodhewal chowk. The Ludhiana traffic police are observing the 32nd National Road Safety Month, which started on January 18, and it will continue till February 17. The city police have mainly dedicated this month for spreading awareness on traffic rules under which different rallies, meetings and seminars would be conducted. However, besides the awareness programmes, the city residents want practical solutions to the problem of traffic chaos. The Times of India have got the pictures of different areas done. It was found that in most of the areas chaos is more during the peak hours in the morning and evening. On the Gill road flyover more traffic chaos is witnessed in the evening after 7pm, while on Gill road more chaos is witnessed in the morning around 9am and then in the night when trucks and other heavy vehicles commute on that stretch. A resident of Gill Road, Sumeet Narula, said, “In the morning more traffic is witnessed at Arora Place chowk and then at Janta Nagar chowk. One road connecting to the Janta Nagar chowk is being repaired, which causes more chaos at the chowk. During the night, there is more chaos caused by the heavy vehicles. At times the chaos turns into a long traffic jam, especially near Gill bridge on the canal. Moreover, this is not a new problem but the traffic police still have done nothing to make the traffic run smooth here.” A resident of Dhandra road, Bikramjit Singh, said, “The traffic jam on Dugri bridge of the canal has become an everyday problem. More traffic congestion is witnessed during the peak hours in the morning and evening. Though there are two traffic signals, one near the Phase-I market and another near the canal bridge, but these are not enough to manage the traffic. The traffic congestion has increased since the road flyover project has started near Pakhowal bridge of canal. I want the city police to find some practical solution to make city congestion free.” Seema Kaura, a resident near Kochar market, said that, “There is Kochar market police post near the chowk and also the house of cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu near it. Despite that, nobody is bothered about the traffic jam at the chowk. The Kochar market chowk connects important areas like Jawahar Nagar market and further the bus stand. On the other hand it connects Pakhowal road, Model Gram and ESIC chowk, which further leads to Bharat Nagar chowk. Therefore, the traffic flow is always high. There has to be a traffic signal or a roundabout at the chowk to manage the traffic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/residents-want-practical-permanent-solution-to-traffic-chaos/articleshow/80353364.cms||Payal Dhawan
January 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||Couple evicted from SG Road flat at 2am||Ahmedabad: A 37-year-old woman and her husband, a foreign national, were thrown out of their rented apartment in an upscale society near S G Road at 2 am on Monday. She called Abhayam 181 helpline and the team helped them move to a friend’s house. They also convinced the owner to allow them to keep their belongings in the house for a night. The helpline counsellor said, “The woman said the property owner came at night and threw their belongings including their laptops, valuables and documents like passports outside. When they tried to argue with him, a scuffle ensued in which the woman’s clothes were also torn.” The reason for eviction was non-payment of rent for three months, the owner told the team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/couple-evicted-from-sg-road-flat-at-2am/articleshow/80353350.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Vijayawada||Govt expands scope of EHS||Amaravati: The government has brought treatment for 46 cancer-related procedures under Employees Health Scheme (EHS) ambit. The new procedures would take the total ailments covered under EHS to 1,935. In a statement issued on Tuesday, YSR Arogyasri Healthcare Trust CEO Dr A Mallikharjuna said the decision was taken following the instructions of chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. “We have included treatment for 10 surgical oncology, 32 medical oncology and four radiation oncology procedures in the EHS being implemented by the YSR Arogyasri Healthcare Trust,” said Dr Mallikharjuna. — Samdani MN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-expands-scope-of-ehs/articleshow/80352394.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Delhi||How sensors will help maintain social distancing at Delhi's IGI Airport||NEW DELHI: Physical distancing in an airport is not very easy to accomplish and certainly needs more than just security personnel for enforcement. That is why Delhi International Airport Limited, the operator of Indira Gandhi International Airport, has installed around 513 overhead sensors at Terminal 3. These generate a density map that alerts ground staff immediately when flyers breach social distancing norms. DIAL announced the innovative measure on Tuesday and said the sensor system sends alerts to a team of over 200 marshals and ground staff that helps them to precisely identify the area where social distancing rules are being flouted. DIAL says it has adopted the technology in anticipation of a possible increase in passenger load when full-fledged international operations are permitted. The airport officials explained that the sensors of the technology, XOVIS PTS, generate a grid of the area, identifying people as moving dots. If the dots get too close and signify crowding, the system generates an alert while also sending emails to the ground staff and management with information about the exact location of the physical distancing breach. “The ground staff and our marshals can go to the spot, but since we cannot penalise passengers, they can only request the people to stand apart at the required distance,” said a DIAL official. The physical distancing indicator (PDI) is inbuilt into the software with prefixed values. If the PDI value is less than 1, it means social distancing is being maintained. A score of 2 and above conveys congestion. A value of 3 and above indicates absolute lack of social distancing, with large groups standing in close proximity. DIAL said an alert is sent to the monitoring officials as soon as the PDI value touches 1.5. “In order to prevent further escalation, this first alert allows us to identify the problem and immediately address it,” said the official. DIAL CEO Videh Kumar Jaipuriar disclosed that the technology was in the works for over a year and has been installed now after successful testing. It was made operational in the last week of December, after being put to use earlier to ensure queue management. “The technology works and it works well,” declared Jaipuriar. “We are constantly looking at new options that will assist us in enhancing the customer experience while ensuring their safety. As passenger traffic begins to rise, this technology will make sure travellers are still able to move around safely.” IGIA is operating at around 70% of its full domestic passenger load. When international operations resumed, the sensor system is likely to be a significant aid. “It will help in smooth transition when there is a sudden surge in passenger traffic,” said the official. Watch Delhi: Sensors to help maintain social distancing installed at IGI Airport||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-sensors-will-help-maintain-social-distancing-at-igi-airport/articleshow/80355131.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
January 20, 2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Goose found dead at Siswan Dam tests positive for avian flu||MOHALI: The test report received from Bhopal laboratory has confirmed the presence of bird flu virus in a goose found dead a week ago at Siswan Dam reservoir of Mohali. The report was received here on Tuesday, said VK Janjua, additional chief secretary, animal husbandry and dairying department, Punjab. The samples of birds taken from Derabassi and Kharar poultry farms were sent to Bhopal and reports were awaited, he said. The forensic test report of approximately 400 poultry birds is awaited in Mohali. Janjua said, “We have received a confirmation report of avian influenza in a bar-headed goose, a migratory bird, that was found dead in the forest reserve of Siswan Dam reservoir’s vicinity. However, another report of a pigeon found dead at some other place is negative.” However, Janjua said the spot where the wild bird was found dead has no habitation within 3km radius as it was deep in the forest area. “Besides, as only one dead bird was recovered, there was no need to panic and isolate the area. But orders have been given to keep a close watch on the behaviour of the other wild birds,” he added. Last week, suspected bird flu samples were first sent to Northern Regional Disease Diagnostics Laboratory (NRDDL), Jalandhar, which further sent them to Bhopal laboratory for confirmation. The report is awaited. The animal husbandry department of Mohali had constituted teams to collect samples of live chicken from various poultry farms and from meat shops across the district. Deputy director of the animal husbandry department, Mohali, Sangeeta Toor had issued directions to 30 veterinary officers (VOs) of the district and sampling of live chickens in their jurisdictions was done. She said, “We collected approximately 400 poultry samples from Kharar, Derabassi, Lalru and Kurali farms and meat shops. We will get directions once reports are received. To date, there has been no report of death of chicken from any of the poultry farms situated in Derabassi, Lalru, Zirakpur, Kharar, Gharuan and Banur.” Recently, the Panchkula animal husbandry department had carried out culling of poultry birds at various farms in Barwala and Raipur Rani after confirmation of avian influenza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/goose-found-dead-at-siswan-dam-tests-positive-for-avian-flu/articleshow/80353342.cms||---
January 20, 2021||India||Rahul lying on China, misleading farmers, says BJP||NEW DELHI: Accusing Rahul Gandhi of lying time and again on China-related issues, BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday questioned the Congress leader on various issues, including his “silence” on the vaccination drive and his recent participation in a ‘jallikattu’ event. “When will Rahul Gandhi, his dynasty and Congress stop lying on China? Can he deny that thousands of kilometres, including the ones in Arunachal Pradesh he is referring to, was gifted by none other than Pandit Nehru to the Chinese? Time and again, why does Congress surrender to China?” Nadda asked in a series of tweets in which he also took a dig at Rahul’s recent overseas trip. Nadda alleged that the Congress leader was provoking and misleading farmers and asked why the Congress-led UPA government had stalled the Swaminathan Commission report for years and did not increase the minimum support price. “Why did farmers remain poor for decades under Congress governments? Does he feel sympathy for farmers only in opposition?” he asked. “Does Rahul Gandhi have any intention to cancel the Congress party’s MoU with China and their Communist Party? Does he intend to return the Chinese largesse to trusts controlled by his family? Or will their policies and practices continue to be dictated by Chinese money and MoU?” the BJP president asked. Meanwhile, Union minister Prakash Javadekar accused Congress of trying to scuttle the talks between the government and farmers’ unions and said the opposition party did not want the talks to succeed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-lying-on-china-misleading-farmers-says-bjp/articleshow/80356335.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Ludhiana||Vending zones: MC officials blame local bodies dept for delay||Ludhiana: Despite notification for vending zones, the establishment of the same at ground level seems to be a distant dream as the municipal corporation officials are yet to come out with a detailed project report for even a single vending zone. More than three years have passed since the civic body authorities had started locating and notifying the vending zone sites in the city, but the detailed project report (DPR) could not be finalised till date. However, the officials blamed the delay on the local bodies department in notifying the sites. For the vending zones, as of now around 9,500 vendors got registered with the civic body, whereas compared to this, under PM Svanidhi Scheme, more than 12,000 vendors have been registered for availing Rs 10,000 loans for business. The officials claimed that as the vendors were getting aware they were coming forward for registration. Some had even returned to their native places while some had changed their business, so all were returning to their routine work gradually. They claimed that in the coming days more registrations were being expected. The secretary of MC, Neeraj Jain, said, “First of all, the DPR will be prepared and for that bridges and road department officials have been given the responsibility. As soon as the DPR will be ready we can start working on arranging the finances for the same.” He said they had to see from where they could arrange the funds for establishing the vending zones. The local bodies department had notified the vending zones for all four zones of the city in December 2020. In zone A, six sites have been notified having a capacity to accommodate 1,543 vendors, whereas in zone A identified vendors are 5925. In zone B, 17 sites have been notified to accommodate 3,354 vendors while identified vendors are 5,377. In zone C, 11 sites have been notified for accommodating 1,174 vendors and identified vendors in this zone are 3,654. However, in zone D, the maximum 30 sites have been notified with capacity for 2,918 vendors, with 6,769 identified vendors. So, these vending zones are supposed to accommodate 8,989 vendors while the total number of vendors identified in the survey are 21,725. So, it will seen when the authorities concerned will be able to bring these vending zones into reality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/vending-zones-mc-officials-blame-local-bodies-dept-for-delay/articleshow/80353398.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Trichy||Trade centre makes 1st payment to Sidco||Trichy:Trichy Trade Centre Private Limited has made its maiden payment of Rs 18 lakh towards the purchase of plots from Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development Corporation Limited (Sidco). A memorandum of understanding (MoU) will be signed between Sidco and Trichy Trade Centre to establish a trade convention centre at Panjappur on the city outskirts after the payment of the remaining land cost in a few weeks. Out of the total cost Rs 1.15 crore for the 9.42-acre plot, Trichy Trade Centre has paid Rs 18 lakh as the first installment. The remaining amount is expected to be paid to Sidco before January 25. Chairman of Trichy Trade Centre N Kanagasabapathy and Trichy District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (Tiditssia) representatives handed over the cheque to Sidco managing director R Gajalakshmi in Chennai on Monday. So far, 50 members including from MSMEs, trading and other sectors have joined the special purpose vehicle of the trade centre to mobilise Rs 6 crore, a contribution of the local industrial organisations. “Once we complete paying the land cost, an MoU will be signed between the trade centre representatives and Sidco. The upcoming trade centre in Panjappur will serve to host trade fairs,” Kanagasabapathy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trade-centre-makes-1st-payment-to-sidco/articleshow/80355101.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 20, 2021||Pune||Day 2 of vax: Turnout falls to 54% in Maharashtra, 48% in PMR||PUNE: A slow and halting process marked the second day of the Covid-19 inoculation across the state on Tuesday after the countrywide programme was launched last Saturday. Trouble with the Co-WIN app again, reluctance among doubtful beneficiaries and apprehension about the vaccine’s effects kept many away from the session sites where the shots were being given state health officials said. Just 14,890 (54.34%) health workers turned up at the 274 centres in Maharashtra, health authorities said. On Saturday, nearly 65% of the 28,500 registered beneficiaries were given the shots. Pune district’s 48%, Nagpur’s 55%, Mumbai’s 43% and Beed’s 28% reflect the slide in Tuesday’s turnout. Palghar had the highest response (80%). A total 48% of the targeted 2,900 healthcare workers took the shots in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR), a 10% drop from day 1. Pune’s rural parts had a better response at 61% when compared with Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) 35.5% and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s (PCMC) 34.75%. They had recorded 55% and 57% vaccination respectively on Saturday.The rural parts of Pune had a better response with 61% when compared with Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) 35.5% and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s (PCMC) 34.75%. They had recorded 55% and 57% vaccination respectively on Saturday. Some beneficiaries said they had the flu, or were travelling, or attending a function or a condolence to skip the vaccination session, and others got the wrong information about the centres, health officials pointed out. Like Saturday, the Co-WIN app that monitors and tracks the inoculation process was down in some centres. Three private hospitals in Pune city abandoned the inoculation after they could not log in. State health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said the Centre should allow offline registration till the online system for the app is stronger and easier to operate. The state tried a complete online registration on the app on Tuesday at 274 of the 285 sites, the minister said. “There should be a system which will enable a smooth online process as it affects the registration. Many beneficiaries did not getting the mandatory calls or intimation to reach the site,” he added. Unlike January 16, when 71 beneficiaries refused to be vaccinated, Pune district health authorities did not release Tuesday’s figures for the PMR. But Pune region’s deputy director for health services Sanjay Deshmukh said nine beneficiaries in the district turned down the shots out of anxiety about the safety and efficacy of the vaccine. “People may have got the SMS alerts late on Monday or not have received them about shifting of the vaccination sites,” Deshmukh added. Nurses and support staff were chosen for vaccination on the second day whereas mainly doctors were vaccinated on the first day of the drive. Initially, of the 800 healthcare workers in the PMC areas, 213 beneficiaries took the shot at five vaccination centres to account for 26.62%. Civic officials later scaled down this target to 600 after three centres could not hold the sessions. Even though PMC doubled the sessions at Kamala Nehru Hospital, it did not boost the final turnout. Ashish Bharati, head of PMC's health department, said, “Technical glitches in the app led to the poor response. Many beneficiaries could not get the message. It affected the turnout. Some people got messages certifying that they had taken the first dose of the vaccine even when they were not vaccinated,” Bharati said. Around 100 beneficiaries who got SMSes for vaccination on Monday instead of Tuesday will now get vaccinated on Wednesday. In Pimpri Chinchwad, 278 of 800 healthcare workers took the shot on Tuesday accounting for 34.75%. Just six people turned up at New Jijamata Hospital where 71 beneficiaries had received the shots on Saturday. Pavan Salve, additional health chief of PCMC, said the response is bound to be cold for a few days, but will warm up later. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation commissioner Shravan Hardikar said they would look into the response and the reasons for the apprehension. In the rural areas of Pune, where the response remained the same on both days, officials planned a big boost. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer of Zilla Parishad Pune, said, “Senior doctors of sub-district hospitals, rural hospitals and primary health centres will motivate health and front line workers. Boosting vaccine-confidence is key.” Prasad said their hospital staff called beneficiaries in advance to increase the footfalls at the 15 vaccination centres. Some centres in the rural parts of Pune, including Manchar in Ambegaon tehsil, Jejuri in Purandar tehsil and Wagholi in Haveli tehsils, vaccinated more than 90% of the registered beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/day-2-of-vax-turnout-falls-to-54-in-state-48-in-pmr/articleshow/80355106.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 20, 2021||Goa||Goa government nod sought to e-auction 2.6 million tonnes of iron ore||PANAJI: The directorate of mines and geology has sought permission from the state government to conduct an e-auction of over 2.6 million tonnes of iron ore lying at jetties and ports. The move comes even as uncertainty abounds over the restart of mining activity in the state. “We are awaiting government approval for the e-auction,” a senior mines official told TOI. The last time the state held an e-auction, only 1.1 of the three million tonnes put up for sale was purchased. Thus, with just 36.9% sold, the revenue wasn’t as per the state’s expectation. With the state’s revenue collection dipping to 40% and the government continuing to borrow money from the market, e-auctions are aimed at generating much-needed revenue for the state. In 2012, a Supreme Court judgment had declared mining after 2007 illegal. Ore lying at jetties and plots was subsequently declared state property. The government then identified 15 million tonnes of ore lying at jetties and plots, of which around 12 million tonnes has already been e-auctioned. On March 15, 2018, mining in Goa came to a halt following a Supreme Court order quashing the second renewal of 88 mining leases. In January 2020, the apex court permitted the export of royalty-paid iron ore extracted before March 15, 2018. In March 2020, after a two-year hiatus, mining companies resumed transportation of royalty-paid iron ore in the state. There is around 1.5 million tonnes of royalty-paid ore which companies have started transporting. There is also another 7.7 million tonnes on which royalty has not been paid, an official said Chief minister Pramod Sawant continues to hold meetings with Union ministers to find a solution to the mining issue. Sawant had said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is positive about a solution. The Goa Minerals Ore Exporters’ Association has rejected the mines minister’s proposal to e-auction mining leases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-nod-sought-to-e-auction-2-6-million-tonnes-of-iron-ore/articleshow/80355139.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Surat||15 labourers asleep by roadside run over by truck near Surat||SURAT: Fifteen migrant labourers, including a toddler, who were asleep on the roadside pavement were crushed to death by a speeding truck near Kim, some 40 km from Surat city, around Monday midnight. The truck driver lost control after hitting a tractor trolley loaded with sugarcane coming from the opposite direction on the four-lane Kim-Mandvi state highway. He ran the vehicle over the labourers sleeping on the pavement constructed over a drainage line and crashed into a roadside cabin. People living nearby woke up to loud wails of victims and heart-wrenching scenes were witnessed at the accident site with badly mutilated bodies and puddles of blood all over the place. While 12 died on the spot, three others succumbed during treatment at the Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) SMIMER hospital. “The truck's front window pane shattered after hitting the sugarcane hanging out of the tractor and it blocked the driver's vision. He claims the accident happened as the steering wheel jammed and he lost control,” said Usha Rada, superintendent of police, Surat (rural). Of the 15 victims, 14 were natives of Banswara district of Rajasthan. They worked as daily wagers at construction sites and earned by taking up whatever work they found including working in the near-by sugarcane fields. One victim identified as 19-year-old Rahul Mahida was from Madhya Pradesh The dead include eight women, six men and a one-year-old girl. Around 21 labourers were sleeping there. Some had come for work around a week ago while some had come around a month ago. The truck driver Purnalal Kevat (26) and cleaner Sudama Yadav (24) were also injured in the accident and are being treated at SMIMER. He was booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder, attempt to commit culpable homicide not amounting to murder and rash driving along with sections of Motor Vehicle Act. Rs 2 lakh ex gratia for victimsExpressing grief over the tragedy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chief minister Vijay Rupani and Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot all announced ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each to the kin of all victims. They also announced Rs 50,000 for those injured in the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/15-labourers-asleep-by-roadside-run-over-by-truck-near-surat/articleshow/80352418.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Kolhapur||Day 2 of vax: Turnout falls to 54% in Maharashtra, 48% in PMR||PUNE: A slow and halting process marked the second day of the Covid-19 inoculation across the state on Tuesday after the countrywide programme was launched last Saturday. Trouble with the Co-WIN app again, reluctance among doubtful beneficiaries and apprehension about the vaccine’s effects kept many away from the session sites where the shots were being given state health officials said. Just 14,890 (54.34%) health workers turned up at the 274 centres in Maharashtra, health authorities said. On Saturday, nearly 65% of the 28,500 registered beneficiaries were given the shots. Pune district’s 48%, Nagpur’s 55%, Mumbai’s 43% and Beed’s 28% reflect the slide in Tuesday’s turnout. Palghar had the highest response (80%). A total 48% of the targeted 2,900 healthcare workers took the shots in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR), a 10% drop from day 1. Pune’s rural parts had a better response at 61% when compared with Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) 35.5% and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s (PCMC) 34.75%. They had recorded 55% and 57% vaccination respectively on Saturday.The rural parts of Pune had a better response with 61% when compared with Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) 35.5% and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s (PCMC) 34.75%. They had recorded 55% and 57% vaccination respectively on Saturday. Some beneficiaries said they had the flu, or were travelling, or attending a function or a condolence to skip the vaccination session, and others got the wrong information about the centres, health officials pointed out. Like Saturday, the Co-WIN app that monitors and tracks the inoculation process was down in some centres. Three private hospitals in Pune city abandoned the inoculation after they could not log in. State health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said the Centre should allow offline registration till the online system for the app is stronger and easier to operate. The state tried a complete online registration on the app on Tuesday at 274 of the 285 sites, the minister said. “There should be a system which will enable a smooth online process as it affects the registration. Many beneficiaries did not getting the mandatory calls or intimation to reach the site,” he added. Unlike January 16, when 71 beneficiaries refused to be vaccinated, Pune district health authorities did not release Tuesday’s figures for the PMR. But Pune region’s deputy director for health services Sanjay Deshmukh said nine beneficiaries in the district turned down the shots out of anxiety about the safety and efficacy of the vaccine. “People may have got the SMS alerts late on Monday or not have received them about shifting of the vaccination sites,” Deshmukh added. Nurses and support staff were chosen for vaccination on the second day whereas mainly doctors were vaccinated on the first day of the drive. Initially, of the 800 healthcare workers in the PMC areas, 213 beneficiaries took the shot at five vaccination centres to account for 26.62%. Civic officials later scaled down this target to 600 after three centres could not hold the sessions. Even though PMC doubled the sessions at Kamala Nehru Hospital, it did not boost the final turnout. Ashish Bharati, head of PMC's health department, said, “Technical glitches in the app led to the poor response. Many beneficiaries could not get the message. It affected the turnout. Some people got messages certifying that they had taken the first dose of the vaccine even when they were not vaccinated,” Bharati said. Around 100 beneficiaries who got SMSes for vaccination on Monday instead of Tuesday will now get vaccinated on Wednesday. In Pimpri Chinchwad, 278 of 800 healthcare workers took the shot on Tuesday accounting for 34.75%. Just six people turned up at New Jijamata Hospital where 71 beneficiaries had received the shots on Saturday. Pavan Salve, additional health chief of PCMC, said the response is bound to be cold for a few days, but will warm up later. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation commissioner Shravan Hardikar said they would look into the response and the reasons for the apprehension. In the rural areas of Pune, where the response remained the same on both days, officials planned a big boost. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer of Zilla Parishad Pune, said, “Senior doctors of sub-district hospitals, rural hospitals and primary health centres will motivate health and front line workers. Boosting vaccine-confidence is key.” Prasad said their hospital staff called beneficiaries in advance to increase the footfalls at the 15 vaccination centres. Some centres in the rural parts of Pune, including Manchar in Ambegaon tehsil, Jejuri in Purandar tehsil and Wagholi in Haveli tehsils, vaccinated more than 90% of the registered beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/day-2-of-vax-turnout-falls-to-54-in-state-48-in-pmr/articleshow/80357345.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 20, 2021||Aurangabad||Day 2 of vax: Turnout falls to 54% in Maharashtra, 48% in PMR||PUNE: A slow and halting process marked the second day of the Covid-19 inoculation across the state on Tuesday after the countrywide programme was launched last Saturday. Trouble with the Co-WIN app again, reluctance among doubtful beneficiaries and apprehension about the vaccine’s effects kept many away from the session sites where the shots were being given state health officials said. Just 14,890 (54.34%) health workers turned up at the 274 centres in Maharashtra, health authorities said. On Saturday, nearly 65% of the 28,500 registered beneficiaries were given the shots. Pune district’s 48%, Nagpur’s 55%, Mumbai’s 43% and Beed’s 28% reflect the slide in Tuesday’s turnout. Palghar had the highest response (80%). A total 48% of the targeted 2,900 healthcare workers took the shots in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR), a 10% drop from day 1. Pune’s rural parts had a better response at 61% when compared with Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) 35.5% and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s (PCMC) 34.75%. They had recorded 55% and 57% vaccination respectively on Saturday.The rural parts of Pune had a better response with 61% when compared with Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) 35.5% and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s (PCMC) 34.75%. They had recorded 55% and 57% vaccination respectively on Saturday. Some beneficiaries said they had the flu, or were travelling, or attending a function or a condolence to skip the vaccination session, and others got the wrong information about the centres, health officials pointed out. Like Saturday, the Co-WIN app that monitors and tracks the inoculation process was down in some centres. Three private hospitals in Pune city abandoned the inoculation after they could not log in. State health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said the Centre should allow offline registration till the online system for the app is stronger and easier to operate. The state tried a complete online registration on the app on Tuesday at 274 of the 285 sites, the minister said. “There should be a system which will enable a smooth online process as it affects the registration. Many beneficiaries did not getting the mandatory calls or intimation to reach the site,” he added. Unlike January 16, when 71 beneficiaries refused to be vaccinated, Pune district health authorities did not release Tuesday’s figures for the PMR. But Pune region’s deputy director for health services Sanjay Deshmukh said nine beneficiaries in the district turned down the shots out of anxiety about the safety and efficacy of the vaccine. “People may have got the SMS alerts late on Monday or not have received them about shifting of the vaccination sites,” Deshmukh added. Nurses and support staff were chosen for vaccination on the second day whereas mainly doctors were vaccinated on the first day of the drive. Initially, of the 800 healthcare workers in the PMC areas, 213 beneficiaries took the shot at five vaccination centres to account for 26.62%. Civic officials later scaled down this target to 600 after three centres could not hold the sessions. Even though PMC doubled the sessions at Kamala Nehru Hospital, it did not boost the final turnout. Ashish Bharati, head of PMC's health department, said, “Technical glitches in the app led to the poor response. Many beneficiaries could not get the message. It affected the turnout. Some people got messages certifying that they had taken the first dose of the vaccine even when they were not vaccinated,” Bharati said. Around 100 beneficiaries who got SMSes for vaccination on Monday instead of Tuesday will now get vaccinated on Wednesday. In Pimpri Chinchwad, 278 of 800 healthcare workers took the shot on Tuesday accounting for 34.75%. Just six people turned up at New Jijamata Hospital where 71 beneficiaries had received the shots on Saturday. Pavan Salve, additional health chief of PCMC, said the response is bound to be cold for a few days, but will warm up later. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation commissioner Shravan Hardikar said they would look into the response and the reasons for the apprehension. In the rural areas of Pune, where the response remained the same on both days, officials planned a big boost. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer of Zilla Parishad Pune, said, “Senior doctors of sub-district hospitals, rural hospitals and primary health centres will motivate health and front line workers. Boosting vaccine-confidence is key.” Prasad said their hospital staff called beneficiaries in advance to increase the footfalls at the 15 vaccination centres. Some centres in the rural parts of Pune, including Manchar in Ambegaon tehsil, Jejuri in Purandar tehsil and Wagholi in Haveli tehsils, vaccinated more than 90% of the registered beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/day-2-of-vax-turnout-falls-to-54-in-state-48-in-pmr/articleshow/80357347.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||Man held with Rs 1.7 lakh MDMA in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A man selling methamphetamine (MDMA) was arrested by city police from Jam Saheb Gali Locality in Karanj on Monday. Cops also seized the drug weighing around 17 gm worth Rs 1.7 lakh from his possession. The cops had been tipped off about a man wearing black cap, orange t-shirt and black trousers, selling drugs on a public road near a hotel in Jam Saheb Gali. The cops along with two panch witnesses from Maninagar and Satellite went to the spot, cordoned it, nabbed the man, and found white powder in his posession. The accused, who was identified as Moinkhan Pathan, a 30-year-old resident of Jam Saheb Gali, told cops that it was MDMA. Later, police called a forensic expert who checked the powder and confirmed it to be MDMA. On questioning Pathan, he told that he had bought the drugs from a man in Shah-e-Alam to sell it in the Old City area. Police have seized the drugs and Pathan’s cellphone. The accused has been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act whereas the man from whom he bought the drugs is yet to be nabbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-held-with-rs-1-7l-mdma/articleshow/80353395.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Chandigarh||Selfie with airplane lands drunk behind bars||Mohali: A selfie with an airplane has landed a man behind bars.The Mohali police arrested 22-year-old Vikas Rana, alias Kaku, a resident of Kangra, after he scaled the wall of Chandigarh Air Force Station to click a picture with an aircraft in the early hours of Monday.“Around 2.30am, a drunk Vikas scaled the wall through Pabhat area of Zirakpur. He was caught by the Air Force officials, who handed him over to the Mohali police,” said cops. He had come by a truck from HP. “He is a truck cleaner. He was produced before a local court that sent him in two-day police remand. Vikas earlier resided in Dhanas, Chandigarh,” said a cop.  A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/selfie-with-airplane-lands-drunk-behind-bars/articleshow/80353369.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Vijayawada||Anantapur police foil murder plot, arrest six||Tirupati: Anantapur police managed to foil a murder plot intended to be a revenge killing between two rival groups and arrested six conspirators and seized 23 country bombs on Tuesday. The accused have been identified as E Rajasekhar (25), D Ramachandra (50), G Lingaraju (30), V Hari (27), V Nagesh (29) and V Nagesh (39). Briefing reporters, Anantapur SP B Satya Yesubabu said the arrested had conspired to eliminate two key members of a rival gang and managed to procure as many as 23 country bombs to execute their plan. The plan was linked to two murders; one at Kanaganapalli mandal in 2010 and another at Kambaduru mandal in 2019. In the first case, an illicit relationship led to the murder of one E Gopal at Varadhi Kottala mandal in Kanaganapalli mandal in 2010. E Chandrasekhar, E Gangadhar and others were the key accused in the case. In the second murder, the rival gang used landmines to murder one E Durgappa at Ralla Anantapur in Kambaduru mandal in 2019. E Chandrasekhar and E Gangadhar were also the key accused in this case. E Rajasekhar and D Ramachandra, who lost their relatives, formulated a plan to eliminate Chandrasekhar and Gangadhar by attacking them with country bombs. But their conspiracy was foiled by Kalyandurg and Anantapur CCS police who arrested all the key accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/anantapur-police-foil-murder-plot-arrest-six/articleshow/80352400.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 20, 2021||Trichy||Thai poosam festival begins at Samayapuram temple||Trichy: The Thai poosam festival of Arulmigu Mariamman temple in Samayapuram near Trichy commenced with the traditional flag-hoisting ceremony on Tuesday. Scores of devotees thronged the temple throughout the day. Considered as the significant temple of Amman worship in the state, the festival saw special prayers hosted at the sanctum sanctorum by the early hours of Tuesday. By around 6.45am, the holy flag was hoisted at the kodimaram (holy pole) by senior priests and in the presence of HR&CE officials. To prevent huge footfall at the temple, the HR&CE has made arrangement for live relaying the proceedings of the event and other auspicious pujas in the temple’s official YouTube channel. The crucial event of the annual festival - the float festival - is scheduled to be held on January 27. Another auspicious event, witnessing the arrival of holy gifts from Srirangam Ranganathaswamy temple is to be celebrated on January 28. HR&CE joint commissioner K P Ashok Kumar said that the standard operating procedures are still in force. “We will intensify the monitoring and crowd control mechanisms throughout the festival days,” Kumar added. Since Thai poosam in Samayapuram temple is the first major festival organised after the Covid19 pandemic, shopkeepers, particularly flower vendors are in the upbeat mode to revive their business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thai-poosam-festival-begins-at-samayapuram-temple/articleshow/80355109.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Nashik||Day 2 of vax: Turnout falls to 54% in Maharashtra, 48% in PMR||PUNE: A slow and halting process marked the second day of the Covid-19 inoculation across the state on Tuesday after the countrywide programme was launched last Saturday. Trouble with the Co-WIN app again, reluctance among doubtful beneficiaries and apprehension about the vaccine’s effects kept many away from the session sites where the shots were being given state health officials said. Just 14,890 (54.34%) health workers turned up at the 274 centres in Maharashtra, health authorities said. On Saturday, nearly 65% of the 28,500 registered beneficiaries were given the shots. Pune district’s 48%, Nagpur’s 55%, Mumbai’s 43% and Beed’s 28% reflect the slide in Tuesday’s turnout. Palghar had the highest response (80%). A total 48% of the targeted 2,900 healthcare workers took the shots in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR), a 10% drop from day 1. Pune’s rural parts had a better response at 61% when compared with Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) 35.5% and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s (PCMC) 34.75%. They had recorded 55% and 57% vaccination respectively on Saturday.The rural parts of Pune had a better response with 61% when compared with Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) 35.5% and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s (PCMC) 34.75%. They had recorded 55% and 57% vaccination respectively on Saturday. Some beneficiaries said they had the flu, or were travelling, or attending a function or a condolence to skip the vaccination session, and others got the wrong information about the centres, health officials pointed out. Like Saturday, the Co-WIN app that monitors and tracks the inoculation process was down in some centres. Three private hospitals in Pune city abandoned the inoculation after they could not log in. State health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said the Centre should allow offline registration till the online system for the app is stronger and easier to operate. The state tried a complete online registration on the app on Tuesday at 274 of the 285 sites, the minister said. “There should be a system which will enable a smooth online process as it affects the registration. Many beneficiaries did not getting the mandatory calls or intimation to reach the site,” he added. Unlike January 16, when 71 beneficiaries refused to be vaccinated, Pune district health authorities did not release Tuesday’s figures for the PMR. But Pune region’s deputy director for health services Sanjay Deshmukh said nine beneficiaries in the district turned down the shots out of anxiety about the safety and efficacy of the vaccine. “People may have got the SMS alerts late on Monday or not have received them about shifting of the vaccination sites,” Deshmukh added. Nurses and support staff were chosen for vaccination on the second day whereas mainly doctors were vaccinated on the first day of the drive. Initially, of the 800 healthcare workers in the PMC areas, 213 beneficiaries took the shot at five vaccination centres to account for 26.62%. Civic officials later scaled down this target to 600 after three centres could not hold the sessions. Even though PMC doubled the sessions at Kamala Nehru Hospital, it did not boost the final turnout. Ashish Bharati, head of PMC's health department, said, “Technical glitches in the app led to the poor response. Many beneficiaries could not get the message. It affected the turnout. Some people got messages certifying that they had taken the first dose of the vaccine even when they were not vaccinated,” Bharati said. Around 100 beneficiaries who got SMSes for vaccination on Monday instead of Tuesday will now get vaccinated on Wednesday. In Pimpri Chinchwad, 278 of 800 healthcare workers took the shot on Tuesday accounting for 34.75%. Just six people turned up at New Jijamata Hospital where 71 beneficiaries had received the shots on Saturday. Pavan Salve, additional health chief of PCMC, said the response is bound to be cold for a few days, but will warm up later. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation commissioner Shravan Hardikar said they would look into the response and the reasons for the apprehension. In the rural areas of Pune, where the response remained the same on both days, officials planned a big boost. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer of Zilla Parishad Pune, said, “Senior doctors of sub-district hospitals, rural hospitals and primary health centres will motivate health and front line workers. Boosting vaccine-confidence is key.” Prasad said their hospital staff called beneficiaries in advance to increase the footfalls at the 15 vaccination centres. Some centres in the rural parts of Pune, including Manchar in Ambegaon tehsil, Jejuri in Purandar tehsil and Wagholi in Haveli tehsils, vaccinated more than 90% of the registered beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/day-2-of-vax-turnout-falls-to-54-in-state-48-in-pmr/articleshow/80357346.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Co-WIN app comes to life, sends out vaccine text messages finally||MUMBAI: It was a mixed bag on Tuesday as far as the Co-WIN app used for coordinating immunisation was concerned: most vaccine recipients whom TOI spoke to had received an SMS from a mobile number apart from calls from BMC’s ward war rooms. Across the state, over 10,000 were vaccinated after being notified through the app, unlike Saturday when nearly all beneficiaries had to be informed by phone and entries about their personal details registered manually. In a few centres such as BKC’s jumbo facility, the application worked from 9am onwards, allowing organisers to register beneficiaries, verify their status and approve the vaccination. Here, most recipients also got a digital certificate which came through a text with an embedded link. At Juhu’s RN Cooper though, almost all beneficiaries had to be contacted over the phone. At VN Desai and Babasaheb Ambedkar in Kandivli too, the application did not work in the first hour or was slow in notifying potential recipients. A doctor at VN Desai said Co-Win started working only around 11.40am after a tech expert intervened. “However, we opened our centre at 9am and gave the first dose at 9.40am since we already had the beneficiary list,” said Dr Prashant More, medical superintendent. About 59 got the vaccine here on Tuesday, down from 80 on Day 1. At Kandivli’s Ambedkar hospital, the application took at least 20minutes to load details of every recipient. Yet the centre vaccinated 236 out of 302. A Sion Hospital doctor also said it was impossible to log into Co-WIN initially on Tuesday morning. “However, a couple of hours thereafter, the site began working well and we have managed to even transfer the earlier offline data,’’ the doctor said. A doctor from BMC’s F south ward’s health department said she received an SMS from the BMC war room and not the Co-WIN app. Unlike some who got a certification printed from the Co-WIN app, the civic doctor was only given a handwritten note stating she had received her first Covishield vaccine on January 19. Nikita Shelar, an accountant at BMC’s primary health centre in Vikhroli, got a Co-WIN message asking her to get vaccinated at Rajawadi Hospital, Ghatkopar. But recipients here did not receive the digital certificate either. KEM Hospital dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh said his hospital on Tuesday received a list of 300 healthcare workers to be vaccinated as against 500, which was the initial target. “We presume some people didn’t get the Co-WIN message,’’ he said. Almost all centres also received lists with duplicate entries, which after a clean-up, reduced the city’s target for the day to 3,200 from 4,000. Dr Mangala Gomare, BMC’s executive health officer, said while the list on Day 1 was prepared manually, the one on Tuesday was generated partially by Co-Win, leading to duplication of names.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/co-win-app-comes-to-life-sends-out-vaccine-text-messages-finally/articleshow/80355143.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 20, 2021||Chandigarh||Jab we fret: Chandigarh doctors, nurses also keep vaccine at arm’s length||CHANDIGARH: Another consignment of 11,500 Covishield vaccines arrived in the city on Tuesday, but health workers, including doctors, are apprehensive about it. In the first lot, 12,000 vaccines were allocated to Chandigarh for 5,400 healthcare beneficiaries. The additional vaccines will be transferred to PGI once there is a communication from the Union health ministry. However, senior faculty and nursing staff, besides most of the Class III and IV employees, are not coming forward for the shots. The doctors said they were relieved that they do not have Covaxin. “We are better with Covishield, which has published data at least from the UK, Brazil and trials from Africa, if not India. But Covaxin has been approved under clinical trial mode,” said a faculty member. For most, apprehension is due to the hasty approval to the vaccine during the pandemic. “There is no data on efficacy for Covishield and Covaxin. Even if it is safe, efficacy must be known. The way the data of these vaccines has been concealed after emergency use authorisation, I am not confident about it,” said a consultant at PGI. This reluctance is shared by the nursing staff as well. “We have heard from the doctors with whom we work that this can cause infertility as well. Who knows what is in the composition of these vaccines. We do not see the need to get the shots,” said a senior PGI nursing staff member. On the second day of immunisation, not many health workers came forward and there was a decrease by 34% as compared with the first day of the drive. “There have been reports of adverse events and also deaths, which are of course not officially related to immunisation. This all results in fear,” said a GMH-16 doctor. Director, health services, UT, Dr Amandeep Kang confirmed, “We received 11,500 doses, but the allocation for the lot has not yet been conveyed by the ministry. Once we get the orders, we will send these to PGI.” The city has received 23,500 Covishield vaccines to date. There are around 21,000 health workers in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jab-we-fret-city-docs-nurses-also-keep-vax-at-arms-length/articleshow/80353382.cms||Shimona Kanwar
January 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||Day 2 of vaccination: Ahmedabad records 15% dip, Gujarat 10%||AHMEDABAD: On Day 2 of Covid vaccination drive, both Ahmedabad city and Gujarat at large recorded dip in figures. Compared to 12,320 healthcare workers (HCWs) who got the jab on January 16, 11,045 got the shot on Tuesday, recording 10% dip. In comparison, Ahmedabad city recorded higher drop at 15% - from 1,115 to 943. While the state health department did not release figures of the total beneficiaries registered for the vaccination on Tuesday, sources close to the development said that if it were the same at about 13,000, it would be about 85% implementation against the target. For Ahmedabad, the figure would be about 51% against roughly 1,850 beneficiaries, they added. Among hospitals, IKDRC recorded vaccination of 100 HCWs, followed by 88 at LG Hospital, 79 in Viratnagar and 77 in Vatva. SVP Hospital recorded 36 vaccinations, Shardaben Hospital 9, Civil Hospital 43, and Sola Civil Hospital 49. Average number of beneficiaries at all the sites was 100, said state vaccination officials. “There’s no major difference in participation among the urban and rural areas – some of the reasons the HCWs gave while opting out of vaccination included feeling ill, not mentally prepared to take vaccine, not present in city, having presence of antibodies due to recovery from Covid-19, someone in the family having the infection, and a possible allergic reaction,” said a senior health department official on condition of anonymity. A nurse from the city said she would wait till her colleagues take it. Another ward boy said he consulted senior doctors and chose to take it ‘soon’ but not on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/day-2-of-vaccination-city-records-15-dip-state-10/articleshow/80353401.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Bhopal||Completely eliminate hooch trade in MP, Shivraj Singh Chouhan tells officials||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday asked district and divisional officials to completely eliminate the illicit liquor mafia in their respective areas. Addressing divisional commissioners, district collectors, zonal IGs and district SPs over video conferencing, Chouhan said that they along with excise officers of the districts concerned will be held accountable if there is another hooch tragedy in Madhya Pradesh. Chouhan said that incidents of loss of lives due to consumption of illicit liquor as seen in Morena and Ujjain recently should not be repeated. “The state government has taken the incidents seriously and there should be strong action against illicit liquor mafia”, he said. Chouhan said action should be taken against all kinds of mafia. “There has been good work in this respect in some districts and officials and staff will be suitably rewarded. At the same time, leniency will not be tolerated”. The CM added. Chouhan said that trade of illicit liquor and adulterated food articles must stop immediately and those involved must be taken to task. “The intelligence network in every district must be strengthened and officials must know where illicit liquor is manufactured, where it is transported and sold”, he said. Chouhan also said that all SDMs and SDOPs should hold meetings with sarpanchs and secretaries of gram panchayats and they should be forewarned that consumption of illicit liquor could be lethal. “People should be made aware not to consume illicit liquor”, he said. “People involved in trade of illicit liquor both in urban and rural areas should be identified and stringent action taken against them. Officials should also ensure that liquor from licenced outlets is not sold beyond the rate decided by the state government”, Chouhan said. “If there is any information on manufacturing or sale of illicit liquor, it should be relayed to police and excise officials”, Chouhan added. He said the ongoing campaign against the mafia has been widely appreciated by people across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/completely-eliminate-hooch-trade-shivraj-tells-officials/articleshow/80353317.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 19-year-old youth stabs former lover to death in Chittoor||TIRUPATI: A 19-year-old youth stabbed his 20-year-old lover to death in broad daylight near Penumuru in Chittoor district on Tuesday even as the victim’s friend watched helplessly. Angry parents of the victim ransacked the boy’s home and set it on fire in retaliation. According to Chittoor SB DSP N Sudhakar Reddy, Dilli Babu and the victim Gayatri, from Toorpupalli village in Penumuru mandal, had eloped on December 11, 2020. After their parents managed to trace and brought them back two days after, police counselled the couple. However, Dilli Babu developed a grudge against Gayatri after she started avoiding him. He kept a watch on her and waylaid her on Tuesday morning when she and a friend were on their way to Penumuru on a bike. After stopping her on the pretext of having a conversation, Dilli Babu who had brought along a kitchen knife stabbed Gayatri even as her friend stood by helplessly. After Gayatri’s friend raised an alarm, Dilli Babu dropped the murder weapon and fled from the spot. The victim died while undergoing treatment. Parents and relatives of the girl attacked the accused’s parents and ransacked their house before setting it on fire. Police said the accused stabbed the victim seven times on her stomach. Cases were registered under the Disha and Nirbhaya Acts. A search has been launched for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/19-year-old-youth-stabs-former-lover-to-death/articleshow/80352411.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 20, 2021||Surat||Nod to rape survivor to abort pregnancy||Surat: The Surat district and sessions court on Tuesday allowed a 17-year-old rape survivor to terminate her 21-week pregnancy.According to cased details, the minor girl was abducted by accused Hiresh Chaudhary (21) four months ago from her house under Mahuva police station jurisdiction. Her mother had lodged a missing complaint with the police then.During investigation, police traced Chaudhary and nabbed him on December 28 last month and rescued the minor girl. One medical examination it was found that the girl was 19 weeks pregnant. Chaudhary, a casual labourer, was arrested and booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and The Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act. On knowing about the girl’s pregnancy, her mother filed a plea before the Surat court seeking permission to terminate her daughter’s pregnancy on the grounds that the unborn child would be considered as ‘illegitimate’ by the society and would create a problem for the minor in the future. The girl’s mother further mentioned that her daughter herself was a child and won’t be able to taken care of the baby.Bardoli circle inspector D K Chaudhary produced the report of the penal of doctors who examined the girl’s pregnancy before the court. Doctors too stated that if the girl’s pregnancy continues, she is likely to face physical as well as mental trauma. The doctors, therefore, recommended termination of pregnancy.Based on the doctor’s report court allowed termination of pregnancy and order the gynaecology department of the New Civil Hospital in Surat to proceed with consent from the girl’s parents.Court also ordered the investigating officer to take samples from the foetus for DNA matching with that of the accused.“After the termination of the pregnancy, the medical papers and DNA reports should be submitted. The investigating officer is also directed to submit the report of the victim’s mental and physical health to the court,” the court ordered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/nod-to-rape-survivor-to-abort-pregnancy/articleshow/80352379.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
January 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||SpiceJet, AAIAL join hands for vax delivery||Ahmedabad: A private airline, SpiceJet on Tuesday signed a memorandum of understanding with Adani Ahmedabad International Airport Limited (AAIAL) which operates Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad to provide seamless transportation of Covid-19 vaccine. As part of the agreement, AAIAL will handle the acceptance, warehousing of Covid-19 vaccines and provide temperature-controlled facility, plug points in the warehouse and airside and maintain the cold chain from acceptance to the airside and vice versa ensuring smooth handling of vaccines. SpiceJet’s cargo arm, SpiceXpress, will aid with the transportation of Covid-19 vaccine in India as well as international markets with proper temperature-controlled mechanism, as part of the agreement. Behnad Zandi, CEO, Adani Airport Group, said, “We are humbled to be part of this vaccination drive by utilising our core competencies in the logistics sector and infusing innovative solutions as cargo terminal operators at SVPI Airport. We are committed to ensuring seamless transportation of vaccines through our terminal.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/spicejet-aaial-join-hands-for-vax-delivery/articleshow/80353455.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Trichy||Fisherman dies after boat capsize||Mayiladuthurai:A 30-year-old fisherman from Sirkazhi in Mayiladuthurai district died after a mechanized boat capsized near the shore in the Bay of Bengal on Tuesday. Marine police identified the deceased as Vijayabalan, a native of Vanagiri fishing hamlet near Sirkazhi. Another fisherman, Kaliappan of the same village, was preparing to venture into the sea on his mechanised fibre boat along with nine others including Vijayabalan. As they were moving the trawler into the sea from the shore, the boat capsized suddenly. In the incident Vijayabalan came under the trawler injuring his head severely. Others tried to rescue Vijayabalan, but he succumbed to his injuries on the spot. Based on the information, marine police rushed to the spot and sent the body to the government hospital for postmortem. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fisherman-dies-after-boat-capsize/articleshow/80355151.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Chandigarh||ASI accused of abetment to suicide sent to police lines||Mohali: Baltana chowki in-charge ASI Kulwant Singh has been sent to police lines and a departmental inquiry initiated against him a day after a 42-year-old accountant committed suicide in Zirakpur, said superintendent of police (rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal. Deepak had hanged himself to death at his friend’s office and left behind a four-page suicide note, blaming six people, including the ASI, for forcing him to take the step.The six accused are Davinder Singh of Ludhiana, Prem Manoch, Mani Gupta of Patiala, ASI Kulwant Singh, Ravi Arora and Vipin Chhabra, both owners of a hotel in Zirakpur. They were booked under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code.Zirakpur SHO inspector Onkar Singh Brar said “No arrests have been made so far.”In the suicide note, Deepak wrote, “Davinder stole my chequebook and after forging signatures, he, along with the ASI, was blackmailing me. They are responsible for my death and should be punished.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/asi-accused-of-abetment-to-suicide-sent-to-police-lines/articleshow/80353404.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Trichy||Sanitation drive in Trichy from today||Trichy: After facing a volley of complaints on a daily basis over extensive littering in public spots, Trichy Corporation has scheduled a massive pan-city cleanliness drive from Wednesday targeting the most littered spots and vacant plots, till January 30. Sources said that 25 most littered locations have been identified in each of the 65 wards in the city. Sanitary officials will focus on the most prone spots to identify the reason for waste dumping. The corporation has also planned to penalise offenders during the drive. Source reduction drive to eliminate potential dengue mosquito breeding objects will also be carried out as a part of the drive. Corporation officials said that they are also planning to include seizure and penalisation of plastic products in the drive. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sanitation-drive-in-trichy-from-today/articleshow/80355121.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 53% women, 47% men get shots||AHMEDABAD: In the city, of the 943 recipients of the Covid vaccine, about 53% or 497 were women, whereas the share of men was 47% (446). At the Rakhial CHC, of 44 persons vaccinated, 41 were women, whereas at Amena Khatun Hospital in Sarkhej, of the 56 vaccinated, 40 were women. Even at bigger hospitals, the same trend was seen with all nine beneficiaries at Shardaben Hospital being women, whereas at SVP Hospital, women were 58% of the 36 recipients. “The vaccination is often a group exercise and when peers are ready, compliance is greater. There are some departments where no one has taken the shot yet,” said a vaccination officer in Ahmedabad. State health department officials claim that the presence of big names on the first day of the vaccination drive had a positive impact on healthcare workers, but experts pointed out the need for a grassroots campaign to dispel myths and make healthcare staff ambassadors of the mass vaccination programme that is to follow in the second phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/53-women-47-men-get-shots/articleshow/80353453.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Ludhiana||Tenders floated to speed up dog sterlisation, stray cattle lifting||LUDHIANA: Mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal reviewed the status of stray cattle, sterilization of stray dogs, starting of the modern slaughter house and completion of carcass utilization plant in a meeting held on Tuesday. The officials claimed that to speed up the sterilization of stray dogs new tenders had been floated and this time the MC had fixed a condition that 1,800 stray dogs would have to be sterilized in one month by the firm. Most probably, the new firm will start its functioning from February or March. The joint commissioner, Swati Tiwana, claimed that tenders had been invited for a new contractor for animal birth control programme and the last date to apply for the tender was January 28. She said that sterilisation surgeries of 1,800 dogs per month would be done by the new service provider as per a condition in the tender. The new small animal hospital under the Smart City Project will also start functioning from next month. Regarding stray cattle, the mayor asked the officials to speed up the lifting of cattle from roads. An agreement will be signed soon between the MC and Dhyan Foundation for sheltering, feeding, etc. of 150 head of stray cattle at the new shed in Burj Pawat near Machhiwara. The mayor further said that three more sheds should be built and financed by the MC for more stray cattle at Burj Pawat. Dr Harbans Singh Dhalla also told the authorities that the Dandi Swami cow shed unit 2 ( Haibowal) would be ready next month to receive 150 more head of cattle. He further added that Gobind Gaudham management had been asked to adjust 300 more stray cattle in both units of cow sheds. Afterwards, the slaughter house and carcass utilization plant were also reviewed. The contractor who has been hired for slaughter house has been warned to start the functioning as soon as possible. He assured to start the service within this month. Regarding carcass utilization plant at Noorpur Bet, the contractor said that the machinery had arrived and it would be installed shortly. By the end of March the trial will also start. Even tree plantation around carcass plant building will start from next month when the cold weather will subside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/tenders-floated-to-speed-up-dog-sterlisation-stray-cattle-lifting/articleshow/80353405.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Trichy||Action against those rearing African catfish||Karur: The district administration has warned of criminal action against those rearing and selling African catfish (Clarias gariepinus) or African keluthi which is banned in the state from January 2019. Officials said that that illegal sales of these fish species have been witnessed in some parts of the district. Besides criminal action, district collector S Malarvizhi while citing an order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) passed in 2019 said that fish ponds that are used for rearing these fish species will also be dismantled by the administration. While these invasive species have adverse impact on the biodiversity, these have become a threat to native fish species. She said that government is giving subsidies to rear native fish species and people engaged in fish rearing must make use of it through the fisheries department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/action-against-those-rearing-african-catfish/articleshow/80355170.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Turnout for Covaxin lowest in Mumbai, JJ Hospital officials blame data mix-up||MUMBAI: Six centres administering the Bharat Biotech vaccine Covaxin in Maharashtra saw a drastic drop in turnout on Tuesday. Merely 181 healthcare workers took the vaccine on Tuesday as opposed to 383 on Saturday. It was a 54% decline in beneficiaries wanting to take a vaccine given in a clinical trial mode. Of the six centres, Byculla’s JJ Hospital, which was also one of the trial sites for Covaxin, saw the lowest turnout with barely 13 showing up. Three times that number took the vaccine on Day 1. Government Medical College in Aurangabad saw the second lowest turnout with 14 coming forward on Tuesday compared to 74 on the first day. Authorities at JJ Hospital said the low turnout was partly due to names being repeated in the beneficiary list. Once the duplicate names were omitted, the target number reduced to 70-0dd from 100. “Even then, the poor response has taken us by surprise. We are hoping the numbers would pick up once the Co-Win application settles,” said JJ dean Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, who was the first to take the vaccine from the institute. The district hospital in Amravati that was the only centre to inoculate all 100 beneficiaries on the first day gave it to 38 on Tuesday. Pune’s district hospital too saw a dip from 60 to 35. State officials said the drastic drop was baffling, but partly blamed it on Co-Win glitches and late intimation to healthcare workers. Covaxin was granted approval before the completion of phase III trials. The decision that those unwilling to take it will not be eligible for the other approved vaccine, Covishield, has angered many healthcare workers. “A few doctors have asked us why the vaccine was offered when its efficacy is still being studied,” said a nodal officer from one of the centres. Dr Uday Narlawar of Government Medical College, Nagpur said some have questions about safety and side-effects which are being answered. “We are also asking counter questions to beneficiaries at times to understand if they know what a clinical trial mode is,” he said. The recipients are supposed to keep an account of their adverse events and report back after seven days. They are also entitled to compensation in case they suffer from any serious adverse events. Dr Jagannath Dixit from Government Medical, Aurangabad said Covaxin was developed using a time-tested technology. “It’s an inactivated vaccine and the technology has been known to us for years,” he said, adding that people have questions but the factsheet in Marathi answers most. “We have kept consent forms too in Marathi so that people can make an informed choice,” he said. Despite that, 29 people took the vaccine on Tuesday compared to 53 on Saturday. Government Medical College, Solapur is the only centre where the turnout was similar to Day 1. About 52 took the vaccine compared to 57 on Day 1. Dean Dr Sanjiv Thakur said none have reported adverse events. “We call them after six hours to check for any problems,” he said, adding that there is hesitancy to some extent, but no one can be forced since vaccination is voluntary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/turnout-for-covaxin-lowest-in-mum-jj-hosp-officials-blame-data-mix-up/articleshow/80355213.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 20, 2021||Vijayawada||Cotton farmers sell below MSP as procurement lags||Amaravati: Farmers say that the slow pace of procurement by the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) has driven many of them in desperation to middlemen and settle for prices much lower than the minimum support price (MSP). They say that the CCI is sticking to the procurement guidelines issued by the Centre. Unseasonal rains followed by Cyclone Nivar have resulted in low output and discoloured the cotton stock. Heavy fog during the current winter has also increased farmers’ woes as CCI is not picking up stocks with high moisture content. The Centre has announced the MSP for cotton ranging between Rs 5,500 to Rs 5,800 per quintal depending on the size and quality of lintel. However, middlemen are picking up stocks from farmers at a price anywhere between Rs 4,000 to Rs 4,200 per quintal, causing huge loss to farmers. “We are advising the farmers to bring stocks with the prescribed moisture content to get maximum price at our procurement centres. The farmers might get lesser prices only when the quality of the kapas is not as per the standards,” said Sai Aditya, general manager, CCI. He said that total procurement during the current season has already touched 16.8 lakh quintals and they are continuing the purchases to help farmers. He advised the growers not to depend on middlemen. Andhra Pradesh is one of the major cotton producers in the country. According to the agriculture department, cotton was sown on about 15 lakh acres in the state. The agriculture department has pegged the expected output at 12 lakh metric tonnes which means that the production could be around 1.2 crore quintals. However, production came down by nearly 50 per cent due to damage of crops following Cyclone Nivar. “We anticipated a production of around 60 lakh bales (each bale weighs 170 kilos). However, the output is expected to come down to around 30 to 40 lakh bales due to rains and adverse weather conditions,” said a senior agriculture department official. In Prakasam district, CCI picked up around 2,000 tonnes against the total production of 42,000 tonnes. The story in many districts where the procurement is far behind the total production is no different.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cotton-farmers-sell-below-msp-as-procurement-lags/articleshow/80352425.cms||Samdani MN
January 20, 2021||Goa||Irate locals block mining trucks after youth dies in mishap||Margao: Akshay Vadar, a teenager from Guddemol, died after the two-wheeler he was riding was hit by a mining truck at Dhadem, in Sanvordem, on Monday evening. The pillion rider also sustained injuries in the accident. The truck driver fled the spot following the accident. On Tuesday, the enraged villagers blocked the road for mining trucks demanding strict and effective regulation of mining traffic by the police. They have threatened to block the road again on Wednesday if the police fails to arrest the driver. The incident has once again raised the demand for construction of a mining bypass road in the area. Villagers slammed the government for its failure to take up the construction of the mining corridor during the long mining ban. “The government was aware that resumption of large amount of e-auctioned ore would lead to traffic congestion and pose threat to lives. Still, the government failed to take any steps to resume the bypass road work it had abandoned soon after mining ban,” a villager said. The mining bypass project from Uguem to Capxem, initially planned to be constructed in three phases by the GSIDC, was abandoned midway following the mining ban in 2012. In the absence of a dedicated mining bypass, haphazard mining transportation through villages in the mining belt leads to perilous situations for pedestrians and other road users. Though the authorities have placed several restrictions on mining transportation, all regulations are observed more in the breach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/irate-locals-block-mining-trucks-after-youth-dies-in-mishap/articleshow/80355217.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Trichy||‘Repatriation flights expose need to resume regular Trichy-Kuwait flights’||Trichy: The Trichy International Airport has so far operated 40 flights between Kuwait and Trichy during the lockdown period to bring back stranded Tamils. Citing the huge patronage in this sector, passengers have appealed to the concerned authorities to operate regular service to the country.Ever since the ministry of external affairs gave the nod to operate repatriation flights from India to various countries to bring back the Indians stranded due to the lockdown, the Trichy International Airport has handled 87,902 passengers carried by 570 flight services.Of the 570 services, 40 flights have been operated to Kuwait from Trichy and have brought back a total of 5,204 Tamils stranded in the country. Air India Express has so far operated 15 services to the country while Kuwait Airways and Jazeera Airways have operated eight services each to Trichy. Air India has operated six services and IndiGo Air has brought Tamils to Trichy by three services during the lockdown period.Sometime back the Indian Airlines was operating two services to Kuwait from Trichy on Tuesdays and Saturdays. However, they stopped the service in 2007, citing some operational reasons. The situation is prevailing till date, despite thousands of people form the central region working there.According to the functionaries of Kuwait-Tamil Islamic Community (K-Tic), functioning from the country, still thousands of people hailing from the central region of the Tamil Nadu are stranded there. So, this is the time that the Ministry of aviation should think about resumption of the service to Kuwait, functionaries said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/repatriation-flights-expose-need-to-resume-regular-trichy-kuwait-flights/articleshow/80355180.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
January 20, 2021||Trichy||Infosys funds hostel facility at IIIT Trichy||Trichy: Infosys Foundation, Bengaluru is funding a girls’ hostel on the upcoming permanent campus of Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT), Trichy. With total 230 students, IIIT-Trichy is presently functioning from its temporary campus in Oxford engineering college, Trichy. The hostel will be raised at a cost of Rs 10 crore to accommodate over 200 girl students. Sudha Murty, chairperson of the foundation, inaugurated the first phase of the construction activity in a virtual event on Monday. Bhoomi pooja was performed to begin the construction in the permanent campus in Sethurappatti. A three-storey administrative and academic building besides mess and students’ hostel were part of the first phase of work in 2.50 lakh sq ft area to be completed at an estimated cost of Rs 104 crore. The work was planned to be completed by June this year. Murty addressed the gathering and motivated the members to contribute in the growth of the institute. The IIITs are the third-generation technical institutions started specifically to cater to information technology companies. TCS, Cognizant, Infosys, Ramco, Elcot and tech solutions are the stake holders, who have 15% stakes in the institution. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/infosys-funds-hostel-facility-at-iiit-trichy/articleshow/80355158.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Ludhiana||Plastic product traders want system to check raw material rates||Ludhiana: Plastic product traders and manufacturers of the city are facing huge problems due to the skyrocketing rates of the plastic raw material, which have shot up by more than 200%. According to businessmen, the only hope they have is the Union Budget in which some relief can be announced for their industry. The biggest demand of the industry is introduction of a system under which the rates of plastic raw material get periodically reviewed by the government so that the situation like the ongoing turmoil of rates do not re-occur. Besides this, the businessmen are also demanding that their industry be given tax relief and GST on their products be reduced. Besides, the duties on import of the products, which cost dearly in India, too should be reduced. Giving more information, Gurdeep Singh Batra, president of Plastic Manufacturers and Traders Association said, “Our industry has been destroyed due to the unchecked price rise of all raw materials being used by our industry, both for trading and manufacturing of different products. There has been over 200% increase in the rates of some of the raw material. Rate of LDP, which was Rs 75 per kg in October is Rs 100 today. Similarly, the rate of LLDP was Rs 62 and it has reached Rs 95 per kg today. The rate of ABS, which was about Rs 125 per kg in October, has reached Rs 300 per kg as on date. This huge fluctuation in the rates clearly shows how much losses every trader dealing in the plastic raw material has suffered and the same goes for the manufacturers of plastic products.” He said, “Going by the current situation our only hope is the Union Budget, in which we expect that the finance minister announces some measures, which directly or indirectly cause a positive impact our industry. Our biggest expectation is that the central government should take the price control mechanism of plastic raw material into its hands and fortnightly rates should be fixed by the government. If it feels that there has been change in the cost of production of the plastic raw material manufacturing companies then the rates should be increased in that proportion. Similarly, in case of decrease in the cost of production the rates should be decreased.” According to Bhagat Singh, another leading plastic raw material dealer and plastic products manufacturer, “Besides rising rates of raw material, another major problem being faced by us is 18% GST on our products, which is very high. The government should ensure that in this Budget the GST on plastic raw material should be reduced to 12%, as it will reduce our cost of doing business. Besides this, we are also hoping that the finance minister will also fulfil our long pending demand of increasing the income tax exemption limit, which should be at least Rs 7.50 lakh. No income tax should be levied on income up to this level and 10% tax should be imposed on income beyond that.” Davinder Shingari, another plastic trader of city, said, “We are under huge stress due to rising rates of raw material, following which losses are piling up and with each passing day we are losing business. If it continues like this, then the day is not far when we will be left with no other option but to shut down our businesses permanently. At this point of time the major step which can be taken by the finance minister in this Budget is reducing the custom duty on import of plastic raw material, rates of which have gone berserk. When the government cannot control the rates of the plastic raw material locally, then why not let us import it as we are getting it at cheaper rates from abroad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/plastic-product-traders-want-system-to-check-raw-material-rates/articleshow/80353421.cms||Mohit Behl
January 20, 2021||Vijayawada||No need for fresh pink diamond probe, says HC||Vijayawada: The high court on Tuesday said there is no need for a fresh inquiry into the case of missing pink diamond from the jewellery of Lord Venkateswara in Tirumala. A PIL was filed in the high court seeking inquiry into the case as there has been a lot of confusion that the diamond was allegedly stolen and auctioned in Switzerland. Yallapalli Vidya Sagar from Tirupati, who is also a spokesperson of the TDP, filed the petition challenging the ‘inaction’ of the TTD to multiple representations given by him to inquire into the case of the missing diamond. He sought to know whether the pink diamond, said to have been auctioned in Switzerland, was the same one which presented by the then Mysore Maharaja to Lord Venkateswara. He also sought an investigation into the allegation of former TTD chief priest, who had said that the diamond was broken. However, the HC said that they are not inclined to entertain the present petition as there have been two independent committees, including one constituted by the Supreme Court, and disposed of the petition saying there is no need for any further inquiry into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-need-for-fresh-pink-diamond-probe-says-hc/articleshow/80352438.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||4th round of ayurveda, homeopathy intake held||Ahmedabad: In the fourth round of intake for paramedical courses, on Tuesday, 577 candidates were admitted for ayurveda studies and 1,381 got admission in the homeopathy course. Of the total 32 ayurveda colleges in the state, 15 have been sanctioned so far. The admission process was conducted for 912 seats across the 15 colleges. The fourth round was held after 480 seats were added to ayurveda colleges recently. The Round 1 intake process for ayurveda and homeopathy programmes in self-financed colleges was completed earlier this month for the all-India quota with the allocation of seats. The candidates participated in the choice-filling process that was carried out for 62 seats of five ayurveda colleges and 228 seats of 16 colleges offering the homeopathy course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4th-round-of-ayurveda-homeopathy-intake-held/articleshow/80353457.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Dehradun||Man brandishes gun at Lalpur toll plaza in US Nagar||Rudrapur: A man brandished a gun at Lalpur toll plaza located on National Highway-74 in Udham Singh Nagar district after stepping out of a car on Tuesday. It is alleged that the accused along with his three aides earlier attacked the toll plaza employees. The police were informed and held one of the accused while others fled the spot. Toll plaza’s supervisor Anurag Kumar told the police that four men, who were travelling in a Creta, refused to pay the toll amount while passing through the plaza at Lalpur on Kichha road. When Kumar insisted on the payment, the accused allegedly tried to mow him down. The supervisor was, however, driven on the bonnet for a few metres. After the toll plaza staff heard the commotion, both the groups gathered and got into a fight. One of the assailants took out a pistol, brandished at the employees and challenged them to collect the toll. The whole incident was captured in a CCTV camera installed at the booth. Talking to TOI, superintendent of police (SP) city, Devendra Pincha, said that the police have detained one of the accused identified as Arjun Singh, a resident of Matkhera village in UP’s Bilaspur. “Arjun Singh was stopped by toll plaza employees as his car did not have a FASTag. He moved the car to another lane but refused to pay the charges claiming to be a participant of the ongoing farmers' protest at Delhi borders, which led to a skirmish between them. We have recovered an air pistol from him which he used to intimidate the plaza employees,” Pincha added. Singh has been booked under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (provocation to cause the break of public peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. "The case was registered after we received a complaint from the toll plaza employees and a probe has been ordered,” the SP Pincha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-brandishes-gun-at-lalpur-toll-plaza-in-us-nagar/articleshow/80352441.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 20, 2021||Trichy||Farmers’ hopes rise over mobile paddy dryer||Thanjavur: With the help of some progressive farmers, a paddy mobile dryer has been brought from Hosur and put to use in a direct procurement centre at Ponnapur East near Orathanadu in Thanjavur on a trial basis. Thanjavur district administration has taken the initiative to safeguard the paddy grains submerged in the fields due to the untimely rains. Normally, the harvested paddy has around 18 to 22% moisture. But the paddy harvested during the current season and the standing crops is left with 28% moisture. At present the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC) is procuring paddy with a maximum moisture of 17 to 20%, said G Srinivasan, a farmer from Ganapathi Agraharam who coordinated with the district administration to bring the dryer to Thanjavur. “I came to know that the dryer is manufactured in Hosur. I went there and customized it to get the desired result. With the help of the district administration, we brought the dryer. After inspecting it, district collector assured to procure such dryers,” he said. During the trial run, some bags of paddy with 26% moisture was reduced to 16%. The steaming tank can hold 2 tonne paddy at a time, officials said. “I inspected it and it was fine. So, I have taken the request to the principal secretary of the agriculture department. He has assured to take necessary steps. We have ordered two dryers for trial and we expect it to arrive in a couple of days. Based on the results, we will submit a report to the government for positive consideration. Some of the farmers are also planning to procure on their own. If any farmers’ producers organisations express their willingness, we will support them too,” district collector M Govinda Rao told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-hopes-rise-over-mobile-paddy-dryer/articleshow/80355191.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Techie kills self after losses in online gaming in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A software engineer employed with a prominent IT major killed himself in Hyderabad on Tuesday after running losses in online gaming. The case is the first of its kind since police broke a racket in August last year and arrested a Chinese national. Police said Ravi Kumar, 28, who was employed in Bangalore, killed himself by hanging at his Patancheru residence after getting into a debt trap by playing online. Police say online gaming is a Rs 1,100-crore racket, with many youngsters hooked. In August 2020, Central Crime Station sleuths of Hyderabad police busted a similar online gambling racket and arrested four persons, including a Chinese national, Yah Hao. Police accused the Chinese national of organising online gambling portals, and manipulating the outcome of the online gaming against the player. Hao and his three Indian associates were chargesheeted and are in jail. In a separate instant loan app racket being probed by Telangana police, four more Chinese nationals have been arrested so far. Police said Kumar had moved to his suburb house with his parents in May last year after lockdown was imposed and was working from home. On Tuesday, when his parents were not home, Kumar locked himself in his room and was later found hanging from the ceiling by his mother. “Ravi Kumar did not leave any suicide note but his family members said he took the extreme step after getting trapped into debt by playing online gaming,” Prasad, sub-Inspector of Patancherru, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/techie-kills-self-after-losses-in-online-gaming/articleshow/80355254.cms||Srinath Vudali
January 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||GU science admission: Only 600 participants in round seven||AHMEDABAD: Despite giving all candidates the option of choice-filling and selling fresh PINs, the seventh round of admission for science courses at Gujarat University did not see many takers. Only 600 candidates have actively enrolled in the seventh round, said sources in the admission committee.Of these, 143 new students were transferred to the remaining seats, according to sources. Students who were denied admission in the seventh round were also allowed to repurchase pin and register. So even after holding seven rounds of admission, as many as 7,500 seats in undergraduate science colleges affiliated with GU will remain vacant this year. In all, admissions were held for 14,000 seats across 37 colleges affiliated to GU. Sources say that some self-financed science colleges have received less than 15 students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-science-admission-only-600-participants-in-round-seven/articleshow/80353471.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Dehradun||No appointment for D.El.Ed graduates availing degrees from open varsities||Dehradun: After protests from D.El.Ed (Diploma in Elementary Education) graduates, state education minister Arvind Pandey has confirmed that the D.El.Ed graduates who have availed their degrees from open universities or distance education will not be considered for the appointments in the state government schools as of now. Notably, D.El.Ed graduates are appointed as teachers of primary classes in the state. Meanwhile, the education department has given a go-ahead to start a special employment drive in order to fill the vacant teaching posts at the government-aided schools. Several government-aided schools are having a staff crunch and require more manpower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-appointment-for-d-el-ed-graduates-availing-degrees-from-open-varsities/articleshow/80352451.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Man denies trying to kill 10-year-old son; victim critical||HYDERABAD: A day after a 10-year-old boy was set ablaze by his father in KPHB, the accused was sent to judicial remand on Tuesday. Police said that Balu, who was allegedly drunk at the time of incident, denied his role in attempting to kill his son, during the investigation. Balu told police that his son was irregular in attending online classes organised by his government school and never used to heed to his father’s advice, which has upset Balu for a long time. Police said that the victim was still being treated at Gandhi hospital, where he was admitted with 90% burns on his body, and that his condition continues to be critical. Balu was arrested on Monday and produced before a judge, who sent him to judicial remand on Tuesday. On Sunday night, the accused—allegedly in a drunken state—asked his son to get him a beedi cigarette. Since the boy returned late, Balu attacked him and later doused him with turpentine oil and set the 10-year-old boy on fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-denies-trying-to-kill-10-yr-old-son-victim-critical/articleshow/80355237.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Vijayawada||PIL moved against land survey project||Vijayawada: The Adivasi Samkshema Parishath (ASP) on Tuesday moved a PIL in the high court against the government’s integrated land survey project, stating that giving permanent land rights to non-tribal people in tribal areas is illegal.  ASP argued that resurvey of land under YSR Jagananna Saswatha Bhu Hakku and Bhu Raksha programme to provide permanent land rights even in tribal areas violates existing special laws and contrary to AP Scheduled Areas Land Transfer Regulations 1/59 and its amendment 1/70 under the fifth schedule of the Constitution. The counsel for the petitioner argued that the state government cannot conduct survey in scheduled areas to give permanent land rights to non-tribes. Countering the claims, the government counsel clarified that the resurvey project is meant to update land records only and does not intend to give land rights to persons who were not entitled for. The high court has asked the government to file a counter affidavit with all details about the land survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pil-moved-against-land-survey-project/articleshow/80352453.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: SC grants interim bail to Nowhera Sheik, orders her to return investors’ money||HYDERABAD: Heera Gold scam accused Nowhera Sheik got a reprieve on Tuesday when Supreme Court granted an interim bail to her. Giving her six weeks’ time, the court ordered her to clear the liabilities of all the complainants (as on date) in cases where chargesheets have either been filed or complaints have been made. The apex court observed that the objective was to see whether the business which Nowhera Sheik was doing can be carried on with some of the persons who had invested in her businesses. Nowhera is accused of collecting Rs 5,600 crore deposits from 1.72 lakh investors in the name of gold ponzi scheme. She was arrested in October 2018. She was heading some 15 companies under different names under Heera group, which began its operations in 2010. The court said, “The endeavour of this court is to see that the money invested by the small investors is not lost in the bargain or by the end of the day they get only a fraction of that amount.” Nowhera has been enlarged on an interim bail of six weeks as a probation period for her to show her bona fides to settle the investors’ claims. If she fails, she will be sent back to jail, the court said. She was also asked to furnish a personal bond and an undertaking to be made before the district judge or superingtendent. The accused has to deposit Rs 6 crore to the Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO). The court also asked Nowhera Sheik to report at Kukatpally police station every Monday at 10 am. In order to make payments to the complainants, the amounts attached by Maharashtra of Rs 21 crore and by the Enforcement Directorate of Rs 22 crore apart from Rs 6 crore brought by her would be utilised. The apex court said: “This would require the operation of the bank accounts attached. The amounts to the complainants will be paid through the court/police station where an FIR is registered or a complaint is pending.” According to police, Heera group has more than 160 bank accounts across India. The apex court said it is aware of the fact that there are a large number of other claimants. “The petitioner’s counsel said that a number of the claimants may not be interested in withdrawing their amounts and she will endeavour to hold a meeting with the investors to find out their intent,” it said. When counsels for the investigation agencies brought to the notice of the court on how other investors have been left high and dry, the apex court said: “We agree with the sentiments. We feel it will serve no purpose if the amounts are accumulated in some other account.” Giving an assurance, the court also said, “We are told that her passport has already been deposited pursuant to the order of Telangana high court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sc-grants-interim-bail-to-nowhera-orders-her-to-return-investors-money/articleshow/80355219.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 20, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh HC quashes CID’s insider trading FIR||VIJAYAWADA: The high court on Tuesday quashed the FIR registered against close aides of TDP national general secretary Nara Lokesh and some other individuals over allegations of insider trading in Amaravati. The high court observed that it was a speculative criminal prosecution launched by the state against the petitioners which is not permissible under law. The CID had registered the FIR under cheating, criminal conspiracy and other sections of IPC, following a complaint by one Salivendra Suresh of Velagapudi village in Tulluru mandal against Kilaru Rajesh, his wife Kilaru Srihasa, Cherukuri Tejaswi, BVR Sarma, owner of a private hospital in Guntur, and others. The complainant alleged that all of them acquired lands at throwaway prices as they were privy to information about the location of the capital which was nothing but insider trading. The complaint was originally lodged with Mangalagiri police and later was transferred to the CID which registered an FIR following a preliminary enquiry. All the persons named as accused in the petition moved the high court seeking quashing of the FIR, stating that they acquired the lands through registered sale deeds and by following all legal processes. They argued that when the sellers of the land do not have any grievance, a case cannot be registered against them based on a complaint lodged by a stranger. They also argued that the information about the location of the capital was very much in public domain as all newspapers published numerous articles about it. The advocate general, on the other hand, said the land transactions were done by acquiring prior information about the exact location of the capital. The sellers would not have sold their properties at throwaway prices had they known about the capital’s location, he argued. After hearing both sides, Justice Ch Manavendra Roy said the concept of insider trading and the law made with regard to it is confined to only selling and buying of securities and bonds in the capital market and cannot be applied to landed properties. He also noted the section of IPC under which the case was registered is untenable in the present case as it was drawn in conection with insider trading. The court further observed that information about the location of the capital cannot be considered a secret as it was widely available in public domain. As the sellers voluntarily sold their land through registered sale deed, criminal proceedings cannot be initiated against the buyers as they have all legal rights to acquire properties, the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-quashes-cids-insider-trading-fir/articleshow/80352461.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Two siblings peddling ganja arrested||Hyderabad: Two peddlers were arrested and 50 kilos of ganja was seized from their possession at Puppalguda in the early hours of Tuesday. Narsingi police arrested N Santhosh Singh, 34, a grocery store owner from Nanakramguda, and his brother, N Durgesh Singh, 19, a welder. According to police, Santosh has a history of ganja peddling and he was arrested four times since 2017 by Balanagar and Gachibowli police. Durgesh has a ganja peddling case registered against him at Gachibowli police station in 2018.  The duo confessed that they had procured the contraband from an absconding accused, Md Irfan of Nanakramguda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-siblings-peddling-ganja-arrested/articleshow/80355267.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Dehradun||Education dept mulls reopening schools for non-board classes||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand education department has started working on the proposal to reopen the schools for non-board classes as well. After the directions from the education minister, the department is planning to reopen schools for classes 9 and 11 within a week. Students of classes 6 to 8 will likely be allowed from February 1. The education department is working on a proposal which will be presented in the cabinet meeting. The officials will discuss the proposal with all the stakeholders before finalising it. It is likely that the parents’ written approval will be needed before the students are allowed in schools. “The instructions have been given to the officials to make a strategy for reopening of schools. However, the final decision will be taken by the chief minister,” said state education minister Arvind Pandey. The decision on reopening of schools has been taken after many requests from private schools and also keeping in mind the commencement of dry vaccine runs in the state. Meanwhile, the parents association has registered their unhappiness over reopening of schools and claimed that the decision was taken due to the pressure from the lobby of private schools. They further said that the turnout of board students has been very low and it will continue until everybody is vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/education-dept-mulls-reopening-schools-for-non-board-classes/articleshow/80352466.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC denies teen permission to abort||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court refused permission to a 13-year-old rape survivor to abort a 27-week fetus, considering the risk involved in termination of pregnancy. The court on Monday directed the health and family welfare department to immediately provide financial assistance of Rs 1 lakh to the girl’s family for her nutrition and medical treatment.  The government has also been directed to take care of all her needs, as the rape survivor was found to have low intelligence levels. The authorities have been ordered to arrange for adoption and coordinate with the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA) for adoption of the child, if the girl and her parents are unwilling to keep the child after delivery. The case is from Narmada district. On January 7, doctors found out that the teen was six months pregnant, when her family took her to a government hospital for a check-up. The victim and her mother then moved the HC through advocate Dipmala Desai for permission to get the pregnancy terminated because the law prohibits abortions beyond 20 weeks and the MTP amendment bill also recommends abortions only up to 24 weeks. The HC ordered SSG Hospital, Vadodara to examine the victim and the report said the abortion would not be advisable at such an advanced stage. Justice B N Karia refused permission for the abortion, but ordered the authorities to allow the teen to stay at the One Stop Centre in Rajpipla town for proper care. The HC ordered that she be shifted to SSG Hospital in Vadodara 10 days before the due delivery date, and keep a special room reserved for her and her family. Besides ordering all possible medical care for free, the HC also ordered the government to immediately pay Rs 1 lakh to the victim’s family for expenses on food and medicine. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-denies-teen-permission-to-abort/articleshow/80353475.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Soon, Rs 10,000 fine likely for drunk driving, Rs 5,000 for no licence: Maharashtra minister||MUMBAI: Motorists may soon have to cough up hefty penalties in the range of Rs 1,000 to Rs 10,000 and even face jail time for violations like driving without a licence or in an inebriated state. State transport minister Anil Parab on Monday told TOI that the government is likely to soon announce “increased fines” as per the Central Motor Vehicle Amendment Act, 2019. The state will also procure 75 interceptor vehicles with speed guns that will be used by the RTO or police flying squads to nab speedsters in the act, he added. “We also plan to stop new permits for taxis and autorickshaws in the state. Also a decision will soon be taken on fare hikes for autos and taxis in Mumbai region,” the minister said, adding that he has already corresponded with the Centre on the proposed amended penalties. “We have agreed to most of them; I will be travelling to Delhi to discuss some of the proposed penalties that may inconvenience the common man,” Parab said. Sources said that those under discussion were Rs 1,000 fine for not wearing a helmet or seat belt. Parab emphasised that hefty penalties related to serious violations like speeding and drunk driving (see graphic) were justified and may be implemented soon. The state government will take a call after his return from Delhi and notify the revised penalties, sources said. The state government had put on hold the implementation of the Central Motor Vehicle Amendment Act for more than a year and did not notify the new fines in Maharashtra. The amended Act has increased the penalty for drunken driving to up to six months in jail and/or fine up to Rs 10,000 for first-time offenders, and up to two years in jail and/or fine of Rs 15,000 for repeat offenders. Penalty for speeding has been hiked to up to Rs 2,000 for light motor vehicles and Rs 2,000-Rs 4,000 for goods vehicles and impounding of driving licence for second/subsequent offence. Those driving without licence can face up to six months in jail and/or fine up to Rs 10,000. The amended Act also imposes fine on agents acting without proper authority from the RTO. The state government will also set up 50 driver-training institutes in rural areas, Parab said. “The transport department will also make medical tests compulsory for commercial drivers. We are also setting up computerised driving-test tracks at RTOs across the state and automated fitness testing centres for commercial vehicles,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/soon-rs-10000-fine-likely-for-drunk-driving-rs-5000-for-no-licence-min/articleshow/80355300.cms||Somit Sen
January 20, 2021||Goa||North Goa bans chicken from Maharashtra, Karnataka||PANAJI: Just days after the South Goa collectorate banned the entry of poultry and poultry products from neighbouring states, the North Goa district magistrate has followed suit. Transportation and entry of birds and eggs from Maharashtra and Karnataka into the district, ‘either directly or indirectly’, has been prohibited. A notice issued on Monday by the North Goa collectorate read that “Any person contravening this order shall be punishable under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.” TOI had reported last week that the South Goa district magistrate had taken the ban decision after cases of avian influenza (bird flu) were reported in other states. Meanwhile, the state directorate of animal husbandry and veterinary services has requested citizens to report any unusual sickness and mortality in poultry and wild birds to the state nodal officer for avian influenza (bird flu) at the office of the assistant director, disease investigation unit, Tonca-Caranzalem. “The nodal officer may be reached also in case of additional information about the same in avian species in your vicinity. The advisory by department of animal husbandry and dairying, New Delhi has informed the general public that poultry products cooked at over 70 degrees Celsius temperature for 30 minutes inactivates the virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/north-goa-bans-chicken-from-maha-karnataka/articleshow/80355276.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Borewell water after 31 years and an acquisition notice||KOPPAL: The Meti family of Kutuganahalli village in Koppal district struck water on their farmland late Sunday night — after digging around 150 failed borewells over 31years, spending lakhs of rupees. The Metis had decided to sell the 27 acres as they couldn’t find water even 600 feet below, having consulted geologists, water experts, astrologers and even black magicians! On Sunday, 27-year-old Channakumar Meti brought in a borewell lorry for a final attempt. Water gushed out at 90 feet. “I did not inform the elders as they have been heartbroken several times in the past three decades. I told the digging agency to come at night. Once we got water, I informed my uncles. We dug another borewell too and struck water again,” he said. The joy was shortlived. On Monday, the family received notice from the government for acquisition of the land for extension of Basapur airport. “We don’t know whether to celebrate or answer the notice. We are not interested in giving up the land now, let’s wait and watch,” said Annapurnamma, Channakumar’s 80-year-old grandmother. “We have invested at least Rs 20 lakh on borewells so far, paying lakhs just to consult people,” said Venkanagouda, Channakumar’s uncle. Family used many rural techniques to trace point for borewellWe have spent big money on borewells and made profits by growing corn, paddy and wheat. Imagine, if there is underground water, we could make 3-4 times the money we have invested on borewell digging,” said Venkanagouda, Channakumar’s uncle. Asked what kept them going, Venkanagouda said, “The land is fertile and we had enough water till 1984. We had a well that was 40 feet deep and good water was available at just 10 feet during my SSLC days in 1981. As the water table started going down, the well went dry when my elder brother Basavaraj started digging a borewell in 1990. We were digging 8-10 borewells each year but in vain.” Basavaraj also constructed a lake on half-an-acre area in 1994-95 to store rainwater but it did not work out. “We bought another piece of land 1km away and brought water from there through a pipeline. But it was a Herculean task to maintain the pipeline,” he explained. Channakumar, who has studied up to PU, said: “I started planning the digging four months ago. I used different rural techniques — coconut, neem straw, water bottle and pot method — to trace a point for the borewell.” Ashok Meti, Venkanagouda’s brother, who graduated in agriculture, is ready to experiment with other crops. “We cultivated water melon in five acres and grow lemon too. Underground water will boost cultivation which would give us better profits,” he said. Venkanagouda said abundant rain in 2020 may have recharged the groundwater. “There was drought and a lot of developmental activities during the past decades, resulting in depletion of underground water. Probably, rain recharged the water tables,” he said. The family is now waiting to see if the proposed airport expansion takes away what fortune has handed them after all these years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/borewell-water-after-31yrs-and-an-acquisition-notice/articleshow/80356531.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
January 20, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Drones can be used on NH: Activist||Visakhapatnam: Social activist EAS Sarma has written to principal secretary, road and transport department, T Krishna Babu, to explore the use of drones to oversee road safety along National Highways (NH) in Visakhapatnam, similar to the pilot project by Maharashtra police along the Mumbai-Pune expressway. Sarma mentioned that the use of drones for highway safety is being experimented with in different parts of India. However, some feel that it is too expensive and not as effective as it is made out to be, the letter added. A feasible approach may lie in a combination of drones deployed in limited number, with centrally-monitored CCTV cameras embedded in NH light towers at an optimal height, the letter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/drones-can-be-used-on-nh-activist/articleshow/80352480.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||We knew he’d come up with something special, says Siraj’s brother||Hyderabad: Virat Kohli missed three of the four Test matches Down Under but he will be very satisfied with the performance of Mohammed Siraj. Kohli played a huge role in Siraj’s growth at the Royal Challengers Bangalore. Siraj’s brother Mohammed Ismail was all praise for the Indian skipper as he spoke to TOI at length about his brother’s career. Excerpts. Siraj idolises Kohli: Virat bhai is the only cricketer that Siraj looks up to. Virat has been a pillar of strength for Siraj. He backed him a lot even when his performances were not too good at the RCB in the previous two years. Virat has played a big role in Siraj’s success. Foundation laid by parents: We are grateful to our parents. They sacrificed a lot so that we could have a decent living and proper studies. It is very satisfying for my mother to see Siraj do well for the country. She is very proud of what he has achieved in his cricket career. The last two months have been very tough for us with the loss of my father but Siraj’s show has eased the pain quite a lot. Mother is a pillar of strength: Siraj calls up mom regularly. Siraj’s performance has substantially increased because of my mom. We lost our biggest support with the demise of our father and it is irreplaceable. The way our mother raised us is commendable. Father backed Siraj to the hilt: My father was Siraj’s biggest support. He wanted Siraj to pursue his passion. My father’s sacrifice and hardwork is paying off in the form of Siraj’s success. It was my father’s dream to see Siraj play Test cricket. The dream has been fulfilled but the person, whose dream it was, is not there to savour these moments. We were sure that it was a matter of time before Siraj strikes big. We are not surprised. We were waiting for the moment. We knew he’d come up with something special in the series. Not academically inclined: Cricket, cricket and cricket alone has been Siraj’s passion. He was so caught up with the game that he skipped his board exams. Whenever asked, he’d say he did well. But when he got the certificate, we saw that he was absent. He then confessed that he went to play a gully match.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/we-knew-hed-come-up-with-something-special-says-sirajs-brother/articleshow/80355278.cms||Solomon S Kumar
January 20, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Log on to MTC’s revamped site for live information on buses||CHENNAI: After a four-year delay, Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) has launched its revamped website with live info on bus routes, fares and timings. The site which resembles the one maintained by Bengaluru Transport Corporation, aims at assisting regular commuters and those who are new to the city. Earlier, if someone wished to travel from Guindy to Kandanchavadi on Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR) and was not familiar with the bus route numbers, he or she had no other option but to seek help from other passengers waiting at the bus stop. Language barriers made such commuting even more difficult. The new website helps passengers avoid all this. All one needs to know is the source and destination. On entering these details in the drop-down menu, the site will display the list of direct bus options available between these two points. Once the route number is displayed, a separate tab is provided to check the fares and timings (updated on a real-time basis). “By this, we hope the commuting experience becomes hassle-free. At present, stage-wise information is made available and soon bus stop-wise will be uploaded,” said an MTC official. A bus stage is a major transit point, which is located between five to seven bus stops. Besides this, a separate link has been provided to assist passengers from other cities who wish to travel to tourist destinations, hospitals, religious and educational institutions. On selecting a particular place, list of all MTC buses crossing through that point are displayed. Efforts are underway to introduce live bus tracking option in this page. This feature will be available in the ‘Locate and Access My Bus’ (LAMB) mobile app as well. Following a successful trial run, the app is getting ready for launch. Currently, final phase of testing is in progress, the MTC official added. However, MTC is yet to introduce online services for applying students/senior citizen bus passes and seasonal passes, said R Rengachari, a transportation activist. “Till date , public have to wait in queues at bus depots to buy Travel As You Please (TAYP) monthly tickets and renew concession passes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/log-on-to-mtcs-revamped-site-for-live-info-on-buses/articleshow/80353484.cms||Ram Sundaram
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||BEST lists 34,000 staff for vaccine in phase 2||MUMBAI: BEST said it will propose names of 34,000 employees for Covid-19 vaccines in the second phase. BEST was the lifeline of the city during lockdown when it ferried essential service staff and gradually opened services for office-goers and non-essential workers. The transport and power supply wings worked round-the-clock to render public service and 2,856 staff were infected by the virus on duty. For one-and-a-half months, there have been no deaths and active cases have reduced. “Our employees worked relentlessly to ensure no interruption in services or power supply. We want all field and supervisory staff to get the vaccine,” said an official. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray mentioned recently that BEST workers will get the vaccine. BMC had told BEST to send a list of employees. Sources said BEST workers will be allotted nearby vaccination centres depending on depot or bus station where they are posted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/best-lists-34000-staff-for-vaccine-in-phase-2/articleshow/80353070.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Meerut||Alleging illegal sand mining, mining officer destroys labourer’s cart||Bijnor: A mining officer in UP’s Amroha district on Monday had the bullock cart of a poor labourer, Israr Ali, chopped with an axe and its tyres slashed, as “punishment” for ferrying sand to a construction site. Spotting the loaded bullock cart, the mining officer flew into a rage. Despite Ali producing the bill of purchase for the sand from a shop selling building materials, the officer took the cart in custody and chopped its parts using an axe.According to Ali, a resident of Panju Saray, “I run a bullock cart on rent. On Monday, my cart was hired by a banquet hall owner for carrying sand from a building materials shop. As per the order, I loaded the sand in my cart and was carrying it to the banquet hall. I had the bill of purchase for it. On the way, mining officer A K Singh appeared on the scene at TP crossing and asked me to stop my cart. I followed his instruction. He took me to a police picket where they misbehaved with me and demanded money as a bribe. When I refused, they took possession of my cart, chopped its wooden parts and punctured its tyres with an axe. I’m a poor man. The cart was my only source of income.”When contacted, Amroha mining officer A K Singh denied the charges and claimed, “Over a dozen cart owners from Panju Saray illegally mine sand. After being tipped off, we raided the place and seized a cart. It was not chopped down by mining department staff. It was only punctured so that the owner can’t flee. Also, he did not have a bill of purchase for the material in the cart.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/alleging-illegal-sand-mining-mining-officer-destroys-labourers-cart/articleshow/80351642.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 20, 2021||Agra||10-yr-old kidnapped in Kasganj, family get Rs 40 lakh ransom call||Agra: The kidnappers of a 10-year old boy, abducted on Monday, have demanded a ransom of Rs 40 lakh from the child's family in Kasganj district on Tuesday. Senior police officials also visited the village to take stock of the situation, and police have launched a search operation to rescue the boy. Lokesh, son of Kishanveer Solanki, a farmer of Pithanpur village under Sidhpura police station, had gone out to play around 10 AM on Monday, but did not return till late in the afternoon. Family members then searched for him in the entire village but the boy was untraceable. The family lodged a missing complaint with the police in the evening. According to police, on Tuesday morning, the child's family informed the cops that they received a phone call in which the caller said that the child was kidnapped and demanded Rs 40 lakh ransom for safe return of the boy. The ransom call was made to the boy's uncle. Superintendent of police Manoj Sonkar said, “Three teams have been tasked to find out the child. All the police stations have been alerted. The family of the child has shared details about rivalry with another family of the same village. The matter is being investigated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/10-yr-old-kidnapped-in-kasganj-family-get-rs-40-lakh-ransom-call/articleshow/80351647.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Dehradun||SI attached to police lines for failing to check serving of liquor in food joints||Dehradun: The in-charge of Araghar police outpost, Rajesh Aswal, was attached to Dehradun police lines by Yogender Singh Rawat, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Dehradun, after he found out that three eating joints in Araghar jurisdictional area were serving liquor. The errant cop Aswal has been replaced by sub-inspector Vivek Bhandari as the new in-charge of Araghar police outpost. Besides, the owners of the three food joints were booked under relevant sections of the Excise Act and were subsequently arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/si-attached-to-police-lines-for-failing-to-check-serving-of-liquor-in-food-joints/articleshow/80352475.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 20, 2021||Nagpur||Number of Covaxin jabs at GMCH down to 29 on Day 2||Nagpur: The number of health care workers skipping the anti-Covid vaccine jab at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), which is an exclusive centre for Covaxin in the city, on Tuesday dipped further. At the end of the day, only 29 out of 100 beneficiaries took the jab of the indigenous vaccine manufactured by Bharat Biotech. This was the lowest among all five centres in the city. Rest of the four centres are administering Covishield, which is supplied by Pune-based Serum Institute of India. On the first day of the vaccination drive, i.e. January 16, 53 beneficiaries had been vaccinated with Covaxin at GMCH. Twenty-two beneficiaries had turned up by 1pm at ward number 49, where the immunization is being held by the preventive and social medicine department (PSM). Associate professor of pharmacology Dr Avinash Turankar was the first to be vaccinated, when the drive resumed at 9am, after a gap of two days. The next seven beneficiaries arrived after their duty hours, between 2pm and 5pm. The vaccinated beneficiaries include 20 men and nine women. Four, including two men and two women, were found to have risk of contraindications and were accordingly discouraged from taking the shots. Two of them had absolute and two relative contraindications. Two had drug allergies and two were on steroids. The day, however, passed off without any issues being reported about the Co-Win app. As the arrival of beneficiaries came to a halt, immunization team led by Dr Abhay Chavan started calling up their colleagues around 3pm. But some of them said they would come after work hours, while some said they had to rush outstation for some emergency. Officials said basically these were excuses to skip the vaccination. “Doctors and nurses are well aware that the vaccine’s adverse events following immunization (AEFI) data is still not released by the manufacturer. Hence, they are reluctant,” said the officials. On Wednesday, top officials are scheduled to get the shots. It remains to be seen whether they skip or go for the Covaxin jabs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/number-of-covaxin-jabs-at-gmch-down-to-29-on-day-2/articleshow/80353481.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 20, 2021||Dehradun||Sitarganj Central Jail guards booked for assaulting woman, probe underway||Rudrapur: Four guards of Sitarganj Central Jail in Udham Singh Nagar district have been booked for assaulting a woman. The charges were framed after the woman registered a complaint with the state’s Director General of Police (DGP), and a probe was carried out by circle officer (CO) Sitarganj, Surjeet Kumar. The CO said a first information report (FIR) under Section 354 (assault or criminal force to any woman) of IPC has been registered against the four accused, and an investigation on other allegations made by the woman is underway. In her complaint, the woman from Rudrapur had alleged that jail guards Prabhu Singh, Ashwini Sharma, Pankaj Nagiyan and Dushyant Singh were involved in smuggling intoxicants to inmates. She alleged the accused had also demanded money for supplying mobile phones, Bluetooth devices and drugs to detainees who are serving sentences. According to Daleep Singh Kunwar, the district’s senior superintendent of police (SSP), “One of the woman’s relatives is serving a sentence in the jail. The guards demanded money against supplying some things to him. A confrontation occurred between the woman and the jail guards. Upon investigation, CO Sitarganj found the charges of verbal misbehaviour were true. The probe is still underway and if it is established that the accused are involved in smuggling narcotics into jail, relevant sections of the IPC and NDPS Act will be added to the FIR.” CO Kumar said the accused have not been allowed to leave the jail premises and that law will take its course once the probe is complete.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sitarganj-central-jail-guards-booked-for-assaulting-woman-probe-underway/articleshow/80347804.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Bird flu sees diners turn to fish, retail prices double||MUMBAI: The outbreak of bird flu which affects chicken is causing non-vegetarian consumers to opt for fish delicacies in hotels and restaurants. Yet, hoteliers say the drop in the number of orders for egg or chicken dishes is but marginal since diners know these Indian recipes are cooked at high temperatures and are therefore safe for consumption. AHAR president Shivanand Shetty said while there has been a very marginal dip in the sale of egg dishes and poultry meat in restaurants, they are witnessing a 15-20% increase in demand for fish. “In line with what health and poultry experts have been advising, we cook the poultry products properly at over 70 degree Celsius before serving to our customers. We also ensure that our members procure egg and poultry from FSSAI-certified vendors only,” he said. HRAWI senior vice-president Pradeep Shetty said fish dishes cannot compensate for the vast demand for chicken and egg servings in restaurants. “However, fish is comparatively more in demand currently,” he said, adding there was no adverse impact on chicken and egg orders as they are cooked at the prescribed high temperature. Even in the past, bird flu had no negative impact on servings or takeaways, he said. The fishing community is reporting higher sale too. Devendra Tandel, newly elected president of Akhil Maharashtra Machhimar Kriti Samiti, interviewed fishermen’s unions in Versova, Vasai, Uttan and Bhayander. “There is a palpable rise in demand across these regions that has caused prices of fish to double or treble even. With more non-vegetarians turning to fish due to the fear of bird flu, the retail price of fish has risen by Rs 150-250 per kilo.” He said, “The highest increase is visible in pomfret which is costlier by Rs 500 per kilo—from Rs 400 to Rs 900. Prawns are selling for Rs 550 up from Rs 350, surmai costs Rs 600 compared with Rs 350 earlier. Meanwhile, wet bombil is scarcely available. It was selling for Rs 200 but has now come to cost Rs 400.” Tandel said the price increase is exacerbated by the fact that the catch drops from December through March when fish commonly seek deeper waters to escape the winter chill nearer the surface. “Vendors say they have had to increase rates due to low availability of fish, but the demand has not dropped because people prefer fish to chicken in times of bird flu,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bird-flu-sees-diners-turn-to-fish-retail-prices-double/articleshow/80352484.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
January 20, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka tops in vaccination coverage across country||BENGALURU: Karnataka vaccinated the highest number of healthcare workers in the country in the first four days of the inoculation drive against Covid-19, according to data released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. As of Tuesday evening, 6,31,417 healthcare workers were vaccinated across the country. Karnataka accounted for 80,686 (12.7%), the highest in the country. It was followed by Telangana (69,405), AP (58,495), Odisha (55,138), Bengal (42,093) and Bihar (42,085). Karnataka was in the vanguard of the drive on Monday too. On January 18, a total of 3.8 lakh healthcare workers were vaccinated in the country. Of this, 1.4 lakh were jabbed on Monday alone and 36,888 of them were in Karnataka. Health minister K Sudhakar told TOI that the talk of people being apprehensive about the vaccine is far from reality. “Vaccination is safe and it is being successfully carried out in Karnataka,” he said. “Data for the past four days stands testimony to our planning and execution on the vaccination front. We have received appreciation from different quarters for having clocked high coverage since Day 1.” The minister attributed the high coverage to adoption of corporate strategies with regard to training and motivating healthcare personnel. ‘Began preparing for drive 45 days ago’ “We began preparing for the drive 45 days ago by gradually upgrading infrastructure and assigning specific tasks to healthcare workers,” he said. “A booth-based approach used in elections was customized to distribute vials; several mock drills were conducted in recent weeks.” “Senior doctors voluntarily getting jabbed on the first day came as a shot in the arm, as it motivated others to volunteer,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-tops-in-vaccination-coverage-across-country/articleshow/80356535.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 20, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka college reopening: New academic year from October, no semester break||BENGALURU: Six-day weeks, no semester breaks and October 4 reopening for 2021-2022 academic year: these are part of the draft calendar for undergraduate, postgraduate and engineering programmes proposed at a meeting of vice-chancellors on Thursday. “The draft calendar of events has been chalked out for the academic years 2020-21 and 2021-22, taking into account the Covid-19 situation. The UGC stipulation of a minimum of 90 working days in a semester has been taken into account,” said deputy CM and higher education minister CN Ashwath Narayan who attended the meet. “A 6-day week is also being planned. The universities in Hyderabad Karnatak area, where hot summers are experienced, may advance the dates.” The draft will be finalised only after receiving feedback from all stakeholders. The VCs feel it will take at least two years for universities to get back to their pre-Covid schedules. According to the draft, fifth semester UG exams for 2020-21 will end by March 31 and classes for the sixth will start on April 1. Classes for final-semester engineering in Karnataka likely to start on April 1The exams will end by August 31 and results are to be announced by September 10. Exams of I and III semesters will end by April 30, and classes for their next semester will start by May 2. Their exams are expected to be completed by September 30. Reopening of colleges for semesters I, III and V for 2021-22 is expected by October 4. Their exams are expected to end by February 28 and classes start the next day. The exams of semesters II, IV and VI will end by July 31. EngineeringSemester VII exams will end by March 31 and eighth semester will start on April 1. Results of the VIII semester are expected by September 10. Reopening is expected by October 4. PG programmesSemester III exams will end by March 31 and the next semester will start on April 1. First semester exams will end by April 30 and II semester will start on May 2. The minister directed the vice-chancellors to submit an action plan within 15 days on obtaining NAAC accreditation and NIRF (National Institutional Ranking Framework) rank. “So far, only 50 government colleges out of 430 have got NAAC accreditation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/new-academic-yr-from-oct-no-semester-break-draft-calendar/articleshow/80358327.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Delhi||Homebuyers queue up for Delhi Development Authority housing scheme||NEW DELHI: Around 46,500 home aspirants have registered for Delhi Development Authority’s Housing Scheme 2021 and more than 10,000 have already applied for the 1,354, mostly two- and three-bedroom, flats on offer. The scheme was launched on January 2 and saw DDA’s website getting nearly 10 lakh hits on Day 1 itself. It offers 254 higher income group (HIG) flats with prices ranging between Rs 69.6 lakh and Rs 2.1 crore and 757 two-bedroom middle income group (MIG) flats priced between Rs 40.6 lakh and Rs 1.4 crore. The number of one-bedroom flats is on the lower side, with just 52 lower income group (LIG) flats with the price tags of Rs 17.7 to Rs 35.5 lakh, besides 291 flats for the economically weaker section (EWS). Home-seekers can apply till February 16 and the draw of lots is expected by the first week of March. While 8,550 home seekers have submitted their applications, 2,325 applicants have even paid the application money, which ranges from Rs 2 lakh for HIG and MIG to Rs 1 lakh for LIG and Rs 25,000 for EWS flats. “We are satisfied with the response, which is as per our expectations. Most people are applying for flats under HIG and MIG categories,” a senior DDA official said. “What has made this scheme more attractive is the construction quality, which is at par with the best private developers, apart from the excellent locations of all complexes where flats are on offer, including those in Jasola, Dwarka and Vasant Kunj,” he added. “Not only are the complexes well located, these are also in close proximity to Delhi Metro corridors.” For its 2019 housing scheme, DDA had received around 45,000 applications for the nearly 18,000 flats on offer. However, a huge number of these flats were in the LIG category and many were located in Narela. With a large number of these flats not finding any takers, DDA finally carried out a draw of lots for around 10,000 flats. Keeping its previous experience in mind, DDA had decided to keep one-bedroom flats to a minimum and only around 140 flats of various categories in the scheme this time are old, unsold flats. “The total number of applications may seem low at the moment compared to our previous schemes, but it is not unusual during the first few weeks after the launch of a scheme. We know through experience that the rush of applications suddenly peaks just a few days before the closing date,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/homebuyers-queue-up-for-dda-housing-scheme/articleshow/80355340.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||BEST clears contract to hire conductors with buses||Mumbai: The first proposal for conductors-on-hire with buses was cleared by BEST committee on Tuesday. Although BJP members objected, Shiv Sena got support from its state allies, Congress and NCP, to get the proposal passed. BEST will now get 400 CNG buses for Rs 1,942 crore on a 10-year contract, but the private agency must supply buses with drivers and conductors. “This is uncalled for. The basic role of BEST will be destroyed and its drivers and conductors will be jobless. This is akin to 100% privatisation of the transport body,” Sunil Ganacharya (BJP) said. BMC Opposition leader Ravi Raja (Congress) said he too was opposed to such proposals in future. “But at present the city needs buses and there is an acute shortage. Besides, MSRTC buses are not in good condition. Our party and NCP decided to support the proposal so that 400 CNG buses can hit the roads soon,” he told TOI. Prakash Gangadhare (BJP) said if conductors are also taken on hire, it will bring in privatisation and will be “anti-worker policy”. A senior BEST traffic wing official said many wet lease buses were being run ‘conductorless’ and full-time conductors were deployed for ground duties. “There is nothing wrong in experimenting with conductors-on-hire as they can be held accountable, be punctual and offer efficient service,” he said, adding that there was nothing to worry as BEST will be in ‘complete control’ of the buses. BEST may reintroduce advertisements on buses to earn more revenue and plans to award the contract for nearly 4,000 buses to a private agency soon. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/best-clears-contract-to-hire-conductors-with-buses/articleshow/80353071.cms||Somit Sen
January 20, 2021||Kolkata||Actress trolled, goes to Kolkata cops, gets West Bengal CM's support||KOLKATA: After being subjected to massive trolling for her comment on beef-eating on a television show, actor Debleena Dutt Mukherjee’s husband Tathagata Mukherjee has approached Kolkata Police and the West Bengal Women’s Commission, urging them to take note of her “online sexual harassment”. At a meeting in Purulia on Tuesday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee also referred to these threats. “BJP is threatening an actor. Bengal will shut their mouths,” the CM said. Thanking the chief minister for taking note of the situation, Dutt Mukherjee said, “I am grateful that she has acknowledged the issue and supported me. For these trolls, rape is the easiest way of targeting a woman with a contrary view. This is very problematic.” Meanwhile, advocate Tarunjyoti Tiwari filed a complaint against Debleena and Chandrabindoo frontman Anindya Chattopadhyay for “promoting hatred” and “enmity between groups” and “hurting Hindu sentiments” with the intention of creating a riot-like situation. Chairperson of West Bengal Women’s Commission Leena Gangopadhyay also condemned the threats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/actress-trolled-goes-to-cops-gets-cm-support/articleshow/80353493.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Doctors in Telangana decline jab over safety, efficacy||HYDERABAD: A section of doctors across hospitals in Hyderabad have written to their superiors explaining their refusal to take the vaccines rolled out in the country and that they would rather wait for more options before they take a jab. Some doctors have questioned the efficacy of the vaccine, citing reports of side-effects from across the country. Many vaccination centres across the city had a relatively quiet day on Tuesday with authorities saying 22,000 beneficiaries have refused to take the voluntary jab across Telangana so far. “While currently there are only two vaccines available which have limited efficacy, if I take the vaccine now, I will not be able to take another vaccine in the near future, which might have better efficacy than ones available now,” a senior doctor from the Osmania General Hospital (OGH) wrote where less than 200 out of the 600 beneficiaries listed for its six vaccination centres took the vaccine on Tuesday. Hospital superintendent Dr B Nagender said there was a lot of hesitancy among the staff. “But we are hopeful that it will get better,” he said. At the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (TIMS) where 67 beneficiaries refused to take the jab on Tuesday, many reasoned that there was a several adverse events after taking the vaccines and, hence, they did not want to take it and instead want to wait for better vaccines. “There are cases of adverse effects being reported for the available vaccines and one is still under trial. I prefer to wait for some time until there is a better vaccine available,” read a letter by a senior resident. In yet another letter, a doctor wrote that he was voluntarily foregoing the privilege of taking ‘Covishield vaccine’ in the first phase. The letter addressed to the director of TIMS read, “I am grateful to the GOI and all officials who have given us the first chance to take Covishield vaccine for protection against Covid-19, which are available to us Indians in very limited quantity. I am blessed to have a separate wing in my house for home isolation, private solo transport and we get best precautions and PPE kits at the institute. Hence, I would like my dose to be given to my less privileged fellow citizens who do not have such luxuries.” The names of the doctors have been held back on request. There were others at most of the hospitals who said they did not want to take chances as they were supposed to get married soon. Only the state-run Gandhi hospital was an exception in the vaccination programme, where 98 out of the 100 listed beneficiaries took the jab during the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/docs-in-t-decline-jab-over-safety-efficacy/articleshow/80355958.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 20, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Treasury scam: Supervising officers let off with a censure||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government has let off all officials, against whom a departmental inquiry was initiated in connection with the money swindling from state treasury, with a ‘censure’, which is the mildest penalty. The officials include treasury director AM Jafar, chief coordinator for treasury savings bank (TSB) applications Reghunathan Unnithan, state coordinator of TSB applications Mohan Prakash K, district coordinator of TSB applications Mani SS and system administrator at additional sub-treasury Vanchiyoor Rajmohan SJ. The government had appointed a fact-finding team to probe the fraudulent withdrawal of government money at additional sub-treasury at Vanchiyoor in the capital. The team had submitted its report that there were supervisory lapses on the part of the treasury director and the subordinate staff. It was also reported that the director had failed to report the matter to the government and the police on time. The findings had said that the director failed to coordinate and supervise the work of district treasury officers, sub-treasury officers and master trainees of TSB applications at regular intervals, and also failed to notice the error in TSB application and integrated financial management system, ultimately leading to the fraudulent transaction. However, the director defended that he had initiated immediate corrective measures when such a matter came to light and that there was no deliberate delay in reporting the matter to the government and the police. He also argued his case explaining the practice of monthly conferences of subordinate official, and emphasized on software issues. But, government reached a conclusion that ‘supervisory lapses occurred on the part of AM Jafar, in coordinating the work of the department which ultimately paved way to a huge loss to the state exchequer’. In the case of other officials, government made similar observations. However, government decided to take a ‘lenient view’ and decided to impose only a minor penalty. “Censuring may seem like a trivial action, but, it will be marked in his service book. It will even affect employee promotion prospects,” said a senior official on condition of anonymity. Nearly Rs 2 crore was swindled from Thiruvananthapuram district collector’s account that was being operated at sub-treasury in Vanchiyoor. The money was diverted by a senior treasury accountant M R Bijulal using the username and password of another official who retired from service on May 31 last year. A police case was initiated along with the departmental inquiry. Though a vigilance inquiry was also mooted, finance department strongly raised its objections then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/treasury-scam-supervising-officers-let-off-with-a-censure/articleshow/80352507.cms||KP Saikiran
January 20, 2021||Kozhikode||IUML Wayanad leaders pitch for Kalpetta seat||KOZHIKODE: Even as Congress eyes Kalpetta as a probable seat for KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran, Muslim League leaders in Wayanad have staked their claim for the constituency. IUML district secretary Yahya Khan told reporters on Tuesday that Kalpetta is not a sitting Congress seat and it was last contested by its former ally, the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD). "The IUML state leadership has already raised the demand in the UDF for the Kalpetta seat, among others," he said. He said IUML workers are hoping to see a League candidate in the constituency in the assembly election and added that the district leadership has already begun preparations in this regard. Khan said there is no possibility of Ramachandran contesting from the seat. "In the current situation we don’t think there is a chance of outside candidates contesting in Wayanad," he said. He added that IUML has many leaders in Wayanad with experience in the assembly and also others who are capable of raising the issues of the district. IUML district president P P A Kareem said the party district committee has conveyed its opinion to the state leadership and it is now up to the state committee to decide. "We will comply with whatever decision it takes," he said. LJD leader M V Shreyams Kumar had contested from Kalpetta as a JD(U) candidate with UDF’s backing in 2016 and had lost to CPM’s C K Saseendran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/iuml-wayanad-leaders-pitch-for-kalpetta-seat/articleshow/80352493.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Dehradun||Two held with 1 kg cannabis||RUDRAPUR: A joint team of Champawat police and traffic personnel, on Tuesday, arrested two persons in possession of 1 kilogram charas (cannabis). The police also impounded the car in which the contraband was being smuggled. The accused have been identified as Jaipal and Shambhu Ram, both residents of Gadarpur city in Udham Singh Nagar district. Jyoti Prakash, traffic police chief of Champawat, said that the joint police party intercepted a car on the Swala Temple road and seized charas weighing 1 kg from the accused. Upon interrogation, they revealed that they bought the contraband from Lohaghat and were going to sell it in Gadarpur. Both of the accused have been booked under section 20 of the NDPS Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-held-with-1-kg-cannabis/articleshow/80352488.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 20, 2021||Chennai||Reconsider Private Detective Agencies Bill, Centre urged||Chennai: The Association of Professional Detectives and Investigators (APDI) has appealed to the Union ministry of home affairs to recognise their sector and reconsider introducing the Private Detective Agencies Regulation Bill 2007, which will help add credibility to the profession. The bill was withdrawn recently from Parliament by the ministry stating there was no need to impose licensing on this sector in which there were very few operators. “They should have consulted us before withdrawing. It is good for this noble profession,” said Kunwar Vikram Singh, president of APDI. Without recognition, detectives said they have been finding it difficult to carry out investigations. Chennai alone has about 30 detective agencies that get about 30-40 cases a month, which includes corporate frauds, pre-employment investigation, land grabbing and matrimonial disputes. Sometimes they also help the local police. “Unlike the state department officials, we can work without alerting people. This is why people need our services,” said N Madhaiyan, president of APDI (TN and Pondicherry chapters). While the agencies face no dearth of finding employees, not all are able to sustain for long. “Because there is not enough money in this profession,” said commander S Jagadeesan, general manager of Globe Detective Agency. The investigators are usually paid on case basis, starting from Rs 7,000 and above. But given the fund crunch, Jagadeesan said, he makes it a point to inform new joiners to keep alternative sources of employment. “We get plenty of applicants who are excited to work for a detective agency. They treat it like a Sherlock Holmes story. But the reality is quite different,” said Jagadeesan. To stay afloat, a few agencies have also started security services. Currently, the detective agencies are operating under Article 19 of the Indian Constitution, which gives citizens the freedom to practice any profession of choice. In the western and European countries private investigators also work with police and governments. But here they can be pulled up or sometimes even charged for conducting investigations. “We always take a letter from our clients permitting us to investigate and show it when required. But it doesn’t always work, because it is not lawfully accepted,” said Madhaiyan. Recently, the association had written to the PMO offering their services to trace duplicate Covid-19 vaccines. “We hope the authorities at least have a meeting with us to discuss more,” said Madhaiyan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/reconsider-private-detective-agencies-bill-centre-urged/articleshow/80353514.cms||Aditi R
January 20, 2021||Nagpur||2 doctors on anti-platelet drug take Covaxin jab||Nagpur: Two senior doctors at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and suffering from heart ailments took Covaxin shots on Tuesday amid heightened concerns after its manufacturer issued warning that people with bleeding disorders or who are on blood thinners need not take the vaccine, which is still in its third phase of trial. Professor and head of community medicine department Dr Uday Naralwar and associate professor at pharmacology department Dr Vijay Motghare, both of whom are on single anti-platelet drugs, took the Covaxin shots. They didn’t report any issues afterwards. Dr Naralwar said anti-platelet drugs like aspirin and clopidogrel are not even considered as blood thinners and don’t show any contraindications. On Tuesday, officials at GMCH, which is an exclusive centre for Covaxin inoculation, received many calls from patients taking anti-platelet and anti-coagulants. Queries were also from many of the 5,200 GMCH staff members, who said they were now apprehensive about taking anti-Covid vaccination as they are taking blood thinners. Top doctors had a field day in clearing the doubts that not all heart patients or those taking these drugs need to avoid anti-Covid vaccination. They said only anti-coagulants like heparin and warfarin show contraindications to immunization. The ministry of health and family welfare (MOHFW), in its January 14 advisory, didn’t rule out vaccination for people with heart ailments. “In fact, cardiac, renal and cancer patients fall under comorbid category and must take the vaccination on priority in case they are not using anticoagulants with contraindications,” they said. GMCH associate professor of medicine Dr Dipti Chand, who is adverse event following immunization (AEFI) committee chairperson, told TOI that as per MOHFW guidelines, special precautions are to be taken in patients with coagulation disorders These disorders include clotting factor deficiency, coagulopathy or platelet disorder. Regarding patients on anti-platelet drugs, certain important factors need to be checked before their vaccination. “Assessment of clinical condition, need for anti-platelet drug and anti-Covid vaccine can only tell if a person can go for the jab. We have to take a calculated risk. I feel an intramuscular injection for a stable patient on a single anti-platelet drug is not much of a risk,” she said. Dr Chand warned that those on anti-coagulation drug like warfarin and heparin must strictly avoid the jab. “Usually, these drugs are given only when someone has a major condition. Someone who has had a recent infarction or clot in the heart or had a recent stroke/attack and is on dual anti-platelet drugs should avoid vaccination,” she said. Those who are on a single drug like either aspirin or clopidogrel do not face any major issue of local haematoma formation, she added. “Those patients having low platelet count and coagulation disorders or are on anticoagulants like heparin, warfarin, or NOAC drugs or having coagulopathy because of liver dysfunction have chances of forming a local haematoma as blood gets collected where the injection has been given,” she explained. High risk patients on dual anti-platelet pills may go for anti-Covid vaccination after consultation with their physician and stopping the drugs about 5-7 days before the vaccination and restarting thereafter, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-doctors-on-anti-platelet-drug-take-covaxin-jab/articleshow/80353502.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 20, 2021||Trichy||Students find curbs tough at school, but lax outside||Trichy/Madurai: Stepping into school after almost a year, most students of class X and XII were visibly anxious on the first day of reopening on Tuesday. More than worrying about the board examination, they found it difficult to adapt to Covid-19 restrictions which are otherwise very minimal outside the school. While students were made to sit 6 feet apart till the end of classes, some schools ensured staggered entry to toilets with strict vigil from teachers. M Chandran, a student of class XII from a government school in Thuraiyur, Trichy, had started going for part-time jobs in recent months. “People have got back to their normal routine without fear of Covid-19. While we could hardly find people with masks on in crowded places, I found the schools very strict,” he said. For G Harini, another student of class XII from Lalgudi, reopening of schools means better preparation for board examination. While she could not focus on studies sitting at home, she said school atmosphere will help her discuss her doubts with teachers. The restrictions however made her uncomfortable, but she said she would adapt to it considering the pandemic. “It felt like years since we last saw our classrooms and desks. We are definitely glad to return especially as we have board exams soon. Though online classes happened, the school environment was greatly missed. It is also the last year for Class XII students in school, so we want to make the most of it,” said S Keerthana, a Class XII student at a private matriculation school in Madurai. In most schools, teachers were taken aback on finding some student in civil dress instead of uniforms. When asked, students said their old uniform didn’t fit them. “We gave time for these students to come in uniform as the decision on reopening came in a very short span of time,” said Padma Srinivasan, president, of Rockcity Sahodaya School complex, an academic forum of CBSE schools around Trichy. We chose not to insist on it as the reason appeared genuine, she said. As instructed, students were counselled on the first day and academic activity will begin after a couple of days. Close to 70% students from class X and XII in all types of schools came to school on the first day. Trichy district chief education officer R Arivazhagan said teachers have been asked not to insist on students coming to school if they are not willing. Schools have been asked to continue online classes as usual. “Most students are keen to return to classes. There were some who were out of town but we are expecting full attendance soon,” said the headmaster of a government higher secondary school in Madurai. All schools were following Covid-19 SOPs strictly. The students were given 10 multivitamin and zinc tablets each starting Tuesday and advised to take one at night daily. Madurai district CEO R Swaminathan along with director of non-formal and adult education, V C Rameshwara Murugan inspected several schools and interacted with students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/students-find-curbs-tough-at-school-but-lax-outside/articleshow/80355293.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Agra||Air pollution up in smaller cities last year despite lockdown: CSE||Agra: Though several big cities witnessed reduction in air pollution last year, many smaller towns and cities experienced more “toxic” air quality compared to 2019 despite lockdown and closure of industrial and other commercial activities due to Covid-19. This has been revealed in a new analysis of winter pollution by Delhi-based think tank, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), in the Indo-Gangetic plain (IGP). The 2020 average PM2.5 level in many cities has climbed up and breached average concentration recorded in 2019. Out of 25 IGP cities' data analyzed by CSE, seven recorded an increase of pollutants from 2019 level. The worst performer was Fatehabad with 34.7% increase from 2019 level, followed by Bhatinda at 17.7%, Agra 9.2%, Khanna 7.1%, Mandi Gobindgarh 5.9%, Moradabad 5.5% and Kurukshetra recorded a 0.6 % increase. Best performer was Sirsa that recorded a 43.5% decrease in PM 2.5 levels, Varanasi 31.2%, Gaya 27.4%, Muzaffarpur 14.6%, Delhi 12.8% and Hisar recorded a 12.3% reduction. Clean air gains of the lockdown and monsoon period were lost with the reopening of the economy and adverse meteorology in winter, leading to an increase in their annual average PM2.5 level, the study says. November was recorded as the “dirtiest” across most cities. As compared to the PM2.5 average in November 2019, last year, it was 310% higher in Fatehabad, 104% in Agra and 57% in Kaithal. Talking with TOI, CSE executive director, Research and Advocacy, Anumita Roy Chowdhury, said the increase in the annual average of PM2.5 level is due to a combination of meteorological conditions when air gets trapped due to low wind movement, stubble burning and local pollutants. This demands regional reforms and action to curb the pollution by adopting strategies like introducing new emission standards for vehicles, industries, scaling up public transport system, and managing waste disposal by burning, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/air-pollution-up-in-smaller-cities-last-year-despite-lockdown-cse/articleshow/80351657.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 20, 2021||Agra||ASI discovers ornamented water tank of 16th century Mughal Era in Fatehpur Sikri||Agra: An ornamented water tank, along with a fountain in the centre, of the 16th century Mughal Era has been discovered by Archeological Survey of India (ASI) in Fatehpur Sikri. According to ASI officials, during the conservation work of the Todarmal Baradari, some features were noticed on the surface and, hence, the area was excavated. During excavation, a square tank, with arms measuring 8.7 m and depth of 1.1 m, was discovered. The floor of the fountain tank is lime plastered, containing embellished patterns in lime as well. It must have been constructed along with the Baradari at that time, said superintending archeologist of ASI (Agra circle) Vasant Swarankar. Raja Todar Mal was the finance minister of the Mughal empire during emperor Akbar’s reign. He was one of the Navratnas in Akbar’s court and introduced a new system of revenue known as zabt and a system of taxation called dahshala. Fatehpur Sikri was once dotted with mansions, gardens, pavilions, stables and caravansaries. Of all these buildings, only this Baradari -- or summer house -- survives in recognisable shape. It lies between the Tehra Darwaza and the Gwaliar Gate, an octagonal pavilion of similar design to the royal pleasure pavilion at the northwestern end of the wall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/asi-discovers-ornamented-water-tank-of-16th-century-mughal-era-in-fatehpur-sikri/articleshow/80351664.cms||---
January 20, 2021||India||Covid vaccine: 1,000 doses not stored properly, go down drain||SILCHAR/GUWAHATI: Around 1,000 doses (100 vials) of Covishield vaccine became unusable at the Silchar Medical College and Hospital in Assam’s Cachar district as they were stored at sub-zero temperatures. “The vaccines have to be stored at a temperature of 2-8 degrees Celsius, whereas the temperature of the ILR at SMCH went down to minus 5-6 degrees Celsius. Because of this, the vaccines were partially frozen,” Arun Debnath, district immunization officer, told TOI on Tuesday. The incident, which was reported in the morning of January 16, came to light only late on Monday night. Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said probably due to lack of training, the officials concerned could not store the vaccines properly. He added that a team of senior health officials will go to Silchar to review the lapses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-vaccine-1000-doses-not-stored-properly-go-down-drain/articleshow/80356408.cms||Kangkan Kalita
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Three minor cases of reactions in the Mumbai after the vaccine||MUMBAI: Three minor adverse events following immunization (AEFI) were reported on Tuesday in the city though none needed hospitalisation, officials said. Across Maharashtra, where over 14,883 people were vaccinated, state health authorities said there were a few complaints of fever and body pain, but none too severe. They denied any instances of hospitalisation either. In Mumbai, two cases of minor AEFI were reported from KEM Hospital in Parel and one from Sion Hospital. Dr Mangala Gomare, BMC’s executive health officer said these are mainly complaints of fever, body pain, etc. A day after the launch of vaccination on Saturday, the city had seen 242 cases of minor side-effects and two hospitalisations. Dr Archana Patil, head of state health services said no severe after-effects were recorded on Tuesday in Maharashtra, barring some aches and uneasiness. The doctor from VN Desai, who was hospitalised on Sunday with palpitation, remained under observation in the ICU. After taking the vaccine on Saturday, the 51-year-old medical officer, also a diabetic, developed fever on Sunday evening. “We have kept him for observation for a few days,” said Dr Prashant More, medical superintendent, VN Desai. The woman who was admitted at KEM Hospital due to a drop in blood pressure on Saturday, was discharged early on Tuesday. “We had two cases of minor reactions. In the first case, a healthcare worker started sweating profusely and, in the second case, a doctor's blood pressure increased after the shot,'' said KEM Hospital dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh on Tuesday. Both the vaccine recipients were treated at the spot. At BKC jumbo facility, the blood pressure of two female recipients in their 50s had shot up following vaccination on Tuesday. Both were kept under observation at the critical care unit next to the vaccination rooms. “Vaccination is known to cause some anxiety which can aggravate if people forget their regular medication,” said intensivist Dr Sonali Kirtane, advising that people also have proper meals before getting the shot. At Cooper, there are ORS packs and glucose powder kept on vaccination desks, should any diabetic come with complaints of low sugar. Doctors said that developing symptoms after vaccination shouldn't be seen as an issue. “Developing fever is a sign of immunogenicity. I too developed a fever after taking the vaccine on Saturday, but was back at work on Monday,'' said Sion Hospital dean Dr Mohan Joshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3-minor-cases-of-reactions-in-the-city-after-the-vaccine/articleshow/80355303.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 20, 2021||Dehradun||CS to head panel for beautification of major cities||Dehradun: In a review meeting on Tuesday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat announced that a committee, headed by state chief secretary, would be constituted for the development and beautification of major cities of the Himalayan state. The committee would interact with different sections of the society, including intellectuals, and give their suggestion for the beautification of major cities. CM Rawat directed officials to hold monthly campaigns to remove encroachments from footpaths. He added that the maintenance of roads and drains should be included in the policy to be prepared by the committee. The policy should also have provisions for sapling plantation on road dividers, and maintenance of statues, fountains and flyovers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cs-to-head-panel-for-beautification-of-major-cities/articleshow/80352506.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 20, 2021||Dehradun||CM, CS hold sudden inspection of Commissioner camp office; find employees missing||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and chief secretary Om Prakash held a sudden inspection of the Divisional Commissioner Camp office at EC Road on Tuesday morning. After they entered the premises, the gate of the office was locked and no one was permitted inside the camp office. Out of the 11 employees at the Divisional Commissioner Camp office, seven were found missing. Taking serious note of their absence, the CM directed the chief secretary to mark them absent for the day. “I have asked the chief secretary to take action against them in accordance with the service manuals,” he added. Rawat told the divisional commissioner to stop the salary of the employees who remain absent with giving any notice or information. During the inspection, it was also found out that all official files were first sent to Pauri as it is the main office of the divisional commissioner. Thereafter, the files were brought back to Dehradun at the camp office of the commissioner. On being asked, it was told to the CM that the process was being followed on the verbal order of an official in 2019. “The process makes no sense and wastes a lot of time. This is a big mistake and they should be received at the camp office itself,” added the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-cs-hold-sudden-inspection-of-commissioner-camp-office-find-employees-missing/articleshow/80352513.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 20, 2021||Trichy||IIM Trichy starts PG course in leadership||Trichy: The Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Trichy started the first batch of post graduate certificate programme in leadership and change management (PGCLCM) on Sunday. The six-month course, offered in association with Times TSW, is an executive education programme aimed at working executives. The first batch has 67 participants, with an average work experience of 14 years. The course, offered in blended mode on Sundays in a direct to device model, attempts to sensitize a growing leader to see change as a daily occurrence, said Abhishek Totawar, programme director. “It will abreast the participant with leadership competencies which will emerge as cutting-edge tool to lead such changes in the organizational environment,” he said Godwin Tennyson, IIM Trichy director, said that addressing change is a symbiotic process, necessary for organizations and its leaders to accept change to stay relevant. “It is precisely aimed to address this growing need and will help the participant develop competencies as a leader and competencies of leading change,” he said. Chief guest at the event, S Rajesh Balaji, chief human resource officer, Matrimony.com, highlighted the importance of a specialized course like this as it would help a mid-career professional fast-track their career. He also spoke on the relevance of using a structured approach to manage and view change from a growth perspective. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/iim-trichy-starts-pg-course-in-leadership/articleshow/80355296.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: At Rs 82, diesel surpasses all records, petrol at new high of Rs 91.80||MUMBAI: The price of diesel crossed the Rs82-mark for the first time here on Tuesday, while petrol was hiked by 24paise, to take it to a new record high of Rs91.80 a litre at pumps. Diesel escalated by 26paise on Tuesday to retail at Rs82.13 in the city, which will affect the cost of essential commodities and other goods. Mumbai’s petrol price is highest among metro cities New Delhi (Rs85.20), Kolkata (Rs86.63), Chennai (Rs87.85), Bengaluru (Rs88.07) and Hyderabad (Rs88.63). TimesViewDiesel price has an impact on the economy and should not escalate to such highs as it could trigger a price rise of essential and non-essential goods, which will affect common citizens. With taxes and VAT on fuel being the highest in Maharashtra, the government could review the pricing structure and check if relief can be given to ease the tax burden.Parbhani continues to have the highest petrol rate in the country (Rs94.21). Diesel in the district is also at a new high of Rs83.22. The only other district in the state with petrol going past Rs94 on Tuesday was Nanded, where it escalated to Rs94.01. Across Maharashtra, the cost of petrol in 22 districts crossed the Rs92-mark, pinching pockets of lakhs of motorists. It includes Nagpur, Nashik and Aurangabad, where petrol is now Rs92.31, Rs92.24 and Rs93.03 respectively. Transporters burdened with diesel price hikes have threatened to agitate if there is no control or reduction. Transporters’ associations plan an emergency meeting on whether to go ahead with an agitation. They had petitioned the government more than thrice in 2020 for tax relief. The owner of a leading transport firm in Mumbai said, “If petrol and diesel come under GST, fuel prices will stabilise in the state, as the state levies and surcharges will cease. Despite the Centre assuring us that it will look into our demands, including quarterly review of fuel prices, reduction in tax/excise duty/cess and bringing fuel prices under GST, nothing has been done.” There have been protests by NCP activists in Thane on fuel price hikes recently as the petroleum ministry comes under BJP-ruled Union government. “Despite protests and letters by transporters, fuel prices have been rising, and have now broken all records,” said Kartik Acharya, a resident of Navi Mumbai, who drives his car to office in Mumbai. Oil marketing company sources said various factors impacted the price of fuel, including rupee to US dollar exchange rate, cost of crude oil, global cues, demand for fuel. Price of fuel includes excise duty, value-added tax (VAT) and dealer commission. VAT varies from state to state, and it is one of the highest in Maharashtra. For Mumbaikars, there was a huge relief during the initial months of Covid-19 , but towards the end of 2020, prices shot up, and were hiked by nearly Rs16 in nine months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-rs-82-diesel-surpasses-all-records-petrol-at-new-high-of-rs-91-80/articleshow/80353076.cms||Somit Sen
January 20, 2021||Thane||Mumbai: At Rs 82, diesel surpasses all records, petrol at new high of Rs 91.80||MUMBAI: The price of diesel crossed the Rs82-mark for the first time here on Tuesday, while petrol was hiked by 24paise, to take it to a new record high of Rs91.80 a litre at pumps. Diesel escalated by 26paise on Tuesday to retail at Rs82.13 in the city, which will affect the cost of essential commodities and other goods. Mumbai’s petrol price is highest among metro cities New Delhi (Rs85.20), Kolkata (Rs86.63), Chennai (Rs87.85), Bengaluru (Rs88.07) and Hyderabad (Rs88.63). TimesViewDiesel price has an impact on the economy and should not escalate to such highs as it could trigger a price rise of essential and non-essential goods, which will affect common citizens. With taxes and VAT on fuel being the highest in Maharashtra, the government could review the pricing structure and check if relief can be given to ease the tax burden.Parbhani continues to have the highest petrol rate in the country (Rs94.21). Diesel in the district is also at a new high of Rs83.22. The only other district in the state with petrol going past Rs94 on Tuesday was Nanded, where it escalated to Rs94.01. Across Maharashtra, the cost of petrol in 22 districts crossed the Rs92-mark, pinching pockets of lakhs of motorists. It includes Nagpur, Nashik and Aurangabad, where petrol is now Rs92.31, Rs92.24 and Rs93.03 respectively. Transporters burdened with diesel price hikes have threatened to agitate if there is no control or reduction. Transporters’ associations plan an emergency meeting on whether to go ahead with an agitation. They had petitioned the government more than thrice in 2020 for tax relief. The owner of a leading transport firm in Mumbai said, “If petrol and diesel come under GST, fuel prices will stabilise in the state, as the state levies and surcharges will cease. Despite the Centre assuring us that it will look into our demands, including quarterly review of fuel prices, reduction in tax/excise duty/cess and bringing fuel prices under GST, nothing has been done.” There have been protests by NCP activists in Thane on fuel price hikes recently as the petroleum ministry comes under BJP-ruled Union government. “Despite protests and letters by transporters, fuel prices have been rising, and have now broken all records,” said Kartik Acharya, a resident of Navi Mumbai, who drives his car to office in Mumbai. Oil marketing company sources said various factors impacted the price of fuel, including rupee to US dollar exchange rate, cost of crude oil, global cues, demand for fuel. Price of fuel includes excise duty, value-added tax (VAT) and dealer commission. VAT varies from state to state, and it is one of the highest in Maharashtra. For Mumbaikars, there was a huge relief during the initial months of Covid-19 , but towards the end of 2020, prices shot up, and were hiked by nearly Rs16 in nine months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/at-rs-82-diesel-surpasses-all-records-petrol-at-new-high-of-rs-91-80/articleshow/80356865.cms||Somit Sen
January 20, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Mumbai: At Rs 82, diesel surpasses all records, petrol at new high of Rs 91.80||MUMBAI: The price of diesel crossed the Rs82-mark for the first time here on Tuesday, while petrol was hiked by 24paise, to take it to a new record high of Rs91.80 a litre at pumps. Diesel escalated by 26paise on Tuesday to retail at Rs82.13 in the city, which will affect the cost of essential commodities and other goods. Mumbai’s petrol price is highest among metro cities New Delhi (Rs85.20), Kolkata (Rs86.63), Chennai (Rs87.85), Bengaluru (Rs88.07) and Hyderabad (Rs88.63). TimesViewDiesel price has an impact on the economy and should not escalate to such highs as it could trigger a price rise of essential and non-essential goods, which will affect common citizens. With taxes and VAT on fuel being the highest in Maharashtra, the government could review the pricing structure and check if relief can be given to ease the tax burden.Parbhani continues to have the highest petrol rate in the country (Rs94.21). Diesel in the district is also at a new high of Rs83.22. The only other district in the state with petrol going past Rs94 on Tuesday was Nanded, where it escalated to Rs94.01. Across Maharashtra, the cost of petrol in 22 districts crossed the Rs92-mark, pinching pockets of lakhs of motorists. It includes Nagpur, Nashik and Aurangabad, where petrol is now Rs92.31, Rs92.24 and Rs93.03 respectively. Transporters burdened with diesel price hikes have threatened to agitate if there is no control or reduction. Transporters’ associations plan an emergency meeting on whether to go ahead with an agitation. They had petitioned the government more than thrice in 2020 for tax relief. The owner of a leading transport firm in Mumbai said, “If petrol and diesel come under GST, fuel prices will stabilise in the state, as the state levies and surcharges will cease. Despite the Centre assuring us that it will look into our demands, including quarterly review of fuel prices, reduction in tax/excise duty/cess and bringing fuel prices under GST, nothing has been done.” There have been protests by NCP activists in Thane on fuel price hikes recently as the petroleum ministry comes under BJP-ruled Union government. “Despite protests and letters by transporters, fuel prices have been rising, and have now broken all records,” said Kartik Acharya, a resident of Navi Mumbai, who drives his car to office in Mumbai. Oil marketing company sources said various factors impacted the price of fuel, including rupee to US dollar exchange rate, cost of crude oil, global cues, demand for fuel. Price of fuel includes excise duty, value-added tax (VAT) and dealer commission. VAT varies from state to state, and it is one of the highest in Maharashtra. For Mumbaikars, there was a huge relief during the initial months of Covid-19 , but towards the end of 2020, prices shot up, and were hiked by nearly Rs16 in nine months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/at-rs-82-diesel-surpasses-all-records-petrol-at-new-high-of-rs-91-80/articleshow/80356866.cms||Somit Sen
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Cities & towns to have ring roads||Hyderabad: The state government is planning to develop ring roads in major towns, including Warangal, Karimnagar, Khammam, Mahbubnagar and Nalgonda. Telangana State Planning Board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar said about Rs 300 crore would be set aside for development of ring roads in tier-II cities and towns. The objective is to provide seamless travel and prevent traffic jams keeping in view the projected vehicular traffic for the next 10 to 15 years as part of the government’s major initiative to give a boost to traffic and transport infrastructure in the towns. Vinod Kumar revealed this while addressing a gathering after foundation laying ceremony for Rs 2.50 crore developmental works in Warangal. He lashed out at opposition parties for criticising the TRS government just for the sake for it and said the credit for cultivation area going up beyond one crore acres goes to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for taking up numerous irrigation projects mainly Kaleshwaram project, reviving water bodies through Mission Kakatiya programme, extending 24x7 power supply and providing Rythu Bandhu sop as part of which Rs 10,000 per acre input subsidy was being given to farmers every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cities-towns-to-have-ring-roads/articleshow/80353594.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Narendra Luther, the man who unravelled Hyderabad secrets, dies||HYDERABAD: Civil servant, historian, author, poet and chronicler Narendra Luther passed away after a brief illness here on Tuesday. He was 89. He is survived by wife Bindi Luther, daughter and son. A 1955 batch IAS officer, Luther served in various positions before retiring as the chief secretary of the undivided Andhra Pradesh in 1991. Luther’s death has created a void in city’s history and heritage circles, which he had enlivened with his research digging out the rare aspects of Hyderabad’s history, traditions, culture, its nobility, architecture and governance since the city’s birth in 1591. A naturalist to the core, Luther was moved by Hyderabad’s unique rock formations that took millions of years to shape. He was associated with the Society to Save Rocks and was instrumental in bringing some of the geological formations under urban development authority regulations in 1981 to conserve them for posterity. His love for Mother Nature and Hyderabad’s natural heritage was so profound that he built his house on a huge rock with a portion protruding into the living room. He was born at Hoshiarpur (Punjab) in 1932 and his family was in Rawalpindi (now in Pakistan) when the partition took place in 1947 and they later migrated to the Indian side of Punjab. Fluent in Urdu, Luther found Hyderabad his second home and penned a number of books on city history, heritage and architecture. He also documented Raja Deendayal, the royal photographer of the Nizam VI, whose photographs give an insight into the life and times of the princely Hyderabad at the turn of the 19th century. Luther was one of the authors on Hyderabad who believed in the legendary Bhagmati and the love story of Muhammad Quli Qutb Shah, who founded Hyderabad, and Bhagmati. Scholars like Luther believed that the city was founded on love and Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb. As a bureaucrat, Luther was closely associated with Andhra Pradesh from the time of its formation in 1956. He was posted in Kurnool in 1956 and shifted to Hyderabad in 1959 and since then he had enriched Hyderabad’s geological and architectural history on one hand, and its culture and traditions on the other. As the head of city civic body, he implemented the slum improvement programme. His works include the monogram on Hyderabad’s founder, Secunderabad and the life and times of the Nizams. Among his various recognitions were the Golden Astor awards. City historians Anuradha Reddy, Sajjad Shahid, Prof Ameerullah Khan and Mohammad Safiullah joined chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao in condoling his death. KCR recalled his services as a bureaucrat working in various capacities in the united AP government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/luther-the-man-who-unravelled-hyd-secrets-dies/articleshow/80355965.cms||Syed Akbar
January 20, 2021||Patna||Covaxin gets poor response in Bihar||PATNA: The indigenously developed ‘Covaxin’ of Bharat Biotech has seen a relatively lower response than the Serum Institute-Pune’s ‘Covishield’ in terms of turnout numbers during the Covid-19 inoculation drive conducted in Bihar so far. Of the 74,900 registered beneficiaries for the three days of vaccination carried out till Tuesday, a total of 47,402 people got vaccinated with 46,506 beneficiaries getting Covishield and only 834 turning up for their Covaxin shot. Many healthcare workers are reluctant to take Covaxin as this Covid-19 vaccine is still in the final trial phase. Among the reasons for the low turnout for Covaxin are fears related to adverse events, long-term effects and effectiveness (antibody generation against the virus and its duration). Dr Vinay Kumar, a senior resident at the AIIMS, Patna told this newspaper that several doctors and PG students are not ready to take Covaxin as the third trial of this vaccine is in its initial stage. “The first trial is to see the safety of the vaccine, and the last two is to check its efficacy. At least Covishield efficacy is around 70% after its final trial. We don’t even know how long Covaxin will fight against the virus and how much antibody gets created,” Kumar said. He added, “The first phase of inoculation is for healthcare workers so we should get the vaccine which has passed all the trials, rather giving a vaccine which has not cleared all trial phases.” NMCH-Patna which has got Covaxin for the selected beneficiaries has seen a turnout of only 30 % of healthcare workers in the past two days of the drive. Dr Ramchandra Kumar, a junior doctor at the NMCH-P, said in the first phase of Covaxin, only 300 people got vaccinated while 380 got the shot in the second phase and the third phase is still on. “I think the health workers should not get Covaxin, because we do not know its side-effects in the long-run. Many junior doctors, paramedic staff and nurses are not taking the vaccine,” he said. “Normally, when a vaccine gets developed, it goes through several phases, and a small number of vials are set aside for experiments, but in Covid-19 case, billions of vials have been manufactured without knowing its efficacy. Several side-effects have been reported, but still the vaccine has been given to beneficiaries. We are doctors, we can’t be fooled,” Dr Ramchandra said. A senior doctor at NMCH-P said there are two reasons for the low turnout at the hospital for the vaccination drive— first, beneficiaries are not getting the messages on time and secondly the reluctance for Covaxin as it was still in the trial phase. “If some senior doctors of NMCH-P would have taken the vaccine, it would have developed some confidence among other healthcare workers. But we are going by the list provided by the Centre,” the senior doctor said. Dr Brajesh Kumar of the Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital's department of microbiology said the vaccine has nano-particles, which enters the blood-brain barrier. “We don’t know its long-term effects. There are chances that this nano-particle would deposit in the system and affect our body. So, we are a little scared to take the vaccine,” he said. A similar situation is also seen in other hospitals such as the PMCH and the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital, Bhagalpur, among other health facilities where Covaxin is being used as a vaccination drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covaxin-gets-poor-response-in-bihar/articleshow/80353599.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 20, 2021||Kochi||George Alancherry, Baselios Cleemis meet Prime Minister||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/NEW DELHI: Syro Malabar Church archbishop Cardinal George Alancherry, the Malankara Syrian Church archbishop Cardinal Baselios Cleemis and Roman Catholic archdiocese of Mumbai’s Cardinal Oswald Gracias met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Tuesday to discuss various issues. The three cardinals later told the media that the meeting was positive and that the Prime Minister had lent a patient ear to their issues. Cardinal Cleemis said that the church heads had apprised Modi about the discrepancies in the distribution of scholarships for minority students, insofar that Christian students are getting only 20% of the minority scholarship amount, while another minority community is garnering the rest. The church leadership is of the opinion that the community should get at least 41% of the allocation on the basis of their proportion. It is learnt that the contentious issue of ‘love jihad’ was also conveyed to the Prime Minister as the Catholic community is worried over several Christian girls getting converted to Islam after marrying Muslim youths. Three Christian girls who married Muslim youths and converted to Islam have gone to IS territory in Afghanistan and Syria. The Christian community is worried over this trend and the Kerala BJP has been taking up this issue. The meeting of the Catholic heads with the Prime Minister assumes significance as it was held at the behest of Mizoram governor P S Sreedharan Pillai, a former president of the Kerala BJP. BJP state president K Surendran said the PM meeting the Church heads is a good development. “They have aired their genuine grievances and let us see how things move ahead,” he said. agencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/alancherry-cleemis-meet-prime-minister/articleshow/80352527.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Legislature building to be open to public in Mumbai||MUMBAI: To encourage tourism in the state, Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has decided to open the Maharashtra legislature building to the public on the lines of Indian and UK Parliaments. An order and guidelines will be issued soon, said an official. The decision was taken by assembly Speaker Nana Patole and minister for tourism Aaditya Thackeray at a meeting on Tuesday, attended by home department officials too. Patole said it would inspire the new generation to choose the right path in life as the building has a unique tradition of veterans. “Many laws have been cleared by the legislature, which were later adopted at the national level. So, the building with a glorious history will be open to the common people,” said Patole. He added that initially the building in Mumbai will be opened and a decision on Nagpur and Pune will be taken later. Thackeray said that it was an important initiative and will encourage the tourism industry, and help generate employment. He said he would ensure the tourism department cooperates and guidelines will be issued in consultation with the home department and legislature secretariat. He directed officials to take care of providing facilities of reception, screening, online bookings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/legislature-building-to-be-open-to-public-in-mumbai/articleshow/80353077.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Nagpur||NMC plugs leakages, water supply to be restored soon||Nagpur: With the completion of the repair of five leakages in 2,300mm water pipeline, the NMC’s water works department is set to start regular water supply within a couple of days, said water works committee chairman Vijay Zalke. On January 1, Zalke had announced that about 65% of the city would get alternate day water supply for about a month from January 6 as the civic body had to undertake repair works of at least five leakages in the 2,300mm pipeline supplying 460mld water from Pench reservoir. To allow the repair works, the NMC had supplied alternate day water to areas under Laxmi Nagar, Dharampeth, Hanuman Nagar, Gandhibagh, Mangalwari and parts of Satranjipura and Ashi Nagar zones. The spot of leakages in the 27-km-long pipeline were between Itgaon and Karambhad villages. Earlier, the leakages were small in size which slowly expanded, resulting in the city getting lesser water with at least 5mld water going waste every day. During this period, the NMC supplied 400mld water to the city through a 48km canal from Navegaon Khairi to Mahadula. In a record time, all the five big leakages were not only plugged but the NMC’s water works department also succeeded in installing six flow meters at four different places including three in Mahadula, one each at Khairi and Karambhad and two at Gorewada water treatment plant. These flow meters will help the civic body to know any leakage in the pipeline, he explained. “Earlier, the leakage was small. After the water works department informed me, I along with former deputy mayor Deepraj Pardikar and water works department officials visited the site and were shocked to see the huge quantum of water going waste,” he said. “As many as five spots of huge leakages in the 2,300mm diameter pipeline were detected. At least 5 MLD water was going waste every day,” he pointed out. “Now, the water works department has undertaken cleaning of the pipeline and within a couple of days, 65% of affected city will get regular water,” Zalke said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-plugs-leakages-water-supply-to-be-restored-soon/articleshow/80353585.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Dehradun||CM orders vigilance probe against PCS officer||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has ordered a vigilance probe against PCS officer AK Pandey. The move comes after the chief minister’s office and the chief minister himself, according to sources, received complaints alleging corrupt practices undertaken by Pandey. CM Rawat also directed additional chief secretary Radha Raturi to remove Pandey from the post of ADM Dehradun. The PCS officer has not been given any new posting but kept in the waiting list. Pandey has been posted in Dehradun for a long time now. Earlier, he has served in Rudraprayag and Pithoragarh districts as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-orders-vigilance-probe-against-pcs-officer/articleshow/80352524.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||62 khau gullies in Mumbai to be food hubs soon||MUMBAI: BMC has decided to transform 62 khau gullies in the city into street food hubs. At a meeting on Tuesday, officials told chief minister Uddhav Thackeray about the plan. “In each ward we have told officials to identify 3-4 streets where khau gullies or street food hubs exist. The plan is to realign the stalls uniformly. They will be upgraded and given fixed pitches,” said a senior civic official. Officials said there are informal khau gullies in almost every locality. Thackeray told the administration to complete widening and deepening of nullahs to avoid water-logging during monsoon, and to complete beautification work of roads, flyovers and footpaths before the monsoon. On Tuesday, Thackeray reviewed BMC work of beautification and nullah cleaning ahead of monsoon and other projects. During their presentation, the administration told the CM that 149 pavements, 42 flyovers and 120 traffic islands have been selected for beautification; 90% footpath work will be completed by May-end. Out of 386 flood-prone spots in the city, work at 171 spots has been completed, while work is being carried out at 120 locations, which will be done before monsoon. Chaitanya Marpakwar & Sujit Mahamulkar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/62-khau-gullies-in-city-to-be-food-hubs-soon/articleshow/80353093.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 20, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Early warning system installed for Idukki dam||IDUKKI: A real-time structural health monitoring & early warning system has been installed for Idukki dam. According to KSEB officials, it is for the first time in Kerala that such an early warning system was installed in a hydel dam. Power minister M M Mani will inaugurate the new system on January 26. The real-time system was implemented as part of the World Bank’s Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project (DRIP). “We received real-time data from Idukki reservoir at the server at KSEB monitoring station at Pallam in Kottayam and Vazhathope in Idukki. Information on water level, weather conditions, temperature and wind level will be available through the new system,” said Supriya S, KSEB chief engineer (dam safety and DRIP). “In the second phase of DRIP the real-time monitoring facility will be installed in other hydel dams,” said Supriya. “The new system will be helpful to monitor the motion variation in the dam after the water level reaches the full reservoir level. Earlier, the water level and other data were collected manually,” she added. According to officials, the installation of the real-time warning system began in Idukki in 2016. A total of Rs 6.94 crore was spent for the project. The DRIP project was implemented under the supervision of the central water commission and state government. According to KSEB officials, through the real-time warning system, the officials can easily monitor the water levels during flood periods. In 2018, KSEB had faced criticism for opening of dam shutters without issuing proper warning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/early-warning-system-installed-for-idukki-dam/articleshow/80352555.cms||Sandeep Thomas
January 20, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: After NSS editorial, BJP smells a poll opportunity||KOTTAYAM: The state unit of the BJP is trying its best to improve relations with Nair Service Society (NSS) in the wake of the editorial that appeared in the latest edition of ‘Service’, the mouthpiece of NSS. The editorial expressed gratitude to PM Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah who both tweeted tributes to Mannathu Padmanabhan on Mannam Jayanti day. BJP state president K Surendran was quick to realise an ‘opportunity’ and he posted the editorial on his Facebook page and tweeted about ‘Service’ lauding Modi and Shah. Senior BJP leaders in state hinted that the BJP will try to bring Modi or Shah to NSS headquarters in Changanassery ahead of assembly polls. Since Modi is expected to arrive in state for the inauguration of Alappuzha bypass, the chances of him visiting NSS headquarters is possible, claimed senior leaders. Surendran, who is being treated for Covid-19, was unavailable for comments. Mizoram governor PS Sreedharan Pillai, one of the few BJP leaders close to NSS leadership, said that the he is not aware of a move from NSS to invite PM or Shah. However, he refused to comment on the issue. "Being a governor I am not supposed to comment," he added. Meanwhile, G Sukumaran Nair told TOI that no other Prime Minister had lauded Padmanabhan and acknowledged his service to the society. "We only expressed the gratitude of NSS for the tweets of Modi and Shah. There is no need to link political connections to it," he said, adding that the fame of Mannathu Padmanabhan spread across the globe due to their tweets. When asked whether one of them will be visiting the NSS headquarters soon, Nair said: "I don’t know whether they have expressed a wish to visit here. I can only react about it if they express their wish to come here," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/after-nss-editorial-bjp-smells-a-poll-opportunity/articleshow/80352511.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
January 20, 2021||Dehradun||4 drug peddlers nabbed in Manglaur, narcotics worth over Rs 16L recovered||Roorkee: Four drug peddlers were nabbed by Manglaur police in Haridwar district on Tuesday. The police also recovered brown sugar (narcotics substance) worth over Rs 16 lakh from their possession. The drug peddlers were identified as Varun, Pravin, Anuj, and Varun — all in their mid-twenties. They were booked under different sections of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and taken into judicial custody after being produced in local court. “During a night patrolling on Monday, we got a lead that some drug peddlers were trying to sell brown sugar and smack in Manglaur. During a raid there, we nabbed the four drug peddlers. However, one of their aides, who is reportedly a Bareilly resident, escaped,” SP (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/4-drug-peddlers-nabbed-in-manglaur-narcotics-worth-over-rs-16l-recovered/articleshow/80352548.cms||Tapan Susheel
January 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||Mission launched for horticulture push||Gandhinagar: The state government on Tuesday announced the launch of the ‘Mukhyamantri Bagayat Vikas Mission’ (horticulture development mission). Under the scheme, unproductive lands will be allotted to farmers, organizations, individuals, or partnership firms for cultivation. The aim of the mission is to accelerate agriculture and horticulture, and promote the cultivation of medicinal herbs. It will also create employment opportunities through an increase in the exports of such products, the government said. While announcing the mission, CM Vijay Rupani said: “Agriculture development has not attained its peak due to arid, semi-arid, and saline patches of land in the state.” He added: “The state government has initiated the ‘Mukhyamantri Bagayat Vikas Mission’ to double the income of farmers and generate employment through horticulture in unfertile and fallow lands owned by the government.” The first phase will include five districts: Kutch, Surendranagar, Patan, Banaskantha, and Sabarkantha. About 50,000 hectares of land will be provided on a 30-year lease in areas and survey numbers fixed by the government to cultivate medicinal plants and horticulture crops. The CM stated that arid, unfertile, and fallow patches of land have been successfully converted into cultivable areas in Kutch, Banaskantha, Patan, Sabarkantha, and Surendranagar. He said the turnaround was spurred by various irrigation schemes introduced by the state government and the use of modern equipment and methods for cultivation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mission-launched-for-horticulture-push/articleshow/80353634.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Nashik||Autorickshaw & taxi drivers hit hard by fuel price rise||Nashik: Petrol price in Nashik peaking for the second consecutive day on Tuesday has spread a wave of discontent among the citizens — autorickshaw and taxi drivers in particular. The autorickshaw and taxi drivers across the district have denounced the rise in fuel prices and have warned of a massive protest in the near future. The petrol price rose to from Monday’s Rs 92.14 per litre to Rs 92.26 per litre on Tuesday, while the diesel price rose from Rs 80.96 per litre to Rs 81.34 per litre during the same time. “The prices are rising every day. This definitely burns a hole in the pocket of the common man. Especially impacted are those who need to pay for fuel on a daily basis,” said Keshav Patil, an autorickshaw driver in Nashik city. He said the fuel price rise was eating into the earnings of people who make a living by transporting people or goods, and that too gains the backdrop of the Covid crisis when earnings are already poor. All transport vehicle owners suffered during the lockdown since the government had banned the movement of public transport vehicles to cut down on the movement of people. “The autorickshaw drivers have faced a lot of problems during this period. They struggled to make money to even feed their families and pay the fees for the schools that were being conducted online,” said Ravi Kamble, a taxi driver on the Nashik-Dhule route. “When the unlock phase began and we were able to do some small business. The rise in fuel prices is creating problems for us again,” said Shahid Shaikh, another autorickshaw driver. Bhagwan Pathak, an office-bearer of the Shramik Sena that represents autorickshaws and taxi drivers in the district, said that the government was forcing people to agitate against it. “We would have demanded a hike in fares, but that will only affect our business as people would not use our services. This is why we have decided to organise a massive protest soon outside the district collectorate so that the government could at least understand that there is some resistance from us,” said Pathak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/autorickshaw-taxi-drivers-hit-hard-by-fuel-price-rise/articleshow/80352553.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat discoms project low growth in industrial segment||AHMEDABAD: State-run power distribution companies expect lower growth in sales of electricity to industrial and commercial consumers due to the Covid-19 pandemic and other factors. The four discoms affiliated with Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited (GUVNL) have projected a lower growth rate of 5% for electricity sales in the industrial HT (high tension) category for 2021-22. Industrial HT consumers are mainly industrial units, commercial and office establishments with a connected load of above 100 kilowatt (kW). “As the Covid-19 pandemic has affected sales in this category, the company expects a lower growth rate. Hence, a growth rate of 5% has been considered in FY 2021-22,” the state-run discoms stated while providing their sales projections for the next fiscal in their annual tariff petitions filed with the Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission (GERC). These power distribution companies are Uttar Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (UGVCL), Dakshin Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (DGVCL), Paschim Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (PGVCL) and Madhya Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (MGVCL). For their sales projections, the discoms normally consider the 3-year compounded annual growth rate (CAGR). In the case of UGVCL, this 3-year CAGR (till 2019-20) is 11.98%. The CAGR for PGVCL, MGVCL and DGVCL are 13.53%, 7.34% and 6.45%, respectively. However, these four have considered a lower rate of 5% for projecting sales in 2021-22. Industry experts said electricity sales to consumers in the industrial HT category is also affected by other factors such as open access (using which units buy electricity from the open market), supply from captive solar and wind power projects and the economic slowdown. According to market sources, actual sales during the year may increase if open market prices go up or the economic situation further improves. Like their sales, these discoms also projected a lower growth rate of 5% in the addition of new consumers in the category. The 3-year CAGR of consumer addition for UGVCL, PGVCL, MGVCL and DGVCL are 8.12%, 7.95%, 5.43% and 6.11%, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-discoms-project-slower-growth-in-industrial-segment/articleshow/80353656.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Nagpur||Transporter Tuli booked in cheating case||Nagpur: Tehsil police have booked city hotelier and transporter Mohabbat Singh Tuli for allegedly duping his business partner by allegedly transferring company shares. Following a complaint by Ajindar Singh Gurulaal Singh Tuli (60), a resident of Clark Town, on Monday, the Tehsil police have booked Tuli under sections 406, 420, 34 of IPC. As per the complainant, in 1994, Mohabbat Singh Tuli and Ajindar Singh had started a joint venture — Bombay Goods Transport Garage — in Gandhibagh area. However, the duo registered the company in the name of Great Roadways Private Limited with the registrar of companies. Ajindar Singh has been associated with the Great Roadways since its inception. Ajindar had 75% stake i.e. 22,000 shares of the company. His father Gurulaal Singh too was a director in the company. However, after death of Gurulaal Singh, Mohabbat Singh allegedly transferred his stake to his name illegally, the complainant said. Based on the complaint, cops have registered a case and started investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/transporter-tuli-booked-in-cheating-case/articleshow/80353639.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran links poll plunge to Kalpetta||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Congress high command is learnt to have given its approval for KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran to contest in the upcoming assembly election. The decision reflects the opinion in favour of a collective leadership, with Oommen Chandy, Ramesh Chennithala and Ramachandran driving the fortunes of the party in this crucial phase. Sources close to the KPCC president said he has expressed willingness to contest the election if he is given the Kalpetta seat in Wayanad. Ramachandran, who returned from New Delhi after holding discussions with the high command, also refused to rule out the possibility of a future in electoral politics. “I will abide by the decision of the high command like a disciplined party worker,” he said. On whether he would be contesting from Kalpetta, he said, “I am not aware of any such reports.” Ramachandran chose Kalpetta as it falls under Rahul Gandhi’s Lok Sabha constituency. This, he believes, will ensure direct monitoring by the high command, since the party cannot afford to lose constituencies in Wayanad. There are reports that if he jumps into the election fray then the KPCC might get a new chief. According to sources, A K Antony had suggested the idea of Ramachandran contesting in the election in discussions state leaders had with the high command. K V Thomas set to rebel?Meanwhile, the Congress central command has not responded to the request of K V Thomas for a responsible post in the party. It is unhappy with reports that he held a secret meeting with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan the other day. There is speculation that K V Thomas would contest from Ernakulam as an LDF independent. Focus on reviving base, says Oommen ChandySpeaking to reporters in Kottayam, Chandy said communities that have distanced themselves from Congress and UDF will be brought back to the fold. Congress has good ties with all sections of society, he said. The former chief minister added that AICC will issue a code of conduct for the upcoming election, especially taking into consideration factors that impacted the party’s performance in the recent local-body polls. (With inputs from Kottayam bureau)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/mullappally-links-poll-plunge-to-kalpetta/articleshow/80352518.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Navi-mumbai||PCMC staff accused of pocketing fines||A Kharghar activist has lodged a complaint against the Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) staff for pocketing fines that were slapped on citizens who flouted lockdown rules. The anti-corruption bureau of Navi Mumbai has registered a complaint against the accused. According to the complaint, the civic officials used to collect hefty fines from the defaulters and then tweak the amounts on the receipt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/civic-staff-accused-of-pocketing-fines/articleshow/80355315.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Seven held as car loan racket busted, 19 vehicles seized||MUMBAI: City crime branch busted an inter-state car loan defaulting racket, seized 19 new high-end cars and arrested seven persons, including a former loan executive of a bank. Mercedes Benz, Audi, Toyota Innova, Fortuner, Ford Endeavour and Mini Cooper cars are among those seized from Mumbai, its outskirts, Bengaluru and Gujarat. Those arrested were Pradeep Maurya (46), Dharambir Sharma alias Wasim Shaikh (31), Mrigesh Navidhar (42), Sainath Ganjialias Sandeep Borate (26), Dilshad Ansari (44), Vijay Verma (39) and Salam Khan (42). Investigating officer Jagdish Sail said gang leader Maurya was earlier arrested twice for similar offences in Mumbai and Thane. Dharam used to be a loan executive with a bank but helped Maurya clear few files and he was sacked. The others are agents and those who aided Maurya in forging documents. One would look for people seeking loans, the other would make fake documents, and third will help in mortgaging the car in some other state. “The gang used to identify persons seeking loans. If a person wanted a loan of Rs 10 lakh, the gang would convince him to give his Aadhaar card, PAN card and residential proof. In some cases they forged documents, pasted someone else’s photograph and purchased high-end cars. In some cases, they told the person they were buying a car worth Rs 20-30 lakh, would give him a Rs 10 lakh loan, saying they will pay the EMIs and they would used the car,’’ said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Prakash Jadhav. The gang would take the new car to some other state and mortgage it, claiming they were in urgent need of cash at home. If the car was worth Rs 20 lakh, they would mortgage it and take Rs 15 lakh. They told the person who mortgaged it that they would soon arrange the money and take back the car. “The gang would give them a duplicate RC book of the vehicle and then default on EMIs. When the bank’s recovery official reached the purchaser’s address, they would learn that the address was bogus or no such person stayed at that address. All documents submitted to procure loans were fake,’’ added Jadhav. In some cases customers who genuinely wanted big business loans were told to increase their CIBIL score, and for that they had to take high-end cars on loan and pay EMIs. A businessman from Ghatkopar submitted his documents and under his name the gang bought a Mini Cooper worth Rs 30 lakh and Innova worth Rs 32 lakh. The gang mortgaged the vehicles to someone else, who was using them for a year with temporary registration numbers. As the mastermind and some other worked with banks they knew the process and lacunae in loan processing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/7-held-as-inter-state-car-loan-racket-busted-19-high-end-models-seized/articleshow/80353083.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 20, 2021||Nashik||Only 2 centres achieve 100% vaccination target||Nashik: Only two out of the 13 centres reported 100% vaccination but only 710 people got vaccinated across the district on Tuesday which was much less than the target of 1,300 people. The sub-district hospital at Chandwad inoculated 105 beneficiaries, while the one in Niphad vaccinated hundred beneficiaries throughout the day. The least number of beneficiaries were reported at Ramzanpura Malegaon vaccination centre where only 24 beneficiaries turned up. According to health officials, efforts were on to bring in more beneficiaries to the vaccination centres by conducting awareness among them, but it seemed that the fear related to vaccination was still strongly rooted in the minds of people. “Today (on Tuesday), the sub-district hospital in Niphad had a very low turnout but then senior officials started calling the beneficiaries the number started increasing. The centre finally carried out 100% vaccination for the day,” additional district health officer Ravindra Chaudhary said. He added that in rural areas the registered beneficiaries of private hospitals are also being called as it would ensure that the people who were eager to get the vaccination could be given the same so that more number of people are covered under this program. Registered beneficiaries to get out of turn shots Bapusaheb Nagargoje, medical superintendent of NMC, said they were now allowed to vaccinate the registered beneficiaries out of turn without waiting for the CoWin application sending them an invite. “This is a good step as the registered beneficiaries who are willing to take the vaccination, but still have not received an SMS can voluntarily turn up at any of the vaccination centres, provide the registration details and get the jab,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/only-2-centres-achieve-100-vaccination-target/articleshow/80352558.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 20, 2021||Dehradun||In pre-budget meet, U’khand govt requests Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for green bonus, more allocation of funds for border roads in the hills||Dehradun: Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman held a pre-budget meeting with states on Tuesday. In the meeting, the Uttarakhand government raised 15 issues, including those pertaining to environment conservation and border security and requested the finance minister to make provisions for them in the forthcoming Union Budget. After the meeting, urban development minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said, “The state contributes immensely to green cover belts, fresh air, and water level of rivers. In view of this, we have requested that budgetary provisions be made for ecological services.” He claimed that the finance minister has welcomed the suggestion and termed it an “important one”. During the meeting, Kaushik said that Uttarakhand has great potential in the sector of AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopath, Unani, Siddha, and Homeopathy) and it could help the state recover from the financial losses suffered during the Covid-19 phase. “We have received the finance minister’s nod for an AYUSH corridor in Uttarakhand,” said the minister. For better road connectivity in the border areas, the state has sought more allocation of funds for border roads. The minister said that it would prove useful for the defence forces as well as the locals. Another major point discussed by Kaushik was to increase the Centre’s fund allocation for solid waste management projects. “We have asked the finance minister to raise the fund share of the Centre from 30% to 50%. It would be a major financial assistance,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-pre-budget-meet-ukhand-govt-requests-union-finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-for-green-bonus-more-allocation-of-funds-for-border-roads-in-the-hills/articleshow/80352559.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 20, 2021||Delhi||Mission 2022: Delhi cops bet big on technology, artificial intelligence||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has signed two Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) with National Forensic Science Laboratory and Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi for use of technology and artificial intelligence in policing and investigation. The MoUs were signed during Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to Delhi Police headquarters on Tuesday. Shah said when PM Narendra Modi was the chief minister of Gujarat, he had established a one-of-its kind university in forensic science aimed at incorporating scientific investigation into policing and using them in convictions in court. He asked for five targets to be set for each police station for their improvement and better performance by 2022, when the country will celebrate 75 years of Independence. He added that he would review the progress next year. “Last year was a challenge for all of us and police handled it well. Be it the northeast Delhi riots, lockdown, reopening of the lockdown, migrants’ movement and now the farmers’ agitation, Delhi Police passed all tests with flying colours. From the last man in the force to the top cop SN Shrivastava, I’m proud of everyone,” said Shah, while praising Delhi Police for its service during the pandemic. Paying homage to policemen who lost their lives in the line of duty, Shah said 7,667 cops got infected with Covid-19 and 30 were martyred. He added that apart from manning important installations, including embassies, headquarters of key organisations, PM residence, Rashtrapati Bhavan, police had also dealt with challenges like drug trafficking, terrorism, fake currency, among others. He also conferred ranks to policemen who had been given out-of-turn promotion for exceptional work. Promising to improve housing satisfaction and doubling it in the next five years, Shah said, “Six months ago, it was 19.5%. The approval for various residential projects has already been given. While Rs 230 crore have been allotted for 800 flats in Narela, Rs 466 crore have been given for 501 MIG flats. Delhi Police is itself constructing 700 houses for its personnel.” Shrivastava narrated how Delhi Police turned challenges into opportunities in 2020 while serving Delhiites during the lockdown and unlock period. The initiatives included feeding the needy, visiting the residences of the elderly, transporting sick people and pregnant women and ensuring smooth transportation of migrant labourers. He also gave a presentation on the technology leap taken by the force with initiatives like e-Beat Book, Integrated Complaint Monitoring System, Safe City Project and setting up of technological and social media cells. The home minister announced that 15,000 CCTV cameras would be installed in Delhi for close monitoring of crime and criminals and maintaining law and order. “A world-class data centre will be set up to link the CCTV cameras. All cameras at railway stations and those installed by Delhi government will also be linked to it to make Delhi a safe city,” added Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mission-2022-cops-bet-big-on-tech-ai/articleshow/80353684.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai man gets 3 years' rigorous imprisonment for flinging acid on wife who lost an eye||MUMBAI: Nine years after a 50-year-old Ghatkopar man flung acid on his wife’s face, leaving her visually impaired in one eye, a magistrate court recently convicted and sentenced him to three years’ rigorous imprisonment. The man has also been ordered to pay Rs 40,000 to the woman, a mother of three and a social worker. The accused, Nagnath Jadhav, attacked his wife, Shubhangi Jadhav, as he believed she was involved in an affair. “It seems that the offence was committed in order to teach a lesson to the informant (the victim) as she had relations with (one) Sameer but this fact is not proved. The informant has two boys and one girl. The children are with the informant. Considering the aggravating and mitigating circumstances, it seems that the aggravating circumstances are on a higher footing. Therefore, deterrent punishment has to be awarded to him,” the court said. The court further said since the fine amount was not adequate for her proper rehabilitation, it is recommended that District Legal Services Authority, Mumbai, inquire and decide the quantum of compensation to be awarded to the woman under the state government’s Victim Compensation Scheme. The prosecution’s case was that on April 23, 2012, police recorded Shubhangi’s statement when she was admitted to Sion Hospital. She informed them that around 4am, Nagnath went out of the house and immediately returned. She saw a pink glass in his hand. When Shubhangi asked him about the glass, suddenly he threw the liquid from the glass on her face. She said she felt a burning sensation in her eyes, face, nose and ears. Suspecting it to be acid and in intense pain, she began to shout. The accused fled and those living in the neighbourhood gathered. They poured water on her face. Thereafter, she was taken to Rajawadi Hospital by her sister-in-law and neighbours who later became witnesses in the case. After primary treatment at Rajawadi Hospital, she was referred to Sion Hospital, where she was admitted for over a fortnight. The neighbours deposed in court alongside Shubhangi and supported her version. The defence refuted the allegations and said someone else in the vicinity had attacked her. The defence also claimed the neighbours, two women, and Sameer’s family members, had deposed falsely against the accused. The lawyer argued they wanted to get back at the accused as earlier he had lodged an FIR against Sameer for “kidnapping” Shubhangi. The court, though, said it was improbable that the witnesses were lying. “Why the informant will entangle the accused in a false case, that too for an injury committed by the other person? This argument seems to be without any base,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-gets-3-yrs-ri-for-flinging-acid-on-wife-who-lost-an-eye/articleshow/80352578.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 20, 2021||Nagpur||For better ties: Nagpur’s Bidens will raise a toast||NAGPUR: As Joe Biden takes oath tonight at 10.30, the city’s Bidens, who have an ancestral connect with the 46th President of the United States are hopeful of good Indo-US ties. The late Leslie Biden of Nagpur and Joe Biden are linked through their mutual great, great, great, great, great grandfather. Leslie’s large family of six children, four daughters and two sons, has 14 grandchildren, some based in Nagpur and some in different places in India and abroad. Family members, who did not wish to be named, said they did not get an invite for the swearing-in ceremony of Joe Biden. However, the Bidens are likely to watch the mega event on TV, live or recorded. Leslie had found a connect with Joe through the ‘Illustrated Weekly Of India’ (April 4, 1981). Joe, then a member of the senate, had written an article titled ‘American Express’. Leslie wrote to Joe to discuss the family tree. Joe responded, saying he was happy to have received a letter from Leslie (TOI was shown the three letters, two by Leslie (the drafted version) and one by Joe on his US letter head). Joe had also discussed the Bidens’ visit to India. Lesie and Joe shared information regarding a common ancestor (John Biden and his wife Anne Beaumont). Both Leslie and Joe had committed to correspond in the future. After Leslie passed away in 1983, his widow Genevieve didn’t take the communication forward with Joe. Even Joe was struck by a tragedy in 1972 — he lost his wife and daughter. In speeches in Mumbai (July 2013) and Washington (2015), Joe Biden had referred to the Indian connection. “We (Leslie and Joe) have a mutual great, great, great, great, grandfather,” he had said at the time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/when-joe-takes-oath-citys-bidens-willraise-a-toast-for-good-indo-us-ties/articleshow/80353673.cms||Rajesh Jaiswal
January 20, 2021||Chennai||As a duck takes to water||CHENNAI: India still needed 50-odd runs in eight overs and Australian pace bowler Pat Cummins was steaming down. The most optimistic Indian fan was probably feeling that a draw would be achieved at Australia’s fortress, Gabba, where they hadn’t lost in 32 years, and Ajinkya Rahane’s boys would go home with the series at 1-1. But the 21-year-old Test debutant from Chennai, who was facing Cummins, had bigger plans. There was nonchalance, bordering on arrogance, in the way Washington Sundar pulled the best paceman in the world over fine-leg for a six that opened the floodgates for India in their historic chase on Tuesday. This will probably be remembered as the Rishabh Pant Test match and rightly so, but the role Washington played in both innings with the bat and ball, will stay in the minds of all those who enjoyed this cricket fantasy over the past five days. "When I spoke to him last night I said India should draw this game...Washi was adamant they would win," Washington’s father Sundar, who is also his coach, told TOI. That sums up the nature of the boy from Kilpauk, a student of St Bede’s School, who has grown up playing with his sister, a state cricketer — he just doesn’t believe in backing down. Washington isn’t the biggest spinner of the ball. He was in the Test squad only as a net bowler and a Test debut wasn’t in his wildest dreams. Yet when his state senior Ravichandran Ashwin got injured after the Sydney Test along with Ravindra Jadeja, Washington had to get ready in a couple of days’ time. And what a debut it was (62 & 22; 3-89 & 1-80). He was no greenhorn, as the India coach Ravi Shastri said, "He looked like someone who had played 20 Test matches." "He was probably a 14-year-old boy when I first saw him at the TN nets. While his batting immediately stood out, I liked the unflappable nature of the boy… It probably came from his father, who was in the team when I was playing U-22 for TN. Sundar used to be like that," said TNCA academy coach Sunil Subramaniam, who was also the coach of Ashwin. Washington scored a century in TNCA first division when he was 14 years old and represented the India U-19 team at 17. "Playing against senior boys never intimidated him and his Gabba show was an extension of that spirit and belief," Sunil said. While Washington was initially an opener and part-time off-spinner, the experienced coach saw shades of the elegant TN left-hander W V Raman in his batting. We saw glimpses of that class in the two Brisbane efforts, but Raman himself doesn’t want to burden the youngster with such comparisons. "Forget me, just appreciate what you saw in the boy. For me what was special was his courage. He looked so unruffled playing short-pitched bowling on a hard Australian pitch, that should be an indication that he has a very bright future," said Raman. Though Washington had made his India debut in the T20 format in 2017 as an off-spinner, his bowling is still a work in progress. He is tall and that helps him get bounce, and he keeps things tight, which made Virat Kohli pick him for Royal Challengers Bangalore after a year with Pune Supergiants. But for the past three years, he hadn’t played a single first-class match. This was talked about and Australian legends Shane Warne and Mike Hussey expressed their surprise that Washington hadn’t ever been part of the India A first-class side, the breeding ground of future Test stars. "It’s a thing that BCCI should look into, even T Natarajan hasn’t played for India A. Given their talent, they should have been playing for India A more often," Sunil said. The Aussies, too, probably knew about his first-class inexperience and became a little complacent in the first innings after sending the top-order back quite cheaply. Washington’s counter-attack was a surprise, but his father, who named his son after his cricket mentor P D Washington, wasn’t. "In fact, I would have liked him to complete his century and I told him that too. I always keep telling him that when you get in, try getting the big score... Washi told me he would try to do it," said Sundar, who has set high standards for his son. And on Tuesday, as Washington was returning to the pavilion 10 shy of the winning mark, the entire Indian team gave him a standing ovation. The 21-year-old, though, looked disappointed, he hadn’t finished his job. But the way he has started, there will be many more chances. (with inputs by Vivek Krishnan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/as-a-duck-takes-to-water/articleshow/80353632.cms||Dwaipayan Datta
January 20, 2021||Nashik||‘No second thoughts about taking vaccine’||Nashik: Jyotsna Nanavaty had a close brush with Covid-19 last year and when the vaccination opportunity came through on Tuesday, she did not have any second thoughts. A 52-year-old medical officer with the Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC), Nanavaty and members of her family caught the infection last year. She recovered from the illness but felt the weakness for weeks. Nanavaty, who has a co-morbid health condition, said she felt that the vaccine offered good protection against the infection. “I suffered from post-covid weakness for about three weeks. Having a co-morbidity has also not stopped me from taking the vaccine,” she said. She said she is aware of possible adverse effects of the vaccine, but added that a team of doctors at the vaccination centre is capable of handling any emergency. After taking her jab on Tuesday, she said she was perfectly fine during and after the observation period of 30 minutes. “If there are any symptoms like a mild fever or giddiness, it would only indicate that her body was generating an immune response,” she said. Underlining the need for vaccination, she said pointed out that during a sero-surveillance done in Malegaon City, her sample had tested negative for antibodies despite being cured of the disease in the month of September. Nanavaty added, “Many believe that the virus cannot strike again. But the absence of antibodies in my body showed that I could get the infection at any time. Besides, there is a new strain of the virus that is spreading across the globe. People should ensure that they take the vaccine and also follow all Covid-19 health protocols.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-second-thoughts-about-taking-vaccine/articleshow/80352567.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Shiv Sena won most gram panchayat elections, agree MVA allies; BJP claims 5,700+||MUMBAI: Even as all the results for the gram panchayat elections in Maharashtra were still to come in till late Tuesday evening, claims and counterclaims by the Maha Vikas Aghadi and the BJP on the outcome continued, with all parties barring the BJP admitting that the Shiv Sena had emerged victorious in a majority of the gram panchayats. While the Sena claimed it had won 3,113 gram panchayats out of a total of 12,711, the BJP maintained that it was the biggest party, having registered wins in 5,781. Sena spokesperson Harshal Pradhan said the party had won in 3,113 gram panchayats, followed by the BJP (2,632), NCP (2,400) and the Congress (1,823). In the 2017 gram panchayat elections, the Sena had won only 637 gram panchayats out of 7,590 that had then gone to the polls. However, the BJP countered this, with its spokesperson Keshav Upadhye contending that it had won 5,781 gram panchayats. “We have secured 45.48% of votes polled,” Upadhye said. If his claim is to be believed, then this performance would be better than what the BJP recorded in the 2017 gram panchayat elections, when out of 7,590 gram panchayats, it had won 3,095. “Compared to 2017, our polling percentage has increased manifold,” he said. There were no takers for the BJP’s claims. The gram panchayat elections are not contested on party symbols and all the candidates are considered independents. “The BJP’s claims are misleading. State BJP president Chandrakant Patil had on Monday claimed that the party had won in 6,000 gram panchayats, while on Wednesday, the BJP itself has lowered the figures. It must admit that it has been defeated across the state. I will request BJP leaders not to mislead the people but to accept defeat,” state Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said. The Congress, too, came out with its own data, saying it had won 2,513 gram panchayats, while the Sena had won 3,108, BJP 2,263 and NCP 2,399. But while Sena’s Pradhan claimed that independents had won more gram panchayats than the Congress, a Congress leader said that Pradhan’s contention that the party had been relegated to the fourth position was wrong and unrealistic. “Since these elections are not contested on party symbols, it would be wrong to put up imaginary figures. We may not be leading in gram panchayat polls, but we have not been relegated to the fourth position. This claim is an attempt to defame the Congress,” the leader said. The ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi has claimed that it has swept the gram panchayat polls, which were held in 34 out of the state’s 36 districts. Clear mandate for MVA: SenaShiv Sena claimed the poll results were “a clearcut mandate” for the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. It said the BJP should accept the verdict, “else the people of Maharashtra will hurt the BJP further.” Sena mouthpiece Saamna said in its editorial that “you (BJP) will not be able to stage a political revolution in Maharashtra with the help of ‘activists’ from the ED, CBI, I-T department.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sena-won-most-gram-panchayat-elections-agree-mva-allies-bjp-claims-5700/articleshow/80355981.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
January 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||Electric car manufacturer Tesla may park in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR/NEW DELHI: Gujarat, which has emerged as a preferred destination for global automobile giants, has made a strong pitch to invite Tesla — a leading name in the manufacture of electric cars — to set up base in the state. The company, which is setting up its research and development centre in Bengaluru, is in touch with a few states, including Gujarat, to start India operations. Manoj Das, additional chief secretary (ACS), Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) and in charge ACS, industry and mines department, when contacted said the state government is in discussions with Tesla and has assured the company all possible assistance and incentives for setting up base in Gujarat. “The world’s top most automobile companies have set up manufacturing plants in the state, which has become an automobile hub with key MSME players supporting large companies. Major electric car manufacturers and vehicle battery manufacturers are setting up facilities in Gujarat. We are hopeful that like other global automakers, Tesla will prefer Gujarat,” the official said. Tesla is set to begin its India journey with its highest-selling Model 3, before the premium Model S and Model X, which would be available later in the year and in early 2022. The India arrival dates and prices, however, have not been revealed by Tesla, which now has a registered office in Bengaluru. According to Prabhu Ram, head of the industry intelligence group (IIG), CMR, Tesla’s bold bet on India will supercharge and transform the country’s mobility future. “Over the short-term, Tesla’s entry will give a boost to the government’s policy initiatives, strengthen EV manufacturing in India, spur new mobility startups, and most importantly, hasten development of enabling EV infrastructure,” Ram said.  Along with Gujarat, the company is also in talks with Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka to set up its facility. Das said with Gujarat emerging as a hub for renewable energy, the cost of power will be very competitive in the state. “Companies will be able to take advantage. Gujarat also has strategic advantages like ports and proximity to all major markets of India. In the past two months, we have had significant communication with the company and explained our new industrial policy and other advantages of being in Gujarat,” Das said. The electric vehicle (EV) market in India is expected to reach the 63 lakh unit-mark per annum by 2027, according to a recent report by the India Energy Storage Alliance (IESA). The demand for batteries is also going to rise substantially over the same period. EV sales in India stood at 3.8 lakh units in 2019-20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/electric-car-manufacturer-tesla-may-park-in-gujarat/articleshow/80353685.cms||Kapil Dave
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Doctor with cancer told to get fitness certificate to take shot||MUMBAI: A cancer-stricken civ-ic doctor, who had missed taking the Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday due to a prior appointment with his oncologist, had to return to his Vashi home without taking the shot on Tuesday too. Dr Anil Kumar Gondhale (54), assistant medical officer from Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya Shatabdi Municipal General Hospital in Govandi, and his wife spent an hour trying to convince doctors at Sion hospital’s vaccination centre. “But they asked us to return with a fitness certificate from the oncologist at Tata Memorial Hospital,” said wife Ashalata. Dr Gondhale was diagnosed with oesophageal cancer in 2018 and underwent treatment for almost a year, but a malignant growth was recently discovered in his lungs. On Wednesday, the couple pl-ans to return to Sion hospital wi-th the fitness certificate from Tata Hospital’s Kharghar centre. Sion hospital dean Dr Mohan Jo-shi said cancer is not a contraindication for taking the vaccine. “But our team of senior doctors evaluates vulnerable patients before giving the vaccine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/doctor-with-cancer-told-to-get-fitness-cert-to-take-shot/articleshow/80355369.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Nashik||Jalgaon’s Covid survivor takes the jab||Nashik: Ramesh Hivarkar, a 57-year-old employee of the Jalgaon civil hospital who had recovered from Covid-19, was administered the Covisheild vaccine on Tuesday. “I had no hesitation in taking the vaccine. The vaccinator did a fantastic job and put me at ease. I remained in the observation room for 30 minutes after I got the jab. I am absolutely fine and have started my office work,” Hivarkar told TOI. Although Hivarkar was not involved in treating Covid-19 patients, he worked behind the scenes to maintain all patient records at the civil hospital. He was infected sometime in July last year and remained in hospital for 20 days. “Initially, I was admitted to the civil hospital. Later, I was shifted to a private hospital since I needed oxygen support. I was on oxygen support for six days,” he said. According to him, people who are still hesitating to take the vaccine have no need to be worried about the adverse effects. “In our district, there has not been a single case of a beneficiary having any major issue. To win the war against Covid-19, all of us need to get vaccinated. The healthcare workers should lead from the front,” said Hivarkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaons-covid-survivor-takes-the-jab/articleshow/80352573.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
January 20, 2021||Nashik||2 from Nashik city arrested in separate Arms Act cases||Nashik: A 33-year-old person from Pimpalgaon Tappa of Pathardi taluka in Ahmednagar district was arrested by the city police while roaming along the Palse service road along the Nashik-Pune highway carrying a country-made firearm. The suspect has been identified as Mhatarev alias Sunil Kailas Kharmate. Assistant police inspector of the Nashik Road police station N J Kadare said that the personnel of crime branch Unit 2 received information about a person travelling with a country-made firearm. Working on the information, the crime branch personnel laid a trap and on seeing the suspected car, police intercepted the car. On frisking Kharmate, the police found the firearm in his possession along with three rounds of fire. Meanwhile, one more person was arrested by the Mhasrool police in the Arms Act case. The suspecthas been identified as Deepak Chothe (32) of Peth Road. According to police, Chothe was externed from the city for a period of two years in February 2019. However, he was found inside the city in the Peth Road area of Nashik city. Police also recovered a chopper from his possession. Chothe has several cases, including house break-in, robbery, etc. registered against him. Nashik : A 33-year-old person of Pimpalgaon Tappa in Pathardi taluka in Ahmednagar district was arrested by the city police when he was found carrying a countrymade firearm along the Palse service road along the Nashik Pune highway. the suspect is identified as Mhatarev alias Sunil Kailas Kharmate. API N J Kadare of the Nashik Road police said that the personnel of crime branch unit two had got information that that a person was travelling with a country made firearm. Working on the information, the crime branch personnel had laid a trap at Palse on the service road along the Nashik Pune highway. On seeing the suspected car which was informed about, the crime personnel intercepted the car. On frisking Kharmate, the police found the firearm in his possession along with three rounds of fire . Kadare said that apart from the firearm, Kharmate’s car was also confiscated by the police. Kadare said that the concerned person was in their police custody till Tuesday. Meanwhile, one more person was arrested in the Arms Act case by the Mhasrool police. The arrested person is identified as Deepak Chothe (32) of Peth Road. Chothe has been externed from the city for two years in February 2019. However, he was found inside the city in the Peth Road area. the police also found a chopper in his possession. Chothe has cases like house breaking, robbery, etc registered against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-from-nashik-city-arrested-in-separate-arms-act-cases/articleshow/80352590.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||CBI chargesheets INTUC state president, two others||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed the chargesheet in multi-crore cashew scam in Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation involving INTUC state president R Chandrasekharan, former MD of the corporation KA Ratheesh and contractor Jaimon Joseph at the CBI special court. After the government denied permission to the agency to prosecute the accused under the Prevention of Corruption Act, the agency filed its chargesheet under IPC Sections 420 and 120B that deal with cheating and conspiracy. The case dates back to 2016, when CBI initiated the case after the high court directed it to conduct a probe. It was accused that raw cashews, that are inferior in quality and worth Rs 500 crore, was procured from abroad. According to the case, cashew corporation officials colluded and flouted norms in awarding the contract to supply raw cashew nuts to a private supplier with the intention of cheating the corporation. Later, CBI sought permission from the government to prosecute the accused. After holding on to the file seeking permission for prosecution for some time, the government took a legal opinion from the director general of prosecutions before denying permission to prosecute the accused. While Chandrasekharan was the chairman of the corporation from 2011 to 2016 when UDF was in power, Ratheesh was the MD director from 2005 to 2015 during the tenure of LDF and UDF governments. After his name surfaced in connection with the graft case, the then UDF government had ousted him in 2015. However, after LDF government took over in 2016, he was given a clean chit. At present, Ratheesh is posted as the secretary of Khadi Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cbi-chargesheets-intuc-state-president-two-others/articleshow/80352608.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Chennai||Finding scientific similarities with Puranic time units||CHENNAI: The search for the Indian equivalent of encyclopedias ends with the Puranas. Handed down generations through oral traditions and first written down on palm leaves between the 2nd and 12th century AD, the Puranic system of time units is at least 2,000 years old, say scholars. What we know as paleontological and astrophysical events are recorded in the Puranas, in terms of specific periods of time known as yugas, manvantaras and kalpas. For those unsure of their accuracy, these dates are within 0.3% of half of the modern scientific dates, says Sidharth Chhabra, a data scientist who works as AI consultant at Ann Arbor, Michigan. "Since scientific dating involves several independent techniques that are subject to different sources of error, the fact that all of these scientific techniques yield dates that are twice those of Puranic dates suggests that traditional Indian chronology is off by a factor of two," he says in his research paper, ‘Revisiting Puranic Chronology’, that was published in the European Journal of Science and Theology in October. "The Puranas were labelled mythology by the British, but when we revisit the Puranas in light of Einstein’s propositions, we find that it stated the age of the Universe within 0.1% of the latest Planck estimates," said Chhabra, while referring to Einstein’s proposition that space and time are malleable. There are 18 Maha Puranas including those named after Brahma, Padma, Siva, Linga, Garuda and Narada which are considered corollaries to the four Vedas. "They all give the same number of years for the yugas, manvantaras, manvantarasaṃdhyas and kalpas, time-units used for measuring long periods," said Chhabra. Chhabra said since there is no ambiguity in the number of years assigned to these Puranic time units, and there is no scope for speculation regarding the conversion of Puranic time units into human years. However, there is a Puranic time unit that has escaped scholarly attention. "This is the samdhya between consecutive kalpas, which is known as the pratisamdhi. This time unit is discussed in the Vayu and Brahmanda Puranas," he said. According to Chhabra, the 14th century scholar, Sridhara Svami had observed that larger units of time consist of multiples of smaller units. For example, 30 ‘muhurtas’ make a day. Sridhara Svami wrote that 60 ‘kalas’ make a ‘muhurta’. "This computation of the Puranic ‘muhurta’ is twice as long as the traditional Puranic value. I resolve this conflict by hypothesising that Sridhara is stating that the Puranic muhurta is twice as long as the traditional measurement. Thus, this introduces a factor of two in the traditional Indian computation of time," said Chhabra, also the author of ‘The Bing Bang and the Sages’. In his paper, Chhabra documented the dates obtained by multiplying traditional Puranic dates by Sridhara’s factor of two bringing the value in close agreement with dates obtained by modern scientific methods for significant events in the history of the universe. "The first step in comparing Puranic dates with scientific dates is to note that there are a number of fundamentally different methods, each of which is subject to different kinds of contamination. The scientific dating methods discussed in the paper are radiometric, sclerochronometry and cosmological dating," he said. "All the cosmological and radiometric methods yield dates that differ from Puranic dates by a factor of two. Thus, it appears that Sridhara’s factor of two is to be applied to calculate solar years from traditional Puranic time units," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/finding-scientific-similarities-with-puranic-time-units/articleshow/80353688.cms||M T Saju
January 20, 2021||Nagpur||Only 57% health care workers turn up for Covid vaccination on Day 2 in Vid||Nagpur: Total 3,227 (57.62%) of 5,600 health care workers took the Covid-19 vaccine jab in 11 districts of Vidarbha on Day 2 of the vaccination drive on Tuesday. Five cases of minor adverse event following immunization (AEFI) were reported, of which two were within 30 minutes of inoculation. However, the turnout was more than state’s average of 49.3%. In the first two days, total number of vaccinated persons has increased to 7,108 in the region, with 3,881 (69.3%) of the targeted 5,600 administered jabs on Day 1, on January 16. As per initial estimate, 1,52,319 more health care workers are required to be vaccinated. Deputy director of health services, Nagpur division, Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, told TOI, “Vaccination percentage was 58.2, which is better than state’s average. We are exploring possibility of sending schedule to selected persons four-five days in advance, which will improve numbers.” The percentage for the division on Day 1 was 63.21. The percentage of vaccination was much less in Nagpur on Day 2. Of the targeted 500 persons, only 188 (37.6%) turned up at five centres. This is less than the turnout of Day 1 — 270 (54%) of targeted 500. Because of the low turnout, wastage of vaccine doses also increased in city and went beyond the permissible limit of 10%. On Day 1, 20 doses (6.9%) of the total 290 had gone waste. On Tuesday, 32 doses were wasted. Vials comprising 220 doses were opened and 188 workers were administered doses. Wastage was 14.54%. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said, “I visited IGGMCH to understand reasons behind lesser turnout. Nearly 10% workers are not ready to take the jab. Non-availability or inconvenience of selected health care workers on a particular day is the major cause. On Wednesday onwards, we will register around 140 beneficiaries instead of 100 on Co-WIN so that at least 100 would come for the inoculation.” The NMC on Tuesday administered vaccine to three health care workers of an NGO working for controlling sickle cell cases. This NGO is reportedly working in association with the NMC at Sadar diagnostic centre. These three health care workers became first beneficiaries other than those working in government-run hospitals. Deputy director of health services, Amravati division, Dr Rajkumar Chavan, said, “Vaccination to private health care workers started on Tuesday in one of the three centres in Akola, which is probably first in Vidarbha. Turnout was 100%.” In five districts of Amravati division, 1,249 (56.77%) of the targeted 2,200 health care workers took the jab. Vaccination percentage was 78.73 on Day-1. Five cases of AEFI were registered in two districts — Washim three and two in Chandrapur. Chandrapur collector Ajay Gulhane said, “A health care worker of Chandrapur GMCH complained of pain where the injection was given. Another health care worker was from Rajura, who complained of giddiness and itching. Both were given primary treatment and they did not require admission.” These two cases were first in Vidarbha to report AEFI within 30 minutes of the vaccination. In Washim, 3 vaccine recipients complained of mild fever couple of hours later, but there was no need for hospitalization. Earlier, 205 AEFI cases were registered after the Day 1 of vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/only-57-health-care-workers-turn-up-for-covid-vaccination-on-day-2-in-vid/articleshow/80353694.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 20, 2021||Delhi||Delhi University eyes global ranking, reaches out to colleges in remote areas||NEW DELHI: Delhi University will organise its convocation on January 27 in a blended manner, officiating vice-chancellor P C Joshi announced on Tuesday. The university is undertaking Mission 500 to come among the top 500 universities in the international QS rankings, he said. “We also want to achieve Mission 300, under which we plan to build a corpus of Rs 300 crore from our alumni network,” Joshi said, talking about DU’s growth and initiatives in the past six months. Claiming that there has been improvement in research, the vice-chancellor announced DU had started Vidya Vistar Scheme (V2S), an initiative that would see its colleges connect with similar institutions in the country’s remote areas. Addressing a press conference, held by a DU vice-chancellor for the first time in the past five years, Joshi said he was following the path shown by former VC Dinesh Singh as V2S would help in capacity building of teachers in remote areas and provide opportunities for joint research publications through sharing of resources. “It will also lead to innovations and startups, and increase interaction” among students to build a fraternity. Stating that DU colleges will have a “freehand” in implementing the scheme, he said the university would share its resources, state-of-the-art facilities and services. “We may also let them come here and work in our laboratories.” Teachers and researchers of selected colleges and university departments from remote areas will be invited to be co-investigators in DU’s programmes submitted to funding agencies. DU will also facilitate joint publication of research papers. Claiming that research work had been affected during the four-and-a-half-year tenure of VC Yogesh Tyagi, Joshi, who has been officiating since Tyagi has been suspended on charges of dereliction of duty and misconduct, said he didn’t want college teachers to work in silos. “I want them to connect with departments and involve in research.” Joshi added, “I am keen on improving DU’s performance as we have a strong research base across institutions. We have a distinction in courses like economics, arts and even music. It’s a complete university and we have been maintaining it for all these years.” The officiating VC added that the university would set up a committee to decide on programmes on DU’s history to mark its 100th year. “We will also create an encyclopaedia about the university.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-eyes-global-ranking-reaches-out-to-colleges-in-remote-areas/articleshow/80355395.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Only 55% of target beneficiaries immunised in 3 days||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand has fallen short of the target it set for Covid-19 vaccination in the first three days. The state has been able to inoculate 6,119 healthcare workers against the set target of 11,200 medical professionals in the three days of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive, said Dr Saroj Naithani, director National Health Mission (NHM). According to official data, the turnout of the target beneficiaries was 76% and 60% on the first and the second day respectively. On the third day, only 1,882 out of the indentified 3,400 health workers showed up at the vaccination centres. When asked about the low turnout, Dr Naithani said that the health department is planning to conduct one-to-one counselling of the beneficiaries. “We are trying to speak to each beneficiary in advance to know if he/she has any apprehensions related to the Covid-19 vaccine, its trials, its side effects or anything. It’s important that they have confidence in the medication. Those who are turning up a day after their designated days are being counselled. We are also personally calling health department staffers to know if they are coming up for the vaccination or have any doubts to discuss,” said Naithani. She added, “A total of 100 beneficiaries are enrolled at each site and we are conducting vaccination at 34 sites every day. Those who miss the jab on the designated day are being called a day after again,” she added. It is worth mentioning that the Centre has announced to send 92,500 more doses of Covishield which will immunise around 42,000 more healthcare workers in the state. “We received 1.13 lakh vaccines in the first lot that were targeted to immunise around 52,000 healthcare workers. In the second lot that is likely to arrive on Wednesday, we will be able to cover the entire left out population of healthcare workers,” Dr Naithani told TOI. Meanwhile, 116 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Uttarakhand on Tuesday. With this, the state tally shot up to 95,039 cases. Also, two more coronavirus-related fatalities took the toll of the virus to 1,619. On Tuesday, SP crime (Nainital), Rajiv Mohan, died of Covid-19 in a Delhi-based hospital. He was moved to Delhi earlier this month after he was diagnosed to be infected due to the virus. The state also recorded 251 recoveries from Covid-19 infection on Tuesday, taking the cured cases to 90,133. The recovery rate in Uttarakhand, on Tuesday, was 94.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/only-55-of-target-beneficiaries-immunised-in-3-days/articleshow/80352587.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 20, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Three AAP members discharged in sex harassment case||NEW DELHI: Three Aam Aadmi Party functionaries — Jarnail Singh, Amanatullah Khan and Somnath Bharti — were on Tuesday discharged in a sexual harassment case of 2017. A Delhi court observed that “no grave suspicion” had arisen and “accordingly, no prima facie case” was made out against the three politicians. “This court is of the considered view that in view of the lacunae in the material produced by the prosecution, no grave suspicion has arisen and accordingly, no prima facie case is made out against accused and they are discharged,” held additional chief metropolitan magistrate Dharmender Singh. According to the complainant, a woman had gone to Delhi Assembly on June 28, 2017, to watch the proceedings. She alleged that around 2.45pm, a crowd came out of the main building with Singh being part of the crowd. She stated that Singh and Khan “pushed” her and “forcibly” took her inside the building. Bharti, she alleged, instigated the other two and abused her. The court noted that on the date of the alleged incident, when the investigating officer reached the hospital, where the woman was taken, she did not give her statement despite the fact that in her medico-legal case details, it was not mentioned that she was unfit to give a statement. “It is also relevant to mention here that despite knowing the accused persons by their names, she did not mention their names in her MLC. It is also relevant to mention that as per the version of the complainant, she went to the Vidhan Sabha to watch its proceedings. However, as per the visitors register maintained at the reception of the Vidhan Sabha, said reason/purpose is not mentioned,” the court observed. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-aap-members-discharged-in-sex-harassment-case/articleshow/80353696.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Work halted at 27 places, Rs 76 lakh fine for dust norm violations||NEW DELHI: Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and state pollution control boards of Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh levied an environmental compensation of nearly Rs 76 lakh on construction and demolition (C&D) sites and vehicles for flouting norms of dust control. The action came after the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas ordered DPCC and state pollution control boards to act against violators of C&D waste rules. According to officials, a total of 174 teams under these agencies conducted inspections from December 12, 2020 to January 15, 2021, at more than 1,600 C&D sites. Of the total sites, 119 C&D sites were found to be non-compliant with the various C&D waste management rules/guidelines and dust mitigation measures stipulated by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change and Central Pollution Control Board. The inspection teams in Delhi-NCR levied an environmental compensation of Rs 51 lakh on some of the violators and also ordered stoppage of work at 27 locations. Apart from the C&D sites, the inspection teams checked if vehicles carrying C&D waste were following the guidelines. Nearly 563 vehicles, not in conformance with guidelines related to transportation of C&D materials, were levied environment compensation charges of around Rs 25 lakh. The CAQM has directed DPCC and state pollution boards that such drives be continued to enforce compliance of the C&D waste management rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/work-halted-at-27-places-rs-76l-fine-for-dust-norm-violations/articleshow/80353720.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Nashik||Over 2,479 schools in Nashik district to reopen from January 27||NASHIK: With the state government allowing schools to physically reopen for students from Class V to Class VIII, as many as 2,479 schools across Nashik district — both from rural as well as urban areas — are all set to start functioning from January 27. “The schools have been asked to re-open physically from January 27 allowing the children to attend school but they can always open any time after January 27 even if they could not start it from the first day,” said education officer of primary section of Nashik zilla parishad Rajiv Mhaskar. The standard operating procedure (SOP) for schools from Class V to Class VIII remained the same as was announced for the schools opening up for Class IX to Class XII with proper physical distance to be maintained between students when they are in classroom and all sanitation and hygiene protocols under Covid-19 be followed. The schools have been asked to carry out sanitation program by cleaning the classrooms, benches, premises of schools and ensure that they have enough soap and sanitizer required for cleaning the hands of children at regular intervals. “The schools are being given Rs 5,000 depending upon the number of students and, at the same time, they have been asked to use the funds from the 14th and 15th finance commission that gram panchayats receive from the Centre from time to time,” the officer said. The schools have also been asked to ensure that they monitor the children for their body temperature and oxygen levels by using thermal guns and pulse oximeter before they enter the classroom. All teachers have been asked to undertake RT-PCR tests and attend school only if they test negative. Nashik: As the state government has allowed the schools to open physically for students from class V to class VIII as many as 2,479 schools across Nashik district both in rural as well as urban areas are all set to start functioning from January 27. “The schools have been asked to re-open physically from January 27 allowing the children to come in for periods but they can always open any time after January 27 even if they could not start it from the first day,” said Education Officer Primary Section, Nashik Zilla Parishad, Rajiv Mhaskar. The standard operating procedure (SOP) for the schools from class V to class VIII remained the same as was announced for the schools opening up for class IX to class XII with proper physical distance to be maintained between the students when they were in classroom and all sanitation and hygiene protocols under covid-19 be followed in totality. The schools have been asked to carry out the sanitation program bye cleaning the classrooms, benches, the premises of the schools and ensure that they have enough soap and sanitizer required for cleaning the hands of the children at regular intervals. “The schools are being given about Rs 5000 depending upon the numbers of children and at the same time they have been asked to use the funds from the 14th and 15th finance commission that Gram Panchayats received from the Central Government from time to time,” the officer said. The schools have also been asked to ensure that they monitor the children for their body temperature and oxygen levels using thermal guns and pulse oximeter before they enter the classroom and at the same time after certain interval. All the teachers have been asked to undertake the RT-PCR tests for covid-19 infection and attend the school only if they were negative and their reports had arrived. “None of the school teachers or non-teaching staffs should attend the school without presenting the RT-PCR negative certificate and if they are positive for the infection, they should carry out the test again at the end of the treatment period and present the same to the school before starting attending the school physically,” Mhaskar said. The teachers have also been asked to ensure that they put on the mask at all times during they are in the classrooms and school premises and ensure that the children also so keep their masks on during all the time. The rural areas of Nashik district have 1025 Government schools with 64,876 students and 3,500 teachers and at the same time there are 1,049 private aided and unaided schools with 2.1 lakh students and 3,823 teachers. The total number of schools in in rural areas is 2,074 with 7,323 teachers and 2.7 lakh students. Similarly, Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has 102 schools with 15,476 students and 475 teachers while there are 303 private schools with 95,297 students and 2,127 teachers. The total number of schools in Nashik city limits are 405 with 1.10 lakh students and 2,602 teachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-2-4k-schools-in-nashik-dist-to-reopen-from-jan-27/articleshow/80352602.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 82-year-old gets the jab, says it’s a must for all||Gynaecologist Dr Arvind Pandya (82) and son Dr Samir were among those who got vaccinated at BKC on Tuesday. In his 50 years of practice, the octogenarian doctor said he has vaccinated several kids. “It’s a shield to protect us and all medical workers must get vaccinated,” he said, adding that he wasn’t too concerned of slight after-effects that may follow vaccination. Dr Samir too said doctors have worked in the pandemic and need the jab to be able to render medical services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/82-yr-old-gets-the-jab-says-its-a-must-for-all/articleshow/80355415.cms||---
January 20, 2021||India||Question hour to make a comeback in Budget session||NEW DELHI: Lawmakers and visitors will have to shell out more for food at the Parliament canteen when the House meets for the Budget session starting January 29 with the food subsidy being completely done away with. All MPs will have to undergo RT-PCR tests while the question hour will be back. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, who met officials from various departments to take stock of preparations for the Budget session, said, “The Parliament canteen will now be run by ITDC in place of Northern Railway.” The subsidised food in the canteen is available to MPs, journalists and visitors. Sources said that the Lok Sabha secretariat can save more than Rs 8 crore per annum with the subsidy coming to an end. The issue was discussed on several occasions but the subsidy continued as efforts to withdraw it drew opposition. Birla said all arrangements would be made as per Covid-19 protocols for the forthcoming session. He said Rajya Sabha will sit from 9am to 2pm and Lok Sabha from 4-8pm. The vaccination protocol finalised by the Centre will apply to parliamentarians as well. “RT-PCR tests will be held in the Parliament premises on January 27-28. Arrangements will also be made for RT-PCR tests of families and staff members of MPs,” the Speaker said. Officials told Birla that all Covid-related standard operating procedures that were evolved during the last session shall continue. with suitable modifications. Emergency wards for urgent Covid care with dedicated medical teams shall be deployed at RML Hospital to fulfil the health needs of members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/question-hour-to-make-a-comeback-in-budget-session/articleshow/80356617.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Dehradun||No chicken, eggs for carnivores, covered enclosures for birds: Zoos ramp up protection amid bird flu threat||Dehradun: With cases of bird flu confirmed in Uttarakhand, zoos and rescue centres are taking special care to protect their inmates. From regular sanitisation to special diets, Dehradun and Nainital zoo, which are visited by around 1,500-2,000 people every day, have stepped up measures against the disease. Till date, avian influenza has been confirmed in three districts — Dehradun, Haridwar and Pauri Garhwal. According to state government data accessed by TOI, carcasses of 871 birds of 29 species have been disposed of so far, including 49 on Tuesday. The maximum bird carcasses were found in Dehradun and most of them (754) were of crows. Dehradun Zoo has over a dozen different bird species, including an ostrich, whose health is under the radar now. “Lest droppings of infected birds fall from the sky, we have covered over a dozen bird enclosures with green sheets. Also, our carnivores, like leopards, are now being fed beef or mutton instead of chicken and eggs,” said Mohan Rawat, range officer, Dehradun Zoo. “The winter chills are an added health hazard for animals at the zoo. We are therefore feeding them homemade immunity boosters like carom water, onion and garlic,” Rawat added. Similar vigilance is being followed at Nainital Zoo. Home to red pandas and leopards among other species, the zoo is apprising its staff of the threats of bird flu. “We conducted a special workshop to educate our employees on avian influenza. Apart from that, we are following the SOPs released by the state on bird flu,” said TR Bijulal, director, Nainital zoo. According to sources, with residents reluctant to visit other states, crowds at zoos have increased on weekends. Bijulal added that sanitisation of the zoo premises and thermal screening of visitors is also being continued as usual to protect animals from the coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-chicken-eggs-for-carnivores-covered-enclosures-for-birds-zoos-ramp-up-protection-amid-bird-flu-threat/articleshow/80352615.cms||Shivani Azad
January 20, 2021||Nashik||Ruckus at GBM over water supply issue of Nashik Road||Nashik: The corporators of Shiv Sena created ruckus during the general body meeting of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Tuesday, raising the issue of poor quality and erratic water supply to Nashik Road. They demanded an explanation from mayor Satish Kulkarni regarding the issue. Kulkarni was forced to adjourn the meeting for 15 minutes, following which some irked corporators attempted to run away with the mace – the symbol of mayor’s authority. After resuming the meeting, Kulkarni announced a separate meeting to discuss the issue on Wednesday. Though the GBM was held online due to Covid-19 pandemic and the corporators were attending the same from their chambers at the NMC headquarters at Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan, the Shiv Sena corporators who were dissatisfied by the mayor’s explanation on poor quality and erratic water supply to Nashik Road, left their chambers and went to the standing committee hall from where the mayor was conducting the meeting. Led by leader of opposition Ajay Boraste and Shiv Sena group leader Vilas Shinde, Satyabhama Gadekar, Prashant Dive, Jayashree Kharjul, Ramesh Dhongde and others staged a sit-in agitation in front of the mayor demanding that their issue be resolved first. Nashik The corporators of Shiv Sena today created ruckus during the General Body meeting of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) raising the issue of poor quality and erratic water supply to Nashik road region demanding an explanation from the mayor of Nashik city. The Mayor Satish Kulkarni was forced to adjourn the meeting for 15-minutes that irked the Shiv Sena corporators who attempted to run away with the Mace – the symbol of Mayor’s authority. After resuming the Mayor announced a separate meeting on the issue on Wednesday. Although this GBM was held online due to Covid-19 pandemic and the co-operators were attending the same from their chambers at the NMC headquarters at Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan, the Shiv Sena corporators – who were dissatisfied by the Mayor’s explanation on poor quality and erratic water supply to Nashik Road, left their chambers and went to the standing committee hall from where the mayor was conducting the meeting. Led by Leader of Opposition Ajay Boraste, and Shiv Sena group leader Vilas Shinde, Satyabhama Gadekar, Prashant Dive, Jayashree Kharjul, Ramesh Dhongde and others staged a sit-in agitation in front of the Mayor demanding that their issue be resolved first. As the mayor tried to explain the situation, the Shiv Sena corporators who were unhappy with the same gheraoed the Mayor and started raising slogans against the Mayor. The Shiv Sena members were countered by the BJP corporators which led to the ruckus in the house forcing the Mayor to adjourn the meeting for 15 minutes. Irked by the decision the Shiv Sena members then tried to snatch the Mace and the BJP members countered the same. Finally, the meeting resumed after 15 minutes in which the Executive Engineer of Water Supply department Shivaji Chavanke informed that Rs 18.91 crore tender was floated for a direct pipeline from Gangapur Dam to Nashik Road. Also in order to ensure that residents of Nashik Road do not face shortage of water, an attempt was made to lift the water from Chehadi pumping station but because it was of poor quality the plan was dropped. However, since the Sena corporators would not listen the Deputy Engineer of NMC Avinash Bhoye was relieved from the charge of water supply. The mayor has announced a meeting of the elected representatives from Nashik Road and the NMC officials at 5.30 pm on Wednesday at Ramayan where the issue would be discussed. During the general body meeting the NMC also adopted the resolution of charging the house-tax to the professionals like doctors, chartered accountants, architects at the rate of ‘residential’ category instead of the ‘commercial’ category giving a major boost to the residents of Nashik city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ruckus-at-gbm-over-water-supply-issue-of-nashik-road/articleshow/80352613.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 20, 2021||Kozhikode||Relaxed norms to hit other wildlife||KOZHIKODE: The order issued by the forest department relaxing the norms for killing of crop-raiding wild boars could endanger other wildlife as the order has not prohibited use of snares. The order issued by the government on January 11 allows farmers and officials to take steps to kill wild boars which have become dangerous to human life or property and standing crops after securing necessary permissions, except through poisoning, use of explosives and electric shock. Forest officials and conservationists said that the order would lead to indiscriminate use of snares to kill wild boars and it would result in wildlife, including even tigers and leopards getting caught in them. “The non-inclusion of snares among the banned practices listed to kill wild boars would lead to rampant use of snares which has emerged as the most lethal threat to wildlife in the state. It is unfortunate that the government has not banned snaring while relaxing the norms to kill problem-causing wild boars. Actually there should be legislation to curb the use of snares,” said N Badusha, president of Wayanad Prakrithi Samrakshana Samithi. “We have written to the government to amend the order by prohibiting the use of snares along with three other banned methods already listed in the order,” said Surendrakumar, state chief wildlife warden. Snare traps made using metal wires to trap animals like wild boars and deer have already become a major threat to leopards and tigers in major tiger habitats like Wayanad. In the latest incident, the stray tiger which spread panic at Kolavally in Wayanad for around seven days and attacked two forest officials had sustained neck injuries, believed to have been caused by a snare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/relaxed-norms-to-hit-other-wildlife/articleshow/80352629.cms||K R Rajeev
January 20, 2021||Kozhikode||Trio steals potted flower plant in Wayanad, held||KOZHIKODE: Stealing a potted flower plant installed by Sultan Bathery municipality along a roadside in Wayanad has landed three people behind bars. The trio, who hails from Poothadi panchayat, were returning home after having a couple of drinks on Thursday night when they found a pot full of blooms too hard to resist and allegedly stole it, according to Sultan Bathery police. Police registered a case on the basis of complaint from the municipal chairman. Examination of nearby CCTV cameras showed the trio arriving in an autorickshaw and lifting the potted flower plant hung from a metal safety barrier fixed on the roadside. The clip had also got widely circulated in social media. Police identified the accused as Kenichira natives Abhilash, 38, Sarath, 25, and Madhavan, 46. Sultan Bathery inspector of police Pushpakumar G said the accused had no history of committing thefts and had picked up the flowering plant after finding it attractive while returning home after having a couple of drinks. The potted flowering plant was recovered by police from the house of one of the accused. “They have been booked for theft and the court has remanded them. One of them is an autorickshaw driver and the others are construction workers,” he said. Sultan Bathery muncipal chairman T K Rameshan said he had lodged complaint with police about the theft so that it will serve as a deterrent. “The residents of Bathery have been cooperative in the town- beautification initiatives whereby hundreds of potted flower plants were installed along the roadside. We have had three instances of flowerpots gone missing and in the latest one, the culprits were caught on CCTV. It is learnt that the youth had taken the plant after getting attracted by the yellow flowers which were in bloom,” he said. Sultan Bathery municipality had been in the news for its town beautification and cleanliness drive implemented over the last several years with the town decked up with hundreds of potted plants. Also the municipality was the first make in the state to make the town a non- spitting town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/trio-steals-potted-flower-plant-after-getting-smitten-by-flowers-and-land-behind-bars/articleshow/80352605.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Aurangabad||Teachers told to undergo Covid testing||Aurangabad: As schools for students of Class V to Class VIII are scheduled to reopen from January 27, members of teaching and non-teaching staff have been asked to undergo Covid-19 tests. Education officer with Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) Ramnath Thore on Tuesday said that all schools staffers must carry out RT-PCR test as per orders from the government. “We have over 600 schools within municipal limits including government, aided, unaided and partially-aided. School authorities and the management must ensure necessary compliance before restarting classes,” he said. Besides mandatory Covid-19 testing of teaching and non-teaching staff, all schools have been asked to ensure sanitization of classrooms and campus on a regular basis and start obtaining consent form for parents seeking their nod for sending wards to schools. Aurangabad: As the schools for students from Class V to Class VIII are scheduled to reopen from January 27, members of teaching and non-teaching staff have been asked to undergo testing for Covid 19. Education officer with Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), Ramnath Thore on Tuesday said that all schools staffers must carry out RT-PCR test as per orders from the government. “We have over 600 schools within municipal limits including government, aided, unaided and partially-aided. The school authorities and the management must ensure necessary compliance before restarting classes,” he said. Besides mandatory Covid 19 testing of teaching and non-teaching staff, all schools have been asked to ensure sanitization of classrooms and campus on a regular basis and start obtaining consent form for parents seeking their nod for sending wards to schools. Savita Mulay, principal of SBES-run school Sharda Mandir said most of the Covid prevention norms are in place as schools have already resumed their operations. “The SOP is sacrosanct considering the safety of students. It is heartening to see the academic sector is gradually getting free from clutches of Covid 19,” she said. City schools from the municipal limits of Aurangabad had already resumed classes for Class IX and Class X for the first time during the current pandemic since January 4. Earlier, educational institutions from rural areas of Aurangabad resumed such classes from November 23 last year. Besides, the classes of junior colleges located within municipal limits have been also commenced from December 15 last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/teachers-told-to-undergo-covid-testing/articleshow/80352635.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Now, Kerala University moves to regularize contract staff||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Close on the heels of Calicut University’s controversial move to regularize a number of daily-wage staff in various posts, Kerala University is planning to go the same way. The university syndicate has appointed a committee to look into the possibility of regularizing a sizeable number of contract staff. The university syndicate, which met last week, set up a subcommittee chaired by staff committee convener to study the proposal and submit a report in this regard. The syndicate, said sources, discussed the subject as out of agenda. The Calicut University syndicate had recently decided to regularize the appointment of people who completed 10 years of service on contract/daily-wage basis. Kerala University syndicate too has decided to study the requests for regularizing a number of people working in various roles for the last 10 years. The regularization mooted is for persons working as computer programmers, technical staff, security personnel and drivers, sources said. Meanwhile, Kerala high court recently stayed Calicut University’s decision to regularize the appointment of daily-wage staff. The university syndicate took the regularization move by citing humane reasons. However, there are widespread criticisms that syndicate members, having allegiance to the ruling CPM, were trying to recruit persons of their political choice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/now-ku-moves-to-regularize-contract-staff/articleshow/80352651.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra, Mumbai see marginal rise in daily case count||MUMBAI: A day after recording the lowest cases in over 200 days, Maharashtra and Mumbai saw a marginal increase in daily Covid-19 cases. A total of 2,294 cases and 50 fatalities were reported across the state on Tuesday, taking the total caseload to 19,94,977 and the total fatalities stand at 50,523. Mumbai reported 473 cases and eight fatalities. With this, the total cases in the city were 3,03,625 and the total fatalities stood at 11,259. Of the eight deaths, five had comorbidities and six were between the age of 40 to 60. On Tuesday, there were less than 50,000 active cases in the state. A total of 4,516 people were discharged, taking the total discharges to over 18.9 lakh. Of the total 48,406 active cases in Maharashtra, 6,656 are in Mumbai. The Centre on Tuesday once again highlighted that Maharashtra had the second highest active cases in India after Kerala (68,617). State officials pointed out that Maharashtra’s recovery rate is nearly 95%, while that of Mumbai is 94%. Delhi has a recovery rate of 98%, while Chennai has a recovery rate of 97%, they added. The state cabinet, in its meeting on Wednesday, is likely to review the progress made in the vaccination drive in Maharashtra. “We have requested the Centre for the remaining doses of the vaccine to be allotted to us. The cabinet will be briefed about the progress in the vaccination drive on Wednesday,” said an official, requesting anonymity. Of the 2,294 new Covid-19 cases in the state, 864 were reported from the Mumbai circle. The region also reported a dozen deaths, including three from Thane and one from Palghar. Pune circle had the second highest tally—528 cases and eight deaths. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Kalyan-Dombivli on Tuesday reported 60 new cases and three deaths, taking the total number of patients to 59,276 and deaths to 1,122. In Thane city, 119 new positive cases were reported on Tuesday, taking the tally of infected people in the city to 57,519 even as the death toll has reached 1286. The recovery rate in Thane was 97% with 55,216 people having recovered and 1,017 still undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-mumbai-see-marginal-rise-in-daily-case-count/articleshow/80355436.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 20, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: With visibility zero, 50 flights delayed||NEW DELHI: Parts of Delhi recorded ‘very dense fog’ in the morning, with visibility dropping to ‘zero’ at Palam at around 8.30am, India Meteorological Department said. Over 50 flights were delayed in the early hours, owing to low visibility, while a Bengaluru to Delhi flight was diverted to Jaipur as the pilot was not CAT-III compliant. Delhi’s air quality has also deteriorated back to ‘severe’ with the overall air quality index (AQI) recorded 404 on Tuesday. In comparison, it was 372 (very poor) on Monday. According to IMD, the fog intensity is expected to reduce over the next 24 hours, with only shallow to moderate fog likely to occur on Wednesday. The department classifies fog as ‘shallow’ when visibility is between 500 and 1,000 metres, ‘moderate’ when it is between 200 and 500 metres, ‘dense’ when it is below 200 metres and ‘very dense’ when it falls below 50 metres. Delhi’s minimum temperature was 6.9 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, while the maximum was 20.4 degrees – one degree above normal. “Temperature will continue to remain high now, hovering around the normal mark,” said a Met official.The lowest maximum temperature recorded across Delhi was 16.8 degrees Celsius at Palam, while the lowest minimum was 6.9 degrees Celsius at Safdarjung. Delhi is likely to see an increase in minimum temperature by Wednesday, touching around 8 degrees Celsius, officials said. Meanwhile, this was Delhi’s sixth ‘severe’ air day for the month of January. Last year, it recorded only two ‘severe’ air days. Delhi’s AQI may however return to ‘very poor’ by Wednesday, with an increase in surface wind speed forecast. “Surface winds are north-easterly and low. These surface winds are forecast to shift in direction from easterly to north-westerly and gain speed. The ventilation coefficients are likely to improve significantly from Wednesday and the AQI is likely to improve to the middle to lower end of ‘Very Poor’ on January 20,” said SAFAR, a body under the ministry of earth sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-visibility-zero-50-flights-delayed/articleshow/80353749.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Aurangabad||PM, CM should take vaccine first: Ambedkar||Aurangabad: Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi chief Prakash Ambedkar, who was in the city on Tuesday to address a gathering of Sikkal Kari community members, spoke on a range of topics — need for the political leadership to set an example during the Covid vaccine drive, neglect of the Sikalkari society, renaming of the Aurangabad city, allegations against an MVA cabinet minister and his party’s relationship with the AIMIM. Ambedkar said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray should get vaccinated against Covid and lead by example. He said that the political leaders taking the shots will instil confidence amongst the masses. He said, “During the British rule, some sections of the society were tagged as criminals. Things have not changed for these people even decades after Independence. The neglect of the Sikalkari society is forcing them to live in inhuman conditions. We want the government to make special efforts to include them in the mainstream.” Ambedkar also clarified that VBA will not tie up with the AIMIM in the future — including for the upcoming civic elections — and his party will contest the municipal polls on the water issue. He also opposed the idea of renaming Aurangabad city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pm-cm-should-take-vaccine-first-ambedkar/articleshow/80352646.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 20, 2021||Delhi||Centre to SC: Delhi habitual offender in polluting Yamuna||NEW DELHI: The looming water crisis in the national Capital appears to have blown over as the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) told the Supreme Court on Tuesday that after its intervention, the quality of water in Yamuna river released by Haryana had improved dramatically. However, on the issue of Yamuna pollution, which has seen Delhi and Haryana spar for the last 25 years without any improvement in the health of the river or quality of water, the Union government through additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati told the SC that “Delhi is the most habitual offender as far as cause of pollution of Yamuna river is concerned”. Bhati was apparently quoting Central Pollution Control Board data which said that though Delhi generated 3,330 million litres of sewage per day, almost the entire quantity drained into the river untreated. The CPCB data showed that though there were 35 sewage treatment plants in Delhi with a capacity to treat 2,715 MLD of sewage, only one STP was working and treated 90 MLD of sewage water. The DJB had moved the SC seeking a direction to the Haryana government to supply clean river water while complaining that ammonia level in the water was way beyond the capability of water treatment plants. It said while the treatment plants could deal with water with up to 0.9 ppm of ammonia, the level was found to be 9 ppm at times. However, after the SC issued notice to Haryana, the water received by Delhi from the neighbouring state had 0.5 ppm ammonia, it said. A bench headed by CJI S A Bobde, while hearing DJB's petition last week, had taken suo motu cognisance of polluted rivers and decided to make a beginning by taking up pollution in the Yamuna. On Tuesday, amicus curiae and senior advocate Meenakshi Arora informed the CJI-led bench that the NGT has set up a two-member committee headed by former Delhi chief secretary Shailaja Chandra to study the problem and make recommendations for improvement of water quality in the Yamuna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/centre-to-sc-delhi-habitual-offender-in-polluting-yamuna/articleshow/80353764.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||1,116 railway deaths in MMR last year despite shutdown||MUMBAI: The Mumbai region railways saw over 1,100 deaths in 2020 despite local trains not running for two and a half months from March-end and then working restrictively for the rest of the year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. An RTI plea shows over 23,000 railway deaths in MMR between 2013 and 2020. Thanks to the lockdown in 2020, deaths (1,116) reduced to 41% and the number of people injured (878) was down to 27% compared to the previous year. In 2020, a little over 65% of the deaths were due to track crossing and 16% were caused from falling off moving trains. Over 980 victims were male. TimesViewDeaths on Mumbai’s railway tracks have been a matter of grave concern for many years now. Despite safety and awareness campaigns by the railways and frequent action against trespassers, the annual death toll still remains alarmingly high. The cause of these deaths include crossing the tracks, falling down from trains, hitting railway poles while hanging out of trains and even suicide. The railways must improve systems to secure and control access to the stations and build passenger-friendly infrastructure which will encourage commuters not to risk their lives.Prevent track crossing before locals resume for all: ActivistAn RTI plea shows over 23,000 railway deaths in MMR between 2013 and 2020. “Ever since local trains resumed operations in mid-June for select categories of travellers, we have been observing that escalators at several stations are kept shut and at some places FOBs are closed. This could be one of the reasons passengers are taking to crossing tracks,” said activist Subhash Gupta. He added dividers installed between two sets of tracks, which prevent a commuter from hopping across, are a frequent feature on Western Railway (WR) but are not that common on Central Railway (CR). “The biggest priority should be preventing track crossing because once locals are operational for all travellers, casualties are going to escalate once again,” said Gupta. “Why hasn’t an end-to-end boundary wall come up on CR and WR so far? This will put an end to offenders slipping into railway premises to commit crimes. It will also deter residents of slum colonies dotting the tracks from crossing over,” said RTI activist Shakil Ahmed Shaikh who made the plea. CR said it had closed 130 trespassing locations with walls or fencing so far and has identified another 272 such locations. WR said they have regular drives to remove encroachments along tracks, a key reason for track crossing. WR had also begun a campaign where a constable dressed up as ‘Yamraj’ and “counselled” those caught trespassing. Gupta suggests active involvement of non-profit groups at locations that have very high fatalities. “Security agencies—RPF and GRP—saved lives in numerous instances in the past year where commuters fell while boarding or alighting trains and could have slipped into the gap, had they not been pulled to safety,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1116-rly-deaths-in-mmr-last-yr-despite-shutdown/articleshow/80356035.cms||Nitasha Natu
January 20, 2021||Thane||1,116 railway deaths in MMR last year despite shutdown||MUMBAI: The Mumbai region railways saw over 1,100 deaths in 2020 despite local trains not running for two and a half months from March-end and then working restrictively for the rest of the year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. An RTI plea shows over 23,000 railway deaths in MMR between 2013 and 2020. Thanks to the lockdown in 2020, deaths (1,116) reduced to 41% and the number of people injured (878) was down to 27% compared to the previous year. In 2020, a little over 65% of the deaths were due to track crossing and 16% were caused from falling off moving trains. Over 980 victims were male. TimesViewDeaths on Mumbai’s railway tracks have been a matter of grave concern for many years now. Despite safety and awareness campaigns by the railways and frequent action against trespassers, the annual death toll still remains alarmingly high. The cause of these deaths include crossing the tracks, falling down from trains, hitting railway poles while hanging out of trains and even suicide. The railways must improve systems to secure and control access to the stations and build passenger-friendly infrastructure which will encourage commuters not to risk their lives.Prevent track crossing before locals resume for all: ActivistAn RTI plea shows over 23,000 railway deaths in MMR between 2013 and 2020. “Ever since local trains resumed operations in mid-June for select categories of travellers, we have been observing that escalators at several stations are kept shut and at some places FOBs are closed. This could be one of the reasons passengers are taking to crossing tracks,” said activist Subhash Gupta. He added dividers installed between two sets of tracks, which prevent a commuter from hopping across, are a frequent feature on Western Railway (WR) but are not that common on Central Railway (CR). “The biggest priority should be preventing track crossing because once locals are operational for all travellers, casualties are going to escalate once again,” said Gupta. “Why hasn’t an end-to-end boundary wall come up on CR and WR so far? This will put an end to offenders slipping into railway premises to commit crimes. It will also deter residents of slum colonies dotting the tracks from crossing over,” said RTI activist Shakil Ahmed Shaikh who made the plea. CR said it had closed 130 trespassing locations with walls or fencing so far and has identified another 272 such locations. WR said they have regular drives to remove encroachments along tracks, a key reason for track crossing. WR had also begun a campaign where a constable dressed up as ‘Yamraj’ and “counselled” those caught trespassing. Gupta suggests active involvement of non-profit groups at locations that have very high fatalities. “Security agencies—RPF and GRP—saved lives in numerous instances in the past year where commuters fell while boarding or alighting trains and could have slipped into the gap, had they not been pulled to safety,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/1116-rly-deaths-in-mmr-last-yr-despite-shutdown/articleshow/80357215.cms||Nitasha Natu
January 20, 2021||Navi-mumbai||1,116 railway deaths in MMR last year despite shutdown||MUMBAI: The Mumbai region railways saw over 1,100 deaths in 2020 despite local trains not running for two and a half months from March-end and then working restrictively for the rest of the year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. An RTI plea shows over 23,000 railway deaths in MMR between 2013 and 2020. Thanks to the lockdown in 2020, deaths (1,116) reduced to 41% and the number of people injured (878) was down to 27% compared to the previous year. In 2020, a little over 65% of the deaths were due to track crossing and 16% were caused from falling off moving trains. Over 980 victims were male. TimesViewDeaths on Mumbai’s railway tracks have been a matter of grave concern for many years now. Despite safety and awareness campaigns by the railways and frequent action against trespassers, the annual death toll still remains alarmingly high. The cause of these deaths include crossing the tracks, falling down from trains, hitting railway poles while hanging out of trains and even suicide. The railways must improve systems to secure and control access to the stations and build passenger-friendly infrastructure which will encourage commuters not to risk their lives.Prevent track crossing before locals resume for all: ActivistAn RTI plea shows over 23,000 railway deaths in MMR between 2013 and 2020. “Ever since local trains resumed operations in mid-June for select categories of travellers, we have been observing that escalators at several stations are kept shut and at some places FOBs are closed. This could be one of the reasons passengers are taking to crossing tracks,” said activist Subhash Gupta. He added dividers installed between two sets of tracks, which prevent a commuter from hopping across, are a frequent feature on Western Railway (WR) but are not that common on Central Railway (CR). “The biggest priority should be preventing track crossing because once locals are operational for all travellers, casualties are going to escalate once again,” said Gupta. “Why hasn’t an end-to-end boundary wall come up on CR and WR so far? This will put an end to offenders slipping into railway premises to commit crimes. It will also deter residents of slum colonies dotting the tracks from crossing over,” said RTI activist Shakil Ahmed Shaikh who made the plea. CR said it had closed 130 trespassing locations with walls or fencing so far and has identified another 272 such locations. WR said they have regular drives to remove encroachments along tracks, a key reason for track crossing. WR had also begun a campaign where a constable dressed up as ‘Yamraj’ and “counselled” those caught trespassing. Gupta suggests active involvement of non-profit groups at locations that have very high fatalities. “Security agencies—RPF and GRP—saved lives in numerous instances in the past year where commuters fell while boarding or alighting trains and could have slipped into the gap, had they not been pulled to safety,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/1116-rly-deaths-in-mmr-last-yr-despite-shutdown/articleshow/80357216.cms||Nitasha Natu
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Locals submit fresh objection to statue of Bal Thackeray||MUMBAI: Even as the BMC made plans to inaugurate Shiv Sena founder late Bal Thackeray’s statue at Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Chowk in Colaba, local residents opposing the project submitted a fresh objection to Collector Rajiv Nivatkar urging him to deny permission for the inauguration. Citing a January 2013 order of the Supreme Court, vice-admiral (Retd) IC Rao asked Nivatkar to deny permission for inauguration of the statue on January 23. “We had informed the joint commissioner of police (traffic) and Mumbai Heritage Conservation Committee in December 2019 to take note of the SC order which says that ‘state government shall not grant any permission for installation of any statue or construction of any structure on public roads, pavements’. We reiterate that erection of a statue will create a traffic hazard affecting safety of pedestrians, visitors who may indulge in taking selfies or merely stop to view the statue,” Rao, president of NGO, Apli Mumbai, said in his letter to Nivatkar on Tuesday. Mayor Kishori Pednekar met MNS chief Raj Thackeray and Opposition leader, BJP’s Devendra Fadnavis, to invite them for the inauguration by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Nivatkar did not respond to a query from TOI on Tuesday. Shiv Sena corporator Yashwant Jadhav, who heads the standing committee said, “All relevant permissions are in place. No Mumbaikar will ever oppose Balasaheb’s statue. Those opposing are being used for political motives.” BJP corporator from Colaba, Makrand Narvekar, said the statue should be installed in accordance with rules and no court orders must be violated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/locals-submit-fresh-objection-to-statue-of-bal-thackeray/articleshow/80355434.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 20, 2021||Thane||1,550 chicken will be culled in Kalyan ‘containment zones’||THANE: As many as 1,300 chicken from Rayata will have to be culled while a similar action for around 250 birds has been planned in the nearby Atali village in Kalyan, barely 35km from Mumbai, after the two stretches were declared containment zones in the wake of the bird flu on Tuesday, said Rajesh Narvekar, the district collector. The development comes after poultry specimens from the villages that were sent to NIHSAD, Bhopal, tested positive for the flu infection, said officials from the animal husbandry department (AHD). Now, surveillance will be intensified in nearby areas as well. Vijay Dhumal, deputy commissioner at the Thane AHD, said Rayata village has been declared a containment zone and now they will have to impose restrictions on poultry movement in a 1km radius. “A chicken sample sent from the poultry here tested positive for bird flu. As per protocol, we will have to cull around 1,000 chicken here and also shut all poultry rearing or selling units in the village for the next 15 days,” said Dhumal. The second sample which tested positive was sent from Atali village, which comes under the KDMC jurisdiction. The stretch is situated around 9km from Rayate village. A KDMC official said after 10 chicken from a villager were found dead, they alerted the animal husbandry department that sent samples of the birds for avian flu testing. Officials said on Tuesday, the health department team alerted them that the Atali birds samples tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/1550-chicken-will-be-culled-in-kalyan-containment-zones/articleshow/80352664.cms||Manoj Badgeri
January 20, 2021||Kolhapur||No erosion of Mahalaxmi idol: ASI experts||Kolhapur: The chemical conservation done on Mahalaxmi idol five years ago is intact and the centuries-old idol is in good condition, a team of experts of Archaeological Survey of India, Aurangabad division, has concluded. The team visited the temple on Monday. The chemical conservation of the idol was done in 2015. Thereafter, the team had visited the temple once in 2017 to check on the condition. Deputy superintendent of ASI Shrikant Mishra said, “The idol of Mahalaxmi is in good condition. There is no threat to the idol at all. No erosion has taken place since the chemical conservation was carried out.” In the past, several efforts were undertaken to conserve the idol. After deliberations over several years, the chemical conservation method was chosen to fill the gaps and cracks developed to the idol. The issue of erosion of the idol had become contentious matter of faith and many devotees were demanding that the conservation be carried out in a transparent way. They had also claimed that the practices adopted inside the sanctum sanctorum were responsible for the erosion. Temple trust authorities also changed the fluorescent lamps, after some local experts claimed that the heat generated from the lamps is causing the erosion. The lamps were replaced by the LED lights. Mishra said the temple trust officials had insisted that the ASI experts check the idols of Mahakali and Mahasaraswati from the temple also. “Both idols showed signs of erosion and therefore, need conservation efforts at the earliest,” he said. The temple trust officials also insisted that the experts guide them regarding the plan to remove the concrete slab on the ceiling. A structural audit done by a Mumbai based firm had said that the slab poses a threat to the original ceiling structure as well as spire. Vilas Wahane, assistant director of ASI, said, “We have sought details of the audit and the report about how to remove the slab. Only after studying the reports, we will allow the slab to be removed. There are other issues such as cleaning of the structure, there is layer of carbon on the structure, which can be removed in phased manner.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/no-erosion-of-mahalaxmi-idol-asi-experts/articleshow/80352663.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Delhi||SDMC standing committee scraps commissioner’s budget proposals||NEW DELHI: The standing committee chairman of South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), Rajdutt Gahlot, in his budget presented on Tuesday not only suggested scrapping the commissioner’s proposals for increase in tax on residential, commercial and non-residential properties and dividing them into two slab rates, but also keeping the councillor’s area development fund at Rs 1 crore instead of reducing it to Rs 50 lakh. Gahlot was against the commissioner’s proposal to provide a one-time rebate of only 10% on payment of property tax till June 30 instead of 15%. He also proposed allocating Rs 10 lakh for development works to RWAs, group housing societies and DDA pockets that are undertaking 100% segregation of waste. “There are many other ways to increase revenue. Instead of hiking property tax, we have stressed upon bringing more properties under the tax net. We are also looking at boosting revenue from advertisements. For this, fixed compactor transfer stations will be used as advertisement sites,” said Gahlot. Additional commissioner Ramesh Verma, who had presented the budget on December 7 on behalf of the commissioner, proposed to divide residential properties into two categories from the existing three and levy a tax of 14% on properties falling in A&B categories and 12% in C-H categories. Currently, properties in A&B categories attract 12% tax, C, D and E 11%, and F, G and H 7%. Verma had also proposed to bring the property tax rate on commercial and business plots up to 150 square metres on a par with those above 150 sqm at 20% of their annual value. The corporation is planning to allow opening of kiosks and ATM booths in toilet complexes. To ensure maximum collection of revenue, doorstep collection of property tax from FY 2021-22 would be started. It has also been proposed to reserve 25% of revenue generated from advertisements for publicity of works done during the financial year. However, this is not the final budget as it will now be tabled in the House for approval. The standing committee also proposed to organise yoga classes in all its parks for a small fee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-standing-committee-scraps-commissioners-budget-proposals/articleshow/80353792.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Dedicated VC fund for startups on anvil: Kerala CM||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the government is looking at the possibility of setting up a dedicated venture capital (VC) fund for startups, besides opening the government market for startup consortiums and hiking the special fund for startup development. A proposal to set up VC fund with the backing of public sector Kerala Bank and Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) is under active consideration, he said during an interaction with startups founders, organized by Kerala Start-up Mission (KSUM). Noting that these initiatives would further strengthen the robust relationship between government and startup industry, the chief minister assured that the proposals for startups announced in state budget for 2021-22 would be implemented at the earliest. "It’s the policy of the government to offer necessary financial aid for startups to blossom. The government will consider increasing the special fund for the development of startups. The state will take further measures to enable entrepreneurs to improve their skills," Vijayan said. "The government will think about earmarking more funds to strengthen the marketing side of startups. They can create a strong impression at national and international levels through expos and industrial cooperation. From this year, the government has decided to form an ‘International Launching Pad’ for startups," he said. Elaborating on various schemes and events of KSUM, he said women entrepreneurs will get up to Rs 15 lakh as loan. Startups led by women have been given a moratorium of two years for the aid from KSUM. For facilitating investment of NRIs in startups, there are programmes like annual Seeding Kerala event and monthly Investor Cafe. "Under KSUM’s Fund of Fund scheme, 11 startups have been given aid through Kerala Specific Angel Fund, which is the first-of-its-kind in the country," Vijayan said. Around 100 startup founders, 70 of them online, made suggestions and demands for further strengthening the startup ecosystem in state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dedicated-vc-fund-for-startups-on-anvil-cm/articleshow/80352638.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Coronavirus lockdown: Man who went to buy garland found guilty||MUMBAI: Three teenagers who went on bike rides, a man who went out to buy a garland for Ram Navami and another who was out to buy ‘daal chawal’, were found guilty and sentenced to imprisonment until rising of the court, for flouting Covid-19 lockdown rules. In such a sentence the convicted accused has to sit in court until the day’s proceedings conclude. Convicted in various cases by Esplanade magistrate court recently, they were also fined Rs1,000 each. In each case the accused pleaded guilty. All offenders were booked under provisions of National Disaster Management Act. With all accused submitting that they will take care and giving an assurance not to repeat the offence, the court said considering their poor backgrounds, they deserved leniency. The court held that “however, as a lesson to the accused, and to avoid repetition,” they were to be sentenced. Dharmendra Gupta, a driver, was booked on the afternoon of April 2 as he was “wandering” on his motorcycle at Cuffe Parade. The prosecution said he was out without reasonable reason in the background of the pandemic and refused to follow central and state government directions. Gupta pleaded guilty. He said he was on his way to buy a garland for God as it was Ram Navami. The court observed, “Have confirmed the submission by tallying with the calendar of April 2020, more specifically April 2, as such, there is a substance in the say of accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/virus-lockdown-man-who-went-to-buy-garland-found-guilty/articleshow/80355472.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 20, 2021||Nagpur||Uti village, Umarkhed college will have special celebration of Biden-Harris inauguration||Nagpur: The inauguration of Joe Biden, who will be the 46th president of the United States, will be watched by people all across the globe on Wednesday. But Uti, a small village in Umarkhed tehsil of Yavatmal district in Vidarbha, and a senior college in Umarkhed town will have a special celebration. Dr Atul Gawande, member of coronavirus advisory board of President-elect Joe Biden, has his roots in village Uti, and the Gawande family are patrons of a senior college in Umarkhed town. Dr Gawande’s father late Dr Atmaram, also a doctor, had adopted a senior college in Umarkhed in 1985 and named it after his mother Gopikabai. This college — GS Gawande Mahavidyalaya — has now developed into a leading science college in the region. Dr Atul also visits this college whenever possible. “We are proud that Dr Atul is associated with the team of President Biden on the Covid task force. He has an illustrious career as a doctor in USA and was closely associated with all Democrat presidents, right from Clinton to Obama,” said Someshwar Vadrabade, principal of GS Gawande College. Dr Gawande was a senior adviser in the US department of health and human services under former President Bill Clinton. He is also the founder of Lifebox, a non-profit organization that aims to make surgery safer globally. “Dr Atul visits our campus once in four years. His visit was planned in 2020, but could not materialize due to the pandemic. We are expecting his visit this year,” said Vadrabade, who still submits weekly report of college progress to Dr Atul regularly. For college trust chairman Ram Deosarkar, the humane angle of Dr Atul’s personality is more important. “Dr Atul’s father, Dr Atmaram Gawande, used to consider this college as his third child. After he passed away in 2011, both his children — Dr Atul and advocate Sumita — are working for the college. Our students can directly mail him any of their queries and he replies to them,” said Deosarkar, adding that Dr Atul is a fantastic writer and has three best-selling books to his credit. Elderly people from Uti village in Umarkhed still remember Dr Atmaram, who used to visit and stay there for weeks to monitor the progress of the village and the college. “Dr Atmaram was born and brought up in Uti during the 1940s. He became a doctor from GMCH Nagpur and shifted to New York in 1963-64. Dr Atul was born and brought up in New York. His younger sister, wife and mother all stay in USA. Still, they have maintained the connection with this village,” said Dr Yadavrao Raut, maternal uncle of Dr Atul. After Dr Atmaram’s demise, a conference hall and museum was built in the college premises, where Dr Atmaram’s statue was also installed. The college is now planning to organize a big function to congratulate Dr Atul for becoming a member of coronavirus advisory board of President Biden. Community mask habit is India’s strength: Dr Gawande TOI had sent an e-mail to Dr Gawande after his appointment, to ask his views about Covid situation in India. His team sent the following reply: “India was on a trajectory to have the worst Covid epidemic in the world. But with far less resources for combating Covid than US or Europe, it has turned the tide — with a determined focus on masks. Indians have embraced masks thanks to a combination of factors, including a healthy fear of the virus among the public, a unified voice from authorities, billions of automated phone messages and hundreds of thousands of masking-violation tickets. The result is in front of us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/uti-village-umarkhed-college-will-have-special-celebration-of-biden-harris-inauguration/articleshow/80353770.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 20, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: ‘Onion challenger’ sets shining example for organic farmers||ALAPPUZHA: The farmers of Kanjikuzhy defy odds to cultivate a variety of vegetables in large quantities and employ organic farming methods, despite the soil in the region not being very apt for cultivation. Sujith Swaminikarthil, 34, who left his job at a jewellery shop in 2014 and got into the role of an organic farmer in this sleepy village, has added one more feather to the achievements of farmers in the area by cultivating large quantities of small onion (shallot). It is for the first time that a farmer in this village, which lies close to the Arabian Sea, has ventured into cultivation of small onions. This is at a time when Kerala sources small onion mostly from states like Tamil Nadu. Sujith’s onion cultivation is also viral on social media platforms. With an aim to encourage farmers in the state to cultivate small onions, Sujith has also kickstarted an online ‘Onion Challenge’. As part of the initiative, he is giving half kg onion free of cost for cultivation to at least 100 interested persons from various parts of the state. “I was born and brought up in Kanjikuzhy, the ‘cradle’ of organic vegetables. I was engaged in office jobs and some businesses after securing a degree in hotel management. Later, I decided to be an organic farmer in 2014. Initially, I had doubts about its success. But after the first harvest I became confident. My experience also taught me that if we are ready to work hard and face challenges that come our way, we will definitely see success. I also bagged the state government’s award for best young organic farmer in Kerala, and earn around Rs 50,000 per month from organic farming,” said Sujith. “Onion cultivation was a challenge initially, mainly because the soil is not very suitable for cultivation. Hard work and support from my family and friends have paved the way for my success. Presently, I cultivate onion in over 2.5 acre. Harvesting can be done in 55 to 70 days after sowing the seeds,” said Sujith.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/onion-challenger-sets-shining-example-for-organic-farmers/articleshow/80352694.cms||Sajimon P S
January 20, 2021||Goa||High court gives state 2 more months to appoint Lokayukta||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Tuesday granted the state government an extension of two months to appoint a new Lokayukta. The state government had approached the high court seeking an extension after being unable to find retired Supreme Court judges or retired high court chief justices willing to move to Goa to take up the post. Advocate general Devidas Pangam informed the court that the state government will amend the Goa Lokayukta Act during the coming assembly session to make provision for the appointment of retired high court judges as Lokayukta. The assembly session is scheduled to commence from January 25. Presently, as per the act, only retired Supreme Court judges or retired high court chief justices can be appointed as Goa Lokayukta. The high court had directed the state to appoint a new anti-corruption ombudsman by December 2020. Panaji-based lawyer Aires Rodrigues had consequently approached the high court seeking a direction to the government to select a new Lokayukta The term of the last Lokayukta, P K Misra, ended on September 17, 2020. There are at least 75 cases pending before the office of the Goa Lokayukta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/high-court-gives-state-2-more-months-to-appoint-lokayukta/articleshow/80353795.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Nagpur||Health care staff registered for vax but fail to turn up to get the jab||Nagpur: Healthcare workers from hospitals run by the government and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) are not turning up for Covid-19 vaccination programme despite reportedly expressing willingness during registration. Also, Co-WIN application launched by the government for vaccination is not allowing the civic body to select health care workers who are ready and available for vaccination. The city registered low turnout on Day-2 of vaccination programme on Tuesday. Of targeted 500 health care workers, 188 (37.6%) turned up at the five centres — NMC’s Pachpaoli Women’s Hospital, Daga Maternity Hospital, AIIMS, IGGMCH and GMCH. The turnout on Tuesday was less compared to Day-1, when 270 (54%) of targeted 500 health care workers had taken the jab on January 16. NMC officials told TOI, “100 health care workers selected for Pachpaoli centre on Day-1 and Day-2 were from the NMC-run hospitals and urban primary health centres (UPHCs). All submitted copies of Aadhaar or PAN card and other details like contact numbers, date of birth etc during registration in October and November. It means they were willing to take the vaccine.” Similarly, health care workers of AIIMS, IGGMCH, GMCH and Daga Hospital also submitted copies of Aadhaar or PAN card and details to their institutions, which forwarded them to NMC for registration. NMC officials said, “1,000 health care workers selected for two days received messages for vaccination. Representatives from NMC call centre also contacted them on phone to check whether they received messages or not and conveyed their selection for inoculation.” Team of Pachpaoli centre led by NMC Ashi Nagar zonal medical officer Dr Dipankar Bhivgade also contacted all selected health care staff of NMC. Dr Madhuri Thorat from Daga Hospital and Dr Jyotsna Deshmukh from IGGMCH said, “We called all selected health care workers and informed about their turn for vaccination today. We had also counselled them earlier and also today. Health care workers who took the jab on Day-1 also sent pictures of their vaccination and informed there were no AEFI in groups for encouragement. Still, the turnout is not satisfactory.” Doctors from these three centres said, “Some for sure are hesitating to take the jab. Some, especially ASHA workers of NMC, have decided they will take vaccination last, so they and their family members are confident of the vaccine. It is a voluntary programme and not mandatory so we cant help, apart from awareness and counselling.” Doctors added, “Majority of those who failed to turn up were unavailable for the day. Some were working and said they needed leave to get vaccinated. Some were out of station or preparing for examinations. Very few were ineligible due to pregnancy, active positive or illness.” NMC officials also said, “Complete turnout can be ensured if Co-WIN allows us to select beneficiaries. We can call and ask if they are ready and available for the day when scheduling in Co-WIN. It would definitely help.” Major advantage for health care workers is that slots are not being generated from Co-WIN. Random timing of 9am to 5pm is being fixed by the application. Still, five centres recorded low turnout. This is likely to delay vaccination programme of health care workers, which will be followed by front-line workers, people above 50 years and below 50 years with comorbidities. It is also resulting in wastage of doses. Dry Run had proved 25 can be vaccinated in two hours. The centres are open for 8 hours and still witnessed low turnout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/health-care-staff-registered-for-vax-but-fail-to-turn-up-to-get-the-jab/articleshow/80353801.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 20, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||CAG report on KIIFB absurd & motivated: FM||Thiruvananthapuram: Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac has termed the observations of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) on Kerala infrastructure investment fund board (KIIFB) as absurd, politically motivated and an insult to the assembly. He said CAG’s observations that the KIIFB’s borrowings through masala bond defeated the very purpose and intent of entry 37 in the 7th Schedule of the Constitution, which puts foreign loans under the Union list, are totally illogical and a misinterpretation. Isaac said that as per Article 246 of the Constitution, the lists are made for classifying the subjects between Centre and states and conferring powers for framing laws. It is on the basis of this that Centre had framed the foreign exchange management act (FEMA). He said KIIFB is a corporate body and there are several similar bodies of other state governments that have been making such borrowings. CAG has not made any comments against them. Also, CAG had audited KIIFB nine times in the past and no such comments were made then. Isaac said the present observations are politically motivated and a conspiracy against the state government, coming as they do ahead of assembly elections. He said BJP is undermining all constitutional bodies and CAG report is an example for that. He said the observation on loan liabilities is also baseless as 25% of KIIFB funds are spent on projects that yield revenue. The minister cited the example of the petrochemical park in Kochi and said that Rs 425 crore had already been repaid to KIIFB from this project. The CAG report on state finances, tabled in the assembly on Monday, had termed KIIFB’s fund raising as unconstitutional and an encroachment by the state on the powers of the Centre. The entire repayment is being done through government’s own revenue resources and therefore, such foreign borrowings are, for all practical purposes, borrowings of the state government. Hence, they appear to be in violation of the provisions of the Constitution and an encroachment by the state on the powers of the Centre, it observed. The report also said that if this model were to be followed by other states, then the external liabilities of the country would increase substantially, without the Centre even knowing that such liabilities were being created.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cag-report-on-kiifb-absurd-motivated-fm/articleshow/80352656.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 20, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Shivrajpur beach beautification project to be flagged off today||RAJKOT: The Shivrajpur beach in Devbhumi Dwarka district, that recently got the Blue Flag beach status, will be developed into world-class tourist attraction at the cost of Rs 150 crore. In the first phase, 3km area constituting revenue areas of three villages will undergo beautification at the cost of Rs 20 crore. Shivrajpur beach is located 11km far Dwarka town was awarded Blue Flag status in October last year by Denmark-based non-profit organization The Foundation For Environment Education Chief minister Vijay Rupani will perform the groundbreaking ceremony for the Shivrajpur beach beautification project involving the development of various tourist facilities on Wednesday. According to the district administration, the revenue areas of villages Shivrajpur, Mojap and Makanpur along with beach will be developed in the first phase. Though the Blue Flag status is given for area up to 500 meter from the beach, the state tourism department is planning to develop nearly 3 km area beyond the sandy beach. N K Meena, collector of Devbhumi Dwarka said, “There are three roads from Dwarka-Okha highway connecting the beach. The facilities will be developed on these three roads. Private land will be acquired for this purpose. The acquisition is under process.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/shivrajpur-beach-beautification-project-to-be-flagged-off-today/articleshow/80352698.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Goa||Suspected Pak nat’l detained at Calangute||Panaji: A 27-year-old woman suspected to be a Pakistani national has been detained by Goa police at Calangute. Police said that they had received a call to inform them about a suspected Pakistani national staying in their vicinity. Police said that the woman does not have any documents, including travel permits. As per initial questioning, the woman revealed that she entered the country via Nepal. Police said that these facts are being verified. The woman was staying in a rented room along with an Indian national, and they must have been in Goa for almost a year living at different locations, police said. Police also said that the woman was working in hotels and restaurants doing odd jobs including receptionist, sweeper, etc. An officer said that various intelligence agencies, including police, are interrogating the woman “Once we get the report from other intelligence agencies, we will corroborate their report with our interrogation report to draw a conclusion,” the official said. Police said that once it is confirmed that she is a Pakistan national, the woman would be lodged at the Mapusa detention centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/suspected-pak-natl-detained-at-calangute/articleshow/80353806.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 20, 2021||Rajkot||Over 155 persons vaccinated in Rajkot||Rajkot: At least 155 persons were vaccinated against Covid-19 in Rajkot on Tuesday. According to Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC), 81-year-old Dr B R Hapani, who received the vaccine did not have any side-effects. The prominent doctors who were vaccinated on Tuesday include skin specialist Dr Suresh Joshipura, president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Rajkot chapter, Dr Jay Dhirvani and national vice president of IMA Dr Atul Pandya. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/over-155-persons-vaccinated-in-rajkot/articleshow/80351816.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Chandigarh||3 Dera Sacha Sauda men declared PO in sacrilege case||Bathinda: With the police failing to arrest the three key members of the Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda wanted in sacrilege case, a Faridkot court on Monday declared them ‘proclaimed offenders (POs). Dera’s national committee members Harsh Dhuri, Sandeep Bareta and Pardeep Kaler are wanted in the case of theft of the bir of Guru Granth Sahib from Gurdwara Burj Jawahar Singh in Faridkot on June 1, 2015. The court of judicial magistrate Suresh Kumar directed the concerned SHO to register a case against the three and proceed further against the them u/s 174A (non-appearance in response to a proclamation). The court adjourned the matter to January 27 for furnishing lists of properties in the names of the accused persons. The police after receiving proclamation on December 12, 2020, had put up their posters but they failed to appear in stipulated period of 30 days. The three, along with dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, were made accused in the case while the SIT had filed challan against 11 persons on July 6, 2020. As per the challan filed by the probe team they were the key men in cases of sacrilege as they were the conduits between dera and its followers for handing out instructions to carry out acts of sacrilege. The court for the first time had issued arrest warrants on July 8, which were returnable by July 23. Then on July 23, the arrest warrants were extended returnable to August 3, and further again to August 24. The SIT is probing three cases of theft of bir, putting up derogatory posters and scattering of the torn pages at Bargari on October 12, 2015. Though earlier CBI was probing the case, but the Punjab and Haryana high court on January 4 had directed the central agency to handover case record to SIT. The record is yet to reach the SIT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-dera-sacha-sauda-men-declared-po-in-sacrilege-case/articleshow/80353811.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Metro 2A and 7 to roll out services starting May||MUMBAI: The first indigenously built rake to be deployed for Metro 2A (Dahisar to DN Nagar) and Metro 7 (Dahisar-Andheri via Western Express Highway) will leave from Bharat Earth Movers Ltd (BEML) facility in Bengaluru on January 22 as Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) plans to commence services from May. The rake is expected to arrive at Charkop Metro car shed by January 27. State urban development minister Eknath Shinde on Tuesday visited the BEML facility in Bengaluru and inspected the Metro train and its manufacturing process. “After seven years, Mumbai is ready to welcome the new Metro and Mumbaikars are curious about its ‘first look’. This train will undergo various trials once it arrives. We plan to begin services from May 2021.” Construction of Metro lines and stations, which are being carried out through MMRDA, is in the final stages. Trial runs will commence in the next two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/metro-2a-7-to-roll-out-services-starting-may/articleshow/80353854.cms||Manthank Mehta
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||220 poultry, few crows dead in Palghar villages||MUMBAI: After Mumbai and Thane, around 220 American breed domestic chicken and a few crows were found dead in some villages of Palghar district. The samples have been sent for testing for bird flu. Last week, samples of birds found dead in Chembur and Thane tested positive for avian influenza. Maharashtra along with states such as Gujarat, Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Kerala have confirmed bird flu deaths. In Girale village of Palghar, a poultry farm owner reported the death of around 220 Rhode Island Red chicken on Monday. District animal husbandry officer Dr Ajit Hirve confirmed the deaths. Six crows were found dead in Dahanu and Vedi villages in the past three days. The animal husbandry department has set up a helpline 18002330418.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/220-poultry-few-crows-dead-in-palghar-villages/articleshow/80352711.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Rajkot||Rescued girl dies during treatment||Rajkot: An NGO had on Monday rescued a 21-year-old chartered accountancy (CA) student who was allegedly confined to her house on Sadhu Vaswani Road in Rajkot by her family. The girl who was in a very pitiful state, however, succumbed during treatment at the Rajkot Civil Hospital on Tuesday morning. Founder of Saathi Seva Group, an NGO, Jalpa Patel had received information about the Alpa Sejpal’s alleged illegal confinement . When she reached her home, the girl could not even get out of her bed, said Patel, adding, “The girl was in a very sorry state as she was not being given food for a week.” Patel alleged that Sejpal’s family had not let her go out of the house for the past few months. However, family members denied the allegations and said that their daughter was suffering from fever for the past one week and owing to illness, had not eaten any food. On Monday, Patel insisted that the family members allow her to take Sejpal to hospital. But when they did not cooperate, she called police and admitted Sejpal to the civil hospital. Sejpal died during treatment. A post-mortem was conducted to know the reason behind her death. The family members said that they could not afford medicines nor treatment expenses of private hospitals. They had been collecting money since the time she fell ill a week ago, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rescued-girl-dies-during-treatment/articleshow/80351857.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Ghaziabad||Don’t need Delhi Police permit for Republic Day rally: Farmer leaders||GHAZIABAD: Farmer leaders on Tuesday said they will not need Delhi Police’s permission to take out the rally planned on Republic Day. They also said they are not going to attend any meeting called by the Supreme Court-appointed committee to discuss the farm laws. “Both farmers and the government have agreed that a solution will come only through talks. We don’t know when it will happen. But we are not going to meet the SC-appointed committee. The government brought this bill through an ordinance and passed it in the house. It will go back the same way,” Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said. He added: “Delhi Police should welcome us and do their duty. They should make proper arrangements along the route for the tractor rally on Republic Day. We don’t need any permission for the rally.” Asked about the National Investigation Agency’s action against traders and supporters of farmers, Tikait said a protest will be held against the agency as well. In the past two days, two Bollywood actors have visited the protest site at UP Gate. On Monday night, actor Sushant Singh met protesters at the border. “If the farmers are not happy with the laws, it means the laws are not good. I am from Bijnor and I come from a farmer family. Everyone has freedom of speech and if some people are saying negative things about farmers, then they have the full right to so. At the same time, the farmers, who are protesting peacefully, also have the right to raise their demands. It is sad that no result has come out and the farmers are protesting for over 50 days. Many have lost their lives, which is quite painful,” he said. Actor Gul Panag visited the protest site on Tuesday afternoon. “This protest has been going on for so long in this biting cold. The government should listen to them and with good intention. Now, it is up to the government to show how it will build trust,” she said. On Tuesday, four Punjabi singers performed at UP Gate. The performance started around 2 pm with Galav Waraich setting the tempo. Harf Cheema, Kanwar Grewal and Sonia Mann also performed at the protest site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/dont-need-delhi-police-permit-for-r-day-rally-farmer-leaders/articleshow/80355500.cms||Aditya Dev
January 20, 2021||Jaipur||Pak national dies at SMS psychiatric centre||Jaipur: A 60-year-old Pakistani national who was lodged at Jaipur central jail and undergoing treatment at SMS psychiatric centre for mental disorder died here on Monday. The transport nagar police are preparing a report on the death and would intimate it to the state home department to further send it to the external affairs ministry. The address of the Pakistani national is not clear so far.According to police, the patient identified as Mohammad Mustafa was brought at the Jaipur central jail from the Anoopgarh situated sub-jail in 2017. “Since his arrival on June 17, 2017, he had a mental disorder and thus from Jaipur central jail he was shifted to SMS psychiatric centre. He died here on Tuesday. Thus we have sent a report to the DCP (East) who will further sent the report to the ADG (Crime) and police will submit it to the department of home government of Rajasthan. The report will go to our Union external affairs ministry who will further send it to the embassy of Pakistan,” saidpolice. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pak-national-dies-at-sms-psychiatric-centre/articleshow/80355501.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Teen loses engineering seat in Mumbai college, blames glitch||MUMBAI: An engineering aspirant, Aryan Ritesh, was sure of a seat in leading Mumbai colleges when he got his MHT-CET scorecard in November. Aryan claims he scored 99.1 percentile in his entrance test and bagged a rank of 1,504. However, when he got a college seat in Pune last week, he got suspicious. He found his score in the system recorded as 83.3 percentile and his rank was 24,109. Shocked at the “change in score from what it was originally”, the student and his parents approached the state CET cell to report the issue. Aryan’s father, Ritesh, claimed that his son’s raw score was 161. “When we checked the CET cell record, the new score is reflected on every list. It is impossible to get a percentile of 83 with a raw score of 161. It definitely looks like some technical glitch,” he said. When the provisional merit list was put up, his rank was 1,454 with the same score and in the final merit list, the rank moved 50 positions to 1,504, he said. “The percentile score for physics and mathematics has the same numbers up to seven digits after the decimal point,” said Ritesh, adding that they were told that they did not approach the CET cell on time. TOI has a copy of both his scorecards. A CET cell official said they would look into the issue. “But the student should have approached us in the period for grievances. Changing the rank now will mean disturbing the entire merit list and allocation.” Ritesh said he never imagined the rank would change later and did not recheck the final merit list after it was out. The merit list on the site, though, shows his rank as 24,109.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/teen-loses-engg-seat-in-city-college-blames-glitch/articleshow/80353885.cms||Yogita Rao
January 20, 2021||Pune||Pune cop’s road-sweep act at accident spot earns kudos||PUNE: A video clip of a woman traffic police constable sweeping aside glass and fibre pieces of a motorcycle following an accident on Tilak Road on Monday evening went viral and drew varied reactions from several users on various social media platforms. “I swept the road to ensure that there were no further accidents. Vehicle tyres could have also fattened due to the glass pieces,” said traffic constable Razia Sayyed, who had borrowed a broom from a nearby eatery and cleared the spot immediately after the accident occurred on the busy Tilak Road. Sayyed’s prompt action took everyone around the accident spot by surprise. A few passersby and one of the eatery owners started video-recording her action and posted the clips on different social media sites. On Tuesday, the video clip got circulated widely and the police constable and her action became a talk of the town. “Me and my colleague, Sanjay Kadam, were manning the traffic junction near SP College Chowk on Tilak Road. Around 7pm, a speeding autorickshaw jumped the red signal and collided head on with a motorcycle. Both of us rushed there to help the victims, who had sustained head injuries. Kadam provided first aide and called an ambulance,” Sayyed told TOI on Tuesday. “The motorcycle was damaged badly as its headlamp and mirror broke. The broken glass and fibre material scattered all over the accident site. I realized that motorists were avoiding the glass pieces. There were chances of them meeting with accidents” she said. “I was not aware about people video-recording my action of cleaning up the spot with a broom. However, I got multiple calls from people on Tuesday appreciating my effort,” the constable added. Both the motorcyclist and the autorickshaw driver suffered minor head injuries. A social media user, Adhish Ughade, commented on a post related to Sayeed’s action: “She is executing her duties diligently. Hats off to her. Salute.” Another social media user, Shankar, said “The woman constable is upholding her duty and serving the people.” Sayyed is posted with the Khadak traffic division of the city police. She is with the police force for 16 years and has been serving the traffic division for the past five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-road-sweep-act-at-accident-spot-earns-kudos/articleshow/80355494.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Jaipur||29-year-old Major from Jaipur ends life in Kupwara||JAIPUR: Major Fayazullah Khan, a company commander of the Jammu and Kashmir Rifles, allegedly committed suicide in Kupwara on Monday. The officer hailed from Jaipur and the reason behind his suicide is yet to be determined. The deceased’s mortal remains are likely to be brought to Jaipur on Wednesday. The 29-year-old officer was posted in Kupwara for last two years and was unmarried. His family who stays in Vaishali Nagar though have ancestral home in Walled City claimed that there was minimal chance of the Major taking his own life. The deceased’s uncle Shafi Khan, speaking to TOI said, “On Sunday, Fayazullah spoke to his father and was a bit disturbed as he was not getting leave. However, my brother told him not to get worried as it was not a big issue which my nephew understood and there was no reason for him to commit suicide. Next day, we were informed that he committed suicide. He had 10 years of service and enough training to not get perturbed over small issues.” The family was expecting his mortal remains to reach Jaipur by Tuesday night but were informed by officials that the deceased Major had tested positive for Covid due to which the remains were being sent by road and are likely to reach by Wednesday. “We had made arrangements for the burial but then found that there is a likelihood that once his body reaches Jaipur, there will be further investigation into the death though no one is willing to tell us anything clearly. We came to know that there were bullet wounds and injury marks on his body. It seems he might have been attacked and killed therefore government needs to intervene as throughout the day we were just given vague details as if the authorities are trying to hide something. The biggest mistake we made was that a family member did not go to Kupwara to bring back the body,” added Shafi. The deceased comes from a family of government officials and his younger brother is also a Captain in Army posted in Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/29-year-old-major-from-city-ends-life-in-kupwara/articleshow/80355507.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Nagpur||Mitigating flyash pollution and rejuvenating degraded land||Nagpur: The fly ash generated from coal-fired power plants has been a major cause of damage to public health, crops and environment. In a first-of-its-kind initiative, the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) has developed a unique technology to mitigate flyash pollution and rejuvenate degraded land.In a project taken under the guidance of Neeri director Rakesh Kumar and senior scientist Lal Singh, the institute joined hands with Mahagenco and converted nearly 200 acres of fly ash dump near Koradi and Khaparkheda power plants into lush green pockets.Today, over 80,000 bamboo trees and few other species stand tall on the areas which once used to be wastelands, covered with heaps of fly ash. “This ash would fly to nearby villages, leading to severe health ailments and crop damage. It was also polluting the water,” said Singh.To rejuvenate the land, Neeri carried out the plantations using its eco rejuvenation technology. “A large part of the ground area is covered with fly ash. As the ash has heat and lacks the necessary nutrients, it was impossible to grow plants on it. To overcome this challenge, we developed a special of nutrients, fungi and favourable bacteria which we inoculated in the roots of the plants. This not only provided the much-needed nutrients to the plants but also increased the binding capacity of ash and the soil. Also, the growth of the plants was four times faster,” Singh added.The green pocket has turned into a thriving habitat of flora and fauna. The plantations have enhanced soil characteristics, controlled soil erosion and also improved the quality of air. “Fly ash contains particulate matter of different sizes, which can disperse only till a certain height. We have ensured that our plantations are tall enough to suppress the dust,” said Singh, adding that the trees are acting like a green buffer zone.The project, which was started in 2018, has other benefits too. “People residing near fly ash dumps are financially quite weak. To benefit them, we formed bachatgad groups in different areas. We provided plats to the local women and taught them the right technique to maintain and grow them. As many as 500 women got employment through this,” said Lal.According to the scientist, the technology has multiple benefits and should be implemented across the country. “Of the total 329 million hectares of land in the country, 63.85 million hectare is wasteland. This technology ensures high survival rate of plant species, increase in biomass, mitigate climate change, poverty alleviation and carbon sequestration. The technology can help India reclaim its degraded lands,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mitigating-flyash-pollution-and-rejuvenating-degraded-land/articleshow/80353551.cms||Manka Behl
January 20, 2021||Vadodara||Two held for grabbing widow’s land in Vadodara's Shinor||VADODARA: Vadodara rural police registered its first case under the new Gujarat Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Act on Tuesday by arresting two persons who were involved in selling and purchasing a widow’s ancestral land in Shinor taluka. The victim, Vimla Patel, 65, told the police that her nephew Rajendra Patel, who co-owned the land, sold it to the other accused Kamlesh Patel without her consent. Patel said that Rajendra used to undertake farming on the land at Nana Karda village so she and her two daughters let their ownership rights go in 2010. Her late son Jitendra, however, continued to have his share in the property. In 2015, Patel initiated procedures to add her name as the co-owner once again based on her late son’s ownership. Initially, Rajendra raised objection, but eventually Patel’s name was added in the records as co-owner. When Patel went to take possession of the land, she learnt that Rajendra had sold the land way back in 2014 to Kamlesh without her consent. The woman stated that when she learnt about the new law, she approached police and based on her complaint, an offence was registered at Shinor police station on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-held-for-grabbing-widows-land-in-shinor/articleshow/80351514.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Pune||Pune: Constable jumps off police station terrace||PUNE: The Dighi police on Monday registered an offence of attempt to commit suicide against a constable (30) more than two weeks after he jumped off the terrace of a ground-plus-one police station building following a quarrel with a 28-year-old woman sub-inspector. The incident took place around 10.30pm on January 1. The constable survived with scars and injuries to his waist, police said. “We registered an FIR after conducting an inquiry and recording statements of the constable and the woman sub-inspector,” senior inspector Mohan Shinde of the Dighi police said. Pimpri Chinchwad deputy commissioner of police (zone-I) Manchak Ipper told TOI, “We have already started an inquiry and also initiated the process of suspension of the police constable. He will face a departmental inquiry.” Senior inspector Shinde said, “The constable and the woman sub-inspector, both unmarried, were in a relationship for the past one-and-half-year. Things went wrong between them following some personal issues. On the night of the incident, the constable had a heated argument with the woman sub-inspector. He threatened to kill her and end his own life, too. Seething with anger, the constable went to the terrace of the police station and jumped from there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/constable-jumps-off-police-station-terrace/articleshow/80355502.cms||---
January 20, 2021||India||WhatsApp is biased, stay new policy: PIL||NEW DELHI: A PIL petitioner who had challenged WhatsApp’s 2016 privacy policy, which is still pending in the Supreme Court, on Tuesday requested the SC to stay the social media platform’s 2021 privacy policy terming it highly discriminatory towards Indian users as it gave a carte blanche to the platform to utilise personal data the in manner it intended to. The petitioner said WhatsApp had one set of privacy norms for European nations and another for Indians, who formed the largest user base at nearly 40 crore. “By virtue of the changes announced on January 4, 2021, WhatsApp has a different privacy policy for users living in the European region when compared to the privacy policy for the rest of the world, including India,” the plea said. The petition was first filed in Delhi high court in 2016 by then college students Karmanya Singh Sareen and Shreya Sethi, who had questioned the privacy policy announced by WhatsApp two years after it was acquired by Facebook for $22 billion. The HC on September 23, 2016, had ordered that data of WhatsApp users who exited the social media platform before the 2016 policy came into effect could not be used for any purposes by WhatsApp. It had also directed that the information of WhatsApp users, prior to coming into force of the 2016 policy, shall not be shared with Facebook. Following the 2016 privacy policy, several foreign jurisdictions had taken steps to protect privacy of WhatsApp users and the social media platform had in 2018 agreed to conform to the UK General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) relating to data sharing. Not satisfied with the partial relief they got in Delhi HC, Sareen and Sethi moved the SC. The matter was referred to a five-judge constitution bench in April 2017 and is still pending. In August 2017, a nine-judge bench of the SC gave the game changing ruling that right to privacy was intrinsic to right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. The Centre had informed the court about a committee set up under Justice B N Srikrishna to draft a data protection law. The bill is likely to be placed before Parliament in the coming session. On January 5, WhatsApp filed an application informing the SC about the new privacy policy it would bring into force from February 8. Faulting the social media platform for changing its privacy policy despite pendency of a petition challenging its 2016 policy, Sareen in his fresh application called the 2021 policy more intrusive than the earlier one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/whatsapp-is-biased-stay-new-policy-pil/articleshow/80356671.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 20, 2021||Jaipur||HC notice on exclusion of BEd holders from REET||Jaipur: The Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday issued notice to National Council for Teacher Education (NTCE) chairman, principal secretary education and director education on the issue of BEd holders not allowed to participate in Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET) Level 1 exam. The division bench headed by Justice Sabina issued the order on a petition by Sunita and others while posting the matter for hearing on February 2. The petitioner challenged the notification issued on August 23, 2010 by NTCE, and advertisement of January 1, 2021 of REET in which the authorities have not considered the candidates with BEd degree for level-1 exam for recruitment of teachers for classes 1-5. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-notice-on-exclusion-of-bed-holders-from-reet/articleshow/80355589.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||‘Drunk’ Dongri cop assaults hotel staff||MUMBAI: A departmental inquiry was ordered after a constable, who allegedly under the influence of alcohol created a ruckus, assaulted and abused hotel staff at Reay Road. A video of Ankush Dhule’s misbehavior with the owner and staff went viral on social media. Attached to Dongri police station, he may be dismissed. Sources said Dhule, who often visited Hotel Manohar opposite the railway station, on January 12 barged in and argued, misbehaved with staff and when they objected he abused them and the owner. He threw water bottles at staff and threatened to fire indiscriminately. “Patrons got scared and left,” said a source. Hotel owner Ravi Manohar complained to Dongri police. “We will ensure strict action, like dismissal from service,’’ said a senior IPS officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/drunk-dongri-cop-assaults-hotel-staff/articleshow/80355668.cms||S Ahmed Ali
January 20, 2021||Meerut||UP: Man accused of luring women for jobs held; cops rescue 2 women||MEERUT: Aftab Ahmad, a resident of UP’s Balrampur district, was arrested by the police in Meerut on Monday evening. Ahmad is accused of luring women from different communities on the pretext of jobs. Two women aged 15 and 22 were also rescued from captivity in Balrampur’s Mawana area. Meerut police are coordinating with their counterparts in Basti to hand over the rescued women to their respective families. While some reports claimed that Ahmad used to forcibly convert the women in his captivity, Meerut police said the claims could not be corroborated during the investigation. “The women in his captivity were not converted to Islam. We have handed over the accused to Basti police who will further investigate the case,” said Meerut SP (rural) Keshav Kumar. A case has been registered against Ahmad under section 363 (punishment for kidnapping) and 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage) of the Indian Penal Code in Basti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-accused-of-luring-women-for-jobs-held-cops-rescue-2-women/articleshow/80351886.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Nagpur||New MSME definition to extend scope, Maha sticks to old yardstick||Nagpur: Union ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises, headed by city MP Nitin Gadkari, may have changed the definition of units to be covered under this sector, but Maharashtra government continues to go by the old criterion. Changing the yardstick will bring a large number of units under the MSME-fold, but this will increase the state government’s outgo on subsidies. As MSMEs get higher benefits like concessions and subsidies, bringing in the new definition will lead to a substantial financial burden on the state government, said sources. At present, the average budget allocation for extending benefits to industries is in the range of Rs6,500 crore to Rs7,500 crore. Out of this, 5 to 6% goes to the MSMEs under the current package scheme of incentives-2019 (PSI-2019). Under the new definition, all the calculations will go haywire. There is a likelihood that the budget may increase by even 5 to 6 times, said a source requesting anonymity. In Maharashtra, MSMEs get subsidies and benefits up to 80% of the investment, and it’s 50% for large units. Other neighbouring states like Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh have adopted the new definition for their respective schemes. There have been demands by industries association in Maharashtra to accept the new norms here too. The new definition of micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), in effect since July 2020, includes any unit having an investment in plant and machinery up to Rs50 crore and domestic turnover of Rs250 crore. The earlier definition covered units having an investment up to Rs10 crore into the MSME-fold. Gadkari often said in public meetings that new criterion would bring almost every other industry into the ambit of his ministry. Maharashtra’s secretary (small and medium industries) Harshadeep Kamble told TOI, “Even when the Centre followed an upper limit of Rs10 crore, Maharashtra’s scheme for 2019 extends the benefit of MSMEs to units having a fixed capital investment of Rs50 crore.” “Here is a catch. Fixed capital means even investment in land, building and other assets. The new definition considers investment in plant and machinery alone, which can bring more units under the MSME ambit. It also considers turnover as a criterion,” pointed out chartered accountant and project consultant Julfesh Shah. There is scope of bringing more units under MSME ambit even in Vidarbha if the new definition of investment in plant and machinery and turnover is followed, he said. A senior official dealing with MSMEs in the industries department of Gujarat government said the state’s industries policy for 2020 was ready a few days before the definition was changed. The policy was redrafted according to the new criterion and now the benefits are available according to the amended definition. An officer in the industries department of Madhya Pradesh government said the concession policy of 2019 continues in the state, but the new classification has been accepted. Now, a decision has to be taken whether the governance of new units coming into the fold will be continued by the department of industry policy and investment promotion (DIPP) or the MSME department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-msme-definition-to-extend-scope-maha-sticks-to-old-yardstick/articleshow/80353978.cms||Shishir Arya
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, Sharad Pawar and Congress leaders to join farmers’ ‘long march’||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, NCP chief Sharad Pawar and senior Congress leaders in the state will join a ‘long march’ from Azad Maidan to Raj Bhavan on January 25 in support of farmers, agitating at Delhi border against farm laws passed by Centre. NCP spokesperson and minister for minority development Nawab Malik told the media that farmer unions and NGOs have planned a protest from January 23-25 at Azad Maidan in support of farmers. “A delegation of farmer unions met Pawar, Thackeray, Congress leaders and ministers, urging them to attend the ‘long march’.” Malik added, “The NCP chief confirmed he will attend the march. Thackeray and Congress leaders said they would also attend it in support of farmers. Thackeray urged the organisers to avoid crowding.” He said Sena, Congress and NCP were against the farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/uddhav-pawar-and-cong-leaders-to-join-farmers-long-march/articleshow/80354120.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Pune||Q3: BoM reports higher profits, lower NPAs||Pune: City-based Bank of Maharashtra (BOM) has reported higher profits and improved asset quality for the third quarter of the 2020-21 fiscal. In a regulatory filing, BOM reported a net profit of Rs154 crore — up 14% from the corresponding quarter the previous fiscal. Its non-performing assets (NPAs) also improved year-on-year, now standing at 2.59%, against 5.46% in Q3 2020. The bank reported a signifcant increase in the uptake of credit cards, MSME advances and retail loans. It said it was consciously staying away from corporate loans due to slow recovery from the pandemic. Retail, agriculture, and MSME loans now form 60% of its loan book. “Our home loans have grown by 25%, helped by a low rate of interest,” BoM managing director A S Rajeev said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/q3-bom-reports-higher-profits-lower-npas/articleshow/80353946.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Pune||Haphazard parking adds to commute horror on bypass||PUNE: Trucks and multi-utility vehicles parked along the left lane of the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass, particularly near the approach to the Navale and Vadgaon bridges, pose a serious accident risk to motorists. Commuters complain about the similar problem on the bypass in areas near Kiwale bridge, Hinjewadi and Wakad. Local residents said these vehicles, besides cars, occupy almost the entire left lane and eat into much of the carriage way of the bypass while picking up passengers for Lonavala, Navi Mumbai and Mumbai. On January 11, a private luxury bus on way to Mumbai from Udgir in Latur crashed into a mini-truck that moved onto the bypass after being parked alongside the road. The bus driver had failed to anticipate the movement of the mini-truck and crashed into it. The second driver of the bus died and nine passengers were injured.. Private cab and bus drivers haphazardly park the vehicles to pick up customers waiting at the MSRTC’S bus stop near Chandni Chowk and Tathawade and trigger snarls. Roadside fruit and ‘nira’ stalls and mobile onion and potato sellers are an added problem. “This is a regular sight. The drivers do not care about other road users,” Bavdhan resident Sanjay Jadhav said. The condition is almost the same at Tathawade. There are many eating joints along the service road. The drivers park the vehicles along the bypass and visit the food stalls for refreshment. Pandit Ahire, sub-inspector of the Hinjewadi police, told TOI, “Earlier there was an Octroi post near Wakad. The post has been closed. But many drivers still halt there.” Senior inspector Sunil Dahiphale of the Hinjewadi traffic division said, “Buses coming to Pune from Mumbai stop along the road to drop passengers. We take action against such buses.” ACP (Pimpri Chinchwad traffic) Shrikant Disale said, “A patrolling vehicle plies between Chandni Chowk and Dehu Road to stop people from parking along the bypass. We also do not allow vendors.” Police inspector (traffic) Nandkishor Shelke said, “If heavy vehicles develop snags in the middle of the road, it becomes difficult to shift those to the service road or the left lanes”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/haphazard-parking-adds-to-commute-horror-on-bypass/articleshow/80355505.cms||Mihir Tanksale
January 20, 2021||Pune||43-year-old bludgeoned to death in Kondhwa||PUNE: A 23-year-old youth was arrested on Tuesday on the charge of bludgeoning a worker to death, a few hours after the body of the latter was found at Shivnerinagar in Kondhwa. The crime branch of the city police zeroed in on the suspect, Atish Waydande. Senior inspector Hemant Patil from the crime branch (Unit V) said Waydande had killed the worker, identified as Dnyanoba Ganagdhar Dhange, over a dispute of hitting stone on his motorcycle. Dhange, the 43-year-old worker from Parbhani, was bludgeoned to death with a stone in an open ground at Shivnerinagar, where he currently stayed. Senior inspector Sardar Patil from the Kondhwa police said, “Dhange was found murdered with multiple injuries to his head around 9am. The victim’s identity was established by his relatives.” A passer-by spotted the body lying in a pool of blood on the ground. Patil said a police team rushed to the spot and launched investigations after the passer-by informed them about the body. Dhange, doing small-time jobs, was addicted to liquor, he said. Assistant inspector Chetan More said, “Dhange’s wife resides at Parbhani. He was staying here with his niece. The victim did not reach home on Monday night and his body was recovered on Tuesday. Preliminary investigations revealed that he was bludgeoned to death after 12.30am with a stone weighing around 1kg. We have recovered the blood stained stone from the spot.” More said, “There are no CCTV cameras at the spot. We worked on some clues to establish the identity of the assailant.” An FIR related to the murder was registered under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/43-year-old-bludgeoned-to-death-in-kondhwa/articleshow/80355509.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Pune||Pune: Two scribes, pal held for extortion bid||PUNE: The Koregaon Park police on Monday night arrested two journalists and an accomplice of the duo for allegedly trying to extort a spa owner. A local court on Tuesday remanded Vishal Payal (28) and Pankaj Jadhav (34), who work for a television news channel in Pune, and their friend Sunny Takhpere (27) in police custody till Friday. The spa’s manager lodged a complaint with the police, alleging that the suspects recently demanded that the spa owner pay them Rs15,000 per month in exchange for leaving her business unimpeded. “Even though she refused to pay, the trio continued to press their demand, warning her that she and the complainant would pay a ‘heavy price’,” police said, adding that the trio also threatened to beat up the manager. “On receiving the complaint, we verified it and laid a trap. We arrested Payal and Takhpere after they accepted the money from the manager. The duo revealed that they had made the demands at the behest of Jadhav, who was arrested soon after,” senior inspector Dilip Shinde said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-scribes-pal-held-for-extortion-bid/articleshow/80355550.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Pune||Impersonator dials PMRDA chief & MahaMetro ED||Pune: A person allegedly called MahaMetro executive director Gautam Bihade and PMRDA commissioner Suhas Diwase posing as the Union secretary of housing and urban affairs, issuing work-related instructions and warnings. The city police have launched a probe after both the officials lodged complaints. The same man allegedly made calls to a MahaMetro contractor and misused the picture of the Union secretary as a display picture (DP) on his WhatsApp account, from where he posted messages, besides sending text messages to Bihade and Diwase, the police said. When the two senior officials made calls to Delhi to cross-verify the claims made by the caller, they realized that it was a case of impersonation and cheating. Bihade then lodged an FIR with the Koregaon Park police and Diwase lodged his complaint with the Chaturshrungi police. Diwase told TOI, “This is a very serious crime of impersonation, where even the ‘true caller’ app reflected the person’s name. I was given a call this Sunday and after checks I found the caller to be fake. I have filed a police complaint and I hope the culprits are arrested at the earliest and action is taken to prevent such impersonation. I believe it happened to others also last month.” Hemant Sanawane, the MahaMetro’s general manager (public relations), said, “The calls were received from the unknown person by our official asking for work-related details. Some basic verification was conducted at our level about the calls. On suspicion, we decided to approach the police for further investigation. We are cooperating completely with the police.” Senior inspector Anil Shewale of the Chatushrungi police said, “We received the PMRDA (Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority) commissioner’s complaint on Monday and investigating the case for impersonation. We have obtained the details of the phone number. We are probing why he made such calls.” Inspector Vaishali Galande of the Koregaon Park police said, “The caller in the case registered with us wanted to issue threats to the officer (Bihade) and contractors to gain some monetary benefits. The identity of the caller is yet to be established. We have sought details of the phone number from the cellular company concerned.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/impersonator-dials-pmrda-chief-mahametro-ed/articleshow/80355523.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Jaipur||RTDC’s Behror hotel to restart operations||JAIPUR: After a gap of nearly three years, Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation’s hotel at Behror is set to restart its operations. In an order on Tuesday, Rajasthan State Transport Corporation allowed its buses travelling between Jaipur and Delhi to stop at the mid-way where the passengers can have food and avail other facilities. A committee of five members having officials from both tourism and transport departments have been formed to prepare a report for assessing requirements at the hotel and the infrastructure around it for buses to park. “We will try to restart the operation of the hotel in a month or so. The hotel was closed nearly three years ago. So, the facilities needs to be spruced up and the hotel also needs some work to be ready to welcome guests. We will try to finish all the work as soon as possible to start the operations,” said Ngikya Gohani, managing director of RTDC. The hotel was closed by the previous government and was to be given on lease as part of a restructuring that did not see light of the day. The property heavily depends on the passengers for a sustainable business. There are also shops which is a source of revenue. When the hotel was closed, it was one of the profitable hotels in RTDC’s portfolio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rtdcs-behror-hotel-to-restart-ops/articleshow/80355654.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Nagpur||Panel submits 50-page report on Bhandara hospital fire, staff faces action||Nagpur: Exactly 10 days after the tragedy, divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar-led expert committee submitted its inquiry report on the Bhandara district general hospital fire, which claimed the lives of 10 premature babies at its Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU). The about 50-page report has fixed the responsibility for the heart-wrenching incident mainly on the erring staff, sources said. Kumar told TOI, “The report was submitted to the government on Tuesday.” He refused to divulge further details. TOI has learnt that the panel made around 15 recommendations, including who was at fault for the horrific accident which left three of the 10 bodies badly charred. The remaining seven died of suffocation as smoke clouds engulfed the SNCU for a couple of hours after the fire. The panel report points to lapses from the hospital staff, including nurses who were expected to be inside the SNCU. “Had they been inside, the tragedy may have been averted,” sources said. They added the report also mentioned lack of coordination and supervision issues at the hospital. “Two top officials are also likely to face the action,” sources added. The action including serving of show cause notices, suspensions, or filing of FIR would be decided based on the panel findings by the government in the next couple of days. The panel has pointed out all the mistakes leading to the fateful night of January 9 — what should have been done, and what was not done as per norms. The recommendations about improving overall system are intended to be a benchmark for all government hospitals to ensure highest levels of fire safety. The report was handed over to principal secretary Pradeep Vyas. Director of health services Dr Sadhana Tayade, who had been in the city and Bhandara since the start of inquiry, handed over the report to the government on her return. After conducting preliminary inquiry with hospital staff and spot inspection, the panel was in Nagpur, writing the report since January 15. The deliberations went on till late night hours for the last three days, sources said. Bhandara police is awaiting the report submission to initiate action. The police are already probing the case after registering Sec 174 under CrPC for accidental death. The expert committee was given an extended deadline till January 17. GMCH paediatric head Dr Dipty Jain, PWD representative, Bhandara collector’s representative and deputy chief fire officer (Mumbai) Rajendra Choudhary have largely conducted the questioning and spot inspection at Bhandara. Panel chief Kumar has visited the hospital a couple of times. BMC deputy commissioner (fire safety) Prabhat Rahangdale too had visited Bhandara and submitted his inputs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/panel-submits-50-page-report-on-bhandara-hospital-fire-staff-faces-action/articleshow/80354025.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 20, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata cops want to re-evaluate one-way traffic system||KOLKATA: Traffic cops have indicated that they will start a robust exercise to re-evaluate one-way roads in the city. According to sources, 90% of the one-way roads were marked several years ago. “Since then, there has been a change in traffic pattern. Some accidents took place in the past as locals made frequent attempts to disregard the one-way traffic system. In other roads, timings for traffic restrictions might have to be changed. However, we are not in a hurry because we will study traffic in many parts of the city. We will complete the study and take decisions accordingly,” said an officer leading the study. The roads that come under the study on one-way traffic system include the busy stretches like Elgin Road, Loudon Street, Dargah Road and Monoharpukur Road. Other roads like Woodburn Park and Ironside Road, which feature in the study, however, do not handle too much pressure. “The idea is not to radically turn the one-way roads into both ways or vice-versa but to make the timings more commuters-friendly. Some roads may have a 24-hour cycle while a six-hour cycle may be followed for some other roads. The timings will be kept dynamic. There is not a late evening diversion for too many roads. We are planning something like that,” said an officer. TimesViewThe city’s tentative return to the old normal has been accompanied by (avoidable) disruptions because of political rallies as well as (unavoidable) disruptions because of infra work, like the East-West Metro. Judicious use of the one-way system can help.Once the one-way roads are finalized, cops will check whether proper signboards are put up for people and motorists. “For proper functioning of the one-way system, it is essential to put up ‘One-Way’ or ‘No Entry’ boards at the designated spots. We will create public awareness once we choose the roads,”said the officer. Sources said the study is important for the future of the proposed 120-km cycle track.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-want-to-re-evaluate-one-way-traffic-system/articleshow/80354072.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 20, 2021||Erode||26,000 health workers across Tamil Nadu given shot in four days||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu vaccinated 9,446 health workers, 9,305 with Covishield and 141 with Covaxin, till 7pm on Tuesday, while recording 543 fresh cases and nine deaths. The Covid-19 case tally went up to 8,31,866 and death toll to 12,281. Active cases stood at 5,487. In the past four days, 25,908 healthcare providers received the vaccine in Tamil Nadu. “More people are coming forward to get themselves vaccinated. While we are not in a race to reach the target, we are confident we will be able to cover most healthcare providers before the deadline. We are also increasing vaccination centres so people can close to centres near home,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. He inaugurated a vaccination centre at SIMS Hospitals, Vadapalani, on Tuesday. He said Covishield vaccine will be administered free of cost in the hospital for prioritised beneficiaries in phase-I. Since glitches persisted with the Cowin portal, the public health department posted additional staff to update data even after office hours. On Tuesday, at least seven districts overshot their targets for vaccination. For instance, Namakkal vaccinated 434 healthcare providers against the target of 300 in three sessions, and Kovilpatti vaccinated 140 against the target of 100 in one session. Over all, the state has covered 56% of the target for the day and 38% of the target over the last four days. Some districts continue to vaccinate less than a quarter of the people targeted. Tiruvarur, for instance, vaccinated 56 of the targeted 400 beneficiaries. The six centres that were offering Covaxin targeted 600 vaccinations on Tuesday, but managed to inoculate 141 beneficiaries – Chennai (58), Trichy (40), Thanjavur (34), Pudukottai (6), Tirunelveli (3) and Chengalpet (0). Meanwhile, barring Kallakurichi, all other districts in the state added cases to the Covid registry, and seven districts reported deaths. While Chennai recorded three deaths, Tiruvallur two, and Coimbatore, Erode, Kancheepuram and Villupuram one each. Chennai had the most fresh cases, 152, followed by Coimbatore with 58. All other districts reported fewer than 50, with 21 recording a single-digit rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/26000-health-workers-across-state-given-shot-in-four-days/articleshow/80360378.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Chennai||26,000 health workers across Tamil Nadu given shot in four days||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu vaccinated 9,446 health workers, 9,305 with Covishield and 141 with Covaxin, till 7pm on Tuesday, while recording 543 fresh cases and nine deaths. The Covid-19 case tally went up to 8,31,866 and death toll to 12,281. Active cases stood at 5,487. In the past four days, 25,908 healthcare providers received the vaccine in Tamil Nadu. “More people are coming forward to get themselves vaccinated. While we are not in a race to reach the target, we are confident we will be able to cover most healthcare providers before the deadline. We are also increasing vaccination centres so people can close to centres near home,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. He inaugurated a vaccination centre at SIMS Hospitals, Vadapalani, on Tuesday. He said Covishield vaccine will be administered free of cost in the hospital for prioritised beneficiaries in phase-I. Since glitches persisted with the Cowin portal, the public health department posted additional staff to update data even after office hours. On Tuesday, at least seven districts overshot their targets for vaccination. For instance, Namakkal vaccinated 434 healthcare providers against the target of 300 in three sessions, and Kovilpatti vaccinated 140 against the target of 100 in one session. Over all, the state has covered 56% of the target for the day and 38% of the target over the last four days. Some districts continue to vaccinate less than a quarter of the people targeted. Tiruvarur, for instance, vaccinated 56 of the targeted 400 beneficiaries. The six centres that were offering Covaxin targeted 600 vaccinations on Tuesday, but managed to inoculate 141 beneficiaries – Chennai (58), Trichy (40), Thanjavur (34), Pudukottai (6), Tirunelveli (3) and Chengalpet (0). Meanwhile, barring Kallakurichi, all other districts in the state added cases to the Covid registry, and seven districts reported deaths. While Chennai recorded three deaths, Tiruvallur two, and Coimbatore, Erode, Kancheepuram and Villupuram one each. Chennai had the most fresh cases, 152, followed by Coimbatore with 58. All other districts reported fewer than 50, with 21 recording a single-digit rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/26000-health-workers-across-state-given-shot-in-four-days/articleshow/80354052.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Salem||26,000 health workers across Tamil Nadu given shot in four days||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu vaccinated 9,446 health workers, 9,305 with Covishield and 141 with Covaxin, till 7pm on Tuesday, while recording 543 fresh cases and nine deaths. The Covid-19 case tally went up to 8,31,866 and death toll to 12,281. Active cases stood at 5,487. In the past four days, 25,908 healthcare providers received the vaccine in Tamil Nadu. “More people are coming forward to get themselves vaccinated. While we are not in a race to reach the target, we are confident we will be able to cover most healthcare providers before the deadline. We are also increasing vaccination centres so people can close to centres near home,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. He inaugurated a vaccination centre at SIMS Hospitals, Vadapalani, on Tuesday. He said Covishield vaccine will be administered free of cost in the hospital for prioritised beneficiaries in phase-I. Since glitches persisted with the Cowin portal, the public health department posted additional staff to update data even after office hours. On Tuesday, at least seven districts overshot their targets for vaccination. For instance, Namakkal vaccinated 434 healthcare providers against the target of 300 in three sessions, and Kovilpatti vaccinated 140 against the target of 100 in one session. Over all, the state has covered 56% of the target for the day and 38% of the target over the last four days. Some districts continue to vaccinate less than a quarter of the people targeted. Tiruvarur, for instance, vaccinated 56 of the targeted 400 beneficiaries. The six centres that were offering Covaxin targeted 600 vaccinations on Tuesday, but managed to inoculate 141 beneficiaries – Chennai (58), Trichy (40), Thanjavur (34), Pudukottai (6), Tirunelveli (3) and Chengalpet (0). Meanwhile, barring Kallakurichi, all other districts in the state added cases to the Covid registry, and seven districts reported deaths. While Chennai recorded three deaths, Tiruvallur two, and Coimbatore, Erode, Kancheepuram and Villupuram one each. Chennai had the most fresh cases, 152, followed by Coimbatore with 58. All other districts reported fewer than 50, with 21 recording a single-digit rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/26000-health-workers-across-state-given-shot-in-four-days/articleshow/80360384.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Pune||Gang of six damages mini truck, 2 other four-wheelers||Pune: The Chakan police on Tuesday registered an offence against a gang of six men for threatening a mini-truck driver and damaging the windscreens of three vehicles in Mahalunge on Monday afternoon. Rajaram Barate (35) has lodged an FIR with the Chakan police. Assistant sub-inspector Madhukar Pansare of the Mahalunge chowkey, who is investigating the case, said, “The complainant works as a mini-truck driver who transports scrap from a company in Mahalunge.” According to Barate’s complaint, on Monday afternoon when he neared the company, a gang of six men blocked his way. They damaged the windscreen of the vehicle and also pelted stones at two more vehicles. “The suspects also threatened the driver to not visit the area again,” Pansare said. Barate said the suspects were unknown to him. “We suspect that the incident was the fallout of bagging of a contract from a company,” Pansare said. The Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner, Krishna Prakash, on Monday appealed to people that they should come forward and lodge an FIR against such criminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gang-of-six-damages-mini-truck-2-other-four-wheelers/articleshow/80355618.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Two adverse vax events at one PHC, both mild cases||HYDERABAD: Two instances of mild reactions were reported in a primary health center (PHC) at Balanagar since day 1 of the vaccine rollout in Telangana. While one person, Dr Sandhya Rani received the vaccine on January 16, another healthcare worker K Laxmi developed a mild reaction to the vaccine after getting the shot on Monday. The patient, who received the Covid-19 vaccine on January 16, complained of vomiting, weakness, giddiness and also suffered chills within half an hour after taking the vaccine, the hospital sources said adding that she was later rushed to a private hospital nearby where she was given treatment for the side-effects and then stabilized. Officials at Balanagar PHC said that Dr Rani’s reaction after taking the vaccine was a result of fasting for two days. “She suffered mild reaction after vaccination but that was mostly due to fasting for two days before getting the vaccine. Since she was fasting, she suffered from hyperglycaemia and that led to some discomfort and giddiness. She is stable now,” said Dr B Sindhoora, medical officer, PHC, Balanagar. The other patient, Laxmi, also suffered mild discomfort while she was waiting in the observation room where the general parameters of the beneficiaries are monitored for 30 minutes before they are allowed to leave the site of vaccination. Once it was observed that Laxmi was becoming uncomfortable, she was stabilized by the medical staff at the PHC and later shifted to a hospital in Malkajgiri. “These are expected side-effects of any vaccination. Most of these reactions are due to panic of pain from vaccination and has nothing to do with vaccine or its side-effects,” said Dr Sindhoora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-adverse-vax-events-at-one-phc-both-mild-cases/articleshow/80354013.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Coimbatore||26,000 health workers across Tamil Nadu given shot in four days||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu vaccinated 9,446 health workers, 9,305 with Covishield and 141 with Covaxin, till 7pm on Tuesday, while recording 543 fresh cases and nine deaths. The Covid-19 case tally went up to 8,31,866 and death toll to 12,281. Active cases stood at 5,487. In the past four days, 25,908 healthcare providers received the vaccine in Tamil Nadu. “More people are coming forward to get themselves vaccinated. While we are not in a race to reach the target, we are confident we will be able to cover most healthcare providers before the deadline. We are also increasing vaccination centres so people can close to centres near home,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. He inaugurated a vaccination centre at SIMS Hospitals, Vadapalani, on Tuesday. He said Covishield vaccine will be administered free of cost in the hospital for prioritised beneficiaries in phase-I. Since glitches persisted with the Cowin portal, the public health department posted additional staff to update data even after office hours. On Tuesday, at least seven districts overshot their targets for vaccination. For instance, Namakkal vaccinated 434 healthcare providers against the target of 300 in three sessions, and Kovilpatti vaccinated 140 against the target of 100 in one session. Over all, the state has covered 56% of the target for the day and 38% of the target over the last four days. Some districts continue to vaccinate less than a quarter of the people targeted. Tiruvarur, for instance, vaccinated 56 of the targeted 400 beneficiaries. The six centres that were offering Covaxin targeted 600 vaccinations on Tuesday, but managed to inoculate 141 beneficiaries – Chennai (58), Trichy (40), Thanjavur (34), Pudukottai (6), Tirunelveli (3) and Chengalpet (0). Meanwhile, barring Kallakurichi, all other districts in the state added cases to the Covid registry, and seven districts reported deaths. While Chennai recorded three deaths, Tiruvallur two, and Coimbatore, Erode, Kancheepuram and Villupuram one each. Chennai had the most fresh cases, 152, followed by Coimbatore with 58. All other districts reported fewer than 50, with 21 recording a single-digit rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/26000-health-workers-across-state-given-shot-in-four-days/articleshow/80360377.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Madurai||26,000 health workers across Tamil Nadu given shot in four days||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu vaccinated 9,446 health workers, 9,305 with Covishield and 141 with Covaxin, till 7pm on Tuesday, while recording 543 fresh cases and nine deaths. The Covid-19 case tally went up to 8,31,866 and death toll to 12,281. Active cases stood at 5,487. In the past four days, 25,908 healthcare providers received the vaccine in Tamil Nadu. “More people are coming forward to get themselves vaccinated. While we are not in a race to reach the target, we are confident we will be able to cover most healthcare providers before the deadline. We are also increasing vaccination centres so people can close to centres near home,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. He inaugurated a vaccination centre at SIMS Hospitals, Vadapalani, on Tuesday. He said Covishield vaccine will be administered free of cost in the hospital for prioritised beneficiaries in phase-I. Since glitches persisted with the Cowin portal, the public health department posted additional staff to update data even after office hours. On Tuesday, at least seven districts overshot their targets for vaccination. For instance, Namakkal vaccinated 434 healthcare providers against the target of 300 in three sessions, and Kovilpatti vaccinated 140 against the target of 100 in one session. Over all, the state has covered 56% of the target for the day and 38% of the target over the last four days. Some districts continue to vaccinate less than a quarter of the people targeted. Tiruvarur, for instance, vaccinated 56 of the targeted 400 beneficiaries. The six centres that were offering Covaxin targeted 600 vaccinations on Tuesday, but managed to inoculate 141 beneficiaries – Chennai (58), Trichy (40), Thanjavur (34), Pudukottai (6), Tirunelveli (3) and Chengalpet (0). Meanwhile, barring Kallakurichi, all other districts in the state added cases to the Covid registry, and seven districts reported deaths. While Chennai recorded three deaths, Tiruvallur two, and Coimbatore, Erode, Kancheepuram and Villupuram one each. Chennai had the most fresh cases, 152, followed by Coimbatore with 58. All other districts reported fewer than 50, with 21 recording a single-digit rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/26000-health-workers-across-state-given-shot-in-four-days/articleshow/80360380.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Bareilly||Women farmers from west UP to drive over 100 tractors to join R-Day rally||Pilibhit: Women from farmers’ families in Pilibhit, Lakhimpur Kheri and Shahjahanpur districts are all set to drive over 100 tractors from Pilibhit-Shahjahanpur border to Delhi on January 22 to take part in the proposed tractor rally to the national capital on Republic Day.A local farmer leader associated with Rashtriya Kisan Majdoor Sangathan (RKMS) Kuldeep Singh said, “Women carry equal responsibilities in all spheres of farming life and they will drive tractors to Delhi to show the collective strength of farmers’ families. It will also be an exercise to demonstrate ‘nari shakti’ to the central government.”Another farmer associated with UP-Uttarakhand Sikh Organization, Gurmeet Singh of Nighasan, said, “Police are trying to distract us from our movement, but their appeals are absolutely worthless. We will halt at Rampur where Uttarakhand farmers will join us.” He added that they would appeal to the police to let them proceed peacefully and not disrupt law and order.Meanwhile, IG (Bareilly zone) Rajesh Kumar Pandey said that police personnel are regularly visiting villages to hold talks with farmers and persuade them not to take part in the tractor rally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/women-farmers-from-west-up-to-drive-over-100-tractors-to-join-r-day-rally/articleshow/80351896.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 20, 2021||Pune||Pune: No let-up in increase in petrol price||PUNE: Petrol prices in the city on Tuesday went up by 24 paise per litre to Rs91.47. All India Petrol Dealers Association national spokesperson Ali Daruwala said the price of diesel remained unchanged. On Monday, a litre of petrol in the city cost Rs91.23. A litre of petrol cost Rs94.26 on Tuesday in Parbhani, highest in the country. This was increase of 26 paise in a day from Monday’s Rs93.97. A source associated with the industry said the cost of petrol in Pune city was expected to increase by around 30 paise on Wednesday. There may not be further rse after that,” the source said. Sagar Rukari, vice-president of the Federation of All Maharashtra Petrol Dealers’ Association, said though the crude oil prices were going down, the government has increased the excise duty. “In 2013, the crude oil prices were the highest. But the excise duty was low. After 2013, crude oil prices started coming down. But the government increased the excise duty. Its version that fuel price is based on the international market is incorrect,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-let-up-in-increase-in-petrol-price/articleshow/80355596.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 20, 2021||Trichy||26,000 health workers across Tamil Nadu given shot in four days||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu vaccinated 9,446 health workers, 9,305 with Covishield and 141 with Covaxin, till 7pm on Tuesday, while recording 543 fresh cases and nine deaths. The Covid-19 case tally went up to 8,31,866 and death toll to 12,281. Active cases stood at 5,487. In the past four days, 25,908 healthcare providers received the vaccine in Tamil Nadu. “More people are coming forward to get themselves vaccinated. While we are not in a race to reach the target, we are confident we will be able to cover most healthcare providers before the deadline. We are also increasing vaccination centres so people can close to centres near home,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. He inaugurated a vaccination centre at SIMS Hospitals, Vadapalani, on Tuesday. He said Covishield vaccine will be administered free of cost in the hospital for prioritised beneficiaries in phase-I. Since glitches persisted with the Cowin portal, the public health department posted additional staff to update data even after office hours. On Tuesday, at least seven districts overshot their targets for vaccination. For instance, Namakkal vaccinated 434 healthcare providers against the target of 300 in three sessions, and Kovilpatti vaccinated 140 against the target of 100 in one session. Over all, the state has covered 56% of the target for the day and 38% of the target over the last four days. Some districts continue to vaccinate less than a quarter of the people targeted. Tiruvarur, for instance, vaccinated 56 of the targeted 400 beneficiaries. The six centres that were offering Covaxin targeted 600 vaccinations on Tuesday, but managed to inoculate 141 beneficiaries – Chennai (58), Trichy (40), Thanjavur (34), Pudukottai (6), Tirunelveli (3) and Chengalpet (0). Meanwhile, barring Kallakurichi, all other districts in the state added cases to the Covid registry, and seven districts reported deaths. While Chennai recorded three deaths, Tiruvallur two, and Coimbatore, Erode, Kancheepuram and Villupuram one each. Chennai had the most fresh cases, 152, followed by Coimbatore with 58. All other districts reported fewer than 50, with 21 recording a single-digit rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/26000-health-workers-across-state-given-shot-in-four-days/articleshow/80360382.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Pune||Frontline workers receive jabs after days spent in contact-tracing and testing||Pune: For Aniket Shevkari and Santosh Gholap, the Covid-19 vaccine shots they took on Tuesday meant a lot as they came after difficult days spent at the swab collection centres, Covid care units and tracing contacts of Covid-19 patients.Both were actively involved in pandemic-related work for over five months and have been on the field despite the fear of contracting the virus. Their Covid-19 duty continued even after taking the vaccine on Tuesday as both headed to the swab collection centre, their latest place of work.“The last few months were hectic and challenging, but we feel we were able to contribute to the society during the tough times. There were many like us on the field and everyone contributed towards the fight against Covid. Though the cases have reduced, the pandemic has not ended. People are still turning up at the swab centres. That is why people should continue to follow social distancing norms,” Shevkari said, after completing his 30 minutes mandatory rest after taking the jab.Shevkari is attached to the Bhavani Peth ward office of the Pune Municipal Corporation, while Gholap is a Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd employee. He is engaged in Covid-related work for the last few months.“We used to help the medical staff at the swab centres, go for contact tracing to identify the vulnerable or those suspected to have been infected. It used to be a challenging task. Some days were very hectic when the outbreak was at its peak,” Gholap said.Shevkari said he contracted the virus while working. “Since I was exposed to many people, I realised I could get infected. I immediately sought treatment and went into isolation. After recovery, I joined duty,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/frontline-workers-receive-jabs-after-days-spent-in-contact-tracing-and-testing/articleshow/80355658.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 20, 2021||Pune||Vaccine beneficiaries choose to leave behind the grim period & begin afresh||Pune: Considering the hard work put in by frontline workers ever since the first coronavirus case was detected in Pune until now, vaccine beneficiaries said that they were happy to be a part of the drive and had no apprehension about taking the jab. They reported at the notified vaccine centres to get their shot on the second day of the drive in the city on Tuesday.Bharat Sonawane, who worked as a helper at various swab collection centres during the peak of the pandemic, said, “The vaccine will bring a huge relief to people as there was no dedicated medicine to the infection so far. I saw many patients face medical complications due to Covid-19. It was a learning experience for all.”Doctors, who saw the condition of some serious Covid-19 patients recalled the challenges they faced while managing patients. A doctor attached to Kamala Nehru Hospital Mahesh Gutte said, “The pandemic posed a challenge for everyone. I have been involved in work related to Covid-19, including treatment of patients and consulting their families, since a few months. Now that the vaccine is out people should not forget the precautionary measures they were following.”Nurse Pooja Rathod from PCMC’s hospital at Punawale recalled how the first Covid-19 positive patient in PCMC was admitted at their hospital on March 11 last year. “We did not know how to treat Covid-19 patients at the time. I had helped treat him without wearing mask and I was also in contact with his family members. Since then, I have been involved in treating Covid-19 positive patients. Fortunately, I did not test positive for the virus. After taking the vaccine on Tuesday, I am confident and I can work without any apprehensions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vaccine-beneficiaries-choose-to-leave-behind-the-grim-period-begin-afresh/articleshow/80355653.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: On day 3, vaccine coverage at 71%||HYDERABAD: The state recorded 71 per cent coverage of targeted beneficiaries on Tuesday, one of the highest percentages in the country. As against a target of 73,673 beneficiaries in the state, 51,997 were vaccinated. However, there were nearly 22,000 dropouts. While on the launch day (Saturday) the coverage was 92 per cent of the target, on Monday it was 82 per cent, which fell further. This pulled down the cumulative percentage of beneficiaries vaccinated to 74 per cent as against 84 per cent a day ago. Even as vaccination centres across the city tackled lack of interest from beneficiaries, some Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs) did not get a list of beneficiaries to be vaccinated and remained empty throughout the day. Among them was the Hafeezpet centre where no list was sent by the state health department and the staffers remained clueless about the plan. When TOI visited the centre, staffers said that there was no vaccination happening at the centre on Tuesday as there was no communication. Nearly 16 staffers at the Kukatpally UPHC are also still waiting for their names to be put on the list. However, they are happy about the delay from the government’s side. “I am not looking forward to taking the vaccine. Since our centre is not a vaccination centre and we have not been put on the list so far, I am hoping that our turn will not come for a few days. I also have some health issues and will not be able to take the vaccine,” said a staffer, speaking on condition of anonymity. Even at centres where beneficiaries were given another day to change their mind no such interest was seen. At UPHC Tilaknagar, UPHC Lingampally and the Area Hospital Golconda all methods of persuasion fell on deaf ears. Vaccine site in-charge officers at the Osmania General Hospital (OGH) and at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) tried their best to convince beneficiaries but failed to evoke any interest. There were 51 case of adverse events following immunization (AEFI) recorded in the state. Of the 51, three had to be hospitalized but are stable, as per Dr G Srinivasa Rao, the director public health, Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/on-day-3-vaccine-coverage-at-71/articleshow/80354064.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 20, 2021||Chennai||Retail flower vendors cannot be evicted: Madras high court||CHENNAI: Coming to the rescue of hundreds of vendors in Badrian Street flower market at Broadway, the Madras high court has said they cannot be evicted if they confine themselves to retail trading. A full bench of Justice R Mahadevan, Justice N Seshasayee and Justice G R Swaminathan said once a market area is earmarked and notified and declared under the Tamil Nadu Specific Commodities Markets Act, then wholesale trading can be carried on only in the market area. But, if the affected individuals are ready to mend their ways and agree to confine themselves to retail trading or if they propose to shift their trade to non-specified commodities, the local authority cannot continue to keep the premises under lock and seal, the court added. The issue pertains to scores of litigations moved in the high court following the declaration of Koyambedu Flower Market as designated wholesale market for flowers and other perishable items in 1996. While many vendors on Badrian Street moved to Koyambedu, some stayed back and claimed that they had restricted their business to retail vending. Finally, on November 30, 2018, a division bench of the court made a reference to the full bench to decide if the Acts authorise authorities to seal the premises of offending traders, and which authority is empowered to determine whether a vendor is carrying on wholesale or retail trade. On Tuesday, the full bench said: “We have no doubt whatsoever that nowhere the statute contemplates eviction. The only mandate of law is that wholesale trade in specified commodities should be carried on within the market area and not in non-market areas.” If this proviso is violated, the local authority (CMDA) can take coercive measures, the court said. The judges also held that the CMDA is empowered to determine whether a person is carrying out retail or wholesale, but it should be on the basis of proper materials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/retail-flower-vendors-cannot-be-evicted-hc/articleshow/80354104.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Nagpur||Wildlife lovers ruffled over renaming of Gorewada zoo||Nagpur: Wildlife lovers in the city have termed the decision of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government to rename Gorewada International Zoo as Balasaheb Thackeray Gorewada International Zoological Park as politically motivated. The park will be opened by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on January 26. Earlier, the plan was to open it on January 23 by forest minister Sanjay Rathod. The renaming was done following a proposal by the Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM), which is executing the project, on January 14. The Nagpur-Mumbai Expressway too has been renamed as Hindu Hrudaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray Maharashtra Samruddhi Mahamarg. “The state government should see how such projects will be completed and how the region will benefit by employment opportunities. It should have been renamed after people who have dedicated their entire life to wildlife conservation. It is 15 years since the project was conceptualized. Only the Indian Safari is ready while work on the African Safari has not even started,” said wildlife photographer Sarosh Lodhi. “Across the world, zoos or landscapes are named after the city where they are located. This gives a boost to the socio-economic growth of the city and indirectly the population around it. All policymakers from all parties should start thinking on these terms because the common man and his community need more uplift than those who have already made their mark,” said former honorary wildlife warden Jaydeep Das. A state wildlife board member, who did not want to be quoted, said, “It is a political decision. We could have also renamed it after Maruti Chitampalli, the well-known wildlife conservationist and writer from Maharashtra” Wildlife lover and medical practitioner Dr Jerryl Banait said, “The government could have given a name familiar to Vidarbha or Nagpur. It could have been Orange City Zoological Park. It has become a tradition to rename roads, auditoriums and flyovers after leaders.” Wildlife conservationist Prafulla Bhamburkar sees no problem in the renaming ‘Gorewada’ is still intact in the new name. “The Thackeray government has taken many decisions in the favour of forest and wildlife,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wildlife-lovers-ruffled-over-renaming-of-gorewada-zoo/articleshow/80354079.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 20, 2021||Kolkata||Poll shadow over February campus reopening in West Bengal||KOLKATA: Bengal’s impending elections have cast a shadow on a possible phase-wise school re-opening schedule from February. Several states and union territories have already begun the phased reopening of schools and colleges. With no clarity on the dates of holding exams, sources in the education department informed that the state government was trying to get confirmation from the Election Commission before planning any schedule for resumption of physical classes. The EC has already indicated that it may advance the Bengal polls to avoid any clash with board and entrance examinations. Principal of St Xavier’s College (autonomous) Kolkata, Fr. Dominic Savio said, “We have received several e-mails from students asking for a date to reopen the campus for physical classes. We have tentatively decided to begin classes and hold practical sessions for the final year science students from the end of February or the beginning of March. We are hoping to receive some directive from the state by that time. But, as we will reopen the campus for the final year student, we also have plans to provide access to hostels for these students.” “Most of the states which are gearing up for elections have also given the go-ahead to conduct physical classes mainly for the students between classes IX and XII. On the other hand, there are also instances of several students and teachers contracting Covid. Safety of students, teachers and school officials will be a key before deciding on campus reopening,” said a senior education department official. “Studies have received a major setback. There is an acute digital divide. We are yet to understand if students from remote areas or who have only attended the virtual classes, can cope up with studies and are adequately equipped to take the Board examinations,” rued a teacher. Another principal, who heads a CISCE affiliated school, said, “We are concerned about Class-XII students who have a major section of the curriculum based on practical. Bengal students will be disadvantaged if other states resume classes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/poll-shadow-over-feb-campus-reopening/articleshow/80354106.cms||Somdatta Basu
January 20, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Youth hits woman constable at park, held||JAIPUR: A woman constable was injured after a youth punched her in the face at a public park situated at Galta Gate police station area late on Tuesday. The constable had gone to the park after some locals complained that a youth was eve-teasing and his activities were disturbing people in the park. The injured constable has lodged a case and the accused youth has been arrested. According to the police, the woman constable, Sonu, was on duty when she was intimated by the control room that a youth was disturbing people in the park. “After she reached the park, she first asked the youth as to why was he not wearing a mask. The youth, who was wearing an iron clip in his fingers, punched the constable on her nose. She started to bleed profusely and was shocked,” said a senior police officer. After the attack, the youth started to flee on his bike but was unsuccessful in starting the bike and thus ran away and left the bike behind. “Based on the registration number of the bike, the youth was identified and arrested,” said an officer. The accused, identified as Lokesh Kumar, a resident of Mandi Khatikan of Galta Gate area was arrested. “I just asked him to tell his name and address and asked as to why he was not wearing a mask. The youth put his one hand in his pocket to which I thought he was bringing out his mask. But he attacked me with an iron clip,” said the constable. The fellow policewoman though attempted to catch Lokesh, but failed and he escaped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-hits-woman-constable-at-park-held/articleshow/80355660.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur woman kills husband after scuffle over eating out, held||JAIPUR: A scuffle between husband and wife took an ugly turn when a woman killed her husband by hitting him with a hammer in Bagru police station area during early hours on Tuesday. When her husband died after the attack, she intimated her relatives that the man has met with an accident. However, by afternoon, when the family was at the funeral of the deceased, police arrested the woman for murder. According to the police, Suraj Mal Bairwa (45) came to his house at Bagru under inebriated condition at 11pm on Monday. “His wife Mamta Devi had cooked dinner for him but he insisted on going out to have non-vegetarian food. This triggered an argument between them. When the husband started thrashing her, the woman picked up a hammer and hit the husband on the head and other parts of the body. She confessed that she was in rage and thus hit him hard,” said Bajrang Singh Shekhawat, additional deputy commissioner of police (west). At 4am on Tuesday, when she realised that her husband had died after the attack, she called up her relatives in the native village of the family that her husband had met with an accident and died. “The woman along with her three children and relatives took the body to Bhagwatsinghpura village under Phagi police station area. However, some of the locals intimated us and said that they don’t believe the theory of the woman that her husband met with an accident,” Singh added. Thus in the afternoon, when the body was taken for the funeral, police reached the spot and took the woman into custody for interrogation. “She confessed her crime and stated that it was a murder in a fit of rage since her husband was beating her over a trivial issue of eating out,” Singh said. “The woman has been arrested on the charges of murder,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-kills-husband-after-scuffle-over-eating-out-held/articleshow/80355661.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Meerut||UP panchayat casts out man for embracing Christianity||BIJNOR: A man in a village in Nahtaur region of Bijnor has been excommunicated by the village panchayat for allegedly converting to Christianity recently. The villagers also allege that a meeting was also organised recently in the village where religious material was distributed and ash -- claiming to have 'healing powers' -- was also given to those present. The panchayat was held in Harganpur village under Nahtaur police station area on Monday. According to villagers, spiritual discourse is conducted in the house of one Param Singh Saini every Sunday by some members of the Christian community. Villagers have objected to it, but Saini clearly announced himself as a Christian and said that he, along with his family members, has embraced Christianity. Village head Satish Kumar said, "When Param Singh Saini embraced Christianity, we tried to make him understand that changing religion is not good, but he was obstinate and did not change his mind. Villagers then held a meeting and took the decision to boycott him socially. No villager will have any communication with his family." According to Param Singh, "I am a follower of Christianity now. Earlier, I was ill. When I embraced Christianity, god showered His blessings upon me and now I am healthy. It is our constitutional right to follow any religion. I have embraced Christianity without any force, fear or allurement. The Constitution of India provides me the freedom to follow any religion. Some villagers have boycotted me socially. It is their will, but I will welcome all who visit my house." Param Singh Saini also showed a certificate which was provided by church authorities concerned after he embraced Christianity. Bijnor superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh said, "We are probing the matter. Police officials visited the village on Tuesday and talked to Saini. He told the police personnel that he did not convert. He was suffering from some diseases. Then he met some people in Dehradun who treated him. He has now recuperated from illness, and has taken diksha from them and has not converted. Saini did not file any complaint against the villagers for boycotting him. No one in the village has threatened him." Nahtaur's senior sub-inspector Parvendra Singh also denied any knowledge about the meeting in the village and said "one can change religion on his/her own will but not by force. If any complaint is received, action will be taken."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/panchayat-in-bijnor-village-excommunicates-man-for-embracing-christianity/articleshow/80351941.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 20, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu food minister R Kamaraj critical a week after Covid recovery||Chennai: The health condition of state food and civil supplies minister R Kamaraj, who was discharged from a private hospital following treatment for Covid-19 a week ago, is critical, according to doctors attending on him. He is on life support including ECMO. His condition remains critical though his vital parameters had stabilised after he was put on life support. Doctors said the viral infection has severely affected his lung function. “We are treating him aggressively knowing well the recovery will be slow,” said a senior doctor at the MGM Hospital. The minister, who was discharged after a week’s treatment from a private hospital, returned with severe breathlessness two days ago. On Tuesday morning, he was shifted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, where he was put on a ventilator. A team of doctors from MGM hospital went in for consultation and recommended that he be moved to their centre for higher care. DMK president M K Stalin tweeted wishing him a speedy recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/food-min-critical-a-week-after-covid-recovery/articleshow/80354172.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan: 45% fail to turn up for jabs on third day of inoculation drive||JAIPUR: The enthusiasm among the healthcare workers towards the Covid-19 vaccine seems to have dampened a bit as 46% of them did not turn up for vaccination even though they were listed for Tuesday’s Covid vaccination in Co-WIN app. The healthcare workers who got vaccinated with Covaxin were 141 which was 23.5% of the target of vaccinating 600 with Covaxin. Besides, the target achieved of vaccinating healthcare workers with Covishield was 56.1% on Tuesday. The vaccination was done online as the Co-WIN app worked without any glitches. The Co-WIN app now provides an option to add the name of registered healthcare workers, if anyone of them comes and asks the vaccination in-charge to get vaccinated even though his name is not listed for vaccination on that particular day. The arrangement has been done as a lot of healthcare workers, who are listed for vaccination for a particular day, do not turn up on that day. In place of such healthcare workers who do not turn up, the vaccination in-charges have now the option to vaccinate others. The target of vaccination at each session site is 100. The percentage of target achievement is decreasing every day. Some healthcare workers are slightly jittery, even as those who have got the shot are encouraging others to get the vaccine saying that it was safe and they do not have any adverse impacts though three days have passed. On Day 1 of Covid inoculation drive, the achievement of target in the state was 73.7%, on Day 2 of the vaccination drive, the achievement of target was 68.7% and on Day 3 (Tuesday), it has gone further down to 54.8%, shows the report issued by the health department on Tuesday. The number of healthcare workers who got the vaccine was 12,258, which reduced to 11,288 on Day 2 and on Day 3 (Tuesday), the number of health care workers was 8,833. Dr Dhan Raj Bagri, vaccination in-charge, JK Lon hospital, said, “Some healthcare workers are showing hesitancy, at the same time, some are showing eagerness. We are finding both at our hospital. In our hospital, 11,097 healthcare workers are registered. The hesitancy is due to rumours but we are trying to neutralize the rumours to encourage the healthcare workers to get the vaccines.” In other hospitals too, the vaccination in-charges have to put in a lot of efforts to encourage the healthcare workers to get it done. “Some of them need some counselling for vaccination, while some of the healthcare workers come to us willingly to get vaccinated,” said Dr Shalini Rathore, in-charge vaccination, Mahila Chikitsalaya. In some places, the vaccination in-charges have to call the healthcare workers encouraging them to get vaccinated. They counsel them by saying that they have already been injected with the vaccine and they are feeling fine and they do not have any adverse events following vaccination. They also encourage the healthcare workers saying that the vaccine is safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/45-fail-to-turn-up-for-jabs-on-third-day-of-inoculation-drive/articleshow/80357331.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 45% fail to turn up for jabs on third day of inoculation drive||JAIPUR: The enthusiasm among the healthcare workers towards the Covid-19 vaccine seems to have dampened a bit as 46% of them did not turn up for vaccination even though they were listed for Tuesday’s Covid vaccination in Co-WIN app. The healthcare workers who got vaccinated with Covaxin were 141 which was 23.5% of the target of vaccinating 600 with Covaxin. Besides, the target achieved of vaccinating healthcare workers with Covishield was 56.1% on Tuesday. The vaccination was done online as the Co-WIN app worked without any glitches. The Co-WIN app now provides an option to add the name of registered healthcare workers, if anyone of them comes and asks the vaccination in-charge to get vaccinated even though his name is not listed for vaccination on that particular day. The arrangement has been done as a lot of healthcare workers, who are listed for vaccination for a particular day, do not turn up on that day. In place of such healthcare workers who do not turn up, the vaccination in-charges have now the option to vaccinate others. The target of vaccination at each session site is 100. The percentage of target achievement is decreasing every day. Some healthcare workers are slightly jittery, even as those who have got the shot are encouraging others to get the vaccine saying that it was safe and they do not have any adverse impacts though three days have passed. On Day 1 of Covid inoculation drive, the achievement of target in the state was 73.7%, on Day 2 of the vaccination drive, the achievement of target was 68.7% and on Day 3 (Tuesday), it has gone further down to 54.8%, shows the report issued by the health department on Tuesday. The number of healthcare workers who got the vaccine was 12,258, which reduced to 11,288 on Day 2 and on Day 3 (Tuesday), the number of health care workers was 8,833. Dr Dhan Raj Bagri, vaccination in-charge, JK Lon hospital, said, “Some healthcare workers are showing hesitancy, at the same time, some are showing eagerness. We are finding both at our hospital. In our hospital, 11,097 healthcare workers are registered. The hesitancy is due to rumours but we are trying to neutralize the rumours to encourage the healthcare workers to get the vaccines.” In other hospitals too, the vaccination in-charges have to put in a lot of efforts to encourage the healthcare workers to get it done. “Some of them need some counselling for vaccination, while some of the healthcare workers come to us willingly to get vaccinated,” said Dr Shalini Rathore, in-charge vaccination, Mahila Chikitsalaya. In some places, the vaccination in-charges have to call the healthcare workers encouraging them to get vaccinated. They counsel them by saying that they have already been injected with the vaccine and they are feeling fine and they do not have any adverse events following vaccination. They also encourage the healthcare workers saying that the vaccine is safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/45-fail-to-turn-up-for-jabs-on-third-day-of-inoculation-drive/articleshow/80355667.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||51 cases of AEFI on Tuesday; 3 admitted to hosp, but stable||Hyderabad: The state recorded 51 cases of adverse events following immunization (AEFI) on Tuesday. Of these, three patients had to be hospitalised, but they are currently stable, said health authorities. “So far, 69,625 people have been vaccinated in the state and 77 have had a reaction,” an official statement from the state health department told TOI on Tuesday. All cases of AEFI have so far shown mild to moderate symptoms. Health officials said there have been no cases of serious side effects in the state yet. Meanwhile, the 29-year-old lady who was rushed to the state-run Gandhi Hospital on Monday after vomiting, feeling giddy and weak, post taking the vaccine on Saturday is still being monitored at the hospital. Another beneficiary vaccinated on Monday, an Asha worker too developed giddiness and complained of vomiting on Tuesday morning. She was rushed to the Gandhi Hospital. “She is being monitored and all relevant tests will be done. She had been on medication for seizures for the last six years, but did not develop any seizures in the last three years. She will be under observation. In the previous case, all parameters are normal, but we will keep the patient under observation for two to three days,” said Dr M Raja Rao, superintendent, Gandhi Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/51-cases-of-aefi-on-tuesday-3-admitted-to-hosp-but-stable/articleshow/80354115.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 20, 2021||Bareilly||UP govt takes possession of 173 acres of Rampur MP Azam Khan’s Jauhar Trust||RAMPUR: The Rampur district administration has registered 172.9 acres of Maulana Mohammad Ali Jauhar Trust — established and run by Rampur Samajwadi Party MP Azam Khan and his family — in the state’s revenue records following an order by the court of additional district magistrate (ADM) JP Gupta while noting that “the Trust had violated UP government's norms while purchasing the land”. The ADM had also directed the sub-divisional magistrate to acquire the land on which, among other things, the sprawling campus of Mohammad Ali Jauhar University was set up over 500 acres. Azam Khan is the chancellor of the university. According to officials, the government will now decide the fate of the institution. Confirming the development, Rampur district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh told TOI that they would now send a report in this connection to the UP chief secretary and the state Revenue Board. The ADM court noted that the Trust had violated the government order that permitted it to purchase more than 12 acres only on the laid down conditions — such as it would not buy land belonging to people from SC/ST categories nor would it acquire riverbeds or floodplains or any land belonging to gram samaj or a ‘Chak’ road. “But the Trust violated these terms as well as sections of the Uttar Pradesh Revenue Act,” added the court. The court observed that Trust chairman Azam Khan also failed to prove that the Trust carried any charitable act. It was found during the inquiry that “no free education is provided to students belonging to the minority communities or economically weaker sections at the university,” it noted. The DM, meanwhile, said, “With this order, the state government acquires the right to decide the fate of the university and other premises constructed on the land.” Azam’s family could not be reached for a comment, but sources privy to the family told TOI that the MP’s wife and Rampur MLA Tanzeen Fatma, who is also a member of Jauhar Trust, is preparing to challenge the order in a higher court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-govt-takes-possession-of-173-acres-of-rampur-mp-azam-khans-trust/articleshow/80351916.cms||Nazar Abbas
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Act of compassion: When a cop helped me feed strays through lockdown||The pandemic has not just been hard for people, it has been tough for stray animals too, especially during the lockdown. I have been taking care of a few stray dogs around the KBR Park main gate area for several years now. But the lockdown was so sudden, that it did not give me any time to make arrangements for feeding the dogs. Most of the stray animals, mainly dogs, depend on chai shops, small eateries and restaurants for food and water. With all of that being closed, they would starve. The dogs I fed were used to a regular supply of food and all I could think of was trying to somehow get food to them and other hungry strays. I tried several sources but nothing good came out of it. Just when things started to look gloomy, I was reminded of a policeman at the KBR main gate. He had once helped me give medicine to a dog named Cherry. Every dog is different, some trust you immediately while others, even after years of knowing you, will not allow you to get close to them. Cherry belongs to the second group. She needed treatment for a skin condition, but despite all my efforts she refused the food mixed with the medicine. In my desperation to get her to have the medicine, I had requested this policeman, who I had once seen giving biscuits to the dogs, and he had obliged. I knew that the police would be on duty and he was my last resort. He recognised me when I called and even agreed to help. While for the first few times he had to pick the food from my home at Banjara Hills, we later worked out a way of getting the dog food delivered to him. What started as a request for help for 10 days, with the extension of the lockdown, increased to several months. With the road side eateries being closed, the number of dogs that needed to be fed increased. He started feeding 25 dogs every day and sharing pictures of the dogs with me. It was a lot of work and was taking up his free time. At times I felt that he would give up but he did not. He helped all of them stay alive and helped me remain sane. He still continues to feed a few of them at Jubilee Checkpost. I will always be grateful to him for his help. He is Kadavath Praveen Kumar, an A R Constable with the Interceptor stationed at KBR. His act restored my faith in humanity. (The writer is a HR professional and animal lover)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/act-of-compassion-when-a-cop-helped-me-feed-strays-through-lockdown/articleshow/80354111.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana waits for more Covaxin doses||HYDERABAD: Even as the state received the second batch of 3.5 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine (not Covaxin), the rollout of Bharat Biotech’s vaccine seems to be getting delayed. In the first batch, the state had received 3.5 lakh doses, including 20,000 Covaxin doses. “We got only 20,000 doses of Covaxin till now. We need to administer two vaccine doses for each person. We will wait for some more time for the vaccine doses to arrive,” Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director of public health, said. “We are hoping that we can roll out Covaxin by next week, but that will depend on the vaccine supply,” he added. The state government had set January 22 deadline for completing the process of giving vaccine doses to government healthcare workers. Officials said all of them were being administered Serum Institute of India’s Covishield. Sources said consent form requirement for Covaxin has kept some of the health care persons thinking. “No harmful effects of any vaccine have been reported. The vaccines available to be administered are developed under safe conditions. We are trying our best to educate every one on taking the vaccine,” health minister Eatala Rajender said. Meanwhile, vaccine rollout for private hospitals with linkage to the government vaccination centres will begin on Monday. There are 6,106 private hospitals in Telangana and about two lakh employees are working in them. About 200 vaccine session sites are being arranged for persons working in private health care institutes. “Private hospitals having more than 100 beds will be made as session sites. Rest of them will be connected with government vaccine centres which are linked with cold chain points,” said Dr Srinivasa Rao. Earlier, there had been a delay in linking private vaccine centres to cold chain points through the CoWin app, one of the reasons these centres did not start vaccinations from Saturday. Meanwhile, the Union health ministry has lauded the government for the successful administration of vaccine to healthcare workers in the state and in big numbers, health secretary Syed Ali Murtaza Rizvi said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-waits-for-more-covaxin-doses/articleshow/80354100.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 20, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan: 45% fail to turn up for jabs on third day of inoculation drive||JAIPUR: The enthusiasm among the healthcare workers towards the Covid-19 vaccine seems to have dampened a bit as 46% of them did not turn up for vaccination even though they were listed for Tuesday’s Covid vaccination in Co-WIN app. The healthcare workers who got vaccinated with Covaxin were 141 which was 23.5% of the target of vaccinating 600 with Covaxin. Besides, the target achieved of vaccinating healthcare workers with Covishield was 56.1% on Tuesday. The vaccination was done online as the Co-WIN app worked without any glitches. The Co-WIN app now provides an option to add the name of registered healthcare workers, if anyone of them comes and asks the vaccination in-charge to get vaccinated even though his name is not listed for vaccination on that particular day. The arrangement has been done as a lot of healthcare workers, who are listed for vaccination for a particular day, do not turn up on that day. In place of such healthcare workers who do not turn up, the vaccination in-charges have now the option to vaccinate others. The target of vaccination at each session site is 100. The percentage of target achievement is decreasing every day. Some healthcare workers are slightly jittery, even as those who have got the shot are encouraging others to get the vaccine saying that it was safe and they do not have any adverse impacts though three days have passed. On Day 1 of Covid inoculation drive, the achievement of target in the state was 73.7%, on Day 2 of the vaccination drive, the achievement of target was 68.7% and on Day 3 (Tuesday), it has gone further down to 54.8%, shows the report issued by the health department on Tuesday. The number of healthcare workers who got the vaccine was 12,258, which reduced to 11,288 on Day 2 and on Day 3 (Tuesday), the number of health care workers was 8,833. Dr Dhan Raj Bagri, vaccination in-charge, JK Lon hospital, said, “Some healthcare workers are showing hesitancy, at the same time, some are showing eagerness. We are finding both at our hospital. In our hospital, 11,097 healthcare workers are registered. The hesitancy is due to rumours but we are trying to neutralize the rumours to encourage the healthcare workers to get the vaccines.” In other hospitals too, the vaccination in-charges have to put in a lot of efforts to encourage the healthcare workers to get it done. “Some of them need some counselling for vaccination, while some of the healthcare workers come to us willingly to get vaccinated,” said Dr Shalini Rathore, in-charge vaccination, Mahila Chikitsalaya. In some places, the vaccination in-charges have to call the healthcare workers encouraging them to get vaccinated. They counsel them by saying that they have already been injected with the vaccine and they are feeling fine and they do not have any adverse events following vaccination. They also encourage the healthcare workers saying that the vaccine is safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/45-fail-to-turn-up-for-jabs-on-third-day-of-inoculation-drive/articleshow/80357333.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: 45% fail to turn up for jabs on third day of inoculation drive||JAIPUR: The enthusiasm among the healthcare workers towards the Covid-19 vaccine seems to have dampened a bit as 46% of them did not turn up for vaccination even though they were listed for Tuesday’s Covid vaccination in Co-WIN app. The healthcare workers who got vaccinated with Covaxin were 141 which was 23.5% of the target of vaccinating 600 with Covaxin. Besides, the target achieved of vaccinating healthcare workers with Covishield was 56.1% on Tuesday. The vaccination was done online as the Co-WIN app worked without any glitches. The Co-WIN app now provides an option to add the name of registered healthcare workers, if anyone of them comes and asks the vaccination in-charge to get vaccinated even though his name is not listed for vaccination on that particular day. The arrangement has been done as a lot of healthcare workers, who are listed for vaccination for a particular day, do not turn up on that day. In place of such healthcare workers who do not turn up, the vaccination in-charges have now the option to vaccinate others. The target of vaccination at each session site is 100. The percentage of target achievement is decreasing every day. Some healthcare workers are slightly jittery, even as those who have got the shot are encouraging others to get the vaccine saying that it was safe and they do not have any adverse impacts though three days have passed. On Day 1 of Covid inoculation drive, the achievement of target in the state was 73.7%, on Day 2 of the vaccination drive, the achievement of target was 68.7% and on Day 3 (Tuesday), it has gone further down to 54.8%, shows the report issued by the health department on Tuesday. The number of healthcare workers who got the vaccine was 12,258, which reduced to 11,288 on Day 2 and on Day 3 (Tuesday), the number of health care workers was 8,833. Dr Dhan Raj Bagri, vaccination in-charge, JK Lon hospital, said, “Some healthcare workers are showing hesitancy, at the same time, some are showing eagerness. We are finding both at our hospital. In our hospital, 11,097 healthcare workers are registered. The hesitancy is due to rumours but we are trying to neutralize the rumours to encourage the healthcare workers to get the vaccines.” In other hospitals too, the vaccination in-charges have to put in a lot of efforts to encourage the healthcare workers to get it done. “Some of them need some counselling for vaccination, while some of the healthcare workers come to us willingly to get vaccinated,” said Dr Shalini Rathore, in-charge vaccination, Mahila Chikitsalaya. In some places, the vaccination in-charges have to call the healthcare workers encouraging them to get vaccinated. They counsel them by saying that they have already been injected with the vaccine and they are feeling fine and they do not have any adverse events following vaccination. They also encourage the healthcare workers saying that the vaccine is safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/45-fail-to-turn-up-for-jabs-on-third-day-of-inoculation-drive/articleshow/80357332.cms||---
January 20, 2021||India||Lt-General C P Mohanty to be new vice-chief of Army||NEW DELHI: Lt-General C P Mohanty will take over as the new vice-chief of the 13-lakh strong Army from Lt-General S K Saini after he superannuates on January 31. Lt-Gen Mohanty, who is currently the Southern Command chief, had commanded the crucial 33 Corps in the eastern sector immediately after the 73-day confrontation with China at Doklam near the Sikkim-Bhutan-Tibet tri-junction in June-August 2017. Commissioned into the Rajput Regiment in 1982, Mohanty has served across a wide spectrum of conflicts and terrain profiles, along the fronts with both China and Pakistan as well as counter-terror operations in J&K and the northeast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lt-general-c-p-mohanty-to-be-new-vice-chief-of-army/articleshow/80356681.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Indore||Picnic turns tragic as teen drowns while trying to rescue aunt||Indore: A family picnic turned tragic when a 13-year-old girl drowned while trying to rescue her aunt, who fell into water while taking a selfie. As she slipped, seven other women also jumped in to rescue her. While the others were rescued by the villagers, the minor died. Police said the incident was reported at Rajanal lake in Dewas when eight women of a family went for a picnic on Monday. While clicking selfies, a woman identified as Rukhsana slipped and fell into the lake. After seeing her struggling in water, all other women jumped in to save her. Hearing their screams, fishermen and villagers rushed to the spot and rescued seven of them but were unable to find 13-year-old Nuzzat, a resident of Sanwer. The rescue operation was stopped in the evening but was commenced early morning and her body was found around 8:00 am on Tuesday. Dewas SP Shiv Dayal Singh said that a case has been registered and the body was handed over to the family after postmortem examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/picnic-turns-tragic-as-teen-drowns-while-trying-to-rescue-aunt/articleshow/80368823.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Kolkata||Avishikta crossing Metro work likely after R-Day||Kolkata: Purba Jadavpur traffic guard has submitted a detailed report to Lalbazar about the proposed traffic diversions for several months at the Avishikta crossing after the completion of the three-day trial run carried out by local cops. On the basis of the report, the headquarters will give their consent to the proposed diversions. The consent will finally allow the Metro authorities to take over the crossing and construct the crucial pillar for the New Garia-Airport Metro link. According to sources, the report has indicated that Metro may be handed over a portion of the important crossing on or immediately after the Republic Day. “A final survey and spot inspection are expected any time from Wednesday by Lalbazar,” said an officer. The report mentioned in detail about the remaining work that needs to be completed at the crossing before the final blockade is allowed. “Among the two crucial issues, one is re-installation of the signalling system. As the new culverts on the northern and southern flanks of EM Bypass will be used by vehicles, the signals will have to be put up soon so that motorists will not face any problem,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/avishikta-crossing-metro-work-likely-after-r-day/articleshow/80354146.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Central Railway plans fine dining restaurant on wheels at CSMT||MUMBAI: You will soon be able to enjoy the experience of dining in a restaurant which will have a rail-theme if things go to plan. The Central Railway has firmed up its plan to set up dining amenity in a train coach at the entrance of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Railway Terminus, near Carnac Bunder. Central Railway’s chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar said, “A discarded coach will be allotted through open tender to set up a restaurant on wheels that will most likely become a landmark eating house in south Mumbai.” The decision to set up a restaurant was taken after the railway board had, two years ago, asked zonal railways to set up rail-themed eateries by refurbishing old coaches. Central Railway has estimated to rake in around Rs 28 lakh by offering this facility to a contractor. The train coach, the railway track and the drainage system would be provided by Central Railway. The location selected is CSMT’s P D’mello side entrance because it has ample space to accommodate the rail theme-based restaurant. Moreover, this entrance is not that popular among passengers who generally prefer to take road transport either from Dadabhai Naoroji Road or the General Post Office building side. The restaurant will be a fine-dining place and will offer a unique experience. “The coach will accommodate 50 patrons but we will also put up tables outside the coach,” said a railway official. The place offers ample parking space besides easy connectivity to the suburbs via the Freeway which is barely 500 metres away from this side of the railway terminus. It also has ample parking place. Madhya Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation, had started the rail coach restaurant concept by launching the ‘Shane-e-Bhopal Express’ in March 2007. This restaurant has been a hit among the passengers as well as outsiders. In order to popularise the P D’mello side entrance, Central Railway has also set up heritage gallery on World Heritage Day. On display at this site is a 30 ton lifting and hailing steam crane which had been manufactured in 1929 by Messers Cowans Sheldon and Company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cr-plans-fine-dining-restaurant-on-wheels-at-csmt/articleshow/80354187.cms||Manthank Mehta
January 20, 2021||Nagpur||Fadnavis slams Sena over renaming Gorewada zoo||Nagpur: Leader of the opposition in the state assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday slammed the Shiv Sena for renaming Gorewada zoo after former party chief Balasaheb Thackeray. “Nagpur has a large population of Gond tribals and the region is called Gondwana. The tribals wanted to name the zoo after Gondwana and our government had taken a decision in this regard. It is not right to drag Balasaheb into anything which can create controversy,” said the former chief minister. Fadnavis wondered why many projects should be named after Balasaheb Thackeray. “There seems to be a competition between Sena ministers in this regard. Balasaheb was a great man and his greatness will not increase if you name a plethora of projects after him. However, in principle we have no problem with Balasaheb,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fadnavis-slams-sena-over-renaming-gorewada-zoo/articleshow/80354191.cms||Ashish Roy
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid drive 4 days a week||Hyderabad: The Covid-19 vaccination drive will be carried out for four days a week and the regular vaccine programme will be held on two days. The health department on Tuesday announced that Covid-19 drive will be stopped on Wednesday and will resume on Thursday. Officials said on every Wednesday and Saturday, 12 types of regular vaccines including Rubella would be given. Though the Covid-19 vaccination programme began on a Saturday, the state government has given a special directive for a halt of the vaccine on that day. On Sunday, there will be no vaccine drive including for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-drive-4-days-a-week/articleshow/80354167.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Arnab Goswami chats: Maharashtra to check if action possible||MUMBAI: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday said that the state government will be seeking legal opinion on whether action can be taken against Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami under the Official Secrets Act, 1923, for leaking sensitive information in purported chats with former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta. Deshmukh was speaking to mediapersons after a Congress delegation led by party general secretary Sachin Sawant met him to demand that action be taken against Goswami for leaking information related to the Pulwama attack and the Balakot strikes. In the purported chats Goswami told Dasgupta three days before the Balakot strikes that “something big will happen.” Deshmukh said he will hold a meeting with senior police officials to understand whether the state could take any action in this case. “I have sought legal opinion if action can be initiated by the state under Section 5 of the Official Secrets Act.” He said the Centre should take note of the chats as they are directly related to national security. Deshmukh said, “We have taken serious note of the leaked WhatsApp chats between Goswami and Dasgupta. In the chat Arnab mentions the Balakot airstrike two days before it actually happened. It’s a serious threat to national security if such sensitive information was leaked,” he said. Sawant said, “We demand that Goswami should be arrested immediately in view of the fact that he disclosed information pertaining to defence secrets. Further, it should be probed if he shared the information with any other persons.” Sawant alleged that Republic TV has also illegally used the DTH (direct to home) platform of Doordarshan without any agreement with Doordarshan, and a formal complaint was made to the Central ministry in this regard, but no action was taken. “All-out efforts were made to fraudulently enhance TRPs (television rating points),” Sawant said. Sawant said they have demanded action by the Economic Offences Wing with regard to use of the DTH platform as Republic operates from Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/goswami-chats-state-to-check-if-action-possible/articleshow/80354292.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Kolkata||Jottings reveal Soumitra Chatterjee’s unfinished stage dreams||KOLKATA: One lasting regret that Soumitra Chatterjee had was his inability to re-tell the tragedy of King Lear on stage the way he wanted to and for as long as he wanted to. Chatterjee would take to the paper and pen to seek relief from the inner pain, and would at times allow his friend and film and theatre critic Shamik Bandyopadhyay to go through those, hoping to share the pain of an actor’s defeat. Around a month before he fell ill, Chatterjee called his confidante for a chat and handed him sheaves of writings he had copied from his personal diary to be included in the yet-to-be published volume of his prose. Theatre dominated the pages as the actor talked about his unfinished dream of performing in theatres to the hilt, bringing alive challenging character roles and their intrigues that only the stage and its craft permitted. Despite being one of the most successful actors on screen, Chatterjee did not hide his frustration for not being able to play the characters that he dreamt of playing on screen because of the limitations of local cinema and yearned to be on stage. “The last conversation we had as he gave me those papers that he copied from his diary, was no different from his earlier rhetoric: frustration of not being able to play his part on stage and taking to fruition his unique language of acting that somehow froze after ‘King Lear’ was stopped short in the tracks. It remained a great personal tragedy and till the last day, he could not overcome that bitterness,” said Bandyopadhyay, who is working on the last volume of Soumitro’s prose. “‘King Lear’ was staged only for 15-16 nights, while Soumitro dreamt of at least a 100 nights so that he could grow with the role and give it a fitting finale. It was a dream denied to the master and his pen bled in pain,” Bandyopadhyay said. There was some kind of an urgency in Chatterjee’s voice as he had handed the papers to Bandyopadhyay. “He had written about a friend, Gour Mohan Mukherjee, who had introduced him to theatre and to Sisir Bhaduri, and wanted me to include that bit. This was between 1955 and 1959, the last days of Bhaduri and their interaction had left a lasting impact on Soumitro-da’s mind, opening up the vista of theatre to him as a young post-graduate student,” Bandyopadhyay said. Recently, while researching on Bhaduri and Soumitro, Bandyopadhyay also went through the actor’s diary, where he mentioned the eager young theatre-lover who could hold the key to the revival of stage in Bengal one day. Chatterjee’s greater passion for theatre ran through the pages, where he talked about how his own professional theatre company would have done justice to his dream, which was faced with hurdles of long gaps in getting shows. His writings also talked about his passion for Marxist ideologies and his critique of its deviations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jottings-reveal-soumitras-unfinished-stage-dreams/articleshow/80354091.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 20, 2021||Jodhpur||Covid-19: 44 healthcare workers in Rajasthan have complained of adverse events||JAIPUR: Anxiety, nausea and vomiting are the most common symptoms that the healthcare workers complain of, after receiving the Covid-19 vaccine. In the three days of Covid inoculation drive, 44 healthcare workers have complained of adverse events following immunization. On Day 1, the state had reported 21 such cases and 15 cases on day two. On Day 3 (Tuesday), eight healthcare workers reported adverse events. “These are all mild adverse events reported from different parts of the state. None of them required hospitalization,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunization), health department. On Tuesday, three cases of adverse events were reported from Pali, while one each was reported from Ajmer, Alwar, Banswara, Dungarpur and Jodhpur. The report shows that all the eight cases of adverse events were reported after being injected with Covishield. In the state, 15,492 healthcare workers received Covishield. Among those healthcare workers who have received 141 doses of Covaxin, none of them has reported any adverse event. Health department officials said that such adverse events occur due to anxiety. Despite that, the firms of Covishield and Covaxin have issued advisory on who should not get the vaccines to avoid any complications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/44-healthcare-workers-have-complained-of-adverse-events/articleshow/80357942.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Jaipur||Over 5 lakh more Covishield doses to reach Jaipur today||JAIPUR: Giving a push to the Covid-19 inoculation drive, another lot of 5,50,500 doses of Covishield vaccine will arrive in Jaipur by flight from Pune on Wednesday. Jaipur had received 37 boxes of the same vaccine on January 13. The state had received 5,63,500 doses of vaccines on January 13, including 5,43,500 doses of Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin. The state government had asked the Centres that the amount of vaccines it had received on January 13 would be insufficient for vaccinating 4.5lakh healthcare workers registered in Co-WIN App for getting vaccinated in the state. The state government had to save half of the doses for vaccinating the same healthcare workers after 28 days of receiving the first dose. The vaccine will be distributed from Jaipur to other districts in the state. Secretary health Siddharth Mahajan said, “Our demand for vaccine has been approved.” The vaccines will reach Jaipur at 4.45 pm by a Pune – Jaipur bound flight. The health department has prepared the facilities to store the vaccine at the state-level vaccine storage facility at Sethi Colony. The vaccine will be stored at Sethi Colony and it will be distributed to other districts from Jaipur. The officials of health department at districts will come to Jaipur with their vaccine vans for transportation of the vaccines from Jaipur to their respective districts. After receiving the vaccines and they have been kept in storage facility maintaining the required temperature between 2 degrees and 8 degrees Celsius. Also, it will reach at the storage facility under police protection from Jaipur airport. It will remain under police protection until they are distributed to other districts. At district level too, the vaccines will remain under police protection where it will be kept in district-level vaccination storage facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-5l-more-covishield-doses-to-reach-city-today/articleshow/80355673.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Bareilly||People shouldn’t be crazy for vaccination unless all side effects are known, warns SP MP Dr ST Hasan||Bareilly: Warning people not to go crazy for getting a shot of Covid-19 vaccine, Moradabad MP Dr ST Hasan said it is a new vaccine and its side effects are not yet known. “I know we want to set an example before the world through this vaccination drive, but we should be extremely cautious as people’s lives are at stake,” said Samajwadi Party MP Dr Hasan, who is an MBBS and MS from Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College. The SP MP’s comment came following the death of UP ward boy’s death after getting a shot of Covid-19 vaccination which, however, later turned out to be a death caused by "cardiogenic shock and septic shock". Commenting on the ward boy’s death, Hasan said, “I have seen the autopsy report of Mahipal, which clearly says septicaemia as well as a heart attack. It appears that he had not shared his medical condition before getting the vaccination and suffered septic shock.” “People should not go crazy as it is a new vaccine and its side effects are not yet known. But, all protocols/ guidelines should be followed while vaccinating people. Their blood pressure, body temperature and other symptoms should be checked before giving them a vaccine jab,” advised Dr Hasan. Urging the Centre “not to rush with mass vaccination until the vaccine completed all tests successfully”, the MP said, “I would like to request the Indian government not to rush with mass vaccination as people’s lives are at the stake, and thus, there shouldn’t be any politics here.” Mahipal, a 46-year-old ward boy at the district hospital in UP’s Moradabad district had received a jab of Covishield and died the next day. His autopsy report confirmed that he died of a cardiogenic shock (when the heart can't pump enough blood for the body) with septicemic shock because of a cardio-pulmonary disease”. “Left ventricle of the heart was enlarged. There were several blood clots in the aorta artery that carries blood to the heart... the weight of the heart was nearly 500 gm (much more than the normal). Both lungs also showed pus pockets,” added the report. Moradabad chief Medical officer Dr MC Garg claimed that there were no side effects of the vaccine. However, a member of the autopsy team told TOI that it is impossible to rule out the possibility of side effects unless the viscera report of Mahipal is available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/people-shouldnt-be-crazy-for-vaccination-unless-all-side-effects-are-known-warns-sp-mp-dr-st-hasan/articleshow/80351945.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 20, 2021||Kolkata||Bus operators in Kolkata threaten three-day strike from January 28||KOLKATA: All major private bus operating syndicates in the city have threatened to go on a strike from January 28 to 30, with a demand of introducing GST to diesel prices and immediate revision of bus fare. All syndicates, like Bengal Bus Syndicates, West Bengal Bus and Minibus Operators Welfare Association and Mini Bus Operators’ Associations, collectively took the decision after an hour-long review meeting. If they stick to the decision, there will be a major commute crisis across the city as private buses carry 70% daily passengers. “We have been the worst hit since lockdown. We kept appealing for revision of fare. The government paid no heed to our repeated pleas. Out of our commitment to the essential services we maintain, we ran the buses despite incurring huge losses. But now we have no other option but to call the strike. After this, if no step is taken, the next strike will be for an indefinite period, as most of the operators have no more resources to buy diesel or for maintenance,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay, secretary, Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. Demanding the introduction of GST to diesel prices, operators pointed out that multiple central and state taxation made the fuel even more costly. “This is why we demand rationalisation of taxation on diesel and introduction of GST, which will automatically reduce the rate to an affordable limit. Moreover, we want the government to revise the fares, keeping in mind not only diesel price rise, but abnormal rise of prices of components, insurance and fees. Revising fare per stage will serve no purpose,” said Pradip Narayan Basu of West Bengal Bus and Minibus Samannay Committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bus-operators-threaten-3-day-strike-from-jan-28/articleshow/80354131.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Jaipur||Covid-19: 44 healthcare workers in Rajasthan have complained of adverse events||JAIPUR: Anxiety, nausea and vomiting are the most common symptoms that the healthcare workers complain of, after receiving the Covid-19 vaccine. In the three days of Covid inoculation drive, 44 healthcare workers have complained of adverse events following immunization. On Day 1, the state had reported 21 such cases and 15 cases on day two. On Day 3 (Tuesday), eight healthcare workers reported adverse events. “These are all mild adverse events reported from different parts of the state. None of them required hospitalization,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunization), health department. On Tuesday, three cases of adverse events were reported from Pali, while one each was reported from Ajmer, Alwar, Banswara, Dungarpur and Jodhpur. The report shows that all the eight cases of adverse events were reported after being injected with Covishield. In the state, 15,492 healthcare workers received Covishield. Among those healthcare workers who have received 141 doses of Covaxin, none of them has reported any adverse event. Health department officials said that such adverse events occur due to anxiety. Despite that, the firms of Covishield and Covaxin have issued advisory on who should not get the vaccines to avoid any complications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/44-healthcare-workers-have-complained-of-adverse-events/articleshow/80355672.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Udaipur||Covid-19: 44 healthcare workers in Rajasthan have complained of adverse events||JAIPUR: Anxiety, nausea and vomiting are the most common symptoms that the healthcare workers complain of, after receiving the Covid-19 vaccine. In the three days of Covid inoculation drive, 44 healthcare workers have complained of adverse events following immunization. On Day 1, the state had reported 21 such cases and 15 cases on day two. On Day 3 (Tuesday), eight healthcare workers reported adverse events. “These are all mild adverse events reported from different parts of the state. None of them required hospitalization,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunization), health department. On Tuesday, three cases of adverse events were reported from Pali, while one each was reported from Ajmer, Alwar, Banswara, Dungarpur and Jodhpur. The report shows that all the eight cases of adverse events were reported after being injected with Covishield. In the state, 15,492 healthcare workers received Covishield. Among those healthcare workers who have received 141 doses of Covaxin, none of them has reported any adverse event. Health department officials said that such adverse events occur due to anxiety. Despite that, the firms of Covishield and Covaxin have issued advisory on who should not get the vaccines to avoid any complications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/44-healthcare-workers-have-complained-of-adverse-events/articleshow/80357941.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Nagpur||Door-to-door garbage lifting resumes as BVG workers end stir||Nagpur: Garbage lifting in five zones — Gandhibagh, Satranjipura, Lakadganj, Ashi Nagar and Mangalwari — resumed on Tuesday after BVG India workers, who had gone on strike on January 16 demanding reinstatement of their 113 sacked colleagues, reported back to work. “Garbage collection has resumed at about 50% capacity and it will take a day or two to restore normalcy,” said municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B. Though BVG India has rejected the employees’ demand to reinstate the sacked employees, it has assured not to go for further retrenchment in near future. “Besides, we have also assured the agitating employees that if the company requires to do any appointments in near future, the sacked employees will be given preference,” said officials from BVG. On January 15, BVG India had sacked 113 excess employees. In the recent past, both garbage collection firms AG Environ and BVG India had undertaken a massive retrenchment drive claiming financial stress owing to excess employees. TOI had reported that due to political pressure, both the companies had employed excess manpower than actually required. Both the firms had undertaken a drive to remove excess employees since October. Sources said BVG India had warned retrenchment of striking employees if they do not resume duty from Tuesday. Accordingly, the door-to-door garbage lifting, which was stopped for the last three days, resumed. It will take another couple of days to reach normalcy, admitted the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/door-to-door-garbage-lifting-resumes-as-bvg-workers-end-stir/articleshow/80354205.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||App hiccups at Balanagar PHC||Hyderabad: Healthcare workers administering the vaccine at a Primary Health Centre in Balanagar faced minor hurdles on the third day of the immunization drive due to technical glitches with the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) app. The app was developed by the Centre to monitor and track the inoculation process. Though officials overseeing the process did not face any issues with the app on the first two days, they said the app developed some technical glitches on Tuesday. “The app worked fine on the first two days but today (Tuesday), we were not able to access data in it or upload information related to beneficiaries. For now, we are conducting the entire process manually,” said G Venu Gopal, district extension officer. While technical glitches in the app at some vaccination centres hampered the immunisation centres’ efforts to inform beneficiaries about the date and time they were to receive vaccine shots, officials at the PHC in Balanagar made it a point to call the registered beneficiaries individually, irrespective of the automated text message that is sent from the app. Another official Dr Sindhoora said, “There is no major problem that we are facing due to the technical glitches. We have taken down details of every single beneficiary manually. Once we are able to get full access of the app, we will upload the details in it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/app-hiccups-at-balanagar-phc/articleshow/80354202.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 20, 2021||Ajmer||Covid-19: 44 healthcare workers in Rajasthan have complained of adverse events||JAIPUR: Anxiety, nausea and vomiting are the most common symptoms that the healthcare workers complain of, after receiving the Covid-19 vaccine. In the three days of Covid inoculation drive, 44 healthcare workers have complained of adverse events following immunization. On Day 1, the state had reported 21 such cases and 15 cases on day two. On Day 3 (Tuesday), eight healthcare workers reported adverse events. “These are all mild adverse events reported from different parts of the state. None of them required hospitalization,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunization), health department. On Tuesday, three cases of adverse events were reported from Pali, while one each was reported from Ajmer, Alwar, Banswara, Dungarpur and Jodhpur. The report shows that all the eight cases of adverse events were reported after being injected with Covishield. In the state, 15,492 healthcare workers received Covishield. Among those healthcare workers who have received 141 doses of Covaxin, none of them has reported any adverse event. Health department officials said that such adverse events occur due to anxiety. Despite that, the firms of Covishield and Covaxin have issued advisory on who should not get the vaccines to avoid any complications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/44-healthcare-workers-have-complained-of-adverse-events/articleshow/80357943.cms||---
January 20, 2021||India||Cheque bounce cases: HC officials, DGPs face SC flak||NEW DELHI: Irked by the lukewarm response of high courts and state governments to its suo motu initiatives for plugging loopholes in the criminal trial process and to deal with huge pendency of cheque bounce cases, the Supreme Court on Tuesday told registrars general of HCs and state DGPs that if responses were not filed in four weeks, their personal presence would be required. Only a few HCs and states have responded to the report by amicus curiae Sidharth Luthra suggesting ways and means to ease the burden of a large number of cheque bounce cases under Section 138 of Negotiable Instruments Act clogging the functioning of trial courts. Nearly 35 lakh cheque bounce cases are pending. The second suo motu matter listed before the court related to streamlining certain archaic procedures still being practised, as provided by the rules framed by HCs, to fill inadequacies and deficiencies in trial of criminal cases. The court had sought responses to the report but only a few HCs have responded. A bench of Chief Justice of India S A Bobde and Justices L N Rao, Vineet Saran said, “We consider it appropriate, having regard to the urgency of changes required, to call upon the HCs to submit their responses within two weeks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cheque-bounce-cases-hc-officials-dgps-face-sc-flak/articleshow/80356682.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Kolkata||Voters, armed with paintbrush, pre-empt politicians’ strike||Kolkata: At a time when political parties are busy taking over walls to write election graffiti ahead of the impending Assembly polls, youths in a neighbourhood in Brahmapur Place near Bansdroni took up the paintbrush to paint those walls with portraits of famous personalities, popular comic characters and Ray’s immortal film posters. The Covid-19 pandemic, return of migrant labourers during the lockdown, farmers’ protest also feature on the walls. Art director Arun Mondol, who lives there, said different ideas had evolved during selection of themes and they had all been integrated on the boundary walls, running into 9,80 sq ft. The structures were given three coats of quality wall primer before painted with a weather-durable-coat paintings for long-term sustainability. It took more than 70 liters of paint. “Residents attached with different professions, like sports, theatre and singing, suggested names of people from their field of interest who had passed away. “Accordingly, sketches of Soumitra Chattyopadhyay, Sushant Singh Rajput, Irfan Khan, Saroj Khan and Usha Ganguly were created. On a stretch where kids play, someone suggested cartoon characters be painted. Thus a wall has Chhota Bheem, Bantul the Great, Doraemon, Harry Potter and SpongeBob. A series of posters of Satyajit Ray’s films were recreated on the wall of a multi-storeyed building,” said Mondol. The idea was first mooted in September by actor Anirban Bhattacharyya who lives in Brahmapur. He had told the local club, Brahmapur Sabuj Sonali Sangha, that they paint the walls, leading to and from the club’s Durga Puja. He got the idea from a trip to a tribal village in Jhargram — Khoyab Gaon — where local art college students painted the mud huts. Theatre artist Madhurima Goswami, Anirban’s wife, said the attachment to the neighbourhood had developed during the 70 days of lockdown, leading to others wholeheartedly supporting the idea and pitching in with funds. In November, Madhurima, along with four young artists — Arun Mondol, Triguna Shankar Manna, Sourav Paul and Arijit Dutta — joined hands to paint the entire para and the project was completed on New Year’s Day. The residents were so excited that they invited the artists to their homes to treat them. They have even rechristened the name of the locality from Brahmapur Place to ‘Rong Chhobi Para’. Every day, a large number of people from various parts of Kolkata visit the neighbourhood to admire the walls and take selfies with it as the backdrop. With the locality gaining popularity on social networking sites, even auto rickshaw drivers in the belt are raking in the moolah. “Afternoons used to be slack hours. Now, we have many passengers to the neighbourhood,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/voters-armed-with-paintbrush-pre-empt-politicians-strike/articleshow/80354198.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Cop, bankers questioned in CBI 103kg gold missing case||CHENNAI: The CB-CID team probing the case of 103kg gold going missing from the vault of city firm under CBI custody, on Tuesday questioned a CBI police officer and a few bank officials. During the four-hour questioning that was videographed, CBI inspector Manickavel, who probed the case initially, and two officials from a nationalised bank, answered questions posed by CB-CID superintendent C Vijayakumar and deputy superintendent Sathyaseelan. CBI officials who seized 400.5kg gold from Surana Corporation Limited (SCL) during a 2012 raid said they had left it behind in the company vault and handed over the keys to the Chennai principal special court for CBI cases. They said the gold was weighed in totality during the seizure, but was weighed in were weighed all-together but while handing over to the liquidator, appointed for a settlement of debts between Surana and the SBI, it was weighed individually and that was the reason for the discrepancy. Earlier, former SCL managing director Vijayraj Surana, who quit the company in 2015, appeared before the CB-CID team with his lawyer G Guruprasath. The CB-CID, as per a Madras high court direction, had registered a case under Section 380 (night burglary) of IPC, based on a complaint of the insolvency professional liquidator C Ramasubramaniam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cop-bankers-questioned-in-cbi-103kg-gold-missing-case/articleshow/80354246.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Jaipur||Over 2,800 goats seized in Pratapgarh under Cruelty Act||JAIPUR: Around 2,884 goats and sheep being transported in 13 trucks were confiscated by the Pratapgarh police under the Preventing of Cruelty Act on January 13.  This is for the first time goats and sheep have been confiscated by the police in thousands. The move is done following a tip off that the traders were transporting cows from the Marwar region to Hyderabad. The traders moved to the local court in Pratapgarh on Monday seeking relief in the case and release of goats/sheep and trucks on Monday. The court refused to grant relief to the traders and directed them to pay Rs 50 per animal for a month in the court for feeding them till the judgement is pronounced by the court. Kamal Gujjar, defence counsel argued that prima facie case is registered against the helpers who have accompanied with the truck and not the owners. “My prayer that goats to be handed over to the owners was rejected by the court,” said Gujjar. The court says that goats to be kept in three cow shelters until the matter is resolved. The court has ruled that matter is being investigated and prima facie the accused has violated the act. Police have stated that traders were carrying more than the required number of goats in the trucks. The FIR reads that all the trucks have partitioned the storage space to carry out goats double the capacity. TOI repeatedly called up and texted Narendra Singh Bhati, SHO Pratapgarh for his comments on the incident but received no response. The helpers and traders camping in Pratapgarh have accused that police are acting under the pressure groups who are attempting to extort money from them. Aladdin Qureshi, a trader says that goats have been given water and fodder at regular intervals while denying a charge slapped by the police. “Every goat cost Rs 10,000 to us. We are fools who would allow our goats to die,” said Qureshi, who accused the cow shelters that they are not taking care of goats and every day goats are dying leaving them under heavy losses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-2-8k-goats-seized-in-pratapgarh-under-cruelty-act/articleshow/80355674.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Locals here finally find respite from garbage problem||HYDERABAD: Residents of Mansoorabad in L B Nagar heaved a sigh of relief after their long-standing garbage menace was finally resolved by civic authorities recently. This followed a complaint raised by a local on the TOI citizen reporter app. Apart from the stench, residents said that the uncleared garbage also led to a mosquito problem in the area and caused air pollution due to frequent burning of garbage. “Pollution was one of the major issues as the open piece of land had turned into a dumping yard. Even the mosquito menace had increased manifold due to the garbage,” said Venkat Ankam, the citizen reporter. After the issue was published in these columns on January 13, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials swung into action and cleared the garbage from the area -- a private land located in Cosmopolitan Colony, Mansoorabad. GHMC officials said that a notice will also be served to the property owner in order to ensure that the place is not littered in the future. “We will inform the property owner to raise a compound wall and also ask him to take measures to ensure his property is not littered,” said Maruthi Diwakar, GHMC deputy commissioner of Hayatnagar circle. He added: “In Mansoorabad we also penalised people for littering public places. We will keep a strict vigil in the area and encourage people to dispose garbage by handing it over it to Swachh Auto Tippers (SATs).” Another officer from GHMC zonal commissioner’s office LB Nagar said that the onus to keep the city clean lies with people too. “We have come to know that some people in Mansoorabad don’t want to pay money to the SAT drivers who are responsible for collecting garbage from every household, so they are dumping it in the open land. People’s participation is needed to ensure the city is clean,” said a GHMC official. As per the state policy and solid waste management strategy if an individual is caught burning garbage in the open, he/she will be fined Rs 5,000 for environmental damage. If waste burning is taken up in bulk, a penalty of `25,000 is to be imposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/locals-here-finally-find-respite-from-garbage-problem/articleshow/80354257.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Bareilly||Five-year-old girl’s head still remains a mystery for police||Bareilly: Police yet to find the remaining parts of an unidentified five-year-old girl whose severed head was found in RC Mission area of UP’s Shahjahanpur on Thursday. The autopsy confirmed that the girl’s head was severed when she was alive, while her remaining body is still missing. Local police had initially buried the head without getting an autopsy done, but when the matter came to the notice of senior police officers, the head was sent for an autopsy. Doctors found the girl to be around five-year-old and suspected that she was killed during a “sacrificial act”.RC Mission SHO Sanjay Singh told TOI, “We have shared the details in newspapers and with neighbouring districts, but her identity cannot be ascertained yet. We are scanning all complaints of missing minor girls in nearby districts as it is difficult to go ahead with the investigation without the girl’s identification. We have sent samples for her DNA test and have been questioning suspects.”Asked about the possibility of an occultist’s hand in the murder, the SHO replied, “We cannot confirm it as of now, but this case is on our priority list and we are expecting a breakthrough soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-year-old-girls-head-still-remains-a-mystery-for-police/articleshow/80351967.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 20, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Tragic loss of five of family for Kela Bhai||JAIPUR/UDAIPUR: For Kela Bhai (50), a resident of Bhagatpura village in Kaushalgarh, the world has collapsed in the freak accident in Surat that killed five of his family members. The deceased includes his three children, one son Mukesh (25) and two daughters, Manisha (19) and Vanita (17), along with his son’s wife Lila (22) and their infant. Bhai all through his life lived in extreme poverty. He has only one two-room mud house. He is cursing the day to not stop his son and daughters heading to Surat to work as a daily wage labourer in December 2020. “Bhai is crying profusely. I am worried if he falls sick or collapses due to shock,” said Buralal, a former sarpanch of Bhagatpura village, who has accompanied Kela Bhai to Surat along with officials. The Covid-19 had left the family with no work forcing Mukesh to leave for Surat as the construction work has started after months. “Kela Bhai’s daughters also went with Mukesh to support him in earning money for some months. The younger daughter Vinita went to take care of the toddler Sejal,” said Bhurelal. The bodies will arrive in Banswara late in the evening and funeral will take place on Wednesday. Bhai has been made the beneficiary of the CM relief fund of Rs 2 lakh for every deceased. He told Buralal, “I have lost my family who went to earn money to meet ends. I don’t know what I will do with the money without my family.” Bhai lives with his son who works with him in the agriculture field. Poverty, marginal land holdings, water scarcity and lack of irrigation facilities are some of the reasons behind the large level of migration of residents from Banswara's villages, including Sajjangarh, Anandpuri, Gangandtalai and Kushalgarh. Not only the men, but the women folk too were forced to join their husbands or brothers for taking up labour work at construction sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/tragic-loss-of-five-of-family-for-kela-bhai/articleshow/80357739.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Tragic loss of five of family for Kela Bhai||JAIPUR/UDAIPUR: For Kela Bhai (50), a resident of Bhagatpura village in Kaushalgarh, the world has collapsed in the freak accident in Surat that killed five of his family members. The deceased includes his three children, one son Mukesh (25) and two daughters, Manisha (19) and Vanita (17), along with his son’s wife Lila (22) and their infant. Bhai all through his life lived in extreme poverty. He has only one two-room mud house. He is cursing the day to not stop his son and daughters heading to Surat to work as a daily wage labourer in December 2020. “Bhai is crying profusely. I am worried if he falls sick or collapses due to shock,” said Buralal, a former sarpanch of Bhagatpura village, who has accompanied Kela Bhai to Surat along with officials. The Covid-19 had left the family with no work forcing Mukesh to leave for Surat as the construction work has started after months. “Kela Bhai’s daughters also went with Mukesh to support him in earning money for some months. The younger daughter Vinita went to take care of the toddler Sejal,” said Bhurelal. The bodies will arrive in Banswara late in the evening and funeral will take place on Wednesday. Bhai has been made the beneficiary of the CM relief fund of Rs 2 lakh for every deceased. He told Buralal, “I have lost my family who went to earn money to meet ends. I don’t know what I will do with the money without my family.” Bhai lives with his son who works with him in the agriculture field. Poverty, marginal land holdings, water scarcity and lack of irrigation facilities are some of the reasons behind the large level of migration of residents from Banswara's villages, including Sajjangarh, Anandpuri, Gangandtalai and Kushalgarh. Not only the men, but the women folk too were forced to join their husbands or brothers for taking up labour work at construction sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tragic-loss-of-five-of-family-for-kela-bhai/articleshow/80355675.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Chennai||Dr V Shanta: The doctor who cared and cured||CHENNAI: For 65 years, Dr V Shanta had made Cancer Institute (WIA) her home, in more ways than one. The 94-year-old doctor – the country’s most well-known and loved oncologist -- lived on the top floor of the hospital, in a makeshift home. For years she lived out of a single room and then expanded her home to include a living room, bedroom and study. “I don’t need more than this. I like to spend all my time with my patients,” she had told The Times of India in an interview in 2012. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/the-doctor-who-cared-and-cured/articleshow/80352867.cms||Kamini Mathai
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||GHMC worker dies in hit-and-run case||Hyderabad: A 60-year-old Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) contract employee died in a hit-and-run case at Ameerpet on Tuesday morning. Police are trying to identify the accused through CCTV camera footage analysis. The victim, K Bharathamma, was a GHMC out sourcing sweeper working in Ameerpet. Bharatamma left home early on Tuesday to attend her duty at Ameerpet after informing her family members. Around 6 am, GHMC supervisor, J Arun Kumar called Bharatamma’s son K Narender, also a municipal worker, informing that she died in a road accident near Mangalya showroom at Ameerpet. “At 4.30am my mother left for duty. Around 6am I got a call over the phone about her death in a a road accident. I rushed to the accident spot and found out that around 5.30am when my mother was crossing the road from Mangalya showroom towards chicken market at Ameerpet, an unknown vehicle hit her,” Narender mentioned in the police complaint. Panjagutta sub-inspector (SI) V Kaushik said Bharatamma suffered a severe head injury and died on the spot. Police shifted the body for post-mortem examination to Osmania General Hospital and registered a case under Section 304-A of the IPC. Cops are analysing CCTV camera footage near the crime scene to identify the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-worker-dies-in-hit-and-run-case/articleshow/80356114.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Draft RERC rooftop norms shrinking govt policy space||JAIPUR: Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation Ltd (RRECL) has written to the energy department on how the draft norms of Rajasthan Energy Regulatory Commission (RERC) are not only going to hurt rooftop solar but also put at the risk the sanctity of government policy. In the solar policy, the government made several measures to help it reach 1,000 MW rooftop target. But the draft norms of RERC have withdrawn many of them. When TOI spoke to Subodh Agarwal, CMD, RRECL, he said they have written a letter but did not disclose the contents. When asked about the RERC proposing to remove all rooftop projects barring domestic segment from net metering ambit, he said there are provisions in the Electricity Act 2003 that safeguards the policy measures. “The solar policy was approved by the government. So the provisions in it enjoy the highest level of sanctity. Under the Electricity Act 2003, the state has the power to frame policy keeping in view the larger interest of the public. That’s why the rules cannot be changed unless the government itself does it,” said Agarwal. In the solar policy, benefits like banking facility and payment of surplus energy by discoms under net metering scheme as applicable to domestic consumers is also applicable to projects on government offices, schools, colleges, hospitals, etc. But the RERC proposals have made only domestic consumers eligible and putting all other kinds of projects in gross billing category. In net metering, the surplus power from rooftop after consumption fetches Rs 3.14 per unit. But other projects under gross billing will pay discoms the normal tariff and they will be paid by the discoms for the power they generate. As per the draft, the rates will be equal to the tariff discovered at recent bidding for large projects along and an extra 25%. So, the gross billing consumers can neither use cheap solar power nor get a better rate for their power. When TOI spoke to Dinesh Kumar, principal secretary, department of Energy, he said, “The section 108 of the Electricity Act-2003 has to be read with Section 65 where it says RERC has the powers to frame rules if there is any subsidy involved.” While it can be applicable to transmission charges which was reduced 50% in the solar policy and there is no clarity if the government is going to bear the cost of the subsidy, industry sources said that there is no subsidy involved in net metering and the RERC proposals are an attempt to help discoms by discouraging solar power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/draft-rerc-rooftop-norms-shrinking-govt-policy-space/articleshow/80355677.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 20, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Draft RERC rooftop norms shrinking govt policy space||JAIPUR: Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation Ltd (RRECL) has written to the energy department on how the draft norms of Rajasthan Energy Regulatory Commission (RERC) are not only going to hurt rooftop solar but also put at the risk the sanctity of government policy. In the solar policy, the government made several measures to help it reach 1,000 MW rooftop target. But the draft norms of RERC have withdrawn many of them. When TOI spoke to Subodh Agarwal, CMD, RRECL, he said they have written a letter but did not disclose the contents. When asked about the RERC proposing to remove all rooftop projects barring domestic segment from net metering ambit, he said there are provisions in the Electricity Act 2003 that safeguards the policy measures. “The solar policy was approved by the government. So the provisions in it enjoy the highest level of sanctity. Under the Electricity Act 2003, the state has the power to frame policy keeping in view the larger interest of the public. That’s why the rules cannot be changed unless the government itself does it,” said Agarwal. In the solar policy, benefits like banking facility and payment of surplus energy by discoms under net metering scheme as applicable to domestic consumers is also applicable to projects on government offices, schools, colleges, hospitals, etc. But the RERC proposals have made only domestic consumers eligible and putting all other kinds of projects in gross billing category. In net metering, the surplus power from rooftop after consumption fetches Rs 3.14 per unit. But other projects under gross billing will pay discoms the normal tariff and they will be paid by the discoms for the power they generate. As per the draft, the rates will be equal to the tariff discovered at recent bidding for large projects along and an extra 25%. So, the gross billing consumers can neither use cheap solar power nor get a better rate for their power. When TOI spoke to Dinesh Kumar, principal secretary, department of Energy, he said, “The section 108 of the Electricity Act-2003 has to be read with Section 65 where it says RERC has the powers to frame rules if there is any subsidy involved.” While it can be applicable to transmission charges which was reduced 50% in the solar policy and there is no clarity if the government is going to bear the cost of the subsidy, industry sources said that there is no subsidy involved in net metering and the RERC proposals are an attempt to help discoms by discouraging solar power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/draft-rerc-rooftop-norms-shrinking-govt-policy-space/articleshow/80357931.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 20, 2021||Bareilly||Excise teams seize 26k litres of illicit liquor in a week in UP||Pilibhit: In a drive across UP, the excise department has seized 26,572 liltres of illicit liquor, registered a total of 955 cases and arrested 313 people in a week that ended on Sunday. The department teams also impounded eight vehicles used for the transportation of illicit liquor. Giving this information, excise commissioner of UP P.Guru Prasad said that excise teams seized 1,30,734 kilos of ‘lahan’ (the fermented raw material used in the distillation of illicit liquor) and destroyed it at the spots of recovery. Among those arrested were five people who were caught allegedly while pilfering alcohol from a tanker on Bareilly-Delhi highway. The highest recovery of 800 litres of illicit liquor from a single police station circle was reported from Chetganj police station in Varanasi while in Choubeypur police station area of the same district, 400 litres of spirit, fake QR (quick response) codes, wrappers, lids, and vials of various brands were recovered, Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/excise-teams-seize-26k-litres-of-illicit-liquor-in-a-week-in-up/articleshow/80351994.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 20, 2021||Udaipur||‘Showdown’ in Udaipur university, VC-dean row reaches police station||UDAIPUR: A two-month-old controversy between the vice-chancellor of Mohanlal Sukhadia University (MLSU) and the Dean of Law College crossed the university campus and reached the police department on Tuesday. Amid protest from the ABVP team, Anand Paliwal, the dean, was removed from his responsibilities and the charge was assigned to Seema Malik from the Arts College. A police complaint was given at the Pratap Nagar police station against Paliwal for intruding into the V-C’s residence without appointment and trying to obstruct the procedure under the career advancement scheme (CAS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/showdown-in-udaipur-varsity-vc-dean-row-reaches-police-stn/articleshow/80355679.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Draft RERC rooftop norms shrinking govt policy space||JAIPUR: Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation Ltd (RRECL) has written to the energy department on how the draft norms of Rajasthan Energy Regulatory Commission (RERC) are not only going to hurt rooftop solar but also put at the risk the sanctity of government policy. In the solar policy, the government made several measures to help it reach 1,000 MW rooftop target. But the draft norms of RERC have withdrawn many of them. When TOI spoke to Subodh Agarwal, CMD, RRECL, he said they have written a letter but did not disclose the contents. When asked about the RERC proposing to remove all rooftop projects barring domestic segment from net metering ambit, he said there are provisions in the Electricity Act 2003 that safeguards the policy measures. “The solar policy was approved by the government. So the provisions in it enjoy the highest level of sanctity. Under the Electricity Act 2003, the state has the power to frame policy keeping in view the larger interest of the public. That’s why the rules cannot be changed unless the government itself does it,” said Agarwal. In the solar policy, benefits like banking facility and payment of surplus energy by discoms under net metering scheme as applicable to domestic consumers is also applicable to projects on government offices, schools, colleges, hospitals, etc. But the RERC proposals have made only domestic consumers eligible and putting all other kinds of projects in gross billing category. In net metering, the surplus power from rooftop after consumption fetches Rs 3.14 per unit. But other projects under gross billing will pay discoms the normal tariff and they will be paid by the discoms for the power they generate. As per the draft, the rates will be equal to the tariff discovered at recent bidding for large projects along and an extra 25%. So, the gross billing consumers can neither use cheap solar power nor get a better rate for their power. When TOI spoke to Dinesh Kumar, principal secretary, department of Energy, he said, “The section 108 of the Electricity Act-2003 has to be read with Section 65 where it says RERC has the powers to frame rules if there is any subsidy involved.” While it can be applicable to transmission charges which was reduced 50% in the solar policy and there is no clarity if the government is going to bear the cost of the subsidy, industry sources said that there is no subsidy involved in net metering and the RERC proposals are an attempt to help discoms by discouraging solar power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/draft-rerc-rooftop-norms-shrinking-govt-policy-space/articleshow/80357934.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 20, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Draft RERC rooftop norms shrinking govt policy space||JAIPUR: Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation Ltd (RRECL) has written to the energy department on how the draft norms of Rajasthan Energy Regulatory Commission (RERC) are not only going to hurt rooftop solar but also put at the risk the sanctity of government policy. In the solar policy, the government made several measures to help it reach 1,000 MW rooftop target. But the draft norms of RERC have withdrawn many of them. When TOI spoke to Subodh Agarwal, CMD, RRECL, he said they have written a letter but did not disclose the contents. When asked about the RERC proposing to remove all rooftop projects barring domestic segment from net metering ambit, he said there are provisions in the Electricity Act 2003 that safeguards the policy measures. “The solar policy was approved by the government. So the provisions in it enjoy the highest level of sanctity. Under the Electricity Act 2003, the state has the power to frame policy keeping in view the larger interest of the public. That’s why the rules cannot be changed unless the government itself does it,” said Agarwal. In the solar policy, benefits like banking facility and payment of surplus energy by discoms under net metering scheme as applicable to domestic consumers is also applicable to projects on government offices, schools, colleges, hospitals, etc. But the RERC proposals have made only domestic consumers eligible and putting all other kinds of projects in gross billing category. In net metering, the surplus power from rooftop after consumption fetches Rs 3.14 per unit. But other projects under gross billing will pay discoms the normal tariff and they will be paid by the discoms for the power they generate. As per the draft, the rates will be equal to the tariff discovered at recent bidding for large projects along and an extra 25%. So, the gross billing consumers can neither use cheap solar power nor get a better rate for their power. When TOI spoke to Dinesh Kumar, principal secretary, department of Energy, he said, “The section 108 of the Electricity Act-2003 has to be read with Section 65 where it says RERC has the powers to frame rules if there is any subsidy involved.” While it can be applicable to transmission charges which was reduced 50% in the solar policy and there is no clarity if the government is going to bear the cost of the subsidy, industry sources said that there is no subsidy involved in net metering and the RERC proposals are an attempt to help discoms by discouraging solar power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/draft-rerc-rooftop-norms-shrinking-govt-policy-space/articleshow/80357933.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 20, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Cops get 5 days with SSI murder accused||CHENNAI: The special court at Poonamallee on Monday granted police five days custody to question the two fundamentalists arrested in a special sub-inspector’s murder reported at Kaliyakkavilai check post, Kanyakumari, on January 8 last year. The accused Sirajuddin and Syed Ali were brought from Chengalpet sub-jail and Bengaluru court and produced before judge Senthoorpandian. While National Investigation Agency (NIA) officers sought 10 days custody, the judged allowed five days. The NIA team took the accused to a secure place in Oonamancherry near Gudavancherry for questioning. The duo have to be produced before the court on or before 1pm on January 23. Sirajuddin and Syed Ali had aided the main accused in the murder case — Abdul Shameem and Thoufiq — who gunned down SSI Wilson at the checkpost. The accused had assisted the assailants in waging a jihad against India, the NIA had mentioned in its statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cops-get-5-days-with-ssi-murder-accused/articleshow/80354315.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Healthcare worker & Covid survivor vaccinates others||Hyderabad: The past year has been very difficult for Tallari Lakshmi, 40, a healthcare worker at Balanagar primary health centre where several frontline medical staff including herself tested positive for Covid-19. However, for Lakshmi, January 16 will remain one of the most memorable days of her life as she was assigned the task of administering the first Covishield shot to her supervisor Dr Mohan. “Although I was asymptomatic when I contracted the virus, I saw many healthcare workers and their families suffer because of it. There was also a lot of fear with lack of knowledge about the virus that led to social stigma. But now, since we have the vaccine, I can finally see the light at the end of the tunnel. I urge people to take the vaccine without any fear,” said Lakshmi. Since day 1 of the vaccine rollout, Lakshmi vaccinated nearly 80 beneficiaries. Returning after vaccinating a healthcare worker, Lakshmi said, “I was in complete isolation. My family supported me when I tested positive. But it was not the same for everyone. One of my colleagues was not allowed to even see anyone from a distance when he was in isolation. Having experienced all this, we are happy that we did our job with conviction,” she said. Lakshmi belongs to Yenkapally village of Vikarabad district. She said the entire medical team at primary health centre, along with nurses, attendants and other staff played a key role in this fight against Covid-19 and are still working hard to create awareness about the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/healthcare-worker-covid-survivor-vaccinates-others/articleshow/80354310.cms||Moulika.KV
January 20, 2021||Chennai||Dr V Shanta wanted patients to be treated like close relatives||By: Dr Ravi Kannan R I heard about Dr Shanta for the first time from a soldier in a train. I was in Class VIII then. “You must become a cancer doctor and be like Dr Shanta,” he had said. Many years later, I was among the students mentored by Dr V Shanta and Dr S Krishnamurthi to become cancer specialists. According to Dr Krishnamurthi, Dr Shanta was a karmayogi. She was simple and approachable. I wrote to her as a young surgeon and she wrote back asking me to come for an interview. On rounds, patients would request her to touch them for they believed her touch would cure them. When she would visit the children’s ward, the children would run and hug her leaving grubby palm prints on her coat. She would be delighted to see them. It was her idealism combined with people management skills that gave life to much of Dr. Krishnamurthi’s vision for the institute. Every activity bears her stamp. For her, every patient had to be treated the way one would treat a close relative. She expected every staff to take ownership of the institute — a leaking tap, a fan whirling in an empty room or a broken tile had to be attended to by whosoever saw it. She was a stickler for time and could be caustic if anyone was late. But then she would ask about the families of the staff at the Institute and rejoice in the successes of their children. She did not hesitate to call principals and administrators to facilitate school and college admissions for them. After I left the institute and joined a small hospital in Silchar, Assam, I would visit her every time I came to Chennai. She would insist on me staying over for dinner and serve the food herself. While leaving, after touching her feet, I would be enveloped in her arms, fragile with age, for a hug. She would walk me out and wait till I turned the corner into the staircase. It was her way of saying, she cared, for everyone, always. (The writer is director of Cachar Cancer Hospital and Research Centre, Silchar, Assam)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dr-shanta-wanted-patients-to-be-treated-like-close-relatives/articleshow/80352918.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||250 new cases, two deaths in T||Hyderabad: Telangana on Tuesday recorded 256 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths, even as the number of active cases touched 4,005. Telangana's coronavirus caseload has so far reached 2,92,128, while the death toll stood at 1,581. A total of 2,86,542 patients have recovered from the infection. The current recovery rate in the state is 98 per cent as against the country average of close to 97 per cent, while the case fatality rate (CFR) is stable at 0.54 per cent. The average CFR in the country is 1.4 per cent. Testing has remained low for over a week now with just 31,486 samples being tested on Tuesday. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 51 new cases while Medchal Malkajgiri recording 17, Ranga Reddy had 15 cases, while Karimnagar and Nalgonda recorded 11 each. All remaining districts recorded up to 10 new cases as well. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/250-new-cases-two-deaths-in-t/articleshow/80354324.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Doctors cite adverse events to refuse jab||Hospital superintendent Dr B Nagender said there was a lot of hesitancy among the staff. “But we are hopeful that it will get better,” he said. At the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (TIMS) where 67 beneficiaries refused to take the jab on Tuesday, many reasoned that there was a several adverse events after taking the vaccines and, hence, they did not want to take it and instead want to wait for better vaccines. “There are cases of adverse effects being reported for the available vaccines and one is still under trial. I prefer to wait for some time until there is a better vaccine available,” read a letter by a senior resident. In yet another letter, a doctor wrote that he was voluntarily foregoing the privilege of taking ‘Covishield vaccine’ in the first phase. The letter addressed to the director of TIMS read, “I am grateful to the GOI and all officials who have given us the first chance to take Covishield vaccine for protection against Covid-19, which are available to us Indians in very limited quantity. I am blessed to have a separate wing in my house for home isolation, private solo transport and we get best precautions and PPE kits at the institute. Hence, I would like my dose to be given to my less privileged fellow citizens who do not have such luxuries.” The names of the doctors have been held back on request. There were others at most of the hospitals who said they did not want to take chances as they were supposed to get married soon. Only the state-run Gandhi hospital was an exception in the vaccination programme, where 98 out of the 100 listed beneficiaries took the jab during the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/doctors-cite-adverse-events-to-refuse-jab/articleshow/80354348.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Kolkata||Activist urges EC to include green norms in poll code of conduct||Kolkata: Environment activist Subhas Datta on Tuesday wrote to chief election commissioner Sunil Arora and urged the Election Commission of India to include environment norms in the code of conduct for elections, including the forthcoming Assembly polls in Bengal. Citing the National Green Tribunal order, dated October 3, 2017, which made use of sound limiters in loudspeakers and microphones mandatory in public, Datta saod the directive was flouted at elections with all parties breaching the sound norms fixed by West Bengal Pollution Control Board. “The Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules 2000 mandates that permission is required before deploying any public address system. Again, this is blatantly violated before elections,” said Datta. He pointed out that plastic, flex and various other non-degradable items were used during the election campaign that caused severe pollution. “These items should not be allowed during elections,” the green activist said. Datta also referred to the use of polystyrene (thermocol) items for meals and refreshments at meetings. “These materials add to the solid waste management burden. Parties should be directed to dispose of them appropriately,” he said. Datta has sent copies of the letter to West Bengal State Election Commission and West Bengal Pollution Control Board. He had earlier written to the state chief secretary and the director general of police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/activist-urges-ec-to-include-green-norms-in-poll-code-of-conduct/articleshow/80354512.cms||Subhro Niyogi
January 20, 2021||Bareilly||Congress Pilibhit president, 24 musclemen booked for threatening & beating two farmers to join party||PILIBHIT: The police on Monday night booked 5 named and 20 unidentified people, including the Congress district president Harpreet Singh Chabba, for allegedly assaulting two farmers who allegedly refused to accept membership of the Congress party. The victims — Prajeet Singh of village Devipura under Madhotanda police station and Billa Bhullar of village Pachpeda under Puranpur Kotwali police station — said they had gone to attend a wedding invitation at a banquet hall in village Harsinghpur under Puranpur Kotwali police station, where Chabba offered them membership of the Congress party, which they declined to accept. At this, Chabba got aggressive. A gang of two dozen musclemen accompanying him thrashed the victims and threw them out of the banquet hall with threats to kill them. They managed to escape after some other guests intervened, they said. Puranpur Kotwali SHO S K Singh said Harpreet Singh Chabba, along with four named and 20 unidentified persons, was booked under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapons), 149 (unlawful assembly in prosecution of common object), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cong-dist-prez-24-musclemen-booked-for-threatening-beating-two-farmers-to-join-party/articleshow/80352029.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 20, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Seven-year-old girl suffers cardiac arrest midair, dies||NAGPUR: A seven-year-old girl flying on a Lucknow-Mumbai GoAir flight with her father was declared brought dead at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) after being rushed there following an emergency landing at 7.25am on Tuesday at Nagpur airport. Ayushi Punvasi Prajapati, resident of Seheri Khat, Siddarth Nagar, Chaffa in Uttar Pradesh, and her father were on GoAir flight G8307. Officials said they appeared financially backward and the father could barely explain the girl’s condition. The exact cause of Ayushi’s death is not known. GMCH officials said the viscera samples have been preserved to ascertain the cause of death. Prima facie, they said it appears she collapsed due to cardiac arrest triggered by high altitude. “She was anaemic. The father had not disclosed this, else he would not have been allowed to board the flight. Patients below 8 to 10gms of haemoglobin are not permitted air journeys. Ayushi’s records show she had just 2.5gms. They were going for her treatment to Mumbai,” officials said. A medical team from Kingsway Hospital, which has a tie-up with Nagpur Airport, attended to the sick flyer as soon as the plane landed. Kingsway’s emergency medical therapist Dr Mohammed Ahteshamoddin told TOI the girl was already on automated external defibrillators (a life saving device) when they rushed inside the plane. “The passenger was taken in an cardiac life support ambulance to GMCH for further evaluation. GMCH doctors declared her brought dead. She was unconscious, cold and not responsive. Her condition was serious,” he said. The flight took off immediately after patient the and her father alighted. The girl’s father didn’t mention any medical case history to the airport medical team as well. “She had some underlying diseases. But it may not be found out through post mortem. The viscera has been preserved. Sudden death can be attributed to cardiac arrest at the moment. The death is natural. Entire medical history will have to be studied in case the family submits it,” GMCH officials said. Officials said oxygen demand is more at high altitudes. “As soon as the journey started, she complained of breathing difficulty and an emergency landing was done. The father was not disclosing even after she suffered cardiac arrest. The crew members searched their bags and found blood reports of the girl stating she had 2.5gms of haemoglobin. Covid test was done and found negative. At 6pm, the body was handed over to the father, who took it by road to their native place, about 200km ahead of Lucknow,” officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/7-year-old-anaemic-girl-suffers-cardiac-arrest-midair-dies/articleshow/80354365.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Rana Kapoor may sell his properties if out on bail: ED||MUMBAI: Bombay HC on Tuesday concluded hearing in Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor’s bail plea in the money laundering case involving DHFL promoters, Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan. While Enforcement Directorate (ED) said it apprehends that he would sell his properties once out, Kapoor argued that bail cannot be denied on the grounds that the investigation is still on. “Kapoor has even given online ads for selling one of his London-based properties,” the ED said. But, the property had been attached in September 2020 being proceeds of crime (PoC) under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Kapoor’s plea, filed through advocate Subhash Jadhav and argued in a virtual hearing before Justice P D Naik by senior counsel Harish Salve and Mahesh Jethmalani, relied on SC verdict in P Chidambaram’s case which said pre-arrest bail can be granted in economic offences too. But ED counsel Hiten Venegaonkar said the Yes Bank case is distinguishable. “...the PoC in this case is Rs 5,050 crore,” the ED said. “He has siphoned off huge amounts of PoC out of lndia through his family owned or controlled firms...of Rs 600 crore, Rs 378 crore has been invested overseas.” It said the probe is still on to unearth the “exact layering” of PoC. But Kapoor said no offence is made out against him under the PMLA in the bank’s subscription of Rs 3,700 crore to DHFL’s NCDs or in the receipt of Rs 600 crore by Doit Urban Ventures from DHFL. His plea said “Rs 600 crore was not a kickback, it was a loan...” But ED said DUVPL is “beneficially owned by Kapoor through his da-ughters”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rana-kapoor-may-sell-his-properties-if-out-on-bail-ed/articleshow/80355717.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Day 1 in Secunderabad Cantt: 71 take the shot||SECUNDERABAD: The first phase of vaccination started in the Secunderabad Cantonment area, on Tuesday, across three designated centres. Officials of the health department said that 71 of 163 registered frontline workers were administered the vaccine dose at the Bowenpally Government High School in New Bowenpally, Picket and Trimulgherry (Cantonment Board’s own) dispensaries. Incidentally, most Covid-19 cases from this belt have been reported from these three areas in the Cantonment. Lab technician, B Sugnana Raju, working at the Picket dispensary, was the first one to take the jab. He has conducted 30,000 to 40,000 swab tests since the pandemic broke. “It didn’t feel like I was taking a vaccine dose; it is just like a normal injection. I didn’t face any side effects either,” the 51-year-old told TOI. None of the 71 frontline workers who took the dose, complained of any major side effects, confirmed deputy DMHO, Dr H H Rajkumari. “The first phase of the vaccination programme went off peacefully. While a health worker, Mangamma, complained of slight giddiness after 10 minutes of being vaccinated, she quickly recovered,” she said. “We also appealed to them to be alert and immediately report back in case they show signs of any problem,” Dr Rajkumari said. While 41 front-line warriors took the vaccine at the Trimulgherry dispensary the count stood at 18 at the Bowenpally Government High School — all working at the Bowenpally Upper Primary Health Centre. At the Picket dispensary, 12 health staff took the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/day-1-in-secbad-cantt-71-take-the-shot/articleshow/80354388.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Many unexplored vacancies across sectors’||A panel of three senior bureaucrats answers queries of TOI readers about job opportunities available in government and private sectors, various upskilling programmes being run by the state to make urban youth industry-ready and incentives on offer for aspiring entrepreneurs I completed my MBA in 2017 and even did a course in digital marketing. Though, after years of trying to land a job, I finally got selected by Wipro in 2020, the company has now revoked the offer owing to Covid. Can you suggest how I can go about landing a job in digital marketing? Are there other options for me to lookout for? -- Sandeep Reddy  Jayesh Ranjan: Apart from floating your resume in the industry, I suggest you also take the help of TASK (Telangana Academy of for Skill and Knowledge) that assists aspirants with upskilling, re-skilling and placements. They can guide you and help you become more industry-ready. You can write to them at:enquiry_task@telangana.gov.in and use TOI- Job Enquiry in the subject line. I have worked in the private sector as a customer service executive for two years. I am really keen on finding a job in the government sector. I have a BCom degree and basic computer skills. Is it enough to land a job? What kind of roles can I apply to? -- Ranjitha Reddy Vani Prasad: Government jobs are broadly classified into four groups -- group-I, group-II, group-III, group-IV services, gazetted, non-gazetted and miscellaneous. A BCom graduate can apply to: all group jobs, accountant in GHMC & TSRTC, forest department (FBO), excise department(Constables) provided the candidates meet the physical norms prescribed for the post, VRO (in revenue department), panchayat secretary (in panchayatraj department), secondary grade teacher (Teacher Eligibility Test), divisional account officer, asst statistical officer in economics & statistics department. In addition to these they are eligible for other central government jobs conducted by various central government recruiting boards. Keep a watch out for notification by Government/TSPSC. I am 51 and have 14 years of professional experience in Business Operation and People Management. Worked in organizations like HSBC / Deutsche Bank & Wipro. Because of the age factor I am not getting a job in any sector. What can I do? -- V Madhusudhan Rao Satyanarayana: You can register at your nearest City Livelihood center (CLC) (at local municipal office) run by Town Level Federation (TLF) or can approach the municipal commissioner /Town Mission Coordinator (TMC). You can also participate in job melas whenever they are conducted. N Satyanarayana, Mission director, Mission for elimination of poverty in municipal area, TelanganaI have a post-graduation in chemistry with specialisation in organic chemistry. I lost my husband suddenly and am now desperately looking for work. However, since I had previously been a teacher, I am not getting anything apart from that. Can you suggest where else I can apply to – in the government or private sector? -- Araj Afroze Khanam Vani Prasad: As someone with a postgraduate degree in organic chemistry you are eligible for the following posts in the government sector: junior lecturer in organic chemistry, degree lecturer in organic chemistry, drug inspectors, food safety officer, posts in forest department (FRO/FSO) and all groupservices. Please keep a watch out for these job notifications. Also, jobs in pharmaceutical companies in the private sector might be the place to look. I have worked as scientist III at Aurobindo Pharma (CuraTeQ), in Regulatory Sciences, for two years. At the moment, I am jobless and am looking for an opportunity. I have, in the last few months, even upskilled myself as a medical writer. Can you help me with some suggestions/leads? -- Pratima Malekar Jayesh Ranjan: Approaching the TASK is a good idea for you. There are a lot of clients based in the US that require medical writers and the TASK can help with connecting you to them. I am a fresh graduate who is keen on joining the government sector. Can you guide me on preparing for group 2 exams? Also, what is the pay scale that a fresher can expect? -- Pankaj Kumar Vani Prasad: Group-II services consists of 12 categories of posts like deputy collector, asst commercial tax officer, sub-registrar, excise SI etc. A two-tier competitive exam -- written and oral – is held to select candidates. The written examination consists of four papers. The scheme and syllabus and pattern of examination can be seen on the Commission's website: www.tspsc.gov.in I am 50 years old. I have a BA degree with basic computer knowledge. I am also a very skilled driver (four-wheeler). Can you suggest some jobs that I can apply to? My current CTC is Rs 3.4 lakh. -- Y Sarath Babu Satyanarayana: You can register at your nearest City Livelihood Center (CLC) (at the municipality office) which is run by Town Level Federation (TLF) or approach concerned municipal commissioner/town Mission Coordinator (TMC). According to your skills and available opportunities, they will be able to guide you. If a person has a gap of five years before and after his last job, due to neurological problems, what is the prospect of getting a job? Does the person need to start afresh, or do some course? -- Sagar Raj N Satyanarayana: Yes. It depends on what kind of problems he has. Domains like voice processing, data entry etc can be ideal for such people. You can log on to: https://tmepma.cgg.gov.in to find out more.  Jayesh Ranjan: You need to do a course to stay relevant. Pick a course that’s aligned with your background and has good job prospects. I am 45 and have an MA and B Ed in English. Because I couldn’t find any other job earlier, I worked as an executive in the account opening section of a bank. Now, I am unemployed with three kids and a husband who is not educated. Please guide me in finding opportunities (in govt or private sector) that can give me a decent earning. -- A Sami Vani Prasad: A post graduate is eligible for posts such as: junior lecturers (those who possess 50% marks in concerned discipline), degree college lecturers (with 55% marks in addition to a qualification in NET /SLET /PhD), all group services, teacher’s recruitment (who qualified in TS TET/B Ed) etc. However, there are age limits (18 to 34 years & 5 years relaxation is given to SC/ST/BCs and 10 years for those who are physically handicapped) within which you can apply for government posts. What kind of jobs can the government offer for women whose husbands are lowly paid? Like wives of carpenters, plumbers, domestic helps. Many such people, in their middle-age, are in desperate need for extra income. -- Rekha Rao N Satyanarayana: If the women are from Below Poverty Line (BPL) category and belong to urban area, they can avail a loan up to Rs 2 lakh to establish Self Employment Unit under Self- Employment Program (SEP) component of DAY-NULM Scheme. The financial assistance available to urban poor in setting up individual and group enterprises will be in the form of interest subsidy on the bank loans. Secondly, if the women are between 18 and 35 years of age, they can join any skill training programme based on her educational qualification to get a job. Lastly, there are also Self-Help Groups (SHG), where women can join where they will get credit through banks and Streenidhi to start their own business. You can approach the municipal office to connect with the right officials. A Vani Prasad, principal secretary, Telangana state public service commissionI have completed my MBA (Human Resource) from Osmania University in 2019. Since then, I have tried my best for various job opportunities in various organizations and job melas, but have not secured any job. I belong to the ST community. Kindly help me. -- Devarai Aruna Vani Prasad: Apart from all posts that PG degree holders can apply to, under the state government, you can look at vacancies announced by various recruiting agencies, under the Government of India. The Staff Selection Commission conducts combined graduates exam every year to fill up different categories of posts in various ministries such as sub inspectors, office assistants, assistant statistical officer, assistant audit officer and accounts officer. As observed, there is very poor representation from southern states like Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. I have over six years of work experience in data analytics and process improvements. I'm also about to finish my MBA in IT Management and have been trying to find employment for the past several months, but to no avail. Could you guide me on how I can position myself to ensure that I am able to secure a job with an IT firm or any firm that has IT management as part of its business? -- Eyunni Karan Kumar Data analytics offers wider and better job opportunities. Better to stick to that domain for some more time. An IT Management degree will be handy as you grow in your career.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/many-unexplored-vacancies-across-sectors/articleshow/80354389.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Goa||Chowgule to commence coal mining in Madhya Pradesh||Panaji: Chowgule & Company Private Limited (CCPL) is all set to start commercial coal mining in the Shahpur (East) coal mine in Shahdol district, Madhya Pradesh after it signed an agreement with the Union ministry of coal, mines and parliamentary affairs. The Goan conglomerate won the bid for the coal mine in the e-auctions conducted in November last year. The company signed the agreement as a part of the Coal Unleashed event in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah and minister of coal, mines & parliamentary affairs Prahlad Joshi. “We are thrilled to be part of the country’s first ever commercial coal mining bid and to win the Sahahpur mine coal block,” said Padma Chowgule, chairman and managing director of the company. “The auction is a bold step by the government towards achieving the goal of Atmanirbhar Bharat. Meanwhile, our company’s diversification into the coal sector is a part of our strategy to achieve robust, sustainable growth in the years ahead.” Chowgule stated that the underground mining project will be developed with environment-friendly technologies to enable zero harm, zero discharge and zero spillage. “The quality of thermal coal produced from Sahapur mine will be better than 80% of domestic coal production which will help end-use plants to achieve better emission norms,” Chowgule stated. The Chowgule Group currently has mining operations in Goa and Karnataka, and three plants with the capacity to produce and export over five million tonnes of the finest iron ore and pellets every year. The 104-year old family run group has 14 successful businesses in variety of sectors ranging from mining, shipbuilding, boat building and ship repairs to construction chemicals and automobile dealerships. The Chowgule Group is going through a restructuring process which will see the subsidiaries being divided between the siblings, Padma Chowgule and Vijay Chowgule. Chowgule & Company Private Limited was the first to mechanise mining operations in India, in the year 1952 at Sirigao mines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chowgule-to-commence-coal-mining-in-madhya-pradesh/articleshow/80336427.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||‘Ex-CEO of BARC can use influence if he’s granted bail’||MUMBAI: During arguments on former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta’s bail plea before a sessions court on Tuesday, the defence submitted that so far, no possible person who could be deceived by the alleged TRP manipulation -- advertisers, channels or broadcasters -- had filed a complaint of cheating or criminal breach of trust. Read AlsoTRP scam: Shock, outrage on social media over Arnab Goswami and ex-BARC CEO's WhatsApp chatsNEW DELHI: The leaked WhatsApp conversations between Republic TV executive editor Arnab Goswami and former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) Partho Dasgupta has brought to the fore evidence of alleged collusion to influence TV ratings. The purported WhatsApp conversations between theSpecial public prosecutor Shishir Hiray opposed the bail plea and cited the WhatsApp chats between Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami and Dasgupta, in which the former assured him of help from the government. The prosecution said this showed their proximity. It said there was a possibility of Dasgupta using his influence if granted bail. Read AlsoWhatsApp chats prove Arnab Goswami-ex-BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta collusion to rig ratings, says NBAThe NBA said that the collusion between Goswami and Dasgupta had led to Republic TV’s viewership numbers being boosted while “fraudulently manually reducing ratings of other channels”. It demanded that BARC make a “a clear statement about the veracity of its ratings” in the period under audit andRead AlsoArnab Goswami &amp; ex-BARC CEO chats go viralThe chats document a constant flow of communication between Dasgupta and Goswami and chats between former BARC’s chief operating officer Romil Ramgarhia and Republic TV CEO Vikas Khanchandani. Dasgupta is in judicial custody, while Ramgarhia and Khanchandani are out on bail.Dasgupta’s lawyers pointed to the prosecution’s arguments that TRPs were allegedly manipulated to get more revenue from advertisements, which is a Rs 32,000 crore industry. “This argument presumes, without any evidence, that advertisers base their advertisement expenses on TRP. Even going by that assumption, advertisers are not naive persons – they are fully aware that TRP is based on only 44,000 barometers, that is, sample data of 0.0003% of the total Indian population,” defence advocate Shardul Singh, who appeared along with Arjun Singh Thakur, said. Read AlsoTRP scam: Ex-CEO of BARC Partho Dasgupta hospitalisedFormer CEO of ratings agency BARC, Partho Dasgupta, who was arrested in the alleged fake TRP case, has been admitted in the ICU. Dasgupta, a diabetic, was rushed to the hospital from the Taloja Central Prison in Navi Mumbaiin the early hours of Saturday after his blood sugar levels went up on FridayRead AlsoSurvey at least 5 lakh homes to rate viewership, stop rigging: PanelNEW DELHI: Amid the raging controversy over the alleged manipulation of TV viewership figures, a four-member government-appointed committee to strengthen the TRP ratings system has said at least 5-lakh homes should be sampled against the existing 50,000 to ascertain viewership data and to ensure theDasgupta is accused of misusing his official position and conniving with ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd and Arnab Goswami to manipulate TRPs and bring Republic TV to the No. 1 position. The supplementary chargesheet states that Dasgupta received a huge kickback from Republic TV from which he brought jewellery and other valuables. He was arrested in the TRP manipulation case on December 24. Read AlsoRepublic illegally used Doordarshan’s DTH platform, says CongressMUMBAI: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday said that the state government will be seeking legal opinion on whether action can be taken against Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami under the Official Secrets Act, 1923, for leaking sensitive information in purported chats with former BARC CEORead AlsoNCP demands JPC on purported chats between Goswami, DasguptaThe Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Monday asked the government to set up a Joint Parliamentary Committee to probe the purported chats between Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and former Broadcast Audience Research Council head Partho Dasgupta.The court is likely to pronounce its order on the bail plea on Wednesday. After his bail plea was rejected by the magistrate court on January 4, his lawyers moved the sessions court. Arnab Goswami, Partho Dasgupta nexus exposed in whatsapp chat:Full detailsDasgupta’s defence lawyers cited his health issues and admission to JJ Hospital’s ICU last week. They said that the doctors had indicated to the family that Dasgupta had developed “diabetic ketoacidosis,” known to cause life-threatening diabetic coma. The defence said keeping him in jail might lead to recurrence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ex-ceo-of-barc-can-use-influence-if-hes-granted-bail/articleshow/80354499.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ‘Cycles cheapest for last mile connectivity at Rs 2 for 5km in pandemic’||MUMBAI: Bicycling to the workplace could be the cheapest and a healthy last mile connectivity for Mumbaikars during the pandemic. A 5km ride will cost Rs 2, cheaper than buses, autos, taxis or aggregators, the latest World Resources Institute (WRI) India report stated. WRI India is pushing for cycles outside every suburban and Metro and Mono stations of the city. Its report said the next cheapest option was a bus which costs Rs 5 for a 5km ride or a second-class suburban train travel at the same rate. Autos, kaali-peelis and aggregator cabs were nearly 12 to 20 times expensive, it said. Prateek Diwan, senior associate (integrated transport), WRI, said: “Last mile connectivity is usually 2km to 5km. We are keen on deploying as many cycles as possible or e-scooters as last mile solutions for travel.” He said recently MMRDA introduced e-scooters for office-goers in Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra and Kurla stations while Mumbai Metro and Mybyk have launched Rent-a-Bicycle at Versova. “We want bicycle stands to come up outside most suburban stations in future,” he said. A survey report by him and WRI’s project associate Anya George stated: “According to All India Cycle Manufacturers Association, the cycling industry is expected to grow between 15% and 20% in 2020, from the previous year’s growth rate of 5-7%. About 35% of vehicular trips in India are short trips (less than 5km) and form a huge potential market that can use cycles to travel.” It further stated: “Cities should explore implementing public bicycle sharing (PBS) systems just like the rent-a-cycle schemes launched recently outside Metro stations in Mumbai. A PBS cycle allows citizens the flexibility of renting and sharing cycles for short trips at nominal rates, without the hassle of maintaining a cycle. Most PBS users travel shorter distances on cycles (around 2km).” The report stated: “With traffic levels in cities returning to almost pre-pandemic levels, it is important to keep the momentum for cycling going. Cities are actively planning infrastructure to encourage and foster non-motorized forms of transportation, such as walking or cycling, among commuters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cycles-cheapest-for-last-mile-connectivity-at-rs-2-for-5km-in-pandemic/articleshow/80353379.cms||Somit Sen
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Anxiety paves way for relief at vaccine centres in Cantonment||Secunderabad: Anxiety was writ large on the faces of frontline warriors just minutes before taking the Covid vaccine, Covisheild. Once the inoculation was done, anxiety gave way to wide grins and a sigh of relief. These were the scenes at three designated vaccination centres in the Secunderabad Cantonment, which saw the roll-out of the Covid vaccination drive on Tuesday. Though health officials had planned to inoculate 1,057 staff working at upper primary health centres (UPHCs) in the Cantonment, but only 71 frontline warriors were brave enough to take the jab. At Government High School, Bowenpally, vaccine was given to 18 frontline warriors. A few of them even took selfies with their colleagues. “No fear in our minds anymore,” a few health workers told TOI. “Initially, my family was against me taking the vaccine. Later, they got convinced it was good for me,” an ASHA worker said. UPHC, Picket, medical officer Dr Meena said, “We gave vaccination to staff not having any health issues. We did not put pressure on health staff to take the shots.” Some health officials said the response was lukewarm response, while deputy DMHO Dr H H Rajkumari attributed it to health issues. Dr Rajkumari said: Ä second dose will be given after a gap of 28 days. We will keep in touch with health staff who took the vaccine.” Earlier, labour minister Ch Malla Reddy, who inaugurated the vaccination programme at the Bowenpally schools, said, “Do not panic about the vaccination. Till date, the vaccination drive has gone off without any complaints.” Though health officials had planned to inoculate 1,057 staff working at UPHCs in the Cantonment, but only 71 frontline warriors were brave enough to take the jab||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/anxiety-paves-way-for-relief-at-vaccine-centres-in-cantonment/articleshow/80354417.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 20, 2021||Bareilly||Leopardess attacks forest inspector to protect cub||PILIBHIT: A forest inspector was attacked by a leopardess barely a km from Kuthia Gundia village under Hajara police station in Pilibhit on Monday evening. This is the first attack by a big cat in 10 years in the 25 km-stretch between Kishanpur Wildlife Sanctuary, a part of Dudhwa tiger reserve, and Hajara area of Pilibhit. Forest inspector Kishan Lal, posted at Sampurna Nagar forest range of North Kheri forest division, and a forest watcher were on way to the village on a motorcycle when the attack took place. Lal was going to Kuthia Gundia village for inspection after learning about the presence of the big cat and its cub in the farmland of one Jagir Singh. Anil Patel, divisional forest officer of North Kheri forest division, said the leopardess was apparently lurking among the shrubs along the road and attacked Lal to protect its cub. He said some seven leopards are present in the area. The forest official who sustained injuries in the leg is being treated at the Palia community health centre. A field forest team has been deployed at Kuthia Gundia village to monitor the leopardess’ movement, Patel added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/leopardess-attacks-forest-inspector-to-protect-cub/articleshow/80352063.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 20, 2021||Kolhapur||State crushes more cane but mills yet to clear dues||Kolhapur: Sugar factories in Maharashtra have crushed four times more cane till the end of December 2020 when compared to previous crushing season. The mills, however, are yet to pay Rs 2,140 crore to the farmers.According to the information released by the office of sugar commissioner, a total of 178 private and cooperative sugar mills are operating during the ongoing crushing season and they had crushed 323 lakh tonne of sugar cane till December 31. Sugar commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad told TOI: “Land under sugar cane cultivation has increased by 3 lakh hectare. It was around 8 lakh hectare in 2019, but has increased to 11 lakh hectare in 2020. All the factories are working to their capacity.”In the 2019 crushing season, 113 mills were operational and they had crushed 79 tonne of sugar cane by the end of December . Sources in sugar industry maintain that 2019 crushing season began late because of delay in formation of the government. A four-time rise in crushing of cane has also increased the bills to the sugar cane farmers. Cane crushing this year, has generated a bill of Rs 6,795 crore based on the fair and remunerative price (FRP) as against Rs 1,771 in the 2019 crushing season.According to the information released by the sugar commissioner, factories have, so far, paid Rs 4,657 crore to the farmers while Rs 2,140 is yet to be paid. Unlike last year, not a single factory has been issued a notice under the Revenue Recovery Code. Out of the 178 sugar factories that are engaged in crushing, 68 have made full payment of bills to the farmers. Last year, there were 38 such factories. According to the official information, sugar factories have crushed around 538 lakh tonne of sugar cane till January 18, producing around 524 lakh quintal of sugar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/state-crushes-more-cane-but-mills-yet-to-clear-dues/articleshow/80352136.cms||Satyajit Joshi
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt nod to start horse racing in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra government on Tuesday gave permission to the Royal Western India Turf Club (RWITC) to start horse racing activities at Mahalaxmi Racecourse. The racing will happen in closed doors and the public will not be allowed to attend due to Covid-19 restrictions. “We are delighted,” RWITC chairman Zavaray Poonawalla told TOI. “It does not mean racing can start immediately as we would need some time to get the place in order. It is difficult to comment on when racing will resume, but we are putting in every effort to restore racing as soon as possible.” he added. The ongoing Mumbai Season 2020-21, which started on November 27 last year, is being held at the Pune Racecourse as the Mahalaxmi Racecourse housed a huge Covid-19 facility. The BMC is now removing the unutilised facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/govt-nod-to-start-horse-racing-in-city/articleshow/80355727.cms||Shailendra Awasthi
January 20, 2021||Aurangabad||Man, son held for assault on bldg inspector||Aurangabad: City Chowk police on Tuesday arrested a man and his son on the charges of assaulting building inspector Syed Jamshed at the anti-encroachment squad’s office on Tuesday morning. Sanjay Basaiye and his son Swapnil have been arrested on the charges of voluntarily causing hurt and for using criminal force to deter a government employee from performing his duty. Sources in the civic body said former corporator Kailas Gaikwad had lodged a complaint against an encroachment on a land in the Basaiye Nagar area near Sanjaynagar in Auranagabad. Based on the complaint, the anti encroachment department had issued a notice to Sanjay to submit the title deed. Police said the duo was upset with the fact that Jamshed had issued them notices asking them to submit the documents of the ownership of land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-son-held-for-assault-on-bldg-inspector/articleshow/80352151.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 20, 2021||Goa||Centre committed to empower the disabled: Minister||Bicholim: Union minister for social justice and empowerment Thawar Chand Gehlot on Tuesday said that the central government is committed in ensuring that every person with disability becomes self-reliant and gains a respectable place in the society. “When the department of social welfare undertakes various schemes for the disabled at the national level, special attention is being paid to provide them with all kinds of facilities in the order of priorityand welfare schemes are being implemented to make them self-reliant while gaining respectable place in the society,” Gehlot said. He said that a total of 19,000 special cards will be soon issued by the Goa government. Gehlot was speaking at the inauguration of a state government campaign organised under the Union ministry of social justice. “The state government’s schemes should be taken advantage of. Goa government is implementing various schemes for the disabled and a total of 19,000 special cards will be made to help them, besides constructing sports complex and recreation centre at the cost of Rs 200 crore,” Gehlot said. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said there are 22 special schools for the disabled in the state and they are being provided with all kinds of facilities. He called upon panchs, sarpanchs and other village level functionaries to take the responsibility to ensure that every special child in the state receives the benefit of the schemes created for them. On the day, around 700 special children were provided about 1,076 artificial limbs and other tools worth Rs 60 lakh manufactured in Kanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-committed-to-empower-the-disabled-minister/articleshow/80354793.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Goa||Govt holds talks with taxi operators over GoaMiles||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday commenced discussions with taxi associations to take a “balanced decision” in the interest of tourism and taxi operators who are demanding the scrapping of online operator GoaMiles. During the past few months, clashes have been reported between taxi operators and GoaMiles drivers over picking up of passengers. Besides Sawant, the meeting was attended by transport minister Mauvin Godinho and ports minister Michael Lobo. Godinho said that taxi owners are Goans, and “their demands have been heard”. Godinho said that during the lockdown period, the taxi owners had demanded road tax wavier that was considered by the government. Lobo said that due to the pandemic, taxi operators have faced numerous problems as well as injustice. “We held a meeting to resolve the issue of commuting passengers from the airport to hotels and vice-versa,” Lobo said. He also said that it was Goa Tourism Development Corporation that granted the no-objection certificate to GoaMiles and not the transport department. “We want one department to handle this issue,” he added. He also said that the rates prescribed by the transport department for taxis should be implemented in the state. “If this is implemented, then 70% of issues faced by taxi operators would be resolved,” Lobo said. President of the Association of Tourist Taxi Owners of Goa (ATTOG) Chetan Kamat said that their only demand is scrapping of GoaMiles. He also said that they have submitted at least two memorandums to the government over the issue. “After the next meeting, we will chalk out our future course of action and reveal our stand on installing meters,” the taxi owners said. High drama was witnessed some days ago at Lobo’s Parra residence when around 50-60 taxi owners squatted on the road in front of his house shouting slogans to demand the scrapping of GoaMiles. Lobo, who was at home, invited the group leaders inside his house for a discussion, but they refused, insisting that he come out to talk to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-holds-talks-with-taxi-operators-over-goamiles/articleshow/80336605.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Six held for supplying fake sutures to hospital in Mumbai||MUMBAI: A JJ Hospital doctor was operating on a patient recently when he found the suture broken. Since it was a rare instance, he got suspicious. Moreover, some patients who had been operated upon earlier had also complained of pain and infection. The matter was brought to the notice of the police, who found duplicate sutures of reputed companies were being supplied to four medical shops near the hospital. Five accused associated with the medical shops, and a supplier who brought the duplicate sutures from New Delhi have been arrested. A team supervised by joint commissioner Niket Kaushik carried out raids at Shree Paras medical stores, Metro Medical and general store, Shah Medical and general store and Umama medical and general store. Nilesh Shah, a Kalbadevi resident and associated to the supplier, Monarch Enterprises, was also arrested. “The cost of original sutures is around Rs 280, while the accused would get it from the supplier for Rs 50 and sell it at the original cost. We have seized fake sutures worth Rs 3.9 lakh,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/6-held-for-supplying-fake-sutures-to-hosp/articleshow/80354646.cms||Mateen Hafeez
January 20, 2021||Dehradun||Budget session of U’khand assembly to be held at Gairsain: CM||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday said that the budget session of Uttarakhand assembly would be held at Gairsain. He added that the future roadmap for the state’s development would be decided in the forthcoming assembly session. With the notification of Kumbh likely to be issued in the third week of February, possibilities are high that the budget session would be held at Gairsain in the first half of March. Due to Covid-19, the last two assembly sessions – in September and in December last year – were held at Dehradun. “A planned development will be undertaken in Gairsain as we want to develop a beautiful and attractive summer capital. When a session is held at Gairsain, people living in far-flung areas will get an opportunity to interact with the ministers and officials. It will also help the government in gauging the ground realities and help solve the issues faced by people living in remote areas of our state,” the CM added. To recall, CM Rawat, after presenting the state budget on March 4, had declared Gairsain as the summer capital of Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/budget-session-of-ukhand-assembly-to-be-held-at-gairsain-cm/articleshow/80352159.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Lack of garbage bin keeps road at Attapur dirty||There is no garbage bin at Mushk Mahal, near the gurudwara in Attapur, due to which garbage is strewn across the road on a daily basis. I request the authorities to install a garbage bin and ensure that it is cleared daily —Vikram Chauhan Several street dogs roam the streets at Begumpet police line quarters, main road and pose threat to pedestrians and motorists. I request the authorities to sterilise them at the earliest — Rajapurohitham Giridhar Pointer: Still wondering if the vaccine is safe? Want to know what happens if you give it a miss? Then send us your queries at: toi.timesconnect@gmail.com and we will have Rakesh Mishra, director, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology answer them for you. Last date for questions: January 22||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lack-of-garbage-bin-keeps-road-at-attapur-dirty/articleshow/80354609.cms||---
January 20, 2021||India||Maharashtra rural polls: Both BJP, MVA claim victory||MUMBAI: Even as all the results for the gram panchayat elections in Maharashtra were yet to come in till late Tuesday evening, claims and counterclaims by the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and BJP on the outcome continued, with all parties barring BJP admitting that Shiv Sena had emerged victorious in a majority of the gram panchayats. While Shiv Sena claimed it had won 3,113 gram panchayats out of a total of 12,711, BJP maintained that it was the biggest party having registered wins in 5,781. Sena spokesperson Harshal Pradhan said the party secured victory in 3,113 seats, followed by BJP (2,632), NCP (2,400) and Congress (1,823). In the 2017 gram panchayat elections, Sena had won only 637 gram panchayats out of 7,590 that had then gone to the polls. However, BJP countered this, with its spokesperson Keshav Upadhye contending that it had won 5,781 gram panchayats. “We have secured 45.5% of votes polled,” he said. There were no takers for BJP’s claims. The gram panchayat elections are not contested on party symbols and all candidates are considered independents. “State BJP president Chandrakant Patil had on Monday said that the party had won in 6,000 gram panchayats, while on Wednesday, it has lowered the figures. I will request BJP leaders not to mislead the people but to accept defeat,” state Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said. Congress too came out with its own data, saying it had won 2,513 seats, while Sena had won 3,108, BJP 2,263 and NCP 2,399. But while Sena’s Pradhan claimed that independents had won more seats than Congress, a Congress functionary said that Pradhan’s contention that Congress had been relegated to the fourth position was wrong. The MVA has claimed that it has swept the panchayat polls which were held in 34 out of the 36 districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maharashtra-rural-polls-both-bjp-mva-claim-victory/articleshow/80356713.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
January 20, 2021||Dehradun||Delhi-Doon e-way extension to claim 8,588 trees in 17-km stretch||Dehradun: The extension of the Delhi-Doon expressway, a project that promises to cut the distance between Dehradun and the national capital from 250 km to 180 km, will claim 8,588 trees that are proposed to be felled in a stretch of barely 17 km of the highway. This is in addition to the almost 2,500 trees, including British-era Sal trees, that are proposed to be cut in a stretch of 3.6 km of the expressway. The proposed felling of the over-a-century-old Sal trees was first reported by TOI in August last year. The stretch on which the over 8,000 trees proposed to be felled are located, extends from Ganeshpur in Saharanpur district to Dat Kali near Dehradun. It is an ecologically-rich stretch passing through Shivalik forest division of Uttar Pradesh (which is a part of Shivalik Elephant Reserve) as well as a 10 km area comprising the eco-sensitive zone of Rajaji National Park. Himanshu Arora, secretary of Doon-based environmental NGO, ‘Citizens for Green Doon’, who had filed an RTI query on the deforestation planned as part of the expressway project, expressed shock at the number of trees marked for felling. “This is going to affect not just the green cover but also the wildlife population. The area has tigers as well as several elephants. In fact, two tigers have recently been introduced in western Rajaji to maintain the flow of tiger population to Shivalik forest division of Uttar Pradesh and Kaleswar wildlife sanctuary of Haryana. Why chop down forests now, making those tigers vulnerable to poaching?” What is further shocking in the RTI response, says Arora, is that no Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) has been done on the 17 km-long eco-sensitive patch between Ganeshpur to Daat Kaali that will claim so many trees. “When we already have Motichur flyover which is on the eastern side of Rajaji Tiger Reserve for entry into Dehradun and the Garhwal hills, why this devastation is being planned on the western side of the reserve? We don’t want speed at the cost of our rich wildlife, trees and natural environment,” he said. Ravi Chopra, chairperson of the Supreme Court-appointed high-powered committee on the Char Dham all-weather road, reacting to the issue, said, “It is well-known that destroying trees in such a large number is extremely harmful to the environment. A few months ago, the Chief Justice of India had himself remarked that this should not happen. This was in reference to the construction of a flyover at the cost of several trees.” Since the expressway passes through the area connecting two protected areas which act as wildlife corridor, clearance was required as per the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972. Sources said the project was presented before the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) this month and it got preliminary clearance from the board. Incidentally, the Uttarakhand high court had last week, taken a strict stand against the felling of the British-era Sal trees on the 3.6 km stretch of the expressway and sought a response from the Centre and state government on the issue by March 18. Meanwhile, JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden of the state forest department, when queried about the matter, said, “The elevated road is being constructed as per the norms laid by the ministry; all the rules are being followed and all due clearances are being taken before any work starts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/delhi-doon-e-way-extension-to-claim-8588-trees-in-17-km-stretch/articleshow/80352176.cms||Shivani Azad
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Manuu online teaching facility||Hyderabad: The online teaching facility at Maulana Azad National Urdu University (Manuu), Polytechnic Hyderabad, was inaugurated by the varsity’s vice-chancellor in-charge Prof SM Rahmatullah on Monday. Teachers who have difficulty in taking online classes from home, can now teach students better with this facility. According to the Principal of Polytechnic, Hyderabad, Dr Mohd Yousuf Khan, four units equipped with online teaching facilities have been set up at the Polytechnic building. Two units have tripods for mobile and writing boards while other units have a pad with a computer camera where what the teacher writes can be seen through computer screen.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/manuu-online-teaching-facility/articleshow/80354664.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Aurangabad||Man’s death sparks tension in Maharashtra's Udgir||AURANGABAD: A 30-year-old man, who was assaulted by four men for allegedly failing to repay a loan, died in Udgir on Tuesday morning. The incident sparked tension in the area and a group of miscreants pelted stones at vehicles and even injured a policeman. Police said the situation is now under control. Superintendent of police Nikhil Pingale told TOI: “The alleged attack took place eight days ago. A case of attempt to murder was booked a couple of days ago.” The deceased has been identified as Syed Bashir, a resident of Haibatpur village in Udgir. Pingale said following Bashir’s death, a section for committing murder has been added to the case and the accused — Tanaji Phule, Rajkumar Birajdar, Mahesh Birajdar and Shantvir Birajdar — have been arrested. Citing the preliminary probe, police said due financial crisis, Bashir had to take a loan from a private moneylender. Over a period of time, Bashir failed to repay the instalments and the interest rate continued to go up. The private moneylender allegedly started pressurising Bashir to repay the money, and this led to arguments. On January 13, Bashir and his cousin were waylaid by the accused, who brutally assaulted Bashir with sticks and rods. He was seriously injured and admitted to a private hospital. Bashir succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday. As the news of his death spread, a mob gathered at the hospital. The mob then took Bashir’s body to the police station. A group of miscreants even pelted stones, and the police had to resort to lathi-charge. Police said a case of rioting, unlawful assembly, damage to public property, using criminal force to prevent a government employee from performing duty and other relevant sections have been registered against people involved in the violence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mans-death-sparks-tension-in-udgir/articleshow/80352161.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 20, 2021||Dehradun||Unable to gain favour with girl, man asks occult practitioner for refund; shoots him dead when refused||Roorkee: Four men have been identified for allegedly shooting dead a 70-year-old occult practitioner, identified as Irfan Ahmed on Saturday evening in Rampur Chungi locality at Roorkee. One of the accused, Vishal, said that he had repeatedly paid money to Ahmed but did not get what was promised – winning the favour of a girl. He added when Ahmed refused to return his money, he allegedly shot him dead with the help of his friends. On Tuesday, Roorkee Police arrested the four men, including Vishal, under section 302 (murder) of the IPC. All the men are in their 20s. Haridwar SSP Senthil Avoodai K Raj S said that Vishal had been introduced to the occultist by his friend Rahul, whose son Ahmed had “cured”. “Rahul had convinced Vishal that Ahmed would help him win a girl’s favour. Meanwhile, Rahul also sought the occultist’s services for his father who had fallen ill. However, when the girl showed no interest in Vishal and Rahul’s father passed away, the duo confronted the occultist, asking for their money back. When Ahmed refused to give it, they hatched a plan to ‘teach him a lesson’,” the SSP said. On January 16, when Ahmed was returning from the local mosque after offering prayers, two bike-borne miscreants with covered faces shot Ahmed dead. Roorkee Police formed three teams to nab the accused. They got a lead after coming to know Rahul and Vishal had had a heated argument with Ahmed days before he was killed. On interrogation, the accused confessed to the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/unable-to-gain-favour-with-girl-man-asks-occult-practitioner-for-refund-shoots-him-dead-when-refused/articleshow/80352190.cms||Tapan Susheel
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||NCLT junks plea to stop forensic audit of firm’s a/cs||HYDERABAD: Making it clear that banks are bound by banking regulations and RBI norms, the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in Hyderabad has dismissed a petition filed by a former director of Indu Projects. The petitioner, BV Bhaskar Reddy, wanted the tribunal to pre-empt Bank of India from undertaking a forensic audit of Indu Projects’ accounts to find out whether the company resorted to a fraud by obtaining huge loans from a dozen banks whose dues have now crossed Rs 3,000 crore. Indu Projects is already facing several CBI and ED cases as an accused in the quid pro quo case. A bench of judicial member K Anantha Padmanabha Swamy and technical member Binod Kumar Sinha refused to agree with the argument of the petitioner who contended that since Indu Projects was undergoing insolvency process, banks were bound by the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), particularly after the consortium of lenders had decided not to go in for the forensic audit. The bench reminded the petitioner that one of the consortium members, Indian Overseas Bank, had already got the Indu bank loan account declared as a fraud account in May 2020. “When the resolution of the lenders’ consortium was not binding on one bank, it cannot be binding on the petitioner bank,” the bench said. The banking authorities are contemplating a forensic audit of Indu Projects’ accounts from 2010 to 2019. AP government allotted Indu Projects more than 9,000 acres in Anantapur district for setting up Lepakshi Knowledge Hub and hundreds of crores of rupees worth prime land plots in Kukatpally and Bandlaguda in Hyderabad which originally belong to the housing board. The allegation against Indu Projects is that it had mortgaged these public assets, raised huge loans, misused and diverted the money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nclt-junks-plea-to-stop-forensic-audit-of-firms-a/cs/articleshow/80354721.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
January 20, 2021||India||UP ex-minister, BSP neta in jail for abusing BJP functionary’s kin||LUCKNOW: The MP-MLA court here rejected the interim bail pleas of former UP minister Naseemuddin Siddiqui and BSP functionary Ram Achal Rajbhar on Tuesday and sent them to judicial custody for allegedly using indecent language against BJP politician Dayashankar Singh’s family at a protest rally in Hazratganj. While sending them to judicial custody, special Judge Pawan Kumar Rai said that their regular bail application will be heard on Wednesday. The two had surrendered before the court after it directed the Hazratganj police on Monday to attach their properties and submit the action taken report on January 22. In July 2016, Dayashankar’s mother Tetra Devi and wife Swati Singh had lodged an FIR against BSP chief Mayawati, Naseemuddin Siddiqui, state BSP president Ram Achal Rajbhar and secretary Mewalal for using foul and objectionable language while protesting against Dayashankar’s alleged slur against Mayawati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-ex-minister-bsp-neta-in-jail-for-abusing-bjp-functionarys-kin/articleshow/80356716.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Jaipur||Lukewarm response to schools reopening on second day in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Most of the government and private schools in the city witnessed lukewarm response from students on the second day of reopening on Tuesday. After 10 months, schools have reopened in state and many reluctant parents have started sending their children to schools, but the number of students is still low. In government schools, most of the children who appeared on Monday batch came to school. Many government school students were facing difficulty in arranging smart phones to for online classes. Hence the number of students is higher in government schools as compared to other private schools. Most of the government schools received around 50% students today, but with time, they expect this to increase. In private schools, however, the situation is different. In most of the private schools the attendance is not more than 40%, but schools are hoping that this will improve sooner. A private school principal said, “When good online classes are available to them at home, then most of the students are waiting for more days instead of coming to schools. Many parents are still not ready to send their children and is in a wait and watch mode.” Damodar Goyal, President of Society of Unaided Private School of Rajasthan said that students are facing various difficulties in coming to school including transportation. “It is not practical for schools and transporters to run buses or autos without optimum numbers. So parents who can send their children to school in their own vehicles are coming to school. Moreover, in most private schools courses are almost complete in humanities and commerce stream and hence students of these streams are not keen to come to schools. Students in science have not been able to do practicals and need some remedial are anxious to attend classes,” said Goyal.  He further said that students attending schools are motivating their peers to start attending physical classes and that may take some time to get the system back to normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lukewarm-response-to-schools-reopening-on-second-day-in-city/articleshow/80354759.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Centre not given credit by Telangana govt for 2BHK: Bandi Sanjay Kumar||HYDERABAD: BJP state president and member of standing committee on urban development Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Tuesday complained to the committee chairman that the TRS government is not giving credit to the Centre and not using Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s pictures on 2BHK housing scheme. He said the Centre contributes to the state government’s 2BHK housing programme but does not get due credit. He also alleged that the state government is not providing expenditure details of Smart City projects of Warangal and Karimnagar. The standing committee on urban development chaired by Jagadambika Pal held a meeting on central projects implemented in Telangana. Municipal administration principal secretary Arvind Kumar gave a presentation on various projects to the committee members. Sanjay, who is an MP from Karimnagar, said funds allocated to Karimnagar and Warangal smart cities were not being utilised by the state government properly. A special purpose vehicle was not constituted for the projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-not-given-credit-by-t-for-2bhk-bandi/articleshow/80354758.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Nana Patole in race for post of Maharashtra Congress chief||State Congress president Balasaheb Thorat, who is also the revenue minister, appears to be on his way out in keeping with the party’s policy of ‘one man one post’. In the recent past, during his meetings with senior Congress leaders in New Delhi, Thorat had offered to quit to pave the way for a new leadership. He was appointed state president on July 14, 2019. AICC secretary H K Patil, who is also in-charge of Maharashtra, had then conducted a digital survey to find Thorat’s successor. State assembly speaker Nana Patole has emerged as top contender for the post. A firebrand leader, Patole had taken on PM Narendra Modi on problems faced by farmers. Former chief minister Prithrivaj Chavan is likely to succeed Patole. According to reports, Patole is insistent on retaining the post of cabinet member as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/patole-in-race-for-post-of-state-congress-chief/articleshow/80355770.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Rajkot||Girl kidnapped from Shamlaji bus stop||Palanpur: A 17-year-old girl was kidnapped by two bike-borne men on Monday morning from Shamlaji bus stop where she was standing with her mother.Circle inspector Mukesh Prajapati told TOI on Tuesday that a complaint about the minor’s kidnapping was received late on Monday evening.Victim Sagira and her mother had left Himmatnagar at 8am on way to a village in Bhiloda and were passing Shamlaji bus stand when the incident happened, he said. One kidnapper has been identified as Kiran Parkash Gamethi from Ode village in Bhiloda taluka, while his accomplice is yet to be identified.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/girl-kidnapped-from-shamlaji-bus-stop/articleshow/80352211.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Joe Biden’s speechwriting director has roots in Telangana||HYDERABAD: With Joe Biden’s inauguration as the next US President on January 20, far away from Washington, in a tiny village in Telangana, there is a celebratory atmosphere. The villagers of Pothireddypeta in Huzurabad of Karimnagar district have just woken up to the fact that Joe Biden’s speechwriter Cholleti Vinay Reddy’s roots are in their village. “I am thrilled that my uncle is Joe Biden’s speechwriter and is working for him. My family and our relatives are feeling very happy about it,” said Cholleti Sai Krishna Reddy, a relative of Vinay Reddy. The talk in the village was only about Vinay as groups of people gathered and discussed how important a position he was going to hold in the Joe Biden administration. Sai Reddy’s family takes care of the nearly four acres of land that Vinay Reddy’s father has in the village. The land is a joint family property that belongs to them. The village sarpanch, Thatikonda Pullachari, is even more thrilled as he had worked with Vinay Reddy’s grandfather Thirupati Reddy during the mid-1980s. Thirupati Reddy was the village sarpanch then. “Since I was active, he used to make use of my services for the village,” Pullachari said about Thirupati Reddy. Thirupati Reddy’s son Narayana Reddy, who is a doctor, migrated to the US and settled there. A few months ago, Narayana Reddy had sent an amount as contribution for the construction of a temple in the village. “I thanked him for immediately responding to my request,” Pullachari said. No one in the village knows Vinay Reddy as he was born in the US. But the village is elated because of the importance that he has got in the US. In February 2020, Narayana Reddy had visited the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bidens-speechwriting-director-has-roots-in-t/articleshow/80354729.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 20, 2021||Surat||Gujarat: Accident survivors recount midnight horror||SURAT: After a day of hard labour at a construction site, the group of migrant workers fell fast asleep on the pavement on the roadside near Kim crossroad. But within a couple of hours, some were crushed to death in sleep while others woke up to the wails for help when the truck crushed 21 of them. Those who were fortunate enough to survive only remember the cries of their family members. “I couldn’t understand what had happened. I searched for my wife and she was in a pool of blood,” Manish Mevuliya alias Mahida, 27, whose wife Anita died in the accident due to severe head injury. Manish was sleeping beside Anita but survived with minor injuries on hand, right shoulder and hand. He was in a deep shock and shuddered while narrating the ordeal. The labourers came to Kim around 20 days ago and worked as daily wage workers at a nearby construction site. The group from Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan visit Kim and nearby areas in search of work every year. Mostly, it is a temporary stay, hence they live on the roadside. Kamlesh Mahida, 21, who suffered multiple injuries as the truck tyre brushed his head, said, “I don’t know how I survived. I am worried about my wife who has a serious head injury,” he said. “I didn’t understand what happened. People who came to help informed us that the truck passed by and injured us,” said Kamlesh who is admitted in SMC-run SMIMER hospital. His wife Pinka added, “I only remember writhing in pain due to injury in my head. My head would have got crushed completely.” Despite bitter cold, the labourers were living on the pavement with children and a bundle of clothes and blankets. They earn around Rs 200 to Rs 250 as daily wages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/accident-survivors-recount-midnight-horror/articleshow/80352217.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||2 Oggu Katha artistes die in road mishap||Hyderabad: Two Oggu Katha performers died and their associate sustained injuries in a road accident at Rajanna Sircilla district on Tuesday while they were returning home after their show in a village. The deceased were M Devaiah (50) of Chippalapalle and G Adavaiah (55) of Namapur village in Mustabad mandal of Rajanna Sircilla district. The deceased were performers of traditional folk art, Oggu Katha. On Monday night, Devaiah and Adavaiah along with their associate Mallaiah and two others went to Mustafanagar to perform Oggu Katha. After the performance, the five artistes started the return journey home on three bikes at around 6 am on Tuesday. The deceased were not wearing helmets. Shortly after leaving Mustafanagar, when the victims reached Gambhiraopet, the bike on which Adavaiah and Devaiah were riding rammed Mallaiah’s bike from behind. “Due to collision, the bikers lost balance and fell on the road. Adavaiah and Devaiah died on the spot with head injuries and Mallaiah suffered a leg fracture,” Yellareddypet CI Bansilal said. Two of their team members coming on another bike noticed them and alerted police. Gambhiraopet police rushed to the spot and shifted the injured to a nearby hospital. After postmortem, bodies of the deceased were handed over to their kin on Tuesday. A case was filed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-oggu-katha-artistes-die-in-road-mishap/articleshow/80354764.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Surat||We first treated those with severe head injuries: 108 staff||Surat: When Balvant Baraiya and Jitendra Solanki of 108 emergency services reached the accident spot, they got confused as to whom should be given the treatment first.They have handled several accident trauma cases, but the gory scenes at Kim left them also shaken — blood squirting out from the victims’ heads, wails of the injured and puddles of blood everywhere. The emergency ambulance was stationed just two km from the accident spot and they received the call at 11:53 on Monday night. Baraiya, the ambulance driver and Solanki, an emergency medical technician (EMT), were the first to reach the site within four minutes.“The scene was terrifying. Victims were lying on the footpath built on the gutter and those injured were crying for the help. Blood was oozing out of victims’ heads and bodies. Initially, even we were confused about whom to give primary treatment first. We then identified those with severe head injuries and those profusely bleeding. We first took stitches and provided them oxygen support,’‘ Baraiya told TOI.“Eyeballs of some victims had popped out and their heads completely smashed as the truck ran over their bodies and heads,” he said.“Sensing the emergency, I also informed my office to send more ambulances at the spot and shift people to the hospital,” he added. They first took the three critically wounded patients to Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) run SMIMER Hospital in Surat city for treatment.Fayaz Pathan, project manager, GVK EMRI, Surat, told TOI” “We had sent four ambulances from the accident site’s nearby locations like Kamrej, Varachha, Kadodara and Kim to the accident site. Our teams put in their best to rush the victims to the hospitals for timely treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/we-first-treated-those-with-severe-head-injuries-108-staff/articleshow/80352230.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Raped, battered & ‘buried’, teen survives, gets attacker nabbed||BHOPAL: Close on the heels of the horrifying, repeated gang rape of a minor in MP’s Umaria, a 14-year-old girl in Betul district was raped, bludgeoned with a stone and buried alive, but survived the nightmare and got her attacker arrested. Thankfully, the Betul girl’s parents, who were looking for her, spotted her in time. They say they found her under a pile of thorny bushes and stones, but Betul SP Simala Prasad denies this. She was taken to Nagpur Medical College, over 200km from her village, though it’s only 30-odd km from Betul district HQ. Police have arrested a 35-year-old neighbour on the basis of her statement. The girl’s parents say they got worried and went looking for her when she didn’t return from their farm till late Monday evening. Their search took them towards a nullah where they heard her whimpering in agony and found her buried under stones and thorns. “She had gone out at around 5pm. When she did not return after a few hours, her family began searching for her. They heard some cries near a nullah close to their farm. In torchlight, they followed the cries and found the survivor,” Sarni police station in-charge, Mahendra Singh Chouhan told TOI. Survivor’s condition is stable now, accused arrestedThe accused had thrown her into the nullah and then thrown stones on her. One of the stones hit her jaw and injured her,” Sarni police station in-charge, Mahendra Chouhan told TOI. Her parents first took her to a community health centre and that is when police got the first alert, said Chouhan. She was semi-conscious at that time and said she knew the rapist, said police. “One team took the survivor to hospital and another was dispatched to arrest the accused. He was caught within hours. She was taken to Betul district hospital and our team stayed with her. At 4.30am, doctors referred her to Nagpur. Her condition is stable” Chouhan said. The suspect has been arrested under POCSO Act, SC/ST( Prevention of Atrocities) Act and for rape. “She was found in the nullah but not buried under stones. The accused has been booked under IPC Section 324 (voluntarily causing hurt) as well for injuring the girl. Probe is on and some more charges may be added after the medical report,” the SP said. ' (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/raped-battered-buried-teen-survives-gets-attacker-nabbed/articleshow/80356723.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Vinay to serve as director of speech writing||Hyderabad: The Joe Biden-Kamala Harris transition team had in December announced the name of Vinay Reddy as director of speech writing. It announced that Vinay Reddy was speechwriter for the Biden-Harris transition and also served as senior advisor and speechwriter for the Biden-Harris campaign. Vinay Reddy, it said, previously served as Biden’s chief speechwriter during his second term as vice-president to President Barack Obama, after which he worked as vice-president of strategic communications at the National Basketball Association. The transition team said that during the Obama-Biden administration, he also served as senior speechwriter at the US Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Health and Human Services, deputy speechwriter for the Obama-Biden re-election campaign, and speechwriter for his home state senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio. “Vinay Reddy grew up in Dayton, Ohio, the middle of three sons in an immigrant family and is a product of Ohio public schools from kindergarten to Miami University to The Ohio State University College of Law. He currently lives in New York with his wife and their two daughters,” the transition team website said about Vinay Reddy. In December 2020, while making the announcement of some appointments in the administration, including the appointment of Vinay Reddy, president-elect Joe Biden had said: “These experienced individuals are joining my administration to carry out policies that will put our nation on a path to building back better than ever before.” The Ohio State University Moritz College of Law also took pride in its alumni going on to hold an important position in the Joe Biden administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vinay-to-serve-as-director-of-speech-writing/articleshow/80354819.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 20, 2021||Thane||Two drunk boys on stab-and-rob spree target eight in Thane||THANE: Two drunk boys riding a stolen scooter, brandishing a chopper and two knives, went on a spree attacking people and robbing some across Thane city early on Monday until the police nabbed the teenagers an hour later. Six people were stabbed and robbed, one was robbed but spared an attack. They also fled with a two-wheeler of another person. Two of the persons sustained major injuries while other are at different hospitals. The police said the accused are aged between 16 and 17 and have crime records. A senior officer said that the boys had bought the three weapons prior to the attack. Earlier, the boys had consumed alcohol with two friends. At first, they stabbed a security guard. “They then took a rickshaw for Thane station and robbed the driver’s phone and money.,” said the officer. There, they lifted a scooter and then went on a rob-and- stab spree. “On the Eastern Express Highway, they attacked two persons with a chopper and stole their cellphones. At Pokhran, they attacked two other persons with chopper and robbed their phones and money,” the officer said. By then, passersby had alerted the police control room. They then stopped another auto driver and stabbed him and fled from the spot after snatching his mobile phone. The police had by then laid a trap near Hiranandani Meadows where the boys were intercepted. The teenagers flashed the knives to scare the cops who overpowered one, but the other fled. He was arrested later. Six phones and Rs 3,000-were recovered from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/2-drunk-boys-on-stab-rob-spree-target-eight-in-thane/articleshow/80351513.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||‘Good’ response to its CBSE school, BMC plans more||MUMBAI: After the success of its first CBSE school in Jogeshwari, the BMC’s education department has proposed to add 10 more schools affiliated to the board in the next academic year. The proposal will be discussed in the BMC’s education committee meeting scheduled to be held on Thursdy. In 2019, BMC decided to affiliate one of its schools to the CBSE and another to the CISCE board on a pilot basis to woo students and curb dropouts. Last year, the civic education panel gave its nod to the proposal and Woollen Mill Municipal School was selected to be affiliated to ICSE and Poonam Nagar School to CBSE. Over 2,100 applications had been filled for 320 seats available at the CBSE school and 343 for 320 seats at the ICSE school. “The response for the CBSE school was overwhelming and we decided to extend it. We are shortlisting a few old, unoccupied buildings that can be revamped before the next academic year. There is still apprehension over the ICSE school and we are waiting before adding more schools there,” said a member of the education committee. The BMC has proposed to set up the schools in Chandivli, Dadar, Mulund, Sion, Dindoshi, Vikhroli, Malad, Wadala, Ghatkopar and Chembur. The schools will begin with one division each for nursery up to class VI in the first year. Admission to 90% of se--ats will be through lottery. The CBSE-affiliated school will be free for students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/good-response-to-its-cbse-school-bmc-plans-more/articleshow/80354836.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 20, 2021||Surat||Gujarat: Accident leaves six-month-old orphaned||SURAT: Snuggled in her sleep between her young parents, six-month-old Priyanka will never understand why her sleep that night was so rudely disturbed, or ever understand the miraculous ways of destiny. While both her parents — mother Rajila Mahida, 25, and father Vikesh, 27 — were crushed to death by the truck late on Monday night, the infant woke up to a harsh orphaned reality the next morning, bawling for care and attention. Another girl from the migrant workers’ family consoled the weeping infant and lulled her to sleep. Priyanka’s custody was later taken by some elders from the terrified family who left the spot sometime later in the day along with the girl. They are likely to have started the journey to their native village in Banswara district of Rajasthan. “We are collecting details about the minor girl and police will ensure the best possible help to her,” said C M Jadeja, deputy superintendent of police, Surat. Among other deceased, Manisha Mahida, 19, and Vanita, 17, are sisters and from Vigatpura of Kushalgadh in Banswara. Champa Panda, 16 and Naresh, 25, from Maska in Sajjangadh of Banswara are siblings. Three members of the family of Mukesh Mahida, 25, have died in the accident including Mukesh, his wife Lila, 22, and their one-year-old daughter. Cops are trying to trace relatives of the families as many who knew them had left the spot and the police were trying to identify the deceased from their belongings and mutilated bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/accident-leaves-six-month-old-orphaned/articleshow/80352246.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
January 20, 2021||Goa||Sand mined at Amona dumped back in river||Bicholim: The flying squad for Bicholim taluka on Tuesday seized 120 cubic metres of illegally extracted sand at Amona. The action was based on recent directives of the high court of Bombay at Goa calling for a crackdown on illegal sand mining. Headed by Bicholim mamlatdar Pravinjay Pandit, the flying squad conducted the raid along with officials from the department of mines and geology. The illegally extracted sand was dumped back into the Mandovi river with an excavator. Deputy director of mines and geology Abhir Hede, geologist from the department of mines Sudhir Mandrekar, talathis Gaurish Naik and Ajit Gaonkar and police constable Manoj Gawas were part of the team that carried out the raid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sand-mined-at-amona-dumped-back-in-river/articleshow/80354933.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Father-son duo who conned hundreds to repay debt held||RAJKOT: A father-son duo from Junagadh who conned hundreds of people of Rs 35.9 lakh to repay loans were arrested in Banaskantha district on Tuesday. The local crime branch of Junagadh police received information that Bharat Parmar and his son Tushar Parmar are hiding in Banaskantha district after taking Rs 35.9 lakh from many people. The duo had taken money from the victims to invest in postal deposits and fixed deposits in private banks. On reaching Banaskantha, cops found Bharat hiding in Asara village, which is located around 20 kilometres from India-Pakistan border, while Tushar was nabbed from a residential society on Tharad-Sanchor highway. During interrogation, the father-son duo admitted that between 2007 and 2016, they suffered losses amounting to Rs 3 crore in intraday trading in stock and commodity markets. Since they had borrowed money from private lenders at high interest rate, they were under pressure to return the money. The duo had also taken loans and diverted the money in the markets. To repay the money, they started conning people by taking money from them as investments. The accused also forged receipts to give as proof of investments to the victims. When the investments used to mature, they would insist the victims to renew the investment amounts so that they would not have to pay the money. But when a victim used to ask for the money, they used to borrow money at high interest from private lenders and return back the money. “The accused ran the scam for six years from 2014 to 2020. So far, over 200 victims have come forward with their complaints, but we expect more people to come out against them in next few days,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/father-son-duo-who-conned-hundreds-to-repay-debt-held/articleshow/80352248.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Aurangabad||Meet held on Aurangabad heritage restoration works||Aurangabad: Officials of the Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (ASCDCL) held a marathon meeting with the heritage committee members on Tuesday and apprised them on the ongoing heritage structure restoration works. This was the first meeting of the committee in two years. During the meeting, the committee — comprising senior historian Shaikh Ramzan — claimed that the world’s first rocket was fired in 1612 by Malik Amber during the war against Mughal emperor Jahangir. “This war was fought between Aurangabad and Daulatabad, in which Mughals lost the war. Jahangir in his memoir has recorded the war and credited his loss to the use of rockets by Malik Amber’s forces,” Ramzan told TOI. He demanded that a structure or memoir should be built at the site of the war. The committee also sought the placement of signboards and plaques giving a brief history of the old areas, market places, and other religious structures including temples, churches and mosques built in those times. Ramzan pointed out that country’s first column structure building was the Bhadkal gate constructed in the 16th century. ASDCL CEO Astik Kumar Pandey reviewed the ongoing maintenance, restoration and beautification works. He asked the officials to carry out the works at the Salim Ali lake as per HC directives without damaging its biodiversity. The projects have been identified and categorized into two categories — short-term and medium-term. The short-term projects need a comparatively shorter period to plan, budget and execute, said project manager Sneha Bakshi. The issue of electricity poles near monuments were also raised. MSEDCL executive engineer Rajput said shifting of the double pole from Roshan gate is in process and survey of poles surrounding other gates is being done. Jayant Kharwadkar, assistant director town planning, AB Deshmukh, executive engineer MSEDCL, and other officials were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/meet-held-on-aurangabad-heritage-restoration-works/articleshow/80352242.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Extend academic year till June: Parents||HYDERABAD: Vaccinating teachers and non-teaching staff of all schools, sanitising all private schools through local bodies, reduction of fee by 30% to 50% are some of the demands that were put forth by parents and private school managements before the education minister Sabitha Indra Reddy on Tuesday. Parents and private school managements, who attended the meeting conducted by the minister and education department officials on reopening of schools, also appealed for the current academic year to be extended till June-July. “It is not a great idea to start physical classes for students of class 9 and onwards. They are more prone to the virus and their safety and security is at risk,” said Venkat Sainath K, joint secretary, Hyderabad School Parents Association (HSPA). He said that the state should direct all teaching and non-teaching staff to undergo the Covid-19 test and allow only those uninfected by the virus to attend school. Members of HSPA also appealed for a reduction in fee in view of the pandemic and loss of income of parents and suggested that the fee be decided in proportion to the salaries and rents paid by private schools. They also demanded that the state expedite the constitution of the Fee Regulation Committee. Urging the state to consider teachers as frontline workers, members of the Independent School Managements Association (ISMA) and Telangana Recognized School Managements Association (TRSMA), meanwhile, asked for them to be vaccinated in the first phase. “There are no backup teachers, especially for classes 9 to class 11, in many schools. So, it is important that we keep our teachers safe,” said KV Praveen Raju, president, ISMA adding that the academic year be extended at least till June as exams for IB and Cambridge schools are scheduled then. Apart from this TRSMA members demanded that promotion of students to the next class be done based on the performance in assessments and also asked for attendance to be made mandatory — either for physical or virtual classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/extend-academic-yr-till-june-parents/articleshow/80359085.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 20, 2021||Pune||Five held for rioting, trying to kill driver||Pune: The Wanowrie police on Tuesday arrested five persons, including two women, and are searching for their accomplice on the charges of rioting and attempting to open fire at a car driver and attacking him with a pistol butt and sticks at Mohammadwadi on Sunday over previous enmity. All the five persons are residents of Hingne. Sub-inspector Abhijit Joagdand of Wanowrie police said, “Nagesh Misal (43) was was taken to a nearby hospital for treatment. He was discharged after the doctors applied stitches on his wounds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/five-held-for-rioting-trying-to-kill-driver/articleshow/80354855.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Surat||Kim truck driver pained by deaths||Truck driver Purnalal Kevat is in deep grief over the deaths. “I don’t know how many people died since I could not come out of the truck as it had crashed in a cabin and I was stuck. But I am in grief and extremely pained by the deaths,” said the 26-year-old.Kevat said he couldn’t take a turn after crossing the tractor and veered towards the pavement. “I was not drunk and started driving after having dinner,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/kim-truck-driver-pained-by-deaths/articleshow/80352262.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||BEST clears deal to hire conductors with buses||MUMBAI: The first proposal for conductors-on-hire with buses was cleared by BEST committee on Tuesday. Although BJP members objected, Shiv Sena got support from its state allies, Congress and NCP, to get the proposal passed. BEST will now get 400 CNG buses for Rs 1,942 crore on a 10-year contract, but the private agency must supply buses with drivers and conductors. “This is uncalled for. The basic role of BEST will be destroyed and its drivers and conductors will be jobless. This is akin to 100% privatisation of the transport body,” Sunil Ganacharya (BJP) said. BMC Opposition leader Ravi Raja (Congress) said he too was opposed to such proposals in future. “But at present the city needs buses and there is an acute shortage. Besides, MSRTC buses are not in good condition. Our party and NCP decided to support the proposal so that 400 CNG buses can hit the roads soon,” he told TOI. Prakash Gangadhare (BJP) said if conductors are also taken on hire, it will bring in privatisation and will be “anti-worker policy”. A senior BEST traffic wing official said many wet lease buses were being run ‘conductorless’ and full-time conductors were deployed for ground duties. “There is nothing wrong in experimenting with conductors-on-hire as they can be held accountable, be punctual and offer efficient service,” he said, adding that there was nothing to worry as BEST will be in ‘complete control’ of the buses. BEST may also reintroduce advertisements on its buses to earn more revenue and it plans to award the contract for nearly 4,000 buses to a private agency soon. The committee also approved a decision for the administration to seek refund of deposit along with interest totalling Rs 103 crore for a “failed” biomass energy project for 25MW in Maharashtra, said Gangadhare. “There should be a detailed probe on why the project for generating renewable energy for BEST did not kick off successfully since 2009,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/best-clears-deal-to-hire-conductors-with-buses/articleshow/80354950.cms||Somit Sen
January 20, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata celebrates from Gariahat to Gabba||KOLKATA: Covid vaccine shots waited across Kolkata hospitals on Tuesday morning as recipients switched their focus to Indians inching towards a famous win at Brisbane. And the sweet victory eased the pain of the shot. “I had initially planned to take the vaccine around noon. But the match turned so interesting, I waited for the finish. Once the match was over, I went for the vaccine. I was so excited with the win, I didn’t even feel the slightest pain when I was pricked,” said B Bhaskar Rao, a young doctor at Kolkata Medical College and Hospital who went for the vaccination shortly after Rishabh Pant had crunched a 137kmph delivery from Josh Hazlewood to the long off boundary to seal the series. Like Rao, recipients and administrators across several hospitals in the city shuffled between the vaccine drive and catching the action live. At a city government hospital, TOI found cops and security personnel rushing to catch the live updates of the final session of the match after every verification and physical screening of a recipient at the entrance zone to the Covid vaccination site. “The final overs of the match were like a T20 game. I don’t recall when was the last time I had enjoyed watching a Test match like today,” said a policeman who kept checking the live updates on a colleague’s cell phone in between work at the vaccination site. Staff nurse Indrani Malik, who took her first dose of the vaccine at SSKM Hospital, said she hadn’t kept track of the proceedings of the match through the day but once she was at the vaccination site, she found everyone talking about the match. “When I took the vaccine, the match was still on and although no one could watch the match live at the centre, they were getting live updates of the game and were discussing the same among them,” said Malik. There were also some like doctor Aditya Deshpande who was entering the vaccine site at 12.30pm when India had 50 runs to get in 8 overs with Rishabh Pant and Washington Sundar at the crease. He had thought of watching the final overs of the breathtaking match while waiting at the SSKM academic building auditorium during the mandatory 30-minutes observation period post-vaccination. But poor network at the observation room hampered the live streaming and he had to be satisfied with ball by ball updates on a sports news app. “The vaccination went on very smoothly just like India’s win. I am fit and have no pain that generally accompanies any vaccination. Credit goes to the able vaccinators as well as the lovely game of cricket that had also relaxed and diverted my mind immediately after the shot,” said Deshpande. Multiple hospital administrators and vaccine site coordinators TOI spoke to said cricket was the talking point of the day even among the vaccination officers but they didn’t allow the same to hamper the vaccination process or divert their attention from the vaccination cause at any moment. “A number of officials took a break from the workload and watched the final few minutes of the match at my office. But the work at the vaccination site wasn’t affected even for a minute,” said a senior official of a government hospital in Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/historic-victory-reduces-pain-of-the-prick-at-vaccine-sites/articleshow/80353134.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 20, 2021||Kolkata||Fans hit party mode as Team India breaches Aussie fortress||KOLKATA: As Rishabh Pant drove Hazlewood and the ball rolled all the way to the boundary rope, sealing a famous series victory for injury-ridden Team India, Indians in Australia burst into celebrations. While those present at the Gabba in Brisbane went delirious, thousands of Indians settled across various cities of the continent got ready to celebrate through the night, for what they claimed was the greatest Indian victory Down Under since the 1985 World Championship of Cricket win. Melbourne-based Australian Rules footballer Sudip Chakraborty said he was overjoyed with this victory. “What a turnaround! Indians in Australia are thrilled,” said Chakraborty, a community officer at Essendon Football Club. Recalling the famous 2001 series win in India, he said he was lucky to have watched both the series live. Chakraborty cheered from the stands at MCG when India won the second Test match to square the series in December. “Personally, I am thrilled to have attended both the series 20 years apart. There were non-stop banter and sledging on work groups through text messages throughout the series and especially after the Adelaide Test. However, I was quite confident of our new players and am glad that our boys let the bat and the ball do the talking,” said the youngster. He added that he took out his Indian Footy team jersey after three years and did his usual 5km run wearing it around the streets of Melbourne after the win. “Hopefully, Australian cricketers realize that sledging and non-cricketing taunts don’t work on modern day Indians and they should rather focus on the game,” felt Chakraborty, who was born and brought up in Kolkata. Basudeb Ghosh, who is a senior executive looking after quality control in Melbourne, said the historic feat in Brisbane made every Indian proud. “The way net bowlers bowled Australians out twice in their backyard is unbelievable. The novice team fought like tigers and did not give an inch away. Before the match, almost everybody had written off the team as second-string India facing the Aussies on one of the bounciest wickets in the world where the host team has not lost in 30 years,” he remarked. A Singh, a student in Australia said he will party the whole night to celebrate the win and thanked Indian cricketers for making the Aussies ‘shut up’. “We have played much better cricket with a second-string side after being written off following Kohli’s departure. This win just shows that India are no longer pushovers in Australian conditions. In fact, we are now dominating here,” Singh said. “Really thankful to the Indian cricket team for this exhilarating feeling. To do this on the trot on Australian soil speaks volumes about the grit and character of the team. Amazing, excellent and I am a very proud Indian tonight,” said Biswajit Mitra, a software engineer in Melbourne. Chakraborty agreed and said that other than the excitement, it was indeed satisfying to have won the ‘banter contest’ that has been on between Australian fans and Indians since the start of the series in November. “Many of those who are going berserk with joy tonight have Australian passports. But they are very Indian at heart,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fans-hit-party-mode-as-team-india-breaches-aussie-fortress/articleshow/80353141.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Kaleshwaram has helped redraw irrigation map of Telangana, says K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao asked the water resources department to complete all major irrigation projects with the same vigour as shown during completion of Kaleshwaram project. He asked officials to prepare project-wise operational guidelines and implement them. The CM directed the officials to set up control rooms at Medigadda and Dummugudem barrages. The CM visited Laxmi barrage on Tuesday, which was constructed at Medigadda as part of Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project (KLIP) as the barrage reached full reservoir level. He held a meeting with officials at the project site. While expressing happiness over the Kaleshwaram project getting completed and the water being pumped uninterruptedly as planned, he told officials to fill the tanks and reservoirs this summer. “Kaleshwaram project had redrawn the irrigation map of Telangana. Taking inspiration from the KLIP, works on Tupakulagudem and Dummugudem barrages of Sita Rama project are being completed speedily. The government wants to complete all these projects quickly and put an end to the farmers’ hardships once and for all,” KCR said. “Arrangements are being made to supply water to Nizam Sagar from Kaleshwaram. If need be, water will be pumped to the SRSP from Kaleshwaram,” KCR said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kaleshwaram-has-helped-redraw-irrigation-map-of-state-says-cm/articleshow/80354862.cms||Koride Mahesh
January 20, 2021||Chandigarh||Avian flu: Dead migratory bird tests positive in Ropar||Patiala: The sample of a migratory bird found dead in Siswan rivulet in Ropar district of Punjab has tested positive for avian flu, wildlife officials said on Tuesday. The sample of bar-headed goose was taken on January 8. Officials said that the bird is suspected to have flown in from Pong dam in Himachal Pradesh. There is no poultry farm or bird activity in around one-kilometre area of the location of the bird’s death, they said. “We collected the sample of dead bar-headed goose and immediately sent it for testing in a laboratory in Jalandhar. We again sent the sample to a laboratory in Bhopal for confirmation of flu and on Tuesday (January 19) we got the report, confirming avian flu. Since January 8, we have been sending around 10 samples daily for testing, including from the area where the migratory bird was found dead,” said Monica Yadav, Ropar district forest officer (wildlife). Chief (wildlife) warder, Punjab, R K Mishra said, “Only one case of avian flu has been confirmed... We have fixed a target of sending 50 to 100 samples daily of birds from across the five wetlands in Punjab.” Meanwhile, samples of poultry birds found dead in Sanaur block of Patiala district have tested negative. “On Saturday, around 25 poultry birds were found dead in Sanaur block. Their samples have tested negative,” said deputy director (animal husbandry) Rajinder Goyal. Reports of around 600 poultry birds found dead at Rakhra village of Patiala are also negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/avian-flu-dead-migratory-bird-tests-positive-in-ropar/articleshow/80354848.cms||Bharat Khanna
January 20, 2021||Aurangabad||Internship must for 1 semester for DBATU students||Aurangabad: With the aim to give students the first-hand industry experience, the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Technological University (DBATU) has introduced a compulsory internship for one entire semester for students of all branches. Nilesh Patil, a member of DBATU’s executive council, said, “The internship programme will take up one of the eight semesters. There will be a project based on real-life problems or challenges faced by industries. Such an orientation will expand the capabilities of the students.” While colleges have been asked to establish contact with the industries to execute the internship programmes, the DBATU is planning to sign MoUs at its level in the near future. Moreover, the DBATU has also introduced industrial training for all students after every year during summer vacation. “This will reinforce their understanding of concepts and give them a professional edge,” said Patil. Among other student-centric measures, the DBATU has decided to make conscious efforts to increase the soft-skills of students. “A seminar is held during every semester to enhance the communication skills of the students,” said Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/internship-must-for-1-semester-for-dbatu-students/articleshow/80352253.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Pune||Day 2: Glitches, hesitancy mar vaccination run in Pune||PUNE: Glitches in the CoWIN app continued to adversely impact Covid-19 vaccine drive in the city on Tuesday. Three major private hospitals in Pune — Deenanath Mangeshkar, Bharati and Noble — were left unable to launch their vaccination drives after administrators could not login to the CoWIN database. Officials said alternative vaccination sites had to be set up at another hospital to accommodate enroled beneficiaries. The three hospitals had no choice but to cancel as the state government has mandated that registrations of beneficiaries have to be online. Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services (Pune region) said on Tuesday that barring the three hospitals, CoWIN operations were largely smooth at other sites in the city and district. But he added that the system has to become more robust and faster. System glitches were blamed for the overall slow pace of vaccinations in the district with about 12% completed till 1pm, 40% by 3pm and just 48% by the end of day (7pm). Health officials said the numbers could have been better if offline registrations were allowed to continue at the three hospitals. State director of health services Dr Archana Patil told TOI that from Tuesday, beneficiary registration will have to be carried out via the CoWIN app. “We have directed all sites to ensure no offline registrations are done,” she said. But officials from the Pune Municipal Corporation said there have been login issues at some private hospitals. “The login IDs and passwords are yet to be created for some of these facilities. So we have had to defer sessions,” one official said. Deputy medical director of Bharati, Jitendra Oswal, said PMC health officials informed them that they were unable to login to CoWIN via the ID and password assigned to the hospital. “The PMC officials could not generate the list of beneficiaries who were set to take the shot on Tuesday. So we had to cancel the session at the hospital,” he said. According to officials, an alternative session site had to be set up at Kamala Nehru Hospital to ensure there were six vaccination locations in the Pune city area. Meanwhile, officials from rural parts of the district said it was smooth sailing for them with CoWIN on day two. On Monday, state officials had told TOI that CoWIN snags they had flagged on Saturday had been rectified. The system, they said, was much more stable. One medical officer said the system has made the verification and related processes easier to complete. “It takes hardly a minute or two to authenticate the identity of the beneficiary. This leads to a faster vaccination process,” the official said. The CoWIN app has been designed to track beneficiaries and dosage of the Covid vaccines. However, it has been plagued by glitches right from Saturday. The system holds four critical modules: a user administrator module, beneficiary registration, vaccination and beneficiary acknowledgment, and status updates. Essentially, the app first registers the beneficiary, sends out an SMS on time and location and then tracks the dosage given at sites. However, on Saturday (day one of the Covid-19 vaccination drive), the app appeared to struggle across the district. Officials at vaccination sites said they had to fall back on paperwork they had prepared for beneficiaries. In fact, of the 31 vaccination sites in the district, 15 — mostly in the urban areas — had to opt for offline registration after CoWIN faltered. Many sites reported that those enroled had not received automated invites via SMS. In the city areas, key hospitals and vaccination sites had to carry on the process manually. Officials added that they had to call people on Friday night to ensure good turnout on day one. Senior district officials have said that problems with the digital database are expected during the initial days of the drive. All issues, they said, would be resolved soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/glitches-in-cowin-app-forces-three-private-hospitals-cancel-their-drive/articleshow/80354857.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 20, 2021||Goa||Goa to be education hub soon, private institutes want campuses here: CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Tueday that many universities and institutes of higher education have expressed interest in setting up campuses in Goa. Speaking at a conference held by the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Goa, he said that the state is on the path to becoming an educational hub soon. “It is a matter of pride for us that Goa is witnessing significant development in higher education and especially in technical education,” Sawant said. “Goa has BITS-Goa, IIT-Goa and NIT-Goa besides the Goa College of Engineering and other engineering colleges. Many institutes and universities are interested in establishing their campuses in Goa, and so there is no doubt that Goa will soon become an educational hub.” Last year, the state government approved regulations which allow private higher education institutes to set up campuses in the state. Significantly, the CM’s statement on developing Goa as an educational hub comes days after sustained opposition by locals forced him to shift the proposed permanent campus for IIT Goa out of Melauli, Sattari. Locals from villages across Sattari had supported the stir. Sawant said that institutes like NIT-Goa have extended tremendous help and support to the state government at different junctures, from training 300 school teachers to improve teaching methods in maths and science, to contributing financially during the Covid-19 crisis. “This has been proven at different instances, the most recent being the Covid-19 situation. I am thankful to the institute for extending support by providing the hostel block as a Covid care centre,” said Sawant. NIT-Goa director Gopal Mugeraya said that it was former chief minister Manohar Parrikar’s dream to have an educational hub in Goa. “When Parrikar came for the NIT convocation in 2017, he said these beautiful words, ‘Gopal, if you want to improve a state, please improve the quality of education’,” Mugeraya said. “He said Goa is blessed with beautiful ambience, beautiful beaches and more than that, a very very receptive crowd. Goans are very cooperative and respect human beings, and as a result, Goa has high potential to be one of India’s education hubs.” He said that the state has the capacity to host 25,000 students, which will transform Goa into a vibrant place. “My dream is that Goa should have more than 25,000 higher education students walking on the streets so that the total fabric, complexion and texture of Goa will change.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-to-be-edu-hub-soon-pvt-institutes-want-campuses-here-cm/articleshow/80354869.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
January 20, 2021||India||Don’t attend farmer protests in uniform, Army tells veterans||CHANDIGARH: Military veterans participating in the farmers’ rotes in uniform, their medals pinned to their chests, has led the Army to ask them not to appear in uniform at what it said were “political” events. It reminded them about the rules governing the wearing of Army uniforms and insignia in public. The request comes after authorities observed retired personnel visiting the Singhu and Tikri borders in uniform to express solidarity with farmers. “The act necessitates awareness among the fraternity of ex-servicemen with regard to provisions as stipulated in Para 666 of Regulations for the Army 1987 and AG/CW-1 letter reference at Para 1 (b) governing authorisation of wearing of uniforms by non-effective personnel,” read a letter by adjutant general branch of Army sent to Kendriya Sainik Board on January 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dont-attend-farmer-protests-in-uniform-army-tells-veterans/articleshow/80356732.cms||Ajay Sura
January 20, 2021||Pune||Tope pitches for offline mode till app works well||Pune: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said the Centre should allow offline registration till the online system for the CoWin app is more robust and easy to operate. The state went completely online with its registrations on the app on Tuesday at 274 of the 285 sites, the minister added. There should be some system which will enable a smooth online process as it affects the registration process, he said. “Many beneficiaries are not getting the mandatory calls or intimation to reach the site and session sites are not being created. I have already communicated this to the Centre. We must be allowed to go offline as and when required rather than shutting down of vaccination sites,” he told TOI. State director of health services Archana Patil told TOI that there were app issues across the country. “At some vaccination sites, the sessions were not generated and at some places the system was unable to intimate the beneficiaries, and at other places, the data speed was an issue. These are teething issues and they need to be ironed out. Unlike Saturday, we carried out the entire process online and those sites that could not go online were shut down. We opened extra session sites at locations that were functioning,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tope-pitches-for-offline-mode-till-app-works-well/articleshow/80354878.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS MLA collects cash for Ram temple||HYDERABAD: Even as TRS and BJP leaders are at loggerheads over various issues, TRS MLA from Andhole Kranti Kiran on Tuesday took part in a rally in Jogipet in Sangareddy district to collect donations for construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. The rally was organised by Ram devotees. In Jogipet, Ram temple nidhi samarpan abhiyan was organised in which the local legislator took part. The MLA contributed Rs 11,111 for the temple and participated in a bike rally along with his supporters for collection of donations in the town. Kranthi Kiran won against cine actor and former MLA Babu Mohan in the 2018 assembly election. Babu Mohan contested on a BJP ticket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-mla-collects-cash-for-ram-temple/articleshow/80354901.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Delhi||Day 2: Confidence boosted, more kids return to schools||New Delhi: The second day of the reopening of schools saw a larger turnout than Monday with students becoming more confident after seeing the response of their classmates. According to sources in the Directorate of Education, the attendance across government schools on Tuesday was 40%. Many schools that are yet to reopen have been sent the consent form by a lot of parents. The schools believe that the number of forms will increase manifold within the next few days. Ashok Pandey, director of Ahlcon group of schools, said, “We have started receiving the consent forms that we sent to parents for sending their wards to school. So far, we have got a good response with 60-70% parents consenting to their children being a part of the physical mode of teaching. Since we have exams going on, classes will begin from February 27.” The Indian School principal Tania Joshi said, “We have got almost 50% consent forms from parents of science students. Since we will start our classes from Thursday, there is a likelihood that more consent forms will come by then.” She added that most students may decide to come after seeing the response of their classmates and in schools across the city. “Parents will also start to feel more confident with these developments. We have already reached out to them about this,” said Joshi. At Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, one of the schools that reopened on the first day, principal Jyoti Arora informed that there was an increase in attendance of Class X students on Tuesday. “The number of Class XII students, however, is still the same. We have told our teachers to connect with parents and tell them the importance of sending children to school and the precautions and SOPs being taken by us. With each passing day, the number of students will increase as more parents will be encouraged by the safety precautions in place,” added Arora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/day-2-confidence-boosted-more-kids-return-to-schools/articleshow/80365877.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Chandigarh||Karnal reports possible bird flu case, samples sent for confirmation||Karnal: A possible case of bird flu has been reported in Karnal district, where samples from a poultry farm tested “suspected positive” in the preliminary report, an official said on Tuesday. The samples have been sent to the High Security Animal Disease Laboratory in Bhopal for confirmation. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said, “Following the death of some poultry birds at a farm in Kohand village, samples were sent to Jalandhar for testing. The samples were found to be ‘suspected positive’ in the preliminary report. Now, they have been forwarded to Bhopal for a confirmatory test.” He said they have alerted officials concerned to monitor the situation closely. Yadav made it clear that the actual cause of deaths could only be confirmed after receipt of the Bhopal report. If the the report was found to be positive, birds in the radius of one kilometre around the area would be culled. Around 10 lakh birds could be culled, he said. The DC said several teams have been constituted to monitor the situation and movement of poultry birds in the suspected infected area has been banned. He also urged people to ignore rumours. Lucky Lather, president, North Inspiration Farm Association (NIFA) said, “Ever since news of bird flu came out, prices of chicken items have come down. It is important to know that boiled eggs and cooked chicken carry no health risk.” He said price of eggs has come down from Rs 5.50 to Rs 4.40 each while price of chicken has come down from Rs 100 per kg to Rs 60 per kg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/karnal-reports-possible-bird-flu-case-samples-sent-for-confirmation/articleshow/80354872.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Rajkot||Fishermen object to deep sea pipeline||Rajkot: Porbandar-based National Fish Forum (NFF) had written to the district administration and Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) to ban the industries releasing polluted water. The fishermen’s body had raised its objection against laying of deep sea pipelines which will discharge ‘untreated’ water in the sea killing aquatic lives. In its memorandum to the Porbandar district collector and GPCB, NFF had pointed out to the state government’s scheme of laying deep sea pipelines on the entire coastline for discharging the water released by industries. In Porbandar too the industries have started laying the pipelines. “We have objections to digging of farm and government lands in Porbandar for laying of pipelines which will not only pollute sea water but also the farm lands,” the memorandum stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fishermen-object-to-deep-sea-pipeline/articleshow/80352315.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Pune||Pune civic body plans to increase dedicated facilities to 99||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has planned to increase the vaccination centres to 99 and a decision regarding the same would be taken in the next week. The civic administration is waiting for the state government’s directives to increase the number of centres in phases. At present, there are eight centres in the civic limits and the number is likely to increase to 16 in the first phase. The PMC has to vaccinate 48 lakh people, for which 96 lakh doses would be needed. They will be used in four stages. Nearly 52,000 health workers will be vaccinated in the first phase. “The civic administration has to increase the number of centres to meet the target of vaccination. As per the current schedule, 99 centres are being finalized and will be added in phases. The state and Union governments have given directives for finalizing the centres,” Ashish Bharati, the head of PMC’s health department, said. PMC officials said the civic administration has finalized 16 centres, which also include the jumbo hospital at College of Engineering Pune (CoEP). But, only eight have been started since the inaugural session on January 16. As of Tuesday, 800 people are to be vaccinated per day. It will increase to 9,900 people once all the centres are made operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-plans-to-increase-dedicated-facilities-to-99/articleshow/80354904.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
January 20, 2021||Aurangabad||Four women among five held for duping men from Gujarat||AURANGABAD: Jalna police have busted an interstate racket in which men from Junagadh in Gujarat were duped on the pretext of marriage. Five people, inlcluding four women, have been arrested and remanded in police custody for two days. Superintendent of police Vinayak Deshmukh said, “Preliminary probe indicates this detection is just the tip of an iceberg. Our teams are looking for more suspects who maybe involved in this racket.” Police said one Piyush Vasant from Gujarat was looking for prospective matches for his three male relatives. When he was unable to find anyone suitable, he contacted an agent from Jalna district who assured to help them find a match and accordingly invited them to Devalgaonraja in Buldhana district. Inspector Shyamsundar Kauthale said, “Vasant, along with his relatives, reached Buldhana on January 2. The agent took them to a temple and introduced them to three women. All the women were in their early 20s and claimed to have been brought up in orphanage homes.” The agent also introduced the victims to a 40-year-old woman, who — the police claim — is the kingpin of the racket. A day later, the three men from Gujarat decided to marry the women. The agent charged Rs 1.5 lakh for each women.After the men cleared the tranaction, their marriages with the women were solemnized at a temple and even bond papers were prepared. A day later, the three women boarded a vehicle hired by the agent and started their journey towards Gujarat. When they were passing by Nagewadi, which falls under the limits of Chandanzira police station, the women stepped out of the car to attend to the call of nature. As soon as the victims stepped out of the vehicle, the women fled away with their cash, ornaments, mobile phone and other valuables in the vehicle. A case of cheating and criminal breach of trust was registered against the suspects on January 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-women-among-5-held-for-duping-men-from-guj/articleshow/80352266.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 20, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal hospitals told to keep 200 ready for vax each day, map recipients in advance||KOLKATA: The state government on Tuesday made it clear that none can be vaccinated without being logged in to the Co-WIN application but allowed individual facilities more flexibility to map their recipients in advance. Despite Co-WIN glitches, the state has told health facilities — 207 vaccination sites in Bengal — that the vaccine-recipient list must be a random, portal-generated one and no “offline” recipients will be allowed from Wednesday. To allow hospitals to plan, the state has made it clear that “Monday, Tuesday, Friday and Saturday” shall be the preferable vaccination days. The state, however, has said that hospitals can also plan their four-day vaccination schedule, factoring in local issues and national holidays. The state has also made it clear that “provisional certificates are printed and issued to all people post vaccination”. To meet targets — 100 to 120 — per vaccination sites, a new feature is being introduced in the form of a link — “Allot Beneficiaries” — where hospitals can add certain recipients. The state has advised that a list of 200 recipients “should be randomized against a session site” owing to the “dropout rate due to different reasons.” The state has advised facilities to start mapping this much in advance, and once the session site list is prepared, recipients will be reached out to in advance to avoid any SMS-linked communication slippage. The session sites in Bengal districts must be “created” by noon the day before. The hospitals have been asked to take a “hard copy” of the vaccine recipient list which is generated by the Co-WIN system and “call each of them well in time for ensuring their attendance”. The district hospitals have also been asked to engage private facilities to increase session sites from Friday. The state has also made it clear that data of all health workers vaccinated in the offline mode must be manually uploaded on the Co-WIN platform after each session. At Bidhannagar sub-divisional hospital, 69 people out of 180 took the shot till 7pm on Tuesday. At SSKM, where only 57 had turned up out of a targeted 120, officials said they had noticed the “Allot Beneficiaries” link on Co-WIN platform but said they were awaiting a final confirmation from the health department. Citing the reason behind the poor turnout, an official of MR Bangur Hospital, where 75 people out of 120 had turned up on Tuesday, said: “Some of the mobile numbers of recipients seem to have changed or out of service.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hosps-told-to-keep-200-ready-for-vax-each-day-map-recipients-in-advance/articleshow/80353168.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 20, 2021||Meerut||UP: Over 100 fall ill after temple feast||BIJNOR: Over hundred devotees who took part in a feast organised at a temple in Nanheda village of Amroha district fell ill on Monday. After having the ‘prasad’ served, the devotees complained of diarrhoea and vomiting, and were rushed to nearby hospitals. Villagers said that the condition of many of them deteriorated after they reached home. Chief medical officer Saubhagya Prakash said, “Some locals fell ill after taking the prasad from a temple. Their condition is now stable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/over-100-fall-ill-after-temple-feast/articleshow/80352309.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Man who went to buy garland during lockdown found guilty||Mumbai: Three teenagers who went on bike rides, a man who went out to buy a garland for Ram Navami and another who was out to buy ‘daal chawal’, were found guilty and sentenced to imprisonment until rising of the court, for flouting Covid-19 lockdown rules. In such a sentence the convicted accused has to sit in court until the day’s proceedings conclude. Convicted in various cases by Esplanade magistrate court recently, they were also fined Rs1,000 each. In each case the accused pleaded guilty. All offenders were booked under provisions of National Disaster Management Act. With all accused submitting that they will take care and giving an assurance not to repeat the offence, the court said considering their poor backgrounds, they deserved leniency. The court held that “however, as a lesson to the accused, and to avoid repetition,” they were to be sentenced. Among them was Dharmendra Gupta, a driver, who was booked on the afternoon of April 2 as he was “wandering” on his motorcycle at Cuffe Parade. The prosecution said he was out without reasonable reason in the background of the pandemic and refused to follow directions of the central and state governments. Gupta pleaded guilty. He said he was on his was to buy a garland for God as it was Ram Navami. The court observed, “Have confirmed the submission by tallying with the calendar of April 2020, more specifically April 2, as such, there is a substance in the say of accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-who-went-to-buy-garland-during-lockdown-found-guilty/articleshow/80353088.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 20, 2021||Bhopal||In 2 days of vac coverage, 86 AEFI reported in state||Bhopal: The MP health department is looking into reporting adverse events following immunization (AEFI) post the coronavirus vaccination, according to sources. During the first two days of the Covid-19 vaccination in the state, minor low grade fever and very mild medical conditions were cited as AEFI in some instances. On Tuesday, 15 AEFI cases were reported in the state. In two days of vaccination, 86 people have been reported for AEFI. There were no major AEFIs reported on Tuesday, a day after 8,995 people were vaccinated. “The data is still being analysed. It is the first time we are attempting adult immunisation on a mass scale. There are known phenomena after vaccination and for dealing with that, measures are in place,” an official said. As per the data available so far, only 0.18% is the Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI) and 0.002 is the percentage of the people who were hospitalized following immunization. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan — in a press conference on Tuesday — said 4.5 lakh COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered across India. So far, until the morning of January 19, 0.18% adverse event following immunization (AEFI) cases were reported and 0.002% people needed hospitalisation. The percentage of AEFI in Madhya Pradesh after two days of vaccination of 18,559 people stood at a low of 0.096%. Karnataka tops with most number of vaccinations till now at 66,392. MP is ranked ninth in the number of coronavirus doses administered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/in-2-days-of-vac-coverage-86-aefi-reported-in-state/articleshow/80353140.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Pune||Shopkeeper in net for selling nylon manja||Pune: Crime branch officers on Monday arrested a shopkeeper from Bhavani Peth for selling nylon manja and recovered the banned thread worth Rs32,000 from his possession. The use and sale of nylon manja is banned. A team, including inspector Sunil Takawale, sub-inspectors Sanjay Gaikwad and Sunil Kulkarni, arrested the shopkeeper identified as Anwar Umar Shaikh (39) of Kasewadi in Bhawani Peth. The police said Shaikh was selling the nylon manja made in China to customers, especially children. The police searched Shaikh’s grocery store and seized manja worth Rs32,000. A case has been registered against Shaikh with the Khadak police station under provisions of the Environment (Protection) Act. The police is investigating from whom Shaikh procured the nylon manja. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shopkeeper-in-net-for-selling-nylon-manja/articleshow/80354905.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Pune||PMPML likely to start bus service on Swargate-Katraj BRTS corridor in February||PUNE: The civic administration has started installing doors at bus stops along the Swargate-Katraj BRTS corridor, expected to be operational from February. A senior PMPML official said the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) was expected to complete the installation of doors at the bus stops in 10 days. There was a face-off between the Pune civic body and the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) for more than a month on initiating operations on the Swargate-Katraj Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) route. “The issues which delayed operations pertained to the lack of doors at the bus stops, as well as the barricading — chunks of which were removed by unknown individuals during the lockdown. The PMPML never had a problem with commencing the bus services if the doors had been installed,” an official with the traffic department of PMPML said. Both, the PMC and the PMPML, had locked horns over starting the bus services on the corridor after Diwali last year. While the PMPML claimed that promises of the corridor’s completion after Diwali were not fulfilled, the PMC officials said it was complete apart from the installation of doors and that the service could start. PMPML rejected the idea and refused to to start the service on the much-delayed without doors at the bus stops along the route. “Who will be responsible if an accident occurs because of the absence of doors at the bus stops?” the official asked. WhatsApp messages and calls to the PMPML chairman and managing director, Rajendra Jagtap did not elicit a response till the time of going to press.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-likely-to-start-bus-service-on-swargate-katraj-brts-corridor-in-feb/articleshow/80354936.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 20, 2021||Pune||4 develop minor symptoms; experts cite body’s response||Pune: Four healthcare workers complained of minor symptoms after vaccination at the designated hospital-cum-vaccination centres in rural parts of Pune on Tuesday.“Two healthcare staffers each complained of minor flu-like symptoms at the vaccination centres in Manchar and Jejuri. The symptoms were very mild. They were allowed to go home after some time,” said a health official.Experts emphasised that these symptoms were known side-effects of the vaccine and showed the body’s response to the vaccine-borne antigen (virus particles). This is seen even in flu shots. Those who get the shot feel being sick and unwell for the first two to three days.None of the healthcare workers who took the shot in the municipal limits of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad developed any symptoms post-vaccination on Tuesday.A total 1,403 healthcare workers took the shot on the second day of Covid-19 vaccination on Tuesday. Those who got the shot have been advised to report to the helpline number of their respective vaccination centre if they develop any symptoms within the next 48 hours.A total of 302 healthcare workers who took the shot on the first day of the vaccination exhibited minor flu-like symptoms, mainly headache, body pain and fever, within 48 hours in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-develop-minor-symptoms-experts-cite-bodys-response/articleshow/80354908.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Bhopal||States, Centre discuss ways to improve CoWIN||Bhopal: Mechanisms are likely to be introduced to improve operational feasibility for using the Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network (CoWIN). “A final decision is likely to be undertaken by Wednesday. All states have given suggestions on improving CoWIN,” said a senior health official, after a virtual meeting with the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday. Operational glitches with the software have been reported and adversely affected the massive inoculation process in some instances. Representatives from Madhya Pradesh suggested that the Co-Win application should have an option for differing beneficiaries with contraindications. It would automatically place the next in line to get the vaccine. A demonstration of alternate ‘feed supporting system’ was also explained during the virtual meeting on Tuesday. Maintaining data privacy is a major component of the entire operation. As on Tuesday evening, MP health department officials confirmed that they had processed the list beneficiaries for all 150 sites on time for Wednesday’s vaccination. Around 15,000 people are scheduled for vaccination in the state on Wednesday. Teams of techies — deployed with MP national health mission — has been burning the midnight oil, to overcome the technical issues attributed to the software. Districts have been directed to choose vaccination sites, which have good internet coverage. Health officials have been asked not to choose rooms in hospitals and other healthcare centres, that have frequent internet outage as the Co-Win mobile app experienced glitches. According to COVID-19 operational guidelines issued by MoHFW, “UNDP is leading the development of the Co-WIN system, which is a cloud-based IT platform that will allow beneficiary registration, session microplanning, real time reporting of vaccination and issuing of vaccination certificate to all beneficiaries who will be successfully vaccinated. The Co-WIN system will be linked to existing IT platforms being used in the UIP programme like eVIN and SAFEVAC to allow complete end-to-end vaccination management system”. When contacted, district immunisation officers were not in the loop of the new developments. Session creation and database management and intimation through mobile text messages has been an issue on various vaccination sites, according to reports. Aadhaar verification interface takes long, according to sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/states-centre-discuss-ways-to-improve-cowin/articleshow/80353136.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Pune||Covaxin hub registers dip in momentum as Grade IV staffers pause||Pune: At the Aundh District Hospital on Tuesday, officials had to scramble to find vaccine beneficiaries. Only 35 people got their first Covaxin dose on day 2 of the vaccination drive, compared to the 60 on January 16. So poor was the response on Tuesday that hospital administrators had to urge those who had turned up to try and convince colleagues on the list to get the jab.Hospital officials told TOI that Tuesday’s list — generated by the CoWIN app — comprised mostly Class IV staff, who have been on the fence about vaccination for weeks. The Class IV category includes cleaning staff, ward boys and lab assistants. One hospital official said there was a general feeling among these staffers that they were being used as “guinea pigs”. One employee who had turned up said, “Seniors should take the jab too. The staffers feel they are being pushed ahead while others continue to wait.” Ashok Nandapurkar, district civil surgeon, said, “It’s not that senior staffers will not vaccinate. They will when their names come up. I am taking the jab on Wednesday. But yes, there is apprehension among Class IV staff.”Tuesday’s session at the hospital also started an hour late (at 10am). Administrators had to wait for enough people to collect before opening the first Covaxin vial, which has to be used up completely within four hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covaxin-hub-registers-dip-in-momentum-as-grade-iv-staffers-pause/articleshow/80354935.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Maha Movie CEO held in copyright violation case||MUMBAI: The crime intelligence unit (CIU) on Tuesday arrested Maha Movie TV channel’s CEO Sanjay Verma in an alleged copyright violation case. Verma is a wanted accused in the TRP manipulation scam. The copyright violation case was registered at Juhu police station last year, and transferred to the CIU. During interrogation, Verma allegedly admitted that his channel had illegally aired hit movies of Prakash Mehra. Earlier, Juhu police had registered an FIR against Box Cinema owner Narayan Sharma in a copyright violation case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-movie-ceo-held-in-copyright-violation-case/articleshow/80355824.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||HC declines to hold urgent hearing||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Tuesday refused to take up on an urgent basis the hearing in a PIL filed by Telangana Engineers Forum that wanted the court to direct the state to use gravitation methods rather than pipelines for pumping out water from Kaleshwaram project. The plea was filed by forum convenor Lakshminarayana who contended that the pipeline mode will turn out to be uneconomical. The bench of Chif Justice Hima Kohlinand Justice B Vijaysen Reddy wondered why the petitioner chose to file the PIL before the high court instead of approaching the national green tribunal. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-declines-to-hold-urgent-hearing/articleshow/80354937.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Pune||Pune: At last, eateries register improvement in business||PUNE: After suffering heavy losses last year, the food and beverages (F&B) industry seems to have come back on track partially as customers are queuing up and waiting for tables, particularly on weekends. At the recently opened bar in Balewadi #LIIT, there has been a peak in customer numbers since the end of December. “Mainly we see young and middle-aged patrons. Weekends usually witness rush hours between 8-11pm, with 20-30-minute wait time,” said owner Siddharth Kalokhe. “Most of our patrons pre-book tables. Also, since we have a huge property, the usual wait time does not cross 15 minutes for walk-in customers,” said Raaj Paree, chief executive officer of The Cult House/Terra at Magarpatta. The bustle extends to bistros and cafés as well. Harsh Agarwal, managing partner at Butterbrews in Model Colony, said, “Working professionals and students are returning. We are getting good footfall in the evenings and weekends. Customers might experience some wait time for 5-10 minutes.” The footfall at restaurants is heavily dependent on the demographics of the neighbourhood. “Sassy Spoon, in Koregaon Park, has seen brisk business almost daily with wait time averaging around 20-30 minutes on weekends. However, Baraza in Yerawada, operates at half the permissible capacity due to absence of corporate footfall,” said Ashish Kindre, head of operations of the city restaurants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-last-eateries-register-improvement-in-business/articleshow/80354961.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Thane||Covid claims Kalyan cop, Maharashtra toll 322||KALYAN: A-49-year-old constable posted at Kolsewadi police station in Kalyan died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Thane. Sanjay Wani was a driver. With his death, the toll among policemen in Maharashtra reached 322, including 31 officers and 291 constables. In Thane commissionerate, 34 have died, including an officer and 33 constables. Police said on December 21, 2020, he tested positive and was admitted to Metro hospital in Kalyan, from where he was shifted to a Covid care centre in Badlapur, where he resided with his family. During treatment Wani had a breathing problem, due to which senior officials shifted him to the private Vedant hospital in Thane but on Tuesday he died. Senior inspector Sahurao Salve of Kolsewadi police station said Wani was survived by wife, a son and a daughter. The official said in Maharashtra 29,233 policemen tested positive, of which 28,597 recovered, while 315 are undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/covid-claims-kalyan-cop-state-toll-322/articleshow/80353094.cms||Pradeep Gupta
January 20, 2021||Delhi||Cut power lines on R-Day: Banned outfit to farmers||New Delhi: Delhi Police is on its toes after a banned terrorist outfit, Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), gave a call to agitating farmers to “plunge Delhi into darkness on R-Day” by targeting the offices of discoms and cutting the city’s power supplies. In a video message released on Monday night, SFJ’s Gurpatwant Singh Pannun called upon the farmers of Punjab to cut off the electricity supply to Delhi on January 25 and 26 while claiming that the electricity distribution companies like BSES Rajdhani and BSES Yumna are owned by the same “Ambanis” who will be the beneficiary under the new farm Acts. Without plunging Delhi into darkness on R-Day, the farmers’ protest will continue to fall on deaf ears, the legal adviser to SFJ warned. Pannun is wanted by Punjab Police in at least four cases related to terror modules busted in the last three years, besides for the Referendum 2020 campaign. Last week, SFJ had warned Chief Justice of India S A Bobde not to stop the tractor rally on January 26. In November, it had given a call to disrupt air services and target Air India flights to London. SFJ’s threats, a security official said, are taken seriously, given the influence the group has among its online followers. The outfit is engaged in funding and motivating gullible youths into committing acts of arson and violence. Last August, two youths had hoisted a “Khalistan flag” atop a district administrative building, tore the Indian flag and filmed the act in Punjab’s Moga after SFJ declared a reward for doing so on YouTube. In November 2018, Pannun, who is based in the US, was declared a proclaimed offender by a Punjab court in a sedition case. This was followed by the Punjab government approaching the CBI along with a dossier of his “anti-India activities”. It was made a ground for seeking issuance of a red corner notice against him by Interpol, which came out in December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cut-power-lines-on-r-day-banned-outfit-to-farmers/articleshow/80365910.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Surat||Bail denied for nCov +ve daughter’s care||Surat: The district and sessions court in Surat refused interim bail plea of 30 days to one of the accused, Ravindra Kahar, in the Takshashila Arcade fire case for the treatment of his Covid-19 positive daughter and to arrange for her educational fees. Twenty two young lives were snuffed out in the tragedy when fire had broken out in the coaching centre located on the fourth floor of the building on May 24, 2019. Kahar, 52, a resident of Nirmal Nagar Society in Surat, was one of the partners in the Takshashila Arcade and he was booked under section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) and 114 Indian Penal Code at the Sarthana Police station. He was arrested in June, 2019 While rejecting his bail plea, the court observed that Kahar’s family members were residing under one roof and therefore presence of the accused was not required for her care. His wife was available for payment of the fees. “Earlier, Kahar had filed for an interim bail plea for the treatment of his wife by producing a fake certificate of the doctor which was rejected by the court. Therefore, no personal presence is necessary for payment of the fees of his children and for the treatment of his daughter,” the court ordered. The dreadful videos of young students desperately jumping down from the fourth floor to save their lives had shaken the entire country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bail-denied-for-ncov-ve-daughters-care/articleshow/80352332.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Bhopal||304 new cases in MP as Covid downward trend continues||Bhopal: The trend of declining Covid cases continued in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday with just 304 new cases diagnosed. With this, MP’s overall Covid-19 tally stood at 2,52,186. With seven more people succumbing to the viral infection, the death toll in the state went up to 3,763, according to the state health bulletin.A total 725 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative count of recoveries in MP to 2,42,691.Of the new fatalities, two persons died each in Indore and Gwalior while one patient succumbed to the infection each in Bhopal, Chhindwara and Damoh. Among the 304 new cases in the state, Bhopal accounted for 74 cases and Indore 35.The total number of coronavirus cases in Indore has risen to 57,097, including 920 deaths, while Bhopal’s case tally stood at 41,707 with 599 fatalities. Bhopal now has 1,842 active cases and Indore 1,332.With 22,690 new tests, the overall number of samples tested so far for coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh amounted to 51.12 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/304-new-cases-in-mp-as-covid-downward-trend-continues/articleshow/80353178.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 20, 2021||Meerut||M’nagar cops nab highway robbers after gunfight||Muzaffarnagar: A gang of four highway robbers were arrested late in the evening on Monday from the Bhopa police station area. Claiming that the arrest had solved several previous cases in which they were involved, police said their modus operandi involved overtaking vehicles to make them stop and loot the occupants.Police sources said after being tipped off that some miscreants were planning to rob a truck, the cops launched a vehicle search drive near the Ganga canal. When cops at the roadblock tried to stop four suspects in a car without number plates, the occupants started firing at the police in a bid to escape. Police eventually managed to overpower and arrest all four, and recovered three country-made pistols, six live cartridges, along with 2,900 stolen drug pills and 30 boxes of Patanjali Musli Pak from the car.The accused were identified as Sumit, Salman, Nazim and Shane Alam, all residents of Bijnor district. They were sent to jail after a case was registered against them under “serious sections”.Deputy superintendent of police (Jansath) Shakeel Ahmed said, “We are trying to dig up their past criminal history, and have sent their details to Bijnor police. Further action will be taken accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mnagar-cops-nab-highway-robbers-after-gunfight/articleshow/80352318.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 20, 2021||Pune||107 refusals reported across district, all from rural sites||Pune: Vaccine hesitancy caused scores of health workers to skip Covid-19 inoculations on Tuesday, the second day of vaccination drive in the state. The district’s final vaccination report, released late on Tuesday, showed a total 107 enroled beneficiaries had refused the shots — all in rural Pune. Of these, 46 refusals each were reported from the Baramati and the Indapur hospital sites. There were eight refusals at Symbiosis medical college and hospital at Lavale and another four and three at the Wagholi and Male primary health centers. Tuesday’s number of refusals was higher than the 71 reported on day 1 of the drive on Saturday, January 16. Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic areas had then reported 32 and 24 refusals, respectively. Overall, according to the report, of the 2,900 enroled beneficiaries on Tuesday across the 29 centres in the district, 1,302 (or nearly 45%) could not be vaccinated. Reasons included the 107 refusals; another 13 could not be vaccinated due to non-availability of vaccines and 75 people were classified in the ‘others’ category for not-vaccinated persons. Deputy director for health services (Pune region) Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, said, “Most refusals appeared to be due to anxiety over safety and efficacy of the vaccines. Some beneficiaries who refused cited health reasons such as infections or mild fevers, etc. Many also may have received SMS alerts late. In some cases, people may not have received alerts on shifting of the vaccine sites.” Authorities at many sites on Tuesday had to call up those who had not come in on Saturday (January 16) to ask if they were still interested or if their refusal could be recorded on the CoWIN app to make way for others in line. Officials said anxiety was particularly high among lower-rung health workers. AtTalera hospital in Chinchwad, an ASHA worker who has been working with Covid patients said, “I know vaccination is a good option. I will certainly get myself vaccinated, but only after all my colleagues and seniors do.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/107-refusals-reported-across-district-all-from-rural-sites/articleshow/80354941.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Anna Hazare to start indefinite fast at Ralegan Siddhi from January 30||PUNE: Social crusader Anna Hazare on Tuesday announced an indefinite fast at Ralegan Siddhi from January 30 to press for implementation of the Swaminathan commission recommendations regarding agriculture pricing, statutory status and autonomy for central agriculture price commission. Hazare’s secretary Sanjay Pathade told TOI the decision to start the fast from January 30 was taken late in the evening. “Anna wanted to start the fast at Delhi, but considering the pandemic and difficulty in securing permission for the agitation at Ramlila ground, he decided to begin the fast at Yadavbaba temple in Ralegan Siddhi,” he said. In a letter to PM Narendra Modi on Tuesday, Hazare reminded him of the promises made by the government regarding implementation of Swaminathan commission recommendations. “The formula of input cost plus 50% additional amount should be accepted for fixing the prices of crops. We have seen that price recommendations by the state agri price commissions are scaled down when the final prices are fixed by the Union government. Farmers are unable to recover even the input cost which drives them to suicide,” Hazare said in the letter. He also said minimum support prices should also be fixed for milk, horticulture and floriculture to make farmers financially stable. He said he was forced to start the agitation because the Union government was not honouring the promises made to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hazare-to-start-indefinite-fast-from-january-30/articleshow/80354979.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Pune||Daily Covid recoveries go up to 606 in Pune Metropolitan Region, 11 more dead||PUNE: Daily Covid-19 cases increased to 385 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday, a day after sliding to its lowest level since June 9. As many as 606 patients recovered in the region in the last 24 hours, taking its total discharges above 3.59 lakh. So far, over 3.73 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in PMR. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that 335 patients were discharged in the PMC limits on Tuesday, followed by the PCMC limits (148) and the rural areas (123). As for cases, the PMC areas added 182 in the last 24 hours, followed by rural areas (122) and the PCMC limits (81). The region recorded 11 deaths due to Covid-19 on Tuesday. These included five deaths from the PMC limits, two in the PCMC limits and four in the rural areas. The region’s death count has now reached 8,972. The region on Tuesday conducted 5,654 tests, which pushed total sample testing count above 20.18 lakh, including 9.85 lakh tests from the PMC limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-recoveries-go-up-to-606-in-pmr-11-more-dead/articleshow/80354991.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 20, 2021||Chandigarh||No politician allowed on stage||Thikriwal (Barnala): In a break from tradition, the ruling party in Punjab was not allowed to share stage on the martyrdom day of Riyasti Praja Mandal founder Sewa Singh Thikriwala at his native village Thikriwal in Barnala district on Tuesday. Owing to the ongoing farmers agitation against the central agriculture marketing laws, Thikriwal residents and local gurdwara committee had unanimously decided not to let any political activity to happen at the 86th martyrdom day of Thikriwala. The organising committee had unanimously decided not to allow political leaders from any party to address the gathering and ensured that the farmer leaders filled the void. Banners proclaiming politicians not allowed were put up on the stage and at a stall set up outside the pandal. A two-day function is organised in the village every year on January 19 and 20. Generally, on the first day, the ruling party manages the stage and many a times chief ministers have come to pay tributes. On the second say, time slots are provided to opposition parties to use the stage. Thikriwal had attained martyrdom in Patiala jail on the night of January 19, 1935. Canada’s New Democratic Party leader Jagmeet Singh hails from Thikriwala’s clan. “Senior leaders of the ruling and the opposition parties throng the martyrdom day and even chief ministers have come here to pay tributes to the martyr. But owing to the farmers struggle this year, we had asked the political leaders not to come to address the gathering, and no one has dared to come. Though senior leaders of farm organisations were called to address the gathering, as they are busy with the meeting with central government, only district level leaders, apart from Sewa Singh’s maternal grandson Captain Amarjit Singh Jaijee, reached here to pay tributes,” said gurdwara committee president Bhajan Singh. Gurdial Singh Mann, member of the committee that oversees arrangements of martyrdom day, said, “We had put up banners barring entry of politicians. It is a sacred day for the villagers and we do not want political figures to come and indulge in politics when the entire Punjab is in a protest mode over farm laws. Similarly, no politician will be allowed on the second day earlier used to be reserved for the leaders from opposition parties and only those in protests will be allowed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-politician-allowed-on-stage/articleshow/80354996.cms||Neel Kamal
January 20, 2021||Mumbai||Rs 1.3cr heist: Cops reach J’hand to track accused||A team from the Thane crime branch flew down to Jharkhand to probe the Rs 1.3crore heist at a jewellery store in Shivai Nagar, Thane, on Sunday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rs-1-3cr-heist-cops-reach-jhand-to-track-accused/articleshow/80355010.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
January 20, 2021||Amritsar||Stir popularity leads to political ambitions||AMRITSAR: The long drawn out farmers’ agitation, which has caught the attention of the common public, has also inspired many frontrunner leaders to nurture political ambitions and ride the ‘popularity wave’ to victory in the assembly elections, if fielded by any party. After planning to form their own political outfit, a group of farmer leaders, who held a few rounds of meetings with some ‘investors’ and Akali dissidents, presented a ‘report card’ of their present situation to a senior Congress leader in his house on Tuesday. After holding a meeting with the enthusiasts, a Congress leader who didn’t wish to be named, said the situation was not very encouraging or conducive but a few farmer leaders were nurturing ambitions. “The farmers are already divided into 32 groups. Out of these, 12 groups do not even enjoy the support of 200 persons each, yet they have managed to secure a seat while holding deliberations with government. The remaining 10 groups of farmers have followers ranging from 4,000 to 7,000 for each faction,” he said. State president, Jamhuri Kisan Sabha (JKS) Satnam Singh Ajnala said, “Farmer leaders are not thinking of forming any political party but people are approaching us with proposals. All this depends on the victory of the struggle in Delhi.” He did not rule out the possibility of the formation of a political front. Stating that in past, JKS had been contesting elections in Punjab, he said so far, the ‘Sanyukat Kisan Morcha’ or conglomerate of 32 farmer organisations, had not explored the possibility of formation of a political party to contest the 2022 assembly elections in Punjab. However, Gurbachan Singh Chaba of Kisan Mazdur Sangarash Committee (KMSC) said, “We are not interested in politics, if we indulge in politics then who will fight with the government?” Sources also said that a group of enthusiasts were going to Delhi to explore possibilities with AAP’s senior leadership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/stir-popularity-leads-to-political-ambitions/articleshow/80354981.cms||Yudhvir Rana
January 20, 2021||Goa||Six trucks with illegally mined sand seized||Colva: South Goa RTO officials recently intercepted and seized six tipper trucks transporting illegally mined sand, in the dead of the night. On January 15, while on vigil on the Ambora-Raia route at 3.10am, RTO sleuths intercepted the six trucks that were transporting sand without the required transit pass. Such a pass must be issued by the directorate of mines and geology, as mandated under section 15G of the Mines and Minerals Development Act 1957, and Section 38 of the Goa Daman and Diu Minor Minerals Concession Rule 1985. The trucks were kept at the Fatorda police station. Sources said they were later referred to the directorate of mines and geology for further action. Sources in the RTO enforcement cell said that the vehicles were carrying sand extracted from the Banastarim and Amona rivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/six-trucks-with-illegally-mined-sand-seized/articleshow/80355021.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Clarity on Inter exams in a wk||Hyderabad: Education minister Sabitha Indra Reddy on Tuesday said that students will be given clarity on intermediate exam dates, syllabus and practical exams in a week. The minister convened a meeting with parents, managements of private schools, junior, degree and professional colleges on reopening of educational institutions. Directing schools not to make physical classes mandatory, Reddy said that the state will crackdown on private schools violating GO 46 (on fee regulation). “We may not take immediate action but may initiate action against the schools subsequently,” she said, adding that there is a fee violation case against 12 schools in court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/clarity-on-inter-exams-in-a-wk/articleshow/80354972.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Delhi||No access to chargesheet in jail, riots’ accused tell court||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Tuesday directed all the accused in the northeast Delhi violence conspiracy case to appear physically on February 2, following the new norms of court functioning. Umar Khalid, Ishrat Jahan, Tahir Hussain and others appeared before judge Amitabh Rawat through videoconferencing from jail. Some of the accused pointed out that they still didn’t have access to the chargesheet filed in the case. Khalid suggested that there could be standardising of access time within which all accused people could go through the “huge” chargesheet running into thousands of pages. Activist Khalid Saifi said that though the chargesheet had been uploaded on the jail computer, he didn’t have access to it. “Authorities said that they don’t have permission to show it,” he informed. Sharjeel Imam informed that he had access to read the chargesheet for two hours. Hussain said he hadn’t been given access to the chargesheet and said if provided in a pendrive, he could go to the jail library and read it. Advocate Sowjhanya Shankaran, who represented Asif Iqbal Tanha, said he had access to read the chargesheet for an hour a day. “I have got access to the chargesheet and three hours to read. Sometimes, the access depends on the mood of the duty officer,” Khalid said. Jahan, on the other hand, pointed out that the one hour given to her wasn’t enough to go through the chargesheet. Another accused Athar Khan expressed disapproval of being kept in isolation with a convict after being shown and brought from a doctor. “I have a convict with me in isolation. Undertrials shouldn’t be kept with a convict,” he said. After taking note of the issues faced by the accused, the court posted the hearing on February 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-access-to-chargesheet-in-jail-riots-accused-tell-court/articleshow/80365921.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 20, 2021||Ranchi||Surprise raids to enforce anti-Cov protocols compliance in Ranchi||Ranchi: The district administration here on Tuesday said it will conduct random raids at places that witness a high footfall in the city to ensure compliance of Covid norms such as wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing after people were found flouting the norms. The initiative, which began a few months ago, was impacted during the vaccination drive due to preoccupation of officials, but will be resumed, said sources. Although the daily number of cases has come down to around a half of what Ranchi was recording during the peak of the pandemic, the district administration does not want to let its guard down and ensure cases do not rise again. According to the state government report, of the 1,17,686 positive cases in the state, around 31,860 have been recorded in Ranchi district alone. The Monday bulleting from the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme said of the 100 new cases, 44 were in Ranchi. When contacted, ADM (law and order) Lokesh Mishra said, “We are planning to intensify the raids in order to enforce the standard operating procedures on safety among the public. All circle officers and officers-in-charge of police stations have been given orders to carry out frequent raids. The administration will also keep a close watch on residential schools.” It may be stated here that students are returning to the schools to prepare for Class X and XII board examinations. Barring a few, on Tuesday, TOI found all roadside shopkeepers in Lalpur and Albert Ekka Chowk without masks. The owner of a reputed medical shop at Albert Ekka Chowk on condition of anonymity said, “Around 20% people visit my shop without masks. We point out to the message stuck on wall regarding Covid norms and urge them to purchase at least masks that cost Rs 5 to Rs 10. We often get customers who refuse to maintain social distancing.” President of Federation of Jharkhand Chambers of Commerce and Industries Pradeep Jain Chhabra said there is a visible callous behaviour among traders and customers at market places. He appealed that all must follow ‘kadai (strictness)’ in wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/surprise-raids-to-enforce-anti-cov-protocols-compliance-in-ranchi/articleshow/80352858.cms||Sanjay Sahay
January 20, 2021||Ranchi||Green audit in Dhanbad to curb air, noise pollution||Sindri: Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Tuesday asked authorities to conduct a green audit in the district to assess factors contributing to air and sound pollution. Speaking to the media, Singh said, “Officials have been asked to prepare an environmental plan and a detailed strategy to ensure strict implementation of government guidelines to curb air and sound pollution in order to provide a clean and healthy environment to the public.” Addressing a meeting of the district environmental plan, the DC asked officials to prepare a concrete workable roadmap for solid and e-waste management, pollution created by machines, especially in market areas, industrial pollution and pollution due to transportation of coal in open trucks. Singh directed his officials to hold regular meetings with representatives of private and public sector industries to ensure adherence to rules and asked to take punitive action against erring industries. He also ordered stern action against vehicles using pressure horns, those honking in no-horn zones and bikers who install noisy muffler tips.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/green-audit-in-dhanbad-to-curb-air-noise-pollution/articleshow/80352716.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 20, 2021||Ranchi||Rameshwar wants hike in central aid to state in Budget||Ranchi: State Congress president and finance minister and Rameshwar Oraon on Tuesday said he has demanded an increase in central assistance for Jharkhand and rail connectivity to link the districts that are devoid of train services as a few key demands for the upcoming Union Budget during a video-conference with Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday. Oraon said, “We provide Rs 1,000 to beneficiaries under social security schemes, but the Centre’s share in this is only Rs 300. Considering the financial strain on a poor state like ours due to the Covid-19 pandemic where resources have dried up and the economy is yet to be back on track, the Centre must think on increasing central assistances to us.” He added that after the introduction of Goods and Services Tax (GST), major avenues for revenue generation of the states have dried up and one has to rely on the Centre for dues. Oraon has long been crying for delay in issuance of state’s dues under GST. “Therefore, I have stressed on no further decease in the central shares. In fact, the Union government must consider increasing their shares for different scholarship and welfare schemes now,” he said. On the demand for trains, Oraon said he has sought rail connectivity for a few districts that are devoid of it. “For example, districts like Gumla, Chatra, Khunti are without rail connectivity till date. The Centre must think about it,” he said. Replying to another question related to the fresh salvo by BJP’s leader of legislative party Babulal Marandi, who claimed that many MLAs of the ruling coalition ‘socialise’ with Maoists, Oraon said he must reveal the names of the leaders rather than level such allegations. “I request him to send a white paper to chief minister Hemant Soren with names of all those MLAs who meet Maoists,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rameshwar-wants-hike-in-central-aid-to-state-in-budget/articleshow/80352672.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 20, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Wild elephants kill Betla’s captive jumbo||DALTONGANJ: Two wild tuskers killed Kaal Bhairav, a captive elephant at Betla National Park in Palamu Tiger Reserve on Monday night, said deputy director of PTR’s north division Kumar Ashish on Tuesday. Kaal Bhairav was 25-year-old and was brought to the park from Karnataka in 2018. Ashish said, “Betla has five captive elephants, including three females. Kaal Bhairav was the eldest of all.” Betla has more than four dozen wild elephants. Sources said although territorial fights among elephants are common, it is for the first time when a casualty was reported in Betla. Ashish said, “Kaal Bhairav was at the elephant shed in Palamu Quila last night, two kilometre from the park. The two wild elephants attacked Kaal Bhairav who was bound in chains. It was difficult for him to defend himself, although the chain broke in the melee. The fight broke out at 9.30pm,” he said. Ashish said the wild animals impaled Kaal Bhairav on multiple areas of his body with their tusks. “Intestines of the dead elephant came out of the body,” he said. The captive tusker died of shock and profuse internal bleeding caused by the piercing of the tusks. Ashish said the two tusks of the deceased are intact. “They will be preserved in the Nature Interpretation Centre in Betla,” he said. Eight elephant personnel, who were in the two nearby watch towers in the vicinity of the elephant shed, burst crackers to shoo away the attackers, but in vain. Bhairav’s mahout Lal Bihari Singh too tried hard to drive them away, but failed. “It was a fight for the supremacy,” said D S Srivastava, a wildlife expert who lives in Daltonganj. He added, “If there would have been a trench around the shed the incident could have been averted.” Government veterinarian Chandon De conducted the post-mortem and the viscera has been preserved for forensic test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/wild-elephants-kill-betlas-captive-jumbo/articleshow/80353058.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Ranchi||‘Improper fire-fighting equipment at MGMMCH’||JAMSHEDPUR: Kolhan division's biggest state-run hospital, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College and Hospital (MGMMCH), does not have proper fire fighting equipment. the district's fire-fighting department has revealed. During a recent inspection, a team from the department found the fire-fighting equipment of the healthcare institute were not updated after 2013. Members of the team said a small fire-fighting system was installed in 2013 but it cannot handle major fires. They further said it would be difficult to reach every corner of the hospital in case of a fire as the approach roads and height of the entrances are very low. "The entrances are only 12-feet high instead of the required 16 feet," a team member said. Besides, the approach roads to paediatric and burn wards, nursing school and staff quarters are very narrow. Hospital sources told TOI that the former Raghubar Das government provided a meagrely Rs 70 lakh to procure fire-fighting equipment. The hospital had demanded Rs 1.5 crore for the purpose, the sources added. The team made the inspection following a major fire at a Gadda-based private hospital, which was brought under control with great difficulty. Following the incident, state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni instructed that fire fighting department must visit each and every hospital across the state and table a report on the preparedness of the hospitals in the event of a fire. In 2017, the high court had sought a report from the MGMMCH authorities on the condition of its fire fighting equipment. In its report, the hospital had stated the poor condition of its equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/improper-fire-fighting-equipment-at-mgmmch/articleshow/80352841.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
January 20, 2021||Ranchi||Cold nights set to return in Jharkhand from weekend, says IMD||Ranchi: A change in wind pattern over Jharkhand is expected to cause the minimum temperature to rise across the state in the next two days, the Ranchi observatory of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday. However, the night time chill is likely to return during the weekend with the mercury levels expected to drop to single digits, it said. Abhishek Anand, a scientist at the observatory, said, "Though the weather over Jharkhand is dry at present, easterly winds are blowing into the state. This will cause mercury levels to rise by two to three notches above normal in the next two days." He, however, added that northwesterly winds will begin entering Jharkhand from January 23 onwards and will cause a drop in the minimum temperature by at least two to four degrees. The return of colder nights and warmer mornings will mean that residents can step out and enjoy their picnics and outdoor activities on the last weekend of January. Meanwhile, the night-time temperature in Ranchi was recorded at 10.2°C, slightly above normal. In Jamshedpur, the minimum was 11.8°C while Daltonganj recorded 8.5°C. While Bokaro recorded 9.1°C, which was nearly three degrees below its normal, Chaibasa recorded 10°C, nearly two degrees below its normal. The daytime temperature in Ranchi (25.7°C) was higher by two notches above normal, the maximum temperatures in Jamshedpur (26.4°C) Daltonganj (22.8°C) and Bokaro (24.1°C) were lower than their respective normal averages. In its forecast, the IMD predicted fog in early morning hours in Ranchi and its adjoining areas followed by clear skies. The weather office also predicted minimum temperatures in Garhwa, Palamu, Latehar, Simdega, Khunti, Hazaribag, Koderma, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Giridih and Jamtara to hover between 11°C and 12°C. The night time temperature in Ranchi, Lohardaga, Chatra, Seraikela-Kharsawan, West Singhbhum and Deoghar will hover between 13°C and 14 °C. Jamshedpur and all of the East Singhbhum district will experience the warmest nights among all the districts in the next 24 hours, with mercury likely to hover around 15°C to 16°C, the IMD said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cold-nights-set-to-return-in-jharkhand-from-weekend-says-imd/articleshow/80352927.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 20, 2021||Ranchi||No vax for new moms, those trying to conceive: Ranchi hospital||Ranchi: At least 33% of the 500 staff members of Ranchi sadar hospital registered on the Co-WIN portal will have to be left out of the Covid-19 vaccination drive as a precautionary measure, said the hospital’s manager Jiran Khandulna. Of the 500, 150 are nurses and over 50 have to give the inoculation a miss because some are lactating mothers while others are planning pregnancies soon. Those who have given birth recently or are lactating mothers or are planning pregnancies will not be administered the vaccine. Hence, despite being registered for the jabs, they are being turned away.” Khandulna said besides nurses, health workers, including doctors, are being asked to come at a later date if they have complaints of high blood pressure. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr Vinod Bihari Prasad said they have received guidelines that state lactating mothers, pregnant women and minors under 18 years of age will have to be left out of the inoculation process. “We are complying with the guidelines in letter and spirit,” Prasad told TOI. Meanwhile, no untoward incident has been reported from any of the three vaccination centres in Ranchi. “So far so good,” Prasad said. However, vaccinators at Namkum community health centre said there were a couple of minor health complications reported by ANMs and sahiyas who were inoculated on Monday and Tuesday. Prasad said there was no change in the standard operating procedures. ‘“We are keeping beneficiaries of the vaccine under observation for 30 minutes as of now,” he added. Meanwhile, the turnout for vaccination continued to dip further in Ranchi on the third day. While Namkum CHC, which reported 49% turnout on Monday, reported 43% turnout on Tuesday, sadar hospital, which reported 77% turnout on Monday, dropped to 62% on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-vax-for-new-moms-those-trying-to-conceive-ranchi-hospital/articleshow/80352876.cms||Dhritiman Ray
January 20, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand HC vacates stay on Marandi’s ‘defection’ case||Ranchi: The Jharkhand high court has vacated the stay on the suo motu proceedings initiated by Speaker Ravindra Nath Mahto against Babulal Marandi over the issue of ‘defection’. A division bench of Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad was hearing a petition filed by Marandi on Tuesday when it lifted its earlier order that clamped a stay on the Speaker’s proceedings in the matter. The division bench had heard the matter at length earlier on January 14 and reserved its order. The bench took note of the statement of the Speaker who in his affidavit had assured the court that he will not proceed against Marandi in the alleged defection matter. Earlier the Speaker had initiated the proceedings against Marandi on his own but on it being challenged before the high court, other legislators from ruling alliance made formal complaints against Marandi seeking prosecution from the Speaker’s office. The high court, however, maintained that though the order of stay on proceedings against Marandi has been lifted, the larger question with regards to the power of the Speaker to initiate suo motu proceedings on defection matter still remains to be answered. Marandi had challenged the issuance of a notice upon him earlier on November 2 last year by the Speaker informing him of initiation of proceedings for defection under the Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha Sadasya (Dal Parivartan ke Aadhar par Nirharta) Rules, 2006 (3rd Edition, 2019). The Speaker had on his own taken cognizance against Marandi for joining the BJP and issued notice for defection. The vires of the Rules had also been challenged by Marandi. Marandi in his petition said that the Speaker is not empowered to initiate proceedings against any member of the legislative assembly on his own. The Speaker derives powers from the Rules which are an offshoot of the Xth Schedule of the Constitution which lays the guidelines in case of defection by a member of an Assembly. Matters of defection can only be “referred” before a Speaker for him to initiate further action either by a member of the legislative assembly or by any other person aggrieved by such defection, Marandi had said. His counsels argued before the court that though the Speaker has assured that he will not proceed against him, the proceeding has still not been dropped. The case will again be heard on March 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-hc-vacates-stay-on-marandis-defection-case/articleshow/80352705.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Ranchi||101 new Covid cases, 3 deaths in Jharkhand take toll to 1,057||Ranchi: Jharkhand reported 101 new Covid-19 cases till 9 pm on Tuesday, taking the state's infection tally to 1,17,887. In its evening bulletin, the state health department said 141 patients recovered on Tuesday, taking the state's total recoveries to 1,15,683. There are 1,147 active cases in Jharkhand at present. Three deaths, one each from Dhanbad, Palamu and Ranchi districts, were reported on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 1,057. Jharkhand’s recovery rate stood at 98.13% on Tuesday, higher than the national average of 96.7%. The state’s mortality rate (0.89%) was lower than the national average of 1.4%, the bulletin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/101-new-covid-cases-3-deaths-in-jharkhand-take-toll-to-1057/articleshow/80352789.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 20, 2021||India||Farm worker dies at Singhu border 2 days after reaching stir site||DASUYA: A 37-year-old farm labourer from Randhawa village in Punjab’s Dasuya died at the Singhu border protest on Monday. The deceased was identified as Nirmal Singh. He had arrived at the protest site with farmers and labourers on Saturday. “ On Sunday, Singh complained of fever. We took him to the medical facility at the protest site and he was examined and given medication. He felt fine afterwards. On Monday, he started feeling unwell again and doctors found his blood pressure to be drastically down,” said Pritpal Singh, who was part of the group. “We took him to a private hospital. He was discharged later after he appeared normal. We did not want to take any risk and decided to take him to Panipat civil hospital,” he added. However, he collapsed on the way and could not be resuscitated, Pritpal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farm-worker-dies-at-singhu-border-2-days-after-reaching-stir-site/articleshow/80356735.cms||IP Singh
January 20, 2021||India||NHAI loses Rs 500 crore in toll in Punjab, Haryana||NEW DELHI: The NHAI has suffered a loss of approximately Rs 500 crore in toll collections in Punjab and Haryana due to the farmers’ protests. Sources said while toll collection has stopped completely across all the plazas on national highways in Punjab since October 5, there is very little collection across Haryana since December 25. As per NHAI officials, the daily toll revenue from all plazas in Punjab is around Rs 3.1 crore and in Haryana it is close to Rs 4.2 crore. “We have no option but to stop toll collections. The revenue loss has direct impact on our performance and future projects. The traffic on Delhi-Jaipur stretch has also reduced drastically because of the protests and vehicles are taking long detour to avoid the NH fearing blockade,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nhai-loses-rs-500-crore-in-toll-in-punjab-haryana/articleshow/80356736.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 20, 2021||Nagpur||HC asks NMC, water authority chiefs to meet, resolve differences||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday made two government entities, fighting a legal battle between themselves on conservation of city’s water bodies, realize that they could find a solution through a dialogue among themselves rather than seeking judiciary’s intervention. The HC was hearing a petition by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) challenging Maharashtra Water Resources Regulatory Authority (MWRRA) order to conserve water bodies, including Ambazari Lake. The HC directed former’s commissioner and latter’s secretary to convene a meeting and sort out the differences. A division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote directed both entities to submit a detailed report within two weeks on the result of their meeting and also steps taken to comply with its March 21, 2018 directives. On an application filed by social worker Pravin Mahajan, the MWRRA issued a slew of directives to the civic body, including constitution of a committee to strengthen Ambazari lake and ensure safety of bund built on Nag river. It had further asked Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) to inspect all the city’s lakes and water bodies in association with NMC and take steps to conserve them. Representing Mahajan, who had filed an intervention in the case, counsel Firdos Mirza expressed surprise at the civic body’s move to challenge the MWRRA order to maintain the city's water bodies, which is its basic duty. According to him, if these water bodies are conserved, it would help recharge groundwater and avoid scarcity like in 2019 summer, when NMC resorted to alternate day supply. He accused NMC of wasting taxpayers’ money and judiciary’s time on fighting legal battles on the issue, which it should be doing on its own rather than after someone points it out. In the last hearing, the HC partially stayed the MWRRA order after NMC challenged it through senior counsel Chandrashekhar Kaptan, who pointed out that the former didn’t have any authority on the subject. He had contended that the HC had already dealt with the issue and passed a detailed order on March 21, 2018, for maintenance, repairs and safety of Ambazari dam. Flaying MWRRA, the judges stated that when they had already issued specific directives in a comprehensive manner and when Maharashtra Water Resources Regulatory Authority Act’s Section 11 didn’t permit it to issue any such directions, it shouldn’t have interfered. In the same order, the bench had asked both petitioner and respondents to place on record details on steps taken to implement the HC’s directives of March 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-asks-nmc-water-authority-chiefs-to-meet-resolve-differences/articleshow/80353314.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 20, 2021||Nagpur||Court asks govt to explain Bembla pipeline corruption allegations||Nagpur: Expressing concern over allegations of corruption and unethical practices in Rs302 crore Bembla-Yavatmal Amrut Water Supply project, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday directed Maharashtra government to explain its stand on the serious charges.Petitioner Digambar Pachgade through counsel Shashibhushan Wahane had pointed out supply of substandard quality pipes, that often burst or leak ever since they were laid for the project by a West Bengal based company. The project tender was awarded to PL Adke from Nashik, which purchased pipes from Jai Balaji Industries, Bardhman. A division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote directed the respondents to submit a detailed report in tabular format on laying of pipelines and payments made to various companies within three weeks.Quoting information obtained under the RTI Act, the petitioner claimed that the respondent companies — Jai Balaji Industries (which supplied pipes) and Quality Services and Solutions (QSS) in Kolkata (which certified their quality) — violated technical rules. Still, the government authorities were allowing them to escape their responsibility.Wahane contended that due to use of inferior quality pipes, they are leaking or bursting and have damaged agricultural lands of farmers. Even after replacement, same problem continued for all these days and hence the water never reached farmers of suicide hit Yavatmal district, for which the pipeline was laid.According to him, when pipelines were checked by a VNIT team, they found it very substandard. The petitioner had even lodged complaints with authorities like Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran (MJP), but since all government officials are hand-in-glove with the respondent companies, no action took place for the last couple of years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/court-asks-govt-to-explain-bembla-pipeline-corruption-allegations/articleshow/80353345.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 20, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Tech drives change: Robots to clean manholes in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is in the process of procuring two ‘Bandicoot’ branded robotic manhole cleaning machines with about Rs 80 lakh. Having two interconnected structures, the control panel stays outside the manhole. The other structure with an arm and four legs enters the manhole and clears the silt and blockages. The control panel, having infrared cameras, helps in live internal inspection. The person operating the scavenging machine can monitor, control and operate it to perfection. GVMC superintending engineer (water supply & underground drainage management) K Venu Gopal said that the robotic machines would do away the need of sanitary workers entering the manholes for scavenging. “It can be remotely controlled using simple user interface and the high resolution camera in the control panel works even during night time. It can clean manholes up to 10 metres depth. The sensors attached to this spider-like robot would even detect noxious gases such as methane, hydrogen sulphide, carbon monoxide and others trapped in the manholes, and alert the staff beforehand,” said Venu Gopal. The superintending engineer added that GVMC recently introduced three vehicle-mounted jetting machines to mechanise the sewer and septic tank cleaning operations with about Rs 1.25 crore. “These include 6,000-litre capacity vehicles and one 1,000-litre capacity vehicle. The smaller one would be deployed in the narrow lanes of the city. These jetting machines would help the GVMC in keeping the underground drainage network free of clogging, silt or blockages. The high pressure water jets from these machines can clear a chocking point, to a maximum extent, located four manholes away in the same UGD line,” said Venu Gopal. There are about 38,000 manholes in the city limits, while the UGD network is spread in about 780 kilometres. The GVMC is also participating in Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge, being conducted by the ministry of housing and urban affairs. As part of the challenge, the focus would also be on mechanised cleaning and capacity building of the workforce. A total prize money of Rs 52 crore will be given to the winning cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tech-drives-change-robots-to-clean-manholes-in-vizag/articleshow/80352463.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
January 20, 2021||Vijayawada||33-year-old police SI dies by suicide||Vijayawada: A police sub-inspector died by suicide by hanging himself to death at his residence at Gudivada town in Krishna district on Tuesday. The deceased, identified as 33-year-old Pilli Vijay Kumar, worked as a sub-inspector at Two Town police station. According to police sources, Kumar got married just three months ago. Police sources further inform that Kumar was once suspended for allegedly having an extramarital affair with a beautician from Nuzvid while working at Hanuman Junction circle. After his suspension was lifted, he was posted at Gudivada sub-division. Cops say that Kumar did not bring his wife to live with him in Gudivada. They said that Kumar was secretly staying with the beautician, the affair with whom caused him to get suspended. Police suspect that Kumar took the extreme step to avoid further confrontations and complaints. Krishna district SP M Ravindranath Babu visited the spot and consoled the sub-inspector’s family members. Speaking to the media, the SP said that the police have registered a suspicious death case and investigation is on to ascertain the reason behind the death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/33-year-old-police-si-dies-by-suicide/articleshow/80352487.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Irrigation official caught taking bribe||VIJAYAWADA: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) caught a senior-ranking irrigation official demanding and accepting a bribe at his office near PWD Grounds in Vijayawada on Tuesday. The accused officer was identified as Rayana Srinivasa Rao, deputy executive engineer of river conservancy sub-division. According to Guntur range ACB officials, the bureau received a complaint from a Bhattu Vijaya Sagar against Srinivasa Rao for allegedly demanding Rs 1.5 lakh bribe for issuing permission of de-casting sand in the lands taken on lease by the complainant at Gajjulalanka village of Kolluru mandal in Guntur district. ACB said that the accused official was sought to forward a clearance letter. To do that, Rao allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs 1.5 lakh on January 18. Soon after, the complainant approached the ACB who then laid a trap the very next day at 10:30 am. ACB officials said that soon after the transaction was done, they barged in and recovered the tainted money and conducted a phenolphthalein test and found both hands test positive of having received the money. The official was placed under arrest. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/irrigation-official-caught-taking-bribe/articleshow/80352504.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Business||Facebook hosting services to cut costs: WhatsApp||BENGALURU: Under fire over its privacy changes, WhatsApp is now reaching out with reassuring messages to businesses that use its application programming interface (API) to chat with users. The company said leveraging its parent firm Facebook’s hosting services will be much cheaper and will increase efficiency while managing users on the platform. Currently, WhatsApp API services are provided through third-party partners called business solution partners (BSPs). “..businesses and BSPs will soon have the option to use a cloud-based version of the WhatsApp Business API, hosted by Facebook. Leveraging Facebook-hosted services will help reduce the time to implement the API from weeks or months to minutes and remove the need for costly API set-up and maintenance,” the note, reviewed by TOI, said. TOI had first reported in its Monday edition that businesses using WhatsApp API had flagged concerns about sending documents with private information to users in light of the privacy updates. “It is important to note that Facebook will not automatically use these messages to inform the ads that a person sees. Rather, Facebook will act as a service provider to businesses and only use data under the instructions of businesses and on their behalf. However, as is always the case, businesses will be able to use chats they receive for their own marketing purposes, which may include advertising on Facebook or other channels, like email or TV,” WhatsApp’s note added. WhatsApp’s privacy changes were primarily announced to address interactions of business accounts with individual users. Initially planned to be implemented from February 8, WhatsApp has now delayed its privacy updates by three months following user backlash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/facebook-hosting-services-to-cut-costs-whatsapp/articleshow/80356737.cms||Digbijay Mishra
January 20, 2021||Vijayawada||Mom-dad’s fight kills baby girl||Tirupati: In a tragic accident, a one month old baby girl died after suffering an injury during a fight between her parents at Jupadu Bungalow locality in Kurnool district on Tuesday. According to Jupadu Bungalow sub-inspector Tirupal, Bali Reddy and his wife live in the roadside settlements in the area. On Monday midnight, the couple had an altercation. During the quarrel, Bali Reddy, who was in an inebriated state, hit his wife who was holding their month-old baby. On being pushed, Lakshmi lost her balance and fell to the ground. The baby girl suffered fatal injuries and died on the spot. Police arrested Bali Reddy on Tuesday morning. A case of accidental death was registered and police are investigating. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mom-dads-fight-kills-baby-girl/articleshow/80352514.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Six arrested in connection with Paleswaram temple case||VISAKHAPATNAM: Six persons were arrested in connection with the Paleswaram temple case at Santhabommali in Srikakulam district, said DIG (Visakha range) LKV Ranga Rao on Tuesday. According to the DIG, an old Nandi idol was replaced with a new idol at the Paleswaram temple a couple of years ago. The old idol was kept under a tree in the temple premises. Later, some people took the old Nandi idol to a nearby village square and placed it on a pedestal constructed for placing a politician’s statue. Pictures of the incident went viral on social media creating minor unrest at the village. The CCTV footage was looked at and 11 persons were identified of which six were arrested. The VRO lodged a complaint against 22 persons. Investigation into the incident revealed that the accused were motivated by the intent of creating communal disharmony. Meanwhile in Ongole, Prakasam district SP Siddharth Kaushal set up defence committees and assigned beat officers to strengthen surveillance at places of worship. The SP on Tuesday visited some of the places of worship in the district and interacted with managements of religious institutions, defence committees and beat officers. Speaking to the media, Kaushal said that peace and defence committees have been set up in 1,142 villages. He said that 5,200 locals will be part of the defence committees and coordinate with field-level police officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/six-arrested-in-connection-with-paleswaram-temple-case/articleshow/80352523.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Nagpur||Petrol rates on upswing, Sironcha among costliest in region||Nagpur: Fuel rates that had remained stable for the entirety of December are on an upswing since January 5. This has increased the prices of fuel by nearly Rs1.5 a litre as compared to last month. Petrol price was at Rs92.31 in the city and diesel price touched Rs82.69 on Tuesday. This is an increase of Rs1.46 and Rs1.63 for petrol and diesel, respectively, since December. The prices are in the range of Rs90-odd and over Rs80 a litre for petrol and diesel, respectively, at outlets in the outskirts of the city, like Kamptee, Hingna and Butibori. However, fuel may not be the costliest at Nagpur, as has been the general perception. TOI did a quick survey of the retail rates using the official mobile app of an oil marketing company. It was seen that Sironcha, a remote taluka in Gadchiroli, had the highest fuel rates. Petrol costed Rs93.70 a litre and diesel Rs82.80 in Sironcha on Tuesday. This is followed by Yavatmal, where petrol costs Rs93.14 and diesel Rs82.21. Even though the petrol price was higher there than Nagpur city, diesel was cheaper by nearly 40 paise. This was seen in a number of other centres too. Sources in oil marketing companies said rates were derived after a complex calculation that includes cost of transportation and local taxes. The disparity in diesel rates is expected to be due to taxation. Comparing the rates of rural areas near Nagpur would give a better picture, they added. It was seen that rates of both the fuels at outlets in Kanhan, Hingna or Butibori were lower than other centres of Vidarbha. Company officials said the prices vary from location to location, even in a single city. The gradual increase in rates during the last one year has made little impact on retail sales. In fact, sales have also recovered from the Covid-19 impact. Vilas Salpekar of the Vidarbha petroleum dealers association said low margins continue to be the concern for outlet owners. Expenses have increased but the companies have not hiked the dealers’ margin. Kukku Marwah of transporters association ‘Nagpur Truckers’ Unity’ said the hike came at a time when the industry is going through a tough phase. Freights are down due to impact of Covid-19 on the economy. Rates of petroleum products like polymers — the basic raw material for plastic industry — have also gone up, said Suresh Rathi of Vidarbha industries association (VIA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/petrol-rates-on-upswing-sironcha-among-costliest-in-region/articleshow/80353618.cms||Shishir Arya
January 20, 2021||Nagpur||NU’s convocation to fete CJI likely on April 3||Nagpur: Nagpur University has almost finalized its convocation to bestow doctor of law (LLD) degree on Chief Justice of India Sharad Bobde on April 3. As per NU officials, the CJI had already granted his consent for the date that is Saturday, and now the university administration would table the issue before its Senate for approval. However, officials added that NU had convened its management council’s meeting on January 29 to inform its members of April 3 as the convocation date and consent received from the CJI in this regard. Later, the proposal would be moved to Senate members during an emergent meeting. Few Senate members, including Manmohan Bajpayee, Vishnu Changde and others had already rushed a letter to vice chancellor Subhash Chaudhari to convene an emergent meeting of the Senate for felicitating the top judicial officer of the country, who was NU’s alumnus. They accused VC and administration of unnecessarily delaying the issue since last year. TOI on April 13 had reported NU’s plans to merge the special convocation for bestowing the prestigious degree on CJI along with a regular one for 2020-21 students along with the inauguration of the Constitution Park, coming up at NU’s Dr Ambedkar Law College by him. NU members also opposed the administration’s plans, stressing that such a big personality should be honoured in a special convocation where the other big dignitaries could also be invited rather than making a mess of it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nus-convocation-to-fete-cji-likely-on-april-3/articleshow/80353636.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 20, 2021||Nagpur||HC blasts forest dept for no accountability in Avni killing||Nagpur: The Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court blasted the Maharashtra forest department for its negligence to fix accountability against officers who prima facie did not perform their duty properly and lacunae in the Pandharkawda tigress Avni (T1) shooting case.The unauthorized shooting of Avni was carried out by private shooter Asghar Ali Khan on November 2, 2018. A criminal PIL was filed by Earth Brigade Foundation (EBF), through its director Dr PV Subramaniam with Dr Jerryl Banait as intervener through their lawyer Shreerang Bhandarkar.Hearing the PIL on Tuesday, Justice Sunil S Shukre and Justice Avinash G Gharote, who went through the inquiry report of NTCA and state committee constituted to look into the lapses in the Avni killing, apparently found that there have been several lacunae in the whole investigation carried out in the matter, especially on the part of the state government.“It appears to us that though, there were some officers from the forest department, who have not prima facie performed their duty properly, the department has made no inquiry into their negligence so as to fix any accountability in the matter,” the court said.Though KN Shukul, special counsel for the forest department, submitted that the government inquiry has named forester Makhbir Shaikh, driver Salman Khan, forest guards Dilip Keram & Govind Kendre have been mentioned, the court said there was a lack of clarity in the orders issued by the chief wildlife warden and chief conservator of forest (CCF), Yavatmal, regarding the specific role, responsibility, and authority delegated through these orders.The court said the report itself states that there was a lack of clarity in assigning local executive leadership of the operation to the Pandharkawda deputy conservator which was a major reason for the operational and other errors in decision-making regarding the execution of the order to capture T1 alive or dead.The court said, “All the field staff carrying out the capture-hunting operations actually reported to the DyCF except the private shooter Shafath Ali Khan and his team. There appear to have been too many higher level ‘decision-makers’ who held frequent meetings and issued verbal orders of various kinds on an ad hoc basis to the field staff. Consequently, many of the interventions were carried out by the FDCM staff, veterinary doctors, and private individuals led by Khan, over whose movements DyCF did not always have knowledge.”Justice Shukre said these observations sufficiently show that either the inquiry was not properly made or something was left out. Rather, prima facie, this report conceals more than what it reveals. While, on the one hand, blame has been tried to be put upon CWLW for issuing an order which lacked clarity, the report tries to create a picture that DyCF was helpless in exercising control as there was no clarity.A very serious incident, which started with the location of T1 firstly in the territorial forest and which culminated into FDCM territory has no officers who are willing to speak out their mind, as to who ultimately would be responsible. It is a matter of surprise for us that an incident is taking place at a place guarded by one officer but the officer, if one goes by the report, has no control over the manner in which it must take place. The state panel report, with all these contradictions and inadequacies, in our opinion, is not satisfactory.The high court gave a further opportunity to respondents to file an additional affidavit in the matter, mentioning the fixing of the accountability in the whole incident and the action, which the department has so far taken against the officers who have been found to be negligent or errant in relation to the performance of their duties.The court also said the respondents — state, CWLW, CCF, DyCF — for reasons best known to them, have not placed a copy of the order issued under Section 11 (1) (a) by the CWLW and the material considered for the passing of the order. “Placing of copy of this order on record and also other material is necessary, to examine, not its validity but the fact as to whether any sub-delegation would have been possible or not and whether any guidelines were given for actual execution of the order or not,” said Justice Shukre.The court also granted Mugdha Chandurkar, counsel for NTCA, one week’s time for filing the reply. A similar time was granted to other respondents for filing the reply. The next hearing is slated after one week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-blasts-forest-dept-for-no-accountability-in-avni-killing/articleshow/80353644.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 20, 2021||Business||Azim Premji sells shares worth Rs 9,000 crore in buyback||BENGALURU: Wipro founder-chairman Azim Premji and the promoter group tendered 22.8 crore shares worth Rs 9,156 crore in the company's share buyback, paring their stake from 74% to 73%. Premji's two philanthropic trusts -- Azim Premji Trust and Azim Premji Philanthropic Initiatives – will earn Rs 7,807 crore (over $1 billion) from this, making them among the largest charitable trusts in India. The trusts are putting money into areas like education, nutrition and are addressing issues concerning vulnerable groups including street children, people with disabilities and survivors of domestic violence. In September last year, the IIFL Wealth Hurun India Rich List placed Premji in the fifth spot with a fortune of Rs 1,14,400 crore. Premji has already committed $21 billion to his philanthropic activities, making his endowment the biggest in Asia and one of the largest in the world. Of the 73% of shares that Premji & family control in Wipro, the economic value of 67% has been earmarked for the trusts. The voting rights remain with the family. Recently, Wipro chairman Rishad Premji tweeted a monochrome photograph of his grandmother and his parents at Amalner, saying: “My grandmother Dr Gulbanoo Premji with my parents at Amalner. She was chairperson of Wipro from 1966-83 & a huge support for my father in the early years. She was also the most generous person I knew. Her values shaped Wipro’s philanthropy ideals.” My grandmother Dr Gulbanoo Premji with my parents at Amalner. She was chairperson of Wipro from 1966-83 & a huge su… https://t.co/MhDgLAqxHA— Rishad Premji (@RishadPremji) 1610414894000The tendering period for the Rs 9,500 crore buyback ended on January 11. The buyback represents 4.2% of the total paid up equity capital of the company. The shares were purchased at Rs 400 apiece. Wipro did its largest share buyback ever, worth $1.7 billion, in 2019, when Premji and other promoter group companies sold shares worth about $1 billion. It did a buyback of Rs 2,500 crore in 2016 and Rs 11,000 crore in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/azim-premji-sells-shares-worth-rs-9000-crore-in-buyback/articleshow/80356743.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
January 20, 2021||Gurgaon||Internal roads in Sector 38 worse than those in illegal colonies: Residents||GURUGRAM: Residents have expressed concern over the dilapidated condition of internal roads in Sector 38 and alleged that despite multiple complaints, the authorities are not addressing the issue. Residents claimed that though the tender for the construction of internal roads of the area has been allocated to a private company two months ago, the work order —to initiate the re-carpeting work — has not been issued by the civic body till now. “We are facing a lot of problems as the internal roads are severely damaged. In the last five years, the civic body has not even carried out patch work here. These roads pose a threat to the residents, especially senior citizens, who have multiple times fallen on this stretch and injured themselves. It needs to be repaired on the priority basis. Several complaints have been made to Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and local representatives but nothing has been done so far,” said Dharmender Yadav, RWA president of Sector 38. They pointed out that they have to endure back-breaking rides as the roads are no longer motorable. Sajesh Gulia, RWA treasurer said, “One would not be able to know whether we are living in a sector or an unauthorised colony. Even light rain leads to waterlogging here, causing a lot of inconvenience. Whenever we visit the concerned officials, all we get is false assurances. ” Meanwhile, a senior MCG official said that the road re-carpeting work cannot be initiated at present as the weather conditions are not favourable and GRAP restrictions are in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/internal-roads-in-sector-38-worse-than-those-in-illegal-colonies-residents/articleshow/80355759.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Business||Swiggy stops online grocery marketplace||NEW DELHI: Restaurant aggregator Swiggy has stopped its online marketplace for groceries, a service which had picked up steam during the lockdown. While it still offers its ‘Genie’ service for pickand-drop and other marketplaces on its app, such as for meat and pet care, the Bengaluru-headquartered company plans to replace the grocery marketplace with ‘Instamart’, a quick grocery delivery initiative that will be serviced by cloud stores across cities. Currently, Instamart — which delivers products in 45 minutes — is available in Bengaluru and Gurugram. But Swiggy plans to scale it up quickly, which will pit the food delivery giant against the likes of Bigbasket, Amazon Fresh and Reliance Jiomart. Swiggy’s move comes in the wake of rival Zomato stopping its grocery delivery business that was created when the Covid-19 pandemic forced brickand-mortar stores to shut down. “With things getting back to normal, the number of people opting for online ordering of groceries from food delivery apps has diminished,” said a senior industry executive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/swiggy-stops-grocery-marketplace/articleshow/80356753.cms||John Sarkar
January 20, 2021||Noida||Bring law on MSP: Protesters to government||NOIDA: Farmers may consider withdrawing their demand for the repeal of the three controversial farm laws if the government assures a guaranteed law for minimum support price (MSP) and agrees to the constitution of the farmers commission, the BKU-Lokshakti has said. Shyoraj Singh, president of BKU-Lokshakti whose members are protesting at the Dalit Prerna Sthal, told TOI, “The talks are slated for Wednesday. We demand that at least in these talks, the government should agree to a guaranteed law for providing MSP and constitution of the farmers’ commission. If they fulfil these demands, the three laws would be rendered fruitless because farmers can approach the commission.” Meanwhile, farmers said they are firm on going ahead with the tractor rally on January 26. The members of BKU-Lokshakti on Tuesday held a meeting with farmers from the Jewar area and asked them to send at least 10 tractors from each of the villages there. The outfit has a target that at least 10 tractors from each village and 200 tractors from the Jewar area reach the rally. “So far, no permission has been received from Delhi Police on our application for a protest at the Ramlila ground. We are firm on taking out the rally on Republic Day,” Singh said. Balidan Diwas observed at Chilla border Members of BKU-Bhanu on Tuesday paid obeisance to Maharana Pratap Singh on his death anniversary by organising a parade on Tuesday as part of preparations for the Republic Day. At least five leaders of the farmers have been given increased responsibilities in the outfit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/bring-law-on-msp-protesters-to-government/articleshow/80355506.cms||Shikha Salaria
January 20, 2021||Business||100-year-old CSB to transform into new-age lender||MUMBAI: The 100-year-old CSB Bank (formerly Catholic Syrian Bank), which is now majority owned by Canadian-billionaire Prem Watsa’s Fairfax Group, has charted a route to transform itself into a new-generation private bank. CSB is the first private bank to be taken over by a foreign investor. A new-age lender is like the new-generation private banks which are characterised by use of technology for operations, digital channels for customer engagements and verticals for different businesses. Announcing its results on Tuesday, the bank introduced its new senior management team that will help drive the change. The board also announced a voluntary retirement scheme for employees aged over 50 who have put in at least 10 years of service. C V R Rajendran, the bank’s MD & CEO, said that they were open to acquisitions although there was nothing in the pipeline. He said that 223 employees were eligible for the scheme and, should they opt for it, it will cost the bank Rs 80 crore. The third quarter saw the bank’s net profit rise 88% to Rs 52 crore from Rs 28 crore a year earlier. The bank’s advances were up 22%, while deposits were 21% higher. The loan growth was largely on account of a 60% jump in gold loans, which now account for 40% of all loans. According to Rajendran, gold loans are the safest asset as there was a 25% margin on the loan to asset value on its portfolio. “If the price of gold falls and the loan to value rises to 90%, a recovery mechanism gets activated,” he said. Pralay Mondal, president and in charge of retail, SME and operations, said the bank would gradually expand its product portfolio, initially through partnerships with credit card issuers and fintechs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/100-year-old-csb-to-transform-into-new-age-lender/articleshow/80356781.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Delhi||Cut power lines on Republic Day: Banned outfit to farmers||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police is on its toes after a banned terrorist outfit, Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), gave a call to agitating farmers to “plunge Delhi into darkness on RDay” by targeting the offices of discoms and cutting the city’s power supplies. In a video message released on Monday night, SFJ’s Gurpatwant Singh Pannun called upon the farmers of Punjab to cut off the electricity supply to Delhi on January 25 and 26 while claiming that the electricity distribution companies like BSES Rajdhani and BSES Yumna are owned by the same “Ambanis” who will be the beneficiary under the new farm Acts. Without plunging Delhi into darkness on R-Day, the farmers’ protest will continue to fall on deaf ears, the legal adviser to SFJ warned. Pannun is wanted by Punjab Police in at least four cases related to terror modules busted in the last three years, besides for the Referendum 2020 campaign. Last week, SFJ had warned Chief Justice of India S A Bobde not to stop the tractor rally on January 26. In November, it had given a call to disrupt air services and target Air India flights to London. SFJ’s threats, a security official said, are taken seriously, given the influence the group has among its online followers. The outfit is engaged in funding and motivating gullible youths into committing acts of arson and violence. Last August, two youths had hoisted a “Khalistan flag” atop a district administrative building, tore the Indian flag and filmed the act in Punjab’s Moga after SFJ declared a reward for doing so on YouTube. In November 2018, Pannun, who is based in the US, was declared a proclaimed offender by a Punjab court in a sedition case. This was followed by the Punjab government approaching the CBI along with a dossier of his “anti-India activities”. It was made a ground for seeking issuance of a red corner notice against him by Interpol, which came out in December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cut-power-lines-on-republic-day-banned-outfit-to-farmers/articleshow/80356782.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Business||Amazon project to boost exports||BENGALURU: E-commerce major Amazon India is joining forces with the government’s Startup India and two marquee venture capital funds, Sequoia Capital and Fireside Ventures, to design a Y Combinator-like accelerator programme. This would aim to build and boost exports of made-in-India consumer brands globally. Named Amazon Global Selling Propel, the programme will have an expert panel. These would included Sequoia Capital MD Rajan Anandan, who previously headed Google India, Fireside founding partner Kanwaljit Singh, Startup India CEO Deepak Bagla and other senior global executives of Amazon. Out of all applicants, 10 startups would get about six weeks of mentoring from the panel, following which there will be a ‘Demo Day’. “On Demo Day, which happens six months later, the top three startups will get an equity-free grant of $50,000 from Amazon and then they can also pitch to Sequoia and Fireside to raise capital,” said Abhijit Kamra, director (global trade), Amazon India. While Sequoia is a sector-agnostic investor across stages, Fireside is a specialised investor that backs early stage consumer brands, having backed wellknown names like earphones maker boAt earlier. Amazon’s accelerator programme is in line with its chief Jeff Bezos’s plan to export made-in-India goods worth $10 billion in the next five years. As of July 2020, Amazon India sellers have sold goods worth $2 billion globally through Amazon’s overseas platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazon-project-to-boost-exports/articleshow/80356785.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Business||Government startup council taps big names||BENGALURU: The government has notified the national startup advisory council to boost the startup ecosystem and address current issues. It has appointed 28 non-official members to the council for two years or until further orders, whichever is earlier. Among these are Byju Raveendran of Byju’s, Abhiraj Singh of Urban Company, Bhavish Aggarwal of Ola, Sanjeev Bikhchandani of Info Edge, Prashant Prakash of venture firm Accel, Rajan Anandan of Sequoia Capital India, Uday Shankar of Ficci, and Mohandas Pai of Aarin Capital. The council will focus on reducing regulatory compliance and costs, enabling easier access to capital, keeping control of startups with original promoters, and providing access to global markets for Indian startups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/government-startup-council-taps-big-names/articleshow/80356788.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru businessman hires 2 youths to kill his techie-son; held||BENGALURU: A 50-year-old businessman has landed in police net for allegedly hiring contract killers to murder his elder son as the latter tortured him for a share in property. Cracking the murder case reported on January 12, Avalahalli police from Bengaluru Rural arrested BV Keshava Prasad, a resident of Malleswaram 17th Cross, and two suspects — Naveen Kumar and Keshav — both aged 19 and residents of Tippasandra. On January 12, Keshava Prasad filed a missing-person complaint with Malleswaram police, saying his son Kaushal Prasad, a techie with a private company, had gone missing on January 10. “Kaushal went missing after accompanying his friends in a car near Malleswaram 18th Cross. Before that, Kaushal had given his mobile to my younger son,” his complaint stated. The same day, residents alerted Avalahalli police of foul smell emanating from three gunny bags thrown on Elemallappa lake bed. On opening the bags, police were shocked to see a man’s body parts. Messages were flashed across control rooms of the city and Bengaluru Rural. Soon, Kaushal’s body was identified. A murder case was registered and after postmortem, the body was handed over to his family. CCTV footage helps track car“CCTV footage showed Kaushal boarding a white Maruti Zen car near Malleswaram 18th Cross. Tracking the vehicle, we zeroed in on Naveen Kumar and Keshav. They had purchased the car a couple of days ago from a used-car dealer by paying Rs 1 lakh. We detained the duo for questioning. By then, we’d secured more CCTV footage from KR Puram and surrounding areas that showed the car was moving in Elemallappa lake direction. The duo confessed to the killing and said it was Kaushal’s father who hired them for Rs 3 lakh. An advance of Rs 1 lakh was given,” a police officer said. On questioning, Keshava Prasad said Kaushal used to harass him for a share in property — an independent house in Malleswaram. “We helped him become a software engineer, but still he would torture us for money and property. He would beat his mother too. Finally, I decided to eliminate him and contacted Naveen and Keshav, who were senior classmates of my second son,” Keshava Prasad told cops. Naveen and Keshav took Kaushal to the lake and made him to drink alcohol laced with sleeping pills before reaching the spot. When the car stopped near the lake, Kaushal was tipsy. “Sitting in the back seat of the car, they beheaded him and then chopped legs and hands before stuffing them into gunny bags,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bizman-hires-2-youths-to-kill-his-techie-son-held/articleshow/80352933.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Delhi||Covid vaccination in Delhi: 16 adverse events on Day 3; all minor cases||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 16 Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) on Tuesday, the third day of mass vaccination against Covid-19 in the country. On Saturday and Monday, the number of adverse events reported in Delhi stood at 52 and 26, respectively, of which one or two persons required hospitalisation. They were discharged later, once the condition stabilised. Sources said none of the 16 persons who reported adverse events on Tuesday required hospitalisation as adverse events were minor. Also, only one adverse event was reported in Covaxin beneficiaries while 15 others were reported in Covishield beneficiaries. On Monday, all 26 adverse events were reported in Covishield beneficiaries. Maximum four adverse events were reported on Tuesday from central Delhi, followed by three such incidents in the south district. North, South West and Shahdara districts reported two instances each of adverse events caused by Covid-19 vaccine and East, West and North West districts reported one such incidence each. No adverse event due to the vaccine was reported from New Delhi and South East districts, officials said. There has not been any death due to Covid-19 vaccination in Delhi as yet. The incidence of adverse events in the country is reported to be only 0.18%. “As per the data available so far, only 0.18% is the Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) and 0.002 is the percentage of the people who were hospitalised following immunisation. These are fairly low, in fact lowest so far as we know in the world in the first three days,” according to union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan. India is using two types of vaccines—Covaxin, which has been developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research, and Covishield that has been developed by Oxford/ Astrazeneca in collaboration with Serum Institute of India. “Adverse events do occur but they are rare. The vaccines approved for emergency use are safe and people should embrace them to end this pandemic,” said an official in Delhi government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-16-adverse-events-on-day-3-all-minor-cases/articleshow/80356821.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
January 20, 2021||Goa||‘Those with comorbidities ignoring Covid symptoms’||Panaji: Patients with comorbidities continue to take Covid-19 lightly and reach the hospital when it becomes difficult to save them, head of department of pulmonary medicine at Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMC), Dr Durga Lawande said. “Ideally those with comorbidities, even if they are asymptomatic, should be admitted instead of opting for home isolation. It’s better to be under supervision,” she said. Those who experience the slightest of symptoms must immediately get themselves checked by a doctor, she advised. “People are neglecting their symptoms at the initial stage and get hospitalised only after the 7th or 8th day after they experience worsening of symptoms. When they are brought in at a later stage, it becomes a challenge for us to treat them,” she said. Some patients tend to take their symptoms lightly and don’t even get tested. “The classic symptoms of Covid-19, including the slightest rise in body temperature, shouldn’t be neglected. These must be considered and Covid-19 has to be ruled out first since we are in a pandemic,” she added. Symptoms showing up after a week could be indication that pneumonia has occurred, and that the infection has moved to the lungs. “The initial symptoms one experiences are due to upper respiratory tract involvement. But if this continues or worsens and once the patient experiences breathlessness, it is a sign that the patient has developed severe pneumonia,” she said. Those with comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension, Ischemic heart disease and kidney disease must be more cautious to ensure that Covid doesn’t progress to the lungs and lead to acute respiratory distress syndrome, responsible for many Covid-19 related deaths. “The standing message during the pandemic is not to neglect a fever that lasts even for one day,” she said. The ministry of health and family welfare in FAQs for persons with hypertension, diabetes and heart disease had recommended that those who get fever, cough, muscle pain without shortness of breath should call a doctor and seek advice. Those who experience shortness of breath or worsening of symptoms like excessive fatigue have been advised to immediately call or visit their doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/those-with-comorbidities-ignoring-covid-symptoms/articleshow/80354559.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 20, 2021||Goa||Court rejects Tarun Tejpal’s plea to summon 2 witnesses||PANAJI: Additional sessions court, Mapusa rejected the application moved by founder-editor of Tehelka, Tarun Tejpal, to record the statements of two witnesses with whom the survivor interacted after and before the incident. During the hearing of the case, counsel for the accused advocate Rajeev Gomes argued that in order to arrive at a just decision in the matter, the examination of the witnesses are essential in the matter and that the prosecution has deliberately neither examined them nor recorded their statements. The accused and survivor had met one witness before entering lift of the hotel where the incident took place on the night of November 7, 2013. The application also mentions another witnesses whom the accused and survivor met after exiting the lift. Special public prosecutor Francisco Tavora said that the survivor (PW1) in her deposition has stated that she did not ask the witness for any assistance apart from standing next to her while the accused passed them because he was clearly drunk and swaying on the spot. Tavora added that the witnesses mentioned in the application do not qualify do not satisfy the criteria of being summoned as court witnesses. “The court is empowered to summon and examine person if the facts stated appear to be essential for the just decision of the case, which cannot be arrived by this court merely on the deposition of PW1,” additional sessions Judge Kshama M Joshi said “In cross examination, PW1 has stated that she chose not to reveal anything about the incident to the witness,” Joshi said. The judge added that during cross examination the accused did not suggest towards any conversation between him and witness or survivor. “Hence, the arguments that they are required to be examined according to Section 6 of the Evidence Act cannot be accepted at this stage as the material on record is insufficient,” Joshi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/court-rejects-tejpals-plea-to-summon-2-witnesses/articleshow/80354619.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Delhi||Dilli-dally: How to win game of nerves||NEW DELHI: In the last three working days, since mass vaccination against Covid-19 was launched, the turnout in Delhi has been lower than expected: 3,598 on the first day, 4,319 on the second and 4,936 on the third day. While there are 81 vaccination booths in the capital, the initial target was to vaccinate at least 100 people at each of them, but the turnout has been fairly short of this target. Dr Pragya Shukla, nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination at Delhi State Cancer Institute, said the turnout there was 41, 19 and 21on day one, two and three, respectively. “Healthcare workers are apprehensive about taking the vaccine. Some of them are scared of adverse events,” she added. “Adverse events are rare and can happen with any vaccine, but in the age of social media these rare instances, too, are circulated widely adding to vaccine hesitancy. We need to counter this infodemic by roping in scientists to clarify on the common doubts,” said Shukla. Sources said Delhi government had advised hospitals to hold counselling sessions for healthcare workers to clear their doubts about the safety or efficacy of the vaccines. Glitches in the Co-WIN app were also leading to low turnout. “The app is slow. It sends repeat messages to people who have already refused the inoculation. These glitches need to be sorted out,” said a senior official at AIIMS. At this premier facility, 95 healthcare workers received Covid-19 vaccine on the first day. However, the number crashed to a mere eight on the second day. On Tuesday, however, 60 people took the Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS. “Because the incidence of Covid-19 has reduced significantly over the past few days across the country, many people feel vaccines are not needed. They are also fearful of potential side effects. We need to increase awareness about both the need for vaccination and the safety of vaccines,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, AIIMS director. Dr NK Mehra, former dean of AIIMS and emeritus scientist at Indian Council of Medical Research, said now was the apt time to vaccinate the maximum possible people. “The number of cases as well as viral load is low. If we vaccinate the high-risk population, potential damage that can be caused by another spike in cases can be reduced significantly. We have seen how the US and the UK are witnessing deaths in thousands due to the infection,” he added. One of the reasons behind vaccine hesitancy was the speed at which it had been developed. Many healthcare workers and the public felt that the companies may have compromised on quality to meet the deadline, which was totally untrue, said Dr Arun Gupta, president of Delhi Medical Council. “All vaccines have undergone trials to assess their safety. They have been given emergency approval after due diligence,” he added. Dr SK Sarin of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, said adverse events were rare. “So many people are dying due to Covid globally. If we hesitate now, more lives will be lost. Mass vaccination is the only way to end the pandemic,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dilli-dally-how-to-win-game-of-nerves/articleshow/80356818.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
January 20, 2021||Goa||In Gurunath Shivaji Kelekar’s demise, Konkani has lost a crusader||MARGAO: Freedom fighter, Konkani writer and activist, founder of MARG (Movement for Amity towards Roads in Goa), Gurunath Shivaji Kelekar, passed away in the early hours of Tuesday. He was 91. Kelekar is survived by his son, Samir and daughters Dr Chitra Zuvarkar and Dr Sanjeevani Keni. Family sources said that his mortal remains will be kept at his Malbhat, Margao residence on Wednesday morning for public to pay their last respects. His final rites will be conducted at the Margao crematorium at 11 am. A staunch proponent of Gandhian philosophy and a self-professed fan of the Nehru-Gandhi family and Nehruvian polices, Kelekar held the cause of Goa and Konkani close to his heart. With his demise, Goa has lost its passionate lover, and Konkani, a die-hard crusader. Born on November 16, 1929, in Priol, Kelekar did his primary education in Mumbai. He plunged into Goa’s freedom struggle as a young man and faced imprisonment a number of times. Post-liberation, Kelekar served as one of the leading lights of the Konkani movement, particularly in popularising the Konkani language. Along with his associates, Kelekar ran a fortnightly ‘Novem Goem’ which was later converted into a weekly, ‘Goencho Mog’, both in the Konkani Roman script. In order to solicit financial support for this periodical which had run into financial losses, his associates recall, Kelekar undertook a 67-day padayatra across the state. Kelekar authored 25 books. His translation of Mahatma Gandhi’s ‘The Story of My Experiments with Truth’ in Konkani won him the Sahitya Akademi Award. However, in his sunset years, one often found Kelekar lamenting the failure of the Konkani movement in losing its direction. He strongly felt that a Konkani man should expand his “vision and heart” to embrace all Konkani-speaking people across the nation. Of all the various causes he strived for, one that lay closest to his heart was MARG, the organisation he founded with the objective of teaching road culture to people, and wholeheartedly nurtured it until his last breath. “If Sunderlal Bahuguna embraced the cause of trees and Maneka Gandhi championed the cause of animals, it makes sense for Goans – not Gurunath Kelekar alone - to espouse the cause of roads,” was what Kelekar had said in one of his discussions with TOI. To achieve the MARG’s goals – catch them young to impart lessons in citizenry - Kelekar started Nehru Centre - Institute for Citizenship and Civic Sense Education at Raia. This led to the establishment of civic clubs in Goa’s educational institutes . His love for all things Goan is evident from the Konkani greeting ‘Borem Goem’ (Good Goa) he had coined to replace the universal ‘good morning’. “Gurunathbab would insist that Borem Goem and Dev Borem Korum should be the signature official greetings of Goa,” said Shailesh Sanzgiri, who had associated with Kelekar in establishing the civic clubs. “He was of the view that everything you say and do should reflect the essence of Goan culture and Konkani identity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-kelekars-demise-konkani-has-lost-a-crusader/articleshow/80354694.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
January 20, 2021||Goa||Desilting of dams to be taken up: Goa CM||PANAJI: Efforts are on to desilt the water reservoirs in the state, to increase the water holding capacity of these dams. This will consequently help improve water supply across Goa, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Tuesday, while speaking at an event organised by the water resources department (WRD). “The state government has come up with several old and modern measures for water planning and conservation to ensure 100% availability of irrigation and drinking water. Efforts are underway and we are determined to bring the waste land under new experiments, through planning by the Water Conservation Council,” the chief minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/desilting-of-dams-to-be-taken-up-cm/articleshow/80354792.cms||---
January 20, 2021||Goa||Iffi decor, lighting to be thrown open to public on January 25, 26||PANAJI: Following the closing ceremony of the 51st International Film Festival of India (Iffi) on January 24, the decor and illumination created for the festival will be thrown open to the public for viewingon January 25 and 26, vice-chairperson of the Entertainment Society of Goa (ESG), Subhash Phaldesai said on Tuesday. “We have created this beautiful decor for Iffi within the ESG complex and at Kala Academy. Presently, no one can access this, other than those registered as delegates. That is why there is a demand from the public for the decor to be kept open to them after the Iffi closing ceremony,” said Phaldesai. “ESG, Kala Academy and all other areas will be thrown open for the public. I want to thank the CM for allowing public to enjoy this beauty. It will give a new inspiration to our young generation of artists. This year, 90% of the decor has been done by local artists,” said Phaldesai. He said opening up the Iffi venues after the delegates have left Goa post the closing ceremony will allow social distancing to be maintained. “The peripheral activities could not take place on the promenade for the general public this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Phaldesai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/iffi-decor-lighting-to-be-thrown-open-to-public-on-jan-25-26/articleshow/80354821.cms||---
