January 21, 2021||Business||NBFCs seek continued liquidity support in upcoming Budget||MUMBAI: Non-banking finance companies expect the government to provide continued liquidity support by encouraging banks to lend more to the sector, setting up a permanent refinance window and relaxing external commercial borrowing norms in the upcoming Budget. The government will present the Budget for fiscal 2021-22 on February 1, 2021. To mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on NBFC sector, the government and Reserve Bank of India (RBI) have announced various schemes such as the Partial Credit Guarantee Scheme (PCGS), Targeted Long-Term Repo Operations (TLTRO) and Special Liquidity Scheme (SLS). "This budget is important because it will be the first budget after the pandemic, which dragged the economy into contraction mode and has taken more than 1.5 lakh lives so far in India. "The government and RBI took calculated measures which aided economic recovery. We expect similar policy momentum to prevail in the Union Budget FY22," IndoStar Capital's CEO and executive vice-chairman R Sridhar said. In its pre-budget memorandum submitted to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman last month, Finance Industry Development Council (FIDC) said bank funding of small and medium NBFCs has been a challenge due to various reasons, especially during the last two years. "The tepid response to the TLTRO 2.0, which mandated banks to invest at least 50 per cent of the stipulated amount in small and medium NBFCs, was a clear example of this. The need, therefore, is to reduce the over-reliance on banks and have a dedicated refinancing body," FIDC, a representative body of assets and loan financing NBFCs, had said in the memorandum. It suggested allocating a fund dedicated to funding small and medium NBFCs to SIDBI and Nabard. "The arrangement of treating bank lending to NBFCs for on-lending to priority sector to be treated as priority sector lending (PSL) for banks should be made permanent and the limit needs to be increased to at least 10 per cent of total PSL by banks," FIDC had said. Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas partner L Viswanathan said in the recent years, NBFCs that are important intermediaries of credit have faced concerns of liquidity, governance and solvency and it is hoped that the Budget will ease some of the pressures. The budget coincides with some announcements by the RBI regarding overhauling regulations for systemically important NBFCs to mitigate any risks of regulatory arbitrage, he said. "The regulatory certainty, as well as the additional weight of these regulations, could be balanced through liquidity and credit measures announced in the budget for this sector," Viswanathan said. He suggested that the RBI directed funding for the sector, including TLTRO windows, maybe widened to cover more NBFCs and should continue for a longer period. Viswanathan said he expects announcement of a more permanent refinance window and easing of external commercial borrowing (ECBs) into the sector in the Budget. Moneyboxx Finance Ltd co-founder Mayur Modi said the NBFC sector has the potential to play an extremely important role in shaping the revival of the economy but is confronted by liquidity issues due to lack of funding from the banking sector. "This needs to be addressed at the earliest. As public sector banks (PSBs) have surplus liquidity in the system, the government must encourage them to lend to the NBFC sector," he said. Also, in the upcoming Budget, the government should look at setting up a special window at the RBI for NBFCs, especially for small and those focused on rural areas, so that their cost of the fund comes down, which will ultimately benefit the economy, Modi said. In its memorandum, FIDC had requested to exempt NBFCs registered with RBI and classified by the central bank as deposit-taking NBFC (NBFCs-D) and non-deposit taking systemically important NBFC (NBFCs-ND-SI) from the provisions of TDS (tax deducted at source) on interest income. Tourism Finance Corporation of India's MD and CEO Anirban Chakraborty said the travel and tourism sector has been one of the most impacted sectors during the course of the pandemic. "Few sector-specific sops may be considered by the government to help the hospitality sector emerge out of this situation," he said. Steps like reduction in GST slabs, waiver/normalisation of various license fees, sector-specific stimulus package (viz interest support by government, additional funding by lenders, etc) may be considered, Chakraborty added. "Government should continue to encourage domestic tourism by extending and increasing the threshold LTA benefits for expenses incurred for domestic travels/stays," he noted. Microfinance institution Satin Creditcare Network's chairman and MD HP Singh said during the outbreak of the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, the government and RBI took several pragmatic measures to restore liquidity and bring immediate relief to the stressed sector through partial credit restructuring, moratorium benefits, TLTRO operations among other measures. These initiatives have helped in improving the quantum of liquidity, disbursements and collections during these unprecedented times, he said. "Through the Budget, the government can continue supporting economic activities until a complete recovery is achieved, which will result in growth in the coming fiscal," Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nbfcs-seek-continued-liquidity-support-in-upcoming-budget/articleshow/80373132.cms||---
January 21, 2021||World||In hidden message on White House website, Biden calls for coders||WASHINGTON: The recently updated website for President Joe Biden's White House carried an invitation for tech specialists savvy enough to find it. Hidden in the HTML code on the website was an invitation to join the US Digital Service, a technology unit within the White House. "If you're reading this, we need your help building back better," the message said. Former President Barack Obama launched the service in 2014 to recruit technologists to help revamp government services - for example by modernizing Medicare's payment system or reforming hiring practices across government agencies. Tech specialists join the Digital Service for typically one or two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/in-hidden-message-on-white-house-website-biden-calls-for-coders/articleshow/80373138.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Business||Budget 2021 must build on recent reforms in labour, education: HR experts||NEW DELHI: The upcoming Budget must build on recent reforms in labour and education and the government should continue to provide policy as well as financial support for skilling to ensure that the workforce in India is future ready, say HR experts. The scale of provisions under the Digital India mission and the Skill India campaign needs to increase as there has been a rapid rise in new-age digital technologies like Artificial Intelligence, IoT, Machine Learning, Cloud Computing, and Big Data, they suggested. "One place where India Inc is looking for clarity from the government is on Wage code implementation – both on timelines and certain policy issues," said Nitin Sethi, CEO, India & South Asia, Performance, Rewards & Organization Effectiveness, Aon. Last year, Parliament passed three labour codes on Industrial Relations, Social Security and Occupational Health Safety & Working Conditions (OSH). The Code on Wages was approved by Parliament last year and its rules have been firmed up. But the implementation of the rules for Code on Wages was held back because the government wanted to implement all four labour codes in one go. These four codes are likely to be implemented from April 1 this year. "The four labour codes rules will soon be notified and hugely increase manufacturing employment; the budget should announce a three-year timetable to move to one labour code," said Rituparna Chakraborty, co-founder & executive vice president, TeamLease Services. Experts also advocated for sector-specific allocations as the prolonged lockdown has had its economic impact, especially among retail, manufacturing, FMCG, travel, aviation, and automobile, to name a few. "The finance minister could address the sectoral sensitivities following the impact of the prolonged pandemic on the companies by extending budgetary provisions with tax relaxations for businesses, increase scale of provisions under the Digital India mission and Skill India," said Kamal Dutta, managing director, Skillsoft India. TeamLease Services' Chakraborty also advocated for modernisation of ESIC and asked for reforms to make employee contribution to Provident Fund voluntary. "The budget should announce modernization of ESI governance in parallel with a June 1st, 2021 deadline so that employees have the freedom to opt the service provider for their payroll deducted health insurance contributions," she said. She noted that mandatory payroll confiscation levels that are higher than savings rate breed informality. And hence making it voluntary will accelerate the current cycle of enterprise formalization. According to Mala Chawla, managing partner, Global Practice Group Leader for Diversity & Inclusion, Stanton Chase, the budget must also look at building confidence for investment by Indian companies & promoters. Over the last decade, India has realized that innovation and technology have the potential to bring about a serious change. This needs a push by the government to bring back the lost confidence in the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/budget-2021-must-build-on-recent-reforms-in-labour-education-hr-experts/articleshow/80373241.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Bengaluru||Search warrant can be issued even without prior summons: HC||BENGALURU: A search warrant can be issued in terms of section 93(1)(c) of the Criminal Procedure Code without issuing summons under section 91, the high court has said while dismissing a petition filed by Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI). “It is not required under all circumstances to issue summons prior to issuance of a search warrant,” Justice Suraj Govindaraj said. SDPI had sought for quashing of the August 31 order passed by the 44th Additional City Civil and Sessions Judge, Bengaluru, issuing warrants to search under section 93 of CrPC and consequent mahazars carried out in pursuance of the search at various offices. These searches were conducted in connection with the August 11 East Bengaluru violence case. There was vandalism and arson and DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations were attacked following a blasphemous Facebook post. According to SDPI, the sessions court ought to have considered that a notice under section 91 to produce necessary documents or record statements would have sufficed under the circumstances of the case. Despite its representatives cooperating with Central Crime Branch officers, the search was conducted just to defame it, it alleged. CCB informed the court that the case is now being investigated by NIA and that the petitioner’s request for return of seized items has already been turned down by a special court for NIA cases on October 27, and the same has neither been challenged nor disclosed before this court. There is no mandatory requirement for issuance of notice under section 91(1) of CrPC before issuance of a search warrant under section 93 and the search has been carried out in accordance with law, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/search-warrant-can-be-issued-even-without-prior-summons-hc/articleshow/80373440.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Youth gets 10-year jail for raping, impregnating 12-year-old cousin||BENGALURU: A 22-year-old youth was on Tuesday sentenced to 10-year rigorous imprisonment and fined Rs 2 lakh for raping his 12-year-old cousin in Ramanagara. Vinoda GC, a resident of Kudur, was convicted by principal district and sessions judge Marulasiddharadhya on Tuesday. In September 2019, a complaint was filed at Kudur police station based on the girl’s statement. When the girl’s mother was unwell, Vinoda started visiting their house on a daily basis in the guise of helping her. As days went on, Vinoda raped the girl and the incident came to light when she became pregnant. Special public prosecutor Shilpa V, who appeared for the survivor, said besides the girl’s statement, DNA reports played a crucial role in proving the crime. The court ordered to pay Rs 2 lakh as compensation to the girl. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/youth-gets-10-year-jail-for-raping-impregnating-12-yr-old-cousin/articleshow/80373445.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Bengaluru||No coercive action under cattle law, Karnataka tells HC||BENGALURU: The government on Wednesday assured the high court that it won’t take coercive action in cattle-transportation cases till rules are introduced. Advocate general Prabhuling K Navadgi made the submission with regard to breach of section 5 of the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance-2020 after receiving instructions from the government. The AG said draft rules have been published and they will be finalised after considering the objections. The court said it is not necessary to consider grant of interim relief at this stage. In view of no explanation vis-a-visa prescribed form for transportation of cattle, there was scope for misuse, it said. Adjourning the hearing on PILs to February 26, the bench asked the government to file objections by February 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-coercive-action-under-cattle-law-state-tells-hc/articleshow/80373447.cms||---
January 21, 2021||World||The Color Purple: In a historic moment, Kamala channels unity and femme fettle||WASHINGTON: She wore the color purple. She donned pearls. And she was escorted to her swearing in by a black police officer who put his life on line to save the life of lawmakers. Kamala Harris' inauguration as America's first female vice-president, and the first of black and Indian heritage, was rich with symbolism. Purple is traditionally seen in the US as a symbol of bipartisanship - a combination of the blue of the Democratic Party and red of the Republican party. It is also the color of women's suffrage and the preferred color of Shirley Chisholm, the first black woman elected to Congress and the first black woman to run for President, whose "unbought and unbossed" life and career inspired Kamala Harris. Hillary Clinton and Michelle Obama too joined Kamala in wearing shades of purple, while thousands of women across the country joined them in donning pearls, a symbol of Kamala's sorority, Alpha Kappa Alpha, and the black sisterhood that has supported and sustained her. Rounding up the symbolism was the sight of Eugene Goodman, the Capitol Police officer who led rioters away from the Senate chamber during the MAGA extremists' attack, escorting Kamala at the inauguration -- a powerful acknowledgement of the guardianship of democracy by a long-reviled racial minority. Kamala's family from India did not make it to the inauguration because of Covid concerns and restrictions but her multi-hued family in the US, including her sister Maya, her niece Meena, her grand nieces Amara and Leela, her husband Dough Emhoff and her step-children Cole and Ella, for whom she is "Momala," were all present. Signs of healing was everywhere. While a sulking Trump boycotted the inauguration and flew away to Florida to chart his political future, vice-president Pence and the Republican mainstream attended the event, and cheered the momentous swearing in of a woman who will be only a heartbeat away from the White House. Kamala and the Second Gentleman spoke to the Pences and exchanged jokes as they escorted them down the steps of the Capitol where MAGA mobs had chanted "Hang Mike Pence" with setting up gallows and noose outside. Later in the afternoon, Kamala Harris is slated to administer oath of office -- in her capacity as President fo the US Senate -- to three newly elected Democratic Senators, symbolising a power shift both in gender and political terms. The nation's 49ht vic president is also expected to preside over the impeachment trial of former President Donald Trump, providing a different resonance to Trump's prime that he will be back "in some form." Watch Kamala Harris takes oath as Vice President of the United States||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/the-color-purple-in-a-historic-moment-kamala-channels-unity-and-femme-fettle/articleshow/80373399.cms||Chidanand Rajghatta
January 21, 2021||Business||Budget 2021: IPOs soak liquidity before an imminent sell-off||NEW DELHI: There is a flurry of activity in the IPO market as it soaks up liquidity in a hurry fearing a big sell-off in the stock market before or after the presentation of the Union Budget on February 1. The Rs 4,600 crore IRFC IPO opened on January 18 and has been oversubscribed. The IPO of Indigo Paints will open on Wednesday to the tune of Rs 1,000 crore. The rush for IPOs in January in the beginning of 2021 is being linked to the momentum in the market which is a follow through from 2020, which saw an unstoppable bull run in the stock market breaking all records. Home First Finance Company with an IPO to the tune of Rs 1,500 crore and RailTel with an IPO of Rs 700 crore complete the tentative line up of IPOs in January setting a target to mop up more than Rs 12,000 crore in one month alone. This will be followed by Brookfield REIT IPO to the tune of Rs 4,000-5,000 crore. There is a flurry of activity in the month of January as the indices are at record highs but with a nagging fear that a big sell-off can come at any point. According to a report by IDFC Mutual Fund, in March last year, market cap to GDP hits hit its lowest level since the 2008-09 GFC; but has now rebounded and is now at a level which is the highest in the last decade. "Markets look expensive on standalone valuation parameters, part of the higher valuation can be explained by the harp drop in yields across the world," the report said. It said that historically the US Dollar and Emerging Market Flows are inversely correlated, and continued US dollar weakness should be positive for Emerging Markets including India. The report said that benign monetary policies will be followed by central bankers across the world to counter the threat of prolonged recession. The Federal Reserve announced that it will keep interest rates near zero for years until the US economy heals from the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic and the labour market recovers, even if the US inflation rises above 2 per cent for an unspecified period of time. Even in India, the trajectory of monetary policy should mirror the global trend and low cost of capital generally supports higher equity valuations, IDFC Mutual Fund said. Valuations have been supported by easy liquidity and hope of vaccine-driven recovery, the report said. Markets have been buoyed on higher hopes of earnings recovery especially in value/small cap segment on account of lower interest rates and better than expected demand environment, IDFC Mutual Fund said. For valuations to sustain, promise of earnings delivery has to translate into delivery of the promise; which has been elusive in the last decade, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/budget-2021-ipos-soak-liquidity-before-an-imminent-sell-off/articleshow/80373453.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Business||Seating arrangement for Budget session in accordance with Covid-19 guidelines: Om Birla||NEW DELHI: Members of Parliament have been requested to undergo RT-PCR test against Covid-19 ahead of the budget session of parliament beginning January 29 and seating arrangements have been made in accordance with the prescribed guidelines, Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Tuesday. Addressing a press conference, the Speaker said he will try to run the House with everyone's support and cooperation. He said that RT-PCR tests will be held on January 27 and 28 in the Parliament premises. Birla said that Rajya Sabha will function from 9 am to 2 pm and Lok Sabha from 4 pm to 9 pm and there will be Zero Hour and Question Hour. He said the first part of Budget session will start on January 29 and continue till February 15 and the second part of the session from March 8 to April 8. "The session will have two phases in which 12 sittings will be held in the first session and 21 in the second phase. We will try to run the House with everyone's support and cooperation," Birla said. "All the respected MPs have been requested to undergo a RT-PCR test. We have made arrangements near their residences for the test so that they can participate in the functioning safely and perform their constitutional duties. Sitting arrangements have been made in accordance with Covid-19 guidelines," he said. Birla said that arrangements have been also made for RT-PCR test of families and staff members of MPs. Asked if MPs will also be vaccinated against Covid-19 during the session, he said the policy concerning Covid-19 vaccination drive finalised by Centre and state governments will be applicable to parliamentarians also. The Budget session of Parliament will begin on January 29 with an address by President Ram Nath Kovind. The Union Budget will be presented on February 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/seating-arrangement-for-budget-session-in-accordance-with-covid-19-guidelines-om-birla/articleshow/80373513.cms||---
January 21, 2021||India||Union Cabinet nod for Jammu and Kashmir Rattle Power Project||SRINAGAR: In a bid to end the power crisis in Jammu and Kashmir, the Union Cabinet has approved the 850MW Rattle Power Project worth Rs 5822 crore, to be completed in the next five years, despite opposition from Pakistan, J&K lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha confirmed on Wednesday. The Rattle dam is currently under construction on the Chenab river. While Pakistan has alleged that the dam construction violates the Indo-Pak Indus Water Treaty signed in 1960, India has always maintained that it is a run-of-the-river hydroelectricity project which doesn’t violate the treaty. Pakistan has been objecting to the project since 2015 when they sent a communication to the Indian government besides sending over a group of experts for inspection. Lauding the Centre’s move, Sinha said the J&K administration and Indian government are committed to ensuring 24-hour uninterrupted power for residents. “The project share will be 51% owned by NHPC and 49% by J&K SPDC,” he said. The project — which was approved despite Pakistan threatening to approach the International Court and World Bank about the issue — will create 4,000 jobs and preference will be given to local youths during recruitment, Sinha added. Sinha said four more projects — Kirthai-II (930MW), Sawalkot (1,856MW), Uri-I (Stage-II) (240MW) and Dulhasti (Stage-II) (258MW) — involving an investment of Rs 31,000 crore will be taken up. These projects along with the two ongoing projects of Pakaldul (1000 MW) and Kiru (624MW) on Chenab river and its tributaries will result in an investment of about Rs 52,821 crore and create more than 12,000 jobs in the Union Territory. To train locals, the ministries of power and skill development will set up training centres near the project sites in collaboration with NHPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/union-cabinet-nod-for-jammu-and-kashmir-rattle-power-project/articleshow/80373800.cms||M Saleem Pandit
January 21, 2021||India||Parliamentary team in J&K to review tourism, culture, transport sectors||SRINAGAR: A 31-member parliamentary delegation led by BJP Rajya Sabha member TG Venkatesh arrived here on Wednesday on a three-day visit of J&K to review tourism, culture, road and transport sectors in the Union Territory. During their visit, the delegation will meet officials of the tourism department and other stakeholders, J&K tourism secretary Sarmad Hafeez said. “Besides, the team members are scheduled to review the role of national highway in nation-building and meet stakeholders in road, tourism, travel and hospitality sectors,” he said. They will also meet officials of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, National Highways Authority of India and J&K Government, he added. On the first day, the delegation visited Dachigham Wildlife Sanctuary to catch a glimpse of the natural beauty of Kashmir and later went to the Dal Lake. The parliamentary team also visited Dargah Hazratbal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/parliamentary-team-in-jk-to-review-tourism-culture-transport-sectors/articleshow/80373834.cms||M Saleem Pandit
January 21, 2021||World||Pakistan rightwing JUI-F denied permission to hold anti-Israel rally in Karachi||ISLAMABAD: The government in Pakistan’s southern Sindh province refused on Wednesday to grant permission for an anti-Israel rally planned by the Maulana Fazl ur Rehman-led Jamiat-i-Ulema Islam-Fazl (JUI-F) party in the port city of Karachi. The rightwing party had submitted a request for a no-objection certificate (NOC) on January 12 seeking permission from the office of the deputy commissioner of Karachi, East. The reason cited for refusal by the local administration was a ban on public gatherings under anti-coronavirus measures in the province. Earlier this month, the JUI-F announced it would organise a million-man march and a gathering near the mausoleum of Muhammad Ali Jinnah in Karachi on January 21 to condemn Israel and any potential move to establish diplomatic relations with Tel Aviv. On Monday the maulana had said at a press briefing that the anti-Israel rally would be attended by the anti-government alliance of 11 opposition parties, the Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM). According to media reports, the JUI-F leaders have been visiting seminaries in the city seeking support for the planned rally. The anti-Israel narrative has a significant role in Pakistan’s politics since the creation of the country. Following the recognition of Israel by the UAE and Bahrain, the possibility of Islamabad, too, offering recognition was widely discussed in Pakistani media. In November, Prime Minister Imran Khan had even stated that he was facing pressure from foreign leaders to recognise Israel. The political cost of normalisation of relations with Israel are quite high; Khan faced enormous criticism from political rivals over his statement. Currently, opposition parties have been using this card effectively against Khan, dubbing him as Israel’s agent pursuing Tel Aviv’s agenda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistan-rightwing-jui-f-denied-permission-to-hold-anti-israel-rally-in-karachi/articleshow/80373867.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
January 21, 2021||India||New chapter of US democracy, says Rahul Gandhi||NEW DELHI: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi congratulated Joe Biden after he was sworn in as the 46th president of the US on Wednesday. Gandhi also congratulated Indian-origin Kamal Harris after she took oath as the 49th vice president of the US, creating history as the first female, first Black and first Indian-American to do so. Congratulating the USA on a new chapter of their democracy. Best wishes to President Biden and Vice-President Harris.#InaugurationDay— Rahul Gandhi (@RahulGandhi) 1611161379000"Congratulating the USA on a new chapter of their democracy. Best wishes to President Biden and Vice-President Harris," Gandhi tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-chapter-of-us-democracy-says-rahul-gandhi/articleshow/80373977.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Goa||GFA tells clubs to take care of players, officials during Goa Pro League||Panaji:Football behind closed doors, regular RT-PCR tests for Covid-19, temperature checks on match days. As domestic football returns with the Goa Professional League on January 27, there is excitement and anxiety. Excitement because the Goa Pro League will finally kick off. Anxiety because there’s no bio-secure bubble to protect the players and officials from spread of the infection. “We have explained to them (clubs). It is a short league of single leg, so taking into consideration, clubs are okay with that. The clubs have been given directives and SOPs,” said Goa Football Association (GFA) competitions committee chairman Dominic Pereira. The Covid-19 RT-PCR test of players and team officials will be mandatorily conducted by the team management 48 hours prior to their first match and it shall be valid for 15 days. The subsequent tests shall be done every 15 days. The test results must be submitted to the match commissioner before the start of every match. GFA will provide stadium facilities, temperature checking facilities on match days. However, the responsibility of keeping the players and officials safe and secure will be on the respective teams. “Players, officials, ground staff, support staff, team managements, club owners etc shall not be allowed to leave the stadium premises after entry, for the entire duration of the match,” GFA reminded the clubs once again with a release of the SOP’s on Tuesday. The Bangalore Super Division League started on January 11 on similar lines behind closed doors, but there were spectators thronging the venue despite best efforts of the organisers. GFA will have to make necessary arrangements to avoid a similar situation. For now, team owners will be entitled for only five seats in the stadium for only their GPL matches. Due to the coronavirus pandemic, the 12-team league will be conducted behind closed doors. A total of 66 matches will be conducted at Duler Football Stadium in Mapusa on a single leg basis. Indian Super League (ISL) side FC Goa’s developmental team will play the opener against Salgaocar FC. All matches will be streamed live on social media platforms. Meanwhile, GFA’s new integrity services and data management partner Genius Sports Group will pay the sponsors for each Goa Professional League match this season. After allegations of match-fixing in six games of the last edition, GFA now has a tie-up with Genius Sports. “Selvel hold the broadcasting rights so they (Genius Sports) have agreed to pay the charges,” said Pereira.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfa-tells-clubs-to-take-care-of-players-officials-during-goa-pro-league/articleshow/80374447.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
January 21, 2021||Bengaluru||Medical aspirant cheated of Rs 10.5 lakh in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Miscreants duped a student seeking an MBBS seat in a Bengaluru college of Rs 10.5 lakh. The student’s mother filed a complaint with Ashoknagar police, accusing three persons, including two women, of cheating them on the pretext of getting a seat in a popular college. Navya BC from Mysuru met the trio on Residency Road in November. Her son Heman had written NEET. “On November 29, we received a text message related to NEET with an address. I called the number and a woman, identifying herself as Madhusha, promised a medical seat for my son for money. We went to the Residency Road address they provided on November 30. Madhusha took us to her office on the third floor of the building to meet another woman, Vinuta. They promised a seat for Rs 50 lakh. We agreed and paid Rs 50,000 in advance towards registration,” she told police. Navya and her son visited the office again on January 4. “Madhu-sha introduced me to Ananda Rao. We were told a seat was allocated and paid Rs 10 lakh. They gave us a letter confirming the allotment. She asked me to come near the college on January 15. We reached, but Madhusha did not. When called, she asked us to come on January 18. On January 18 too, she did not turn up and her mobile was switched off,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/medical-aspirant-cheated-of-10-5l/articleshow/80373204.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Despite hefty fine, 24 students surrender seats after last round of KEA counselling||BENGALURU: After a steep new fine was put in place for late surrender of seats, as many as 24 students have given up theirs following the last round of counselling for engineering till Tuesday. According to Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) officials, around 240 students surrendered their seats after the final round of counselling last year. The new rule must have deterred students from surrendering seats late, said officials. The earlier fine was Rs 5,000. However, the government brought in an amendment to the Karnataka Selection of Candidates for Admission to Government Seats in Professional Educational Institutions Rules, 2006, by which students who surrender seats late will have to cough up five times the fee amount as penalty. It may be recalled that hundreds of students staged a protest outside KEA office when it asked them to fork out the fine after the third round of counselling. The candidates said they were unaware of the new rule and the fact that the third round was the last one. They also said ComedK counselling results had come only the previous day. Later, the government wrote to the All Indian Council for Technical Education (AICTE), seeking an extension in date for engineering admission. After it was extended to January 15, the government gave approval for another round of counselling. Surrendering seats thereafter would mean paying the new fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/despite-hefty-fine-24-students-surrender-seats-after-last-round-of-kea-counselling/articleshow/80373190.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
January 21, 2021||World||Biden, Harris inspect troops from Capitol steps||WASHINGTON: President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris have taken part in the traditional inaugural military tradition of "Pass in Review." Biden, Harris and their spouses stood on Wednesday on the East Front steps of the US Capitol to observe the procession of ceremonial military regiments. Several groupings passed by the steps, with military members saluting the newly minted president and musicians playing traditional patriotic tunes. The inaugural parade that typically follows was to be replaced by a virtual parade later in the day because of concerns amid the coronavirus pandemic. Following the procession, the couples climbed into vehicles to travel to Arlington National Cemetery for a wreath-laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. They were to be joined by the former presidents who attended the earlier inaugural ceremony. Joe Biden took the oath of office at noon Wednesday to become the 46th president of the United States. He takes charge in a deeply divided nation, inheriting a confluence of crises arguably greater than any faced by his predecessors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-harris-inspect-troops-from-capitol-steps/articleshow/80374924.cms||---
January 21, 2021||World||These are the words President Biden used most in his maiden speech||NEW DELHI: Joe Biden delivered a message of unity and healing on Wednesday as he took oath as the 46th President of the United States. In his maiden speech as President, 78-year-old Biden pledged to repair America's global alliances, which suffered during his predecessor Donald Trump's four-year regime. "This is America's day. This is democracy's day. A day in history and hope, of renewal and resolve," Biden said. Read AlsoThese are the words President Biden used most in his maiden speechNEW DELHI: Joe Biden delivered a message of unity and healing on Wednesday as he took oath as the 46th President of the United States. In his maiden speech as President, 78-year-old Biden pledged to repair America's global alliances, which suffered during his predecessor Donald Trump's four-yearBiden also vowed to end the "uncivil war" in a deeply divided country reeling from a battered economy and a raging coronavirus pandemic that has killed more than 400,000 Americans.  The one word he used most during his speech was "We". He used it 79 times in his nearly 2,500-word long address. It was followed by the words our (42), I (40), America (19), Nation (13) and unity/history/world (8). His speech was also peppered with words like "together", "war", "stand" and "fellow".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/these-are-the-words-president-biden-used-most-in-his-maiden-speech/articleshow/80373782.cms||---
January 21, 2021||India||Covid-19: States kick off awareness blitz to tackle vaccine hesitancy||NEW DELHI: Several states and cities launched an awareness blitz on Wednesday to inject confidence in healthcare workers about Covid-19 vaccines and drive up turnouts, which have been lower than expected at inoculation centres, and particularly low in some, since the first phase of the immunisation campaign began on January 16. Increasingly, vaccine recipients are being drafted in to help counter hesitancy as counselling becomes the most important tool in efforts to meet targets in the first phase. Vaccinated healthcare workers in Delhi, where the turnout has been below 50% for the last two days, have been asked to make videos in which they talk about their health after receiving the shots. Recipients are also calling those who remain reluctant to share their experience and updates on their health. In Gurgaon, private hospitals, which are conducting most vaccinations, have deployed senior doctors to convince healthcare workers to take the jab. In Punjab, which is among states with the lowest vaccination coverage so far, the state government has started reaching out to recipients to persuade them. Punjab Covid nodal officer, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, said a dedicated team was set up to call and encourage recipients to get their doses. Dr Bhaskar said senior health department officials have started taking the shot to allay concerns, and he would himself get inoculated on Thursday. In the first three days of the drive, only 5,561 have received the first dose while it aims to immunise 1.74 lakh health workers in the first phase. In Maharashtra, where low turnouts have also been a concern, health minister Rajesh Tope said the government will reach out to all 8 lakh healthcare workers registered to be vaccinated through awareness campaigns even as allowing walk-ins appeared to have had a positive impact on turnouts. The numbers from rural Maharashtra on Wednesday were encouraging, and by 7pm, the state had reached 68% of the target set for the day. This was higher than the 65% it achieved on Day 1 of the drive. Two districts, Amravati and Hingoli, had over 100% turnout. Mumbai saw 52% turnout, but a large chunk were "walk-ins" as Co-WIN-generated text messages didn’t seem to have reached the targeted beneficiaries. Health authorities said they expected coverage to increase as word about the safety of the vaccines spreads and apprehensions about side-effects are dispelled. The relentless counselling efforts showed encouraging results. Dhananjay Thakur (33), a healthcare support staff at Columbia Asia Hospital in Gurgaon, said he took the vaccine after being counselled by doctors. Thakur said he was worried he would fall sick after vaccination. "When I told the vaccination officer I wasn’t sure, she called some senior doctors and asked them to talk to me. I spoke to them for 30 minutes and took the shot," he said. Thakur has since been counselling others to do the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-states-kick-off-awareness-blitz-to-tackle-vaccine-hesitancy/articleshow/80375825.cms||---
January 21, 2021||India||Supreme Court rejects Aadhaar review plea in 4:1 verdict||NEW DELHI: A five-judge bench of the Supreme Court by majority of 4:1 has dismissed a petition seeking re-examination of its 2018 verdict by which the Aadhaar Act was declared valid and constitutional. The review petitions were considered by a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, D Y Chandrachud, Ashok Bhushan, S Abdul Nazeer and B R Gavai in chamber on January 11 and the order was uploaded on the SC website on Wednesday. While Justices Khanwilkar, Bhushan, Nazeer and Gavai were in favour of dismissal of the review petition, Justice Chandrachud disagreed with his brother judges and said the review petition should be kept pending until the issue of the validity of certification of Aadhaar Bill as a Money Bill had been settled by a larger Constitution bench. Interestingly, it was Justice Chandrachud who had given a dissent verdict in 2018 by declaring the Aadhaar Act as unconstitutional when the other four judges of the Constitution bench had upheld the law. Justice Chandrachud, in his 12-page verdict, pointed out that the majority opinion in the Aadhaar case in relation to the question whether the Aadhaar Act was a money bill has been doubted by a coordinate bench and the matter had been referred to a larger bench. “The correctness of Puttaswamy (Aadhaar case) on issues pertaining to, and arising from, the certification of a Bill as a ‘money bill’ by the Speaker of the House of People has been doubted by a coordinate Constitution bench in the Rojer Mathew case. With the doubt expressed by another Constitution Bench on the correctness of the very decision, which is the subject matter of these review petitions, it is a constitutional error to hold at this stage that no ground exists to review the judgement. The larger bench’s determination would have an undeniable impact on the validity of the reasons expressed in Puttaswamy on the constitutional issues pertaining to and arising out of the certification by the Speaker of the House of People,” Justice Chandrachud said. “If these review petitions are to be dismissed and the larger bench reference in Rojer Mathew were to disagree with the analysis of the majority opinion in Puttaswamy, it would have serious consequences – not just for judicial discipline, but also for the ends of justice. As such, the present batch of review petitions should be kept pending until the larger bench decides the questions referred to it in Rojer Mathew. In all humility, I conclude that the constitutional principles of consistency and the rule of law would require that a decision on the review petitions should await the reference to the larger bench,” he said. The majority of four judges, however, said no case was made out to review the verdict. “We have perused the review petitions as well as the grounds in support thereof. In our opinion, no case for review of judgement and order dated September 26, 2018 is made out. We hasten to add that change in the law or subsequent decision/judgement of a coordinate or larger Bench by itself cannot be regarded as a ground for review. The review petitions are accordingly dismissed,” they said in their brief order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/supreme-court-rejects-aadhaar-review-plea-in-41-verdict/articleshow/80375919.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Business||Daily power demand surges to record 185 gigawatts||NEW DELHI: India’s power demand hit a record at 185.82 GW (gigawatts) on Wednesday, rising 1.6% over the previous record of 182.89 GW on December 30 and marking 9% increase over the highest single-day supply of 170.97 GW in January 2020. According to power secretary S N Sahai, the demand peaked at 9.35 am. Government officials said the surge in demand indicated a rebound in industrial and commercial activities in January after a 0.3% dip in factory output in December. The country’s factory output had shown a growth of 1.8% in November. Others said the prolonged cold spell across the northern region also contributed to the surge in demand. In another indicator of rising consumption, the NTPC group, the country’s largest generation utility, recorded highest-ever generation in a day at 1,009 million units on January 18. The group achieved gross cumulative generation of 222.4 billion units in the April-December period of 2020, marking an increase of 3.8% over the previous corresponding period. Central Electricity Authority data showed the 38-year-old unit-1 of the group’s Singrauli station in UP spinning at more than 100% capacity during the April-December period. Power demand has been recovering since September 2020 onwards after economic and commercial activities picked up with the progress in the unlock process. Peak power demand had grown 1.7% in September, 3.4% in October, 3.5% in November and 7.3% in December. Peak demand had dipped after the lockdown began on March 24 and industrial and commercial consumption nearly evaporated as industries and commercial establishments shut down. This affected demand for five months in the April-August period of 2020, sending it in the negative territory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/daily-power-demand-surges-to-record-185-gigawatts/articleshow/80376311.cms||---
January 21, 2021||India||Government examines OTT regulations in foreign countries||NEW DELHI: A growing number of instances of online content on social media and Over the Top (OTT) platforms running foul of public and political sentiments has prompted the government to examine regulatory mechanisms for OTT in other countries that suggest the need for a regulatory framework. The review of OTT-related regulation has been prompted by several complaints that range from adult and objectionable content to regular run-ins between BJP supporters and party members and producer and platforms over alleged “misrepresentation” of religious, cultural and social issues and themes. With India emerging at one of the largest consumers of OTT content and fastest growing market in 2020, an analysis being studied by the government underlines that regulation of digital media, including OTT platforms and intermediaries is a global trend. In India, in particular, the need for regulation, is prompted by the need for a level playing field for content across platforms, an idea also considered by the Shashi Tharoor-led parliamentary panel on information technology. The committee also considered similar issues with members pointing to regulations in other countries. Official sources pointed out that the committee discussed why TV channels must adhere to a programme and content code, and print media be regulated by a Press Council while there is no regulation for OTT platforms and the content they stream. The government, sources said, also examined the near redundancy of the IT Act, 2000, and the “misuse” of safe-harbor protection offered under the act to significant social media intermediaries like Facebook and Twitter that have “censor(ed) and regulate(ed) content on social media”. A note said Australia has taken the lead in ensuring that revenue earned by websites like Google and Facebook through advertising on news websites is shared with newspaper publishers. “We can bring about a discussion as to the unfair advertising practices on these intermediaries and how this is causing an adverse impact on the indigenous newspaper industry,” the note said. Singapore has a Infocomm Media Development Authority (IMDA) and the EU is considering recommendations of the European Council in 2019. The Indian government remains concerned by the possibility of problematic content leading to social unrest or a law and order situation. Arguing in favour of the need for regulation, the government assessment has also batted for the need to “streamline” the setting up websites and OTT platforms to rein in “fly by night operators”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-examines-ott-regulations-in-foreign-countries/articleshow/80376346.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Delhi||Challans to make car cover costlier, trial soon in Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: With the insurance regulator planning a “traffic violation premium” to rein in errant drivers, a year-long pilot project would be launched soon in Delhi linking vehicle insurance premiums to traffic violations committed in the last two years. To begin with, the vehicle owners of Delhi and adjoining areas in the NCR would be the first ones to pay the additional premium while renewing their vehicle insurance for violating motor vehicle and traffic rules. Such extra premiums would be anywhere between Rs 100 and Rs 750 for two-wheelers, and for four-wheelers and commercial vehicles, it would be in the range of Rs 300 to Rs 1,500, according to the insurance regulator. According to the exposure draft published by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA), while a driver caught drunk driving would attract the maximum traffic violation points, the second highest score would be for dangerous driving which includes talking on the phone while driving. The traffic violation points will double and triple if the offence is committed second and third time in two years. Times ViewIn 2018, 151,000 died in road accidents in India. Given this sobering truth, rash drivers need to be actively discouraged. This punitive move will hopefully dissuade them from breaking the lawThe Delhi Traffic Police has been recording traffic violations digitally. Though initially the pilot was planned only for vehicles registered in Delhi, it was found that a huge number of vehicles from the NCR ply on the city roads and hence those vehicles would be brought under this ambit. Based on the finding of the pilot in Delhi, this would be extended to other states and UTs. TOI on June 29, 2020 had first reported the IRDA’s plan to launch this pilot in Delhi. The additional premium would be paid by the vehicle owner since he/ she is responsible for allowing anyone to drive the vehicle. The traffic violation premium will float over both Own Damage and Third Party sections of motor insurance and can be attached to any section of motor insurance cover being purchased. The IRDA has invited inputs of all stakeholders on the recommendations till February 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/challans-to-make-car-cover-costlier-trial-soon-in-ncr/articleshow/80376426.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 21, 2021||India||Gujarat high court frees interfaith couple from detention||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has ordered the immediate release of an interfaith couple detained by police for 10 days on the basis of an FIR accusing the husband, a Muslim who converted to Hinduism before marriage, of violating the anti-conversion law. The bench of Justices Sonia Gokani and Sangeeta Vishen issued the order in response to a habeas corpus petition filed by the brother of Surat-based RTO official Nisarkhan Ghasura alias Nishant, who married his wife Shweta in a Hindu ceremony after changing his faith. According to the petition, the police picked up the newly-weds in Palanpur, around 408km from Surat, on January 9 and illegally detained them till an FIR was lodged against them on January 15 by the bride’s father. Nine days into Ghasura’s detention at Palanpur East police station, investigators produced him in a local court and sought a 14-day remand for custodial interrogation. The court granted the police custody for four days, which the HC has since quashed. The high court observed that Palanpur police appeared to show “undue fervour” while investigating the complaint against Ghasura. Directing the range IGP to conduct an inquiry into the illegal detention of the interfaith couple, the judges said the couple should be granted bail without any delay and allowed to proceed to Surat under police protection. Besides violation of the Gujarat Freedom of Religion Act 2003, the complaint against Ghasura accuses him of concealing his marital status while eloping with Shweta on January 6. The state’s anti-conversion law mandates that anyone wanting to convert has to obtain prior permission from the collector. The common charge against the couple is of fraud. Shweta’s father has claimed in the FIR that their marriage was “fraudulently” solemnised in the adjoining Sirohi district of Rajasthan and that the priest named in the records, Jitendrakumar Brahman, wasn’t even present at the venue. The police have booked the marriage registrar from Rajasthan, Lalsinh Chaudhary, along with two “witnesses” to the marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gujarat-high-court-frees-interfaith-couple-from-detention/articleshow/80376441.cms||Saeed Khan
January 21, 2021||Allahabad||Married woman in Uttar Pradesh living with another man gets no high court relief||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has ruled that a married woman moving in with another man without divorcing her spouse cannot claim to be in a live-in relationship and seek legal sanctity later. Dismissing a writ petition filed by one Asha Devi and Suraj Kumar, the division bench of Justices Surya Prakash Kesarwani and Dr Yogendra Kumar Srivastava held that any such couple isn’t entitled to protection from the court simply on the ground that they are consenting adults living with each other. The petitioners had argued that although not legally married, they had been living together as husband and wife, and thus nobody should have the right to interfere in their relationship. During the court proceedings, the petition was opposed by the state counsel on the ground that Asha Devi started living in with Suraj Kumar even as she was legally married to his client, Mahesh Chandra. This constitutes an offence under sections 494 (marrying again during lifetime of husband or wife) and 495 (concealment of former marriage from person with whom subsequent marriage is contracted) of the IPC, the counsel said. After hearing both sides, the court said: “Such a relationship does not fall within the phrase ‘live-in relationship’ or ‘relationship in the nature of marriage’...The writ petition has been filed by the petitioners for protection from interference by others in their living as husband and wife. If protection, as prayed for, is granted, it may amount to granting protection against commission of offences under sections 494/495 of the IPC.” According to the court, a writ of mandamus (judicial remedy in the form of an order) could not be issued contrary to law or to defeat a statutory provision, including the penal code. “The petitioners do not have a legally protected and judicially enforceable subsisting right to ask for mandamus,” the court ruled on December 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/married-woman-in-uttar-pradesh-living-with-another-man-gets-no-high-court-relief/articleshow/80376458.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
January 21, 2021||India||22 of 25 high courts set up fast-track courts on infra project rows||NEW DELHI: In a boost to India’s chances of further improvement in the World Bank ease of doing business rankings, 22 of the 25 HCs in the country have operationalised designated fast-track courts to adjudicate disputes related to infrastructure project contracts. Justice secretary Barun Mitra recently informed the cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba that some special courts of MP, Allahabad, Karnataka and Calcutta, within the jurisdiction of the respective HCs, have even fixed special days every week for exclusive handling of relief matters pertaining to infrastructure project contracts. The law ministry has been entrusted with the task of improving India’s ranking on the “enforcing contract” aspect of the ease of doing business ranking. The ministry has been in regular touch with each of the HCs to ensure that separate commercial benches of the HCs and district courts under them are set up to expedite resolution of commercial disputes. Last month, a meeting was held on “enforcing contracts”, chaired by the justice secretary and attended by other members of the task force constituted for improving India’s World Bank ranking. The task force includes members from the department for promotion of industry and internal trade , department of legal affairs and the HCs of Delhi, Bombay, Karnataka and Calcutta. The e-Committee of the Supreme Court is also a member of the task force. India has ranked 63rd overall in the World Bank’s ease of doing business ranking in 2020, a big jump from from the 130th position it held out of 190 countries in 2016. To further expedite time-bound disposal of commercial cases, the government has created 42 additional posts of higher judicial services in Delhi HC which would help it to set up additional commercial courts. The law ministry is also in touch with all the registrars general of the HCs to ensure that the latest judicial reforms and e-courts projects are implemented by the HCs and the subordinate judiciary under them. Some of these reforms include issuing e-summons and opening of e-Sewa Kendras at court complexes for e-filing of cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/22-of-25-high-courts-set-up-fast-track-courts-on-infra-project-rows/articleshow/80376459.cms||Pradeep Thakur
January 21, 2021||India||Leaking military operations information an act of treason: Congress||NEW DELHI: Continuing its attack on the WhatsApp controversy relating to Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami, Congress veteran and former defence minister AK Antony on Wednesday said leaking military operations to a journalist was “treason” and no mercy should be shown to any top government functionary who put the armed forces at risk. Congress said Goswami’s alleged chats about influencing the judiciary and rigging the TRP system in return for manufacturing public opinion for BJP were shocking and gave an impression that the “country was on sale”. The party said that the matter would be raised in Parliament’s budget session which gets under way on January 29. At a press conference attended by erstwhile members of the UPA-era cabinet committee on security— Sushil Kumar Shinde, Salman Khurshid and Antony—besides Ghulam Nabi Azad and spokesman Pavan Khera, Congress said leakage of information by the defence personnel was ruled out and one of the top three ministers or official (NSA) was a “suspect”. “It has to be seen if this person (Goswami) was bragging. If so, he should be acted against and if the government is involved, it is a much bigger issue,” Azad said. Antony regretted that the government had not yet done anything to probe the matter which should be done on war-footing. “The tragedy is when the entire nation mourned the sacrifice of 40 CRPF jawans, only two people differed – Goswami, who was in a celebratory mode, and PM Modi, who continued to shoot ‘Man vs Wild’ in Jim Corbett park,” the AICC said. At the same time, Congress expressed grave concern over the bid to influence the judiciary, as mentioned in the chats. “What would be left if a judge could be bought,” Khurshid remarked. He said it had to be determined if illegal pressure was brought upon the judiciary and if it succeeded in getting a favourable order from the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/leaking-military-operations-information-an-act-of-treason-congress/articleshow/80376475.cms||---
January 21, 2021||India||CWC to meet tomorrow, may fix schedule to elect party president||NEW DELHI: The Congress Working Committee will meet on Friday for a hurriedly convened discussion, amid suggestions that it will brainstorm political issues, preparations for coming assembly elections and farmers’ agitation and may also finalise the election schedule for the post of party president and the venue for an AICC session. The CWC meeting was all along expected to be called after the central election authority, headed by former MP Madhusudan Mistry, sealed the preparation of electoral rolls and a possible schedule. The election to the AICC top post has been a key demand of Congress dissidents known as G-23, as also voting to elect the apex body CWC. The dissidents have also demanded that elections be held for AICC’s central election committee and the Parliamentary Board be revived. While there is still no formal announcement and sources said the information was still to be shared by the leadership with the party at large, office-bearers have lately hinted about indications that Rahul Gandhi may contest the top post which he relinquished after the 2019 Lok Sabha defeat. If Rahul still does not agree, then congress has been thinking of alternatives. The party has pursued Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot to take up the responsibility but the latter is reported to have turned it down. Veteran Kamal Nath is seen as a probable candidate in case of a deadlock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cwc-to-meet-tomorrow-may-fix-schedule-to-elect-party-president/articleshow/80376521.cms||---
January 21, 2021||India||CBI arrests two of its officials, including a DSP, in bribery case||NEW DELHI: A week after filing an FIR against its own officials in a bribery scandal, the CBI on Wednesday arrested one of its DySPs and an inspector on charges of accepting illegal gratification and passing on probe details in return. The accused officers, deputy superintendent R K Rishi and inspector Kapil Dhankad, are accused of allegedly providing relief and classified information to companies which were being investigated by CBI for bank fraud. The CBI has also arrested an advocate named Manohar Malik who was allegedly acting as a middleman. Earlier in the day, the CBI also carried out fresh searches at native places of DSP Rishi in Deoband (UP) and Roorkee (Uttarakhand). The CBI’s investigation into the alleged wrongdoings by its own officials may have larger implications as the agency is learnt to be in the process of reviewing every case which the accused officers have been a part of in the last few years. The CBI had earlier suspended the accused inspector and a steno and had approached the ministry of personnel for action against two DySPs. The CBI’s FIR in this case names nine people, including Mandeep Kaur Dhillon, an additional director at company named Shree Shyam Pulp & Board Mills and Sujay Desai and Uday Desai, the directors of a company named Frost International.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cbi-arrests-two-of-its-officials-including-a-dsp-in-bribery-case/articleshow/80376524.cms||Raj Shekhar
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||K Chandrasekhar Rao’s rituals at Kaleshwaram meant for his son, says Bandi Sanjay Kumar||HYDERABAD: BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Wednesday said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had paid a visit to Kaleshwaram project site not to check the works or the water flow but to pray for his son, TRS working president KT Rama Rao before anointing him as chief minister of the state. Interacting with reporters here, Sanjay alleged that rituals were held for three days in Erravelli farmhouse of the chief minister to ward off evil spirits. “The CM wanted to immerse the puja material in the river, so he went to Kaleshwaram project site on Tuesday. KCR performs the rituals for his own family. It would be good if he performs the rituals for the sake of society also,” Sanjay said. He said those who backstabbed the statehood movement want KTR as CM. He said his party is ready to welcome TRS MLAs into the BJP if no corruption charges are pending against them. Reiterating that there was no point in increasing the project capacity to pump 3 tmc water from Kaleshwaram to Mid Manair dam, he said this was done to pocket more commissions. Meanwhile, civil supplies minister Gangula Kamalakar Reddy, who was with the chief minister during his visit to Kaleshwaram, said KCR wanted to see the full tank level of water now that the project has been completed. “The visit was not for any puja purpose. During the ground-breaking ceremony of Medigadda barrage in 2016, the CM went along with his wife. There is nothing new,” he said. “Decisions in the TRS are taken only by KCR and every one follows it,” he said and added that no leader is leaving the party. Batting for KTR as a future CM, Bodhan TRS MLA Shakeel Aamir Mohammad said the state is progressing well under the leadership of KCR. “If KTR is made the CM, the state will continue to be on the path of progress,” he said. Donate for Ram temple: Bandi BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay has appealed to every Hindu to contribute for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. Participating in a donation drive, he also asked chief minister KCR to donate for the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcrs-rituals-at-kaleshwaram-meant-for-his-son-says-bandi/articleshow/80374762.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Allahabad||Trump Baba, Hitler Baba at Magh Mela in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: Move over ‘Laptop Baba’ and ‘Mobile Baba’. Magh Mela this time is abode to seers with new-age nicknames. So, don’t get surprised if while strolling in the vast area of the mela, you come across the ashrams of ‘Hitler Baba’ or ‘Trump Baba’. He is otherwise Mahamandaleshwar Madhav Das of Digambar Ani Akhara. But, his disciples love callng him ‘Hitler Baba’, thanks to his ‘strict’ behaviour. A native of Saidabad, Prayagraj, he was so named by his guru Raghuvar Das because of his headstrong approach. “I have always done which I think is right and it has been proved correct later. It was my decision to take sanyas, and since I was adamant for it, my Guru named me Hitler Baba,” said Madhav Das. Recalling some of his decisions, the Mahamandaleshwar said, “At times, when my guru told me not to start my journey because of Disha Shool considered inauspicious for starting a journey, I would still go saying if my guru is with me, everything is auspicious.” He admits some people meet him reluctantly because of his unusual nickname, but he continues his own style of austerity and living. Likewise, Mahant Kanchan Das, an MCom, of Saket Dhaam ashram became an ardent follower of Donald Trump after he became US President. Owing to his fluency in English, his Guru, Vinayaka Baba, named him ‘Trump Baba’. Soon, he became famous for his unique name. Trump Baba decides what would be cooked at the bhandara. Similarly, Maruti Baba of Khak Chowk and Dhundhkari Baba are also camping in the Mela ground. “The tradition of having a unique nickname is not new. Gurus gave nicknames according to quality and behaviour of follower seers and it continues even now. Such names increase the curiosity of devotees,” said Mahant Narendra Giri, president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/trump-baba-hitler-baba-draw-curious-devotees-at-magh-mela/articleshow/80370987.cms||Rajeev Mani
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||Ramniwas Bagh parking: JDA to open bids today||JAIPUR: After shortlisting three firms, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) plans to award work for the multi-crore Ramniwas Bagh parking project this month. The civic body’s higher committee has examined the technical bids and out of five firms, three have qualified for next round. The JDA is likely to open the financial bids on Thursday for evaluation. An engineer said, “For the second time, five firms participated in the bidding. After evaluating the technical bids, the proposal has been forwarded to the higher committee. On Thursday, the committee will evaluate the financial bid and work will be awarded by the end of this month.” Last month, the JDA invited tenders for the project for the second time as only one firm qualified the technical bid. An official said, “In the first bid, three companies had expressed interest to construct the underground parking project. But only one firm could make it to the next round, after civic body evaluated the technical bid for the Rs 94 crore project. As re-tendering was initiated, the process is delayed by one month.” After Jaipur Smart City Limited (JSCL) gave the administrative and financial sanction, the JDA initiated work to appoint the firm and also applied for environmental clearance. Moreover, the civic body’s executive committee (EC) had given a nod to the tripartite agreement to be executed between Jaipur Smart City Limited (JSCL), JDA and the contractor for Ramniwas Bagh underground parking project, phase-II. An official said, as per the preliminary design, majority of the constructions will be beneath the Union Football Ground at the park. The two-storey parking will be constructed in approximately 49,000 square metre area. Once constructed, the parking space will house 1,530 vehicles. JDA had earlier proposed to extend underground parking till Jaipur Traffic Police office towards Ajmeri Gate end. However, the authorities are apprehensive about constructing a parking space beneath Sawan Bhado Park as it might violate high court directives which prohibited construction of any kind in that area. “Maximum construction will be carried out beneath the football ground and the space connecting Ravindra Manch and existing parking,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ramniwas-bagh-parking-jda-to-open-bids-today/articleshow/80373137.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Coimbatore||Nearly a lakh first-time voters registered in Salem region||Salem/Erode: The collectors of Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Erode districts released final electoral rolls in their offices respectively on Wednesday. After releasing the list, Salem district collector S A Raman said that among the 11 constituencies in the district, the final list has 30,04,140 voters including 14,95,165 males, 15,08,771 females and 204 transgender. “Nearly 99,840 voters new voters registered when compared to last year. New ID cards would be distributed to them at the earliest,” the collector said. In Namakkal, the district collector K Megraj said that a total of 31,115 new voters have found a place in the final electoral. “There are total of 7,01,104 males and 7,39,937 female voters and 160 transgender have found a place on the list,” the collector said. The final roll has a total of 14,41,201 voters. The Collector said that the new electoral roll will be displayed at the office of the revenue divisional officer’s offices, taluk offices, municipal and the polling booths across the district. Subsequently, the Dharmapuri district collector S P Karthika, released the list and said that a total of 12,60,909 voters found their names in the final list including 6,37,891 males and 6,22,857 female voters and 161 transgender. Krishnagiri district collector Dr. V Jeyachandra Bhanu Reddy released the final list at his office and the district revenue officer R Sadheesh received it. After releasing the list, the collector said that the final electoral list has 15,99,018 voters including 8,05,518 are males, 7,93,220 are females and 280 are transgender. In Erode, district collector C Kadhiravan said that the final electoral list has 19,57,203 total voters. “Of them, 9,53,767 males and 10,03,332 females and 104 are transgender,” he said, adding that 58,620 new voters found their place in the final electoral list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nearly-a-lakh-first-time-voters-registered-in-salem-region/articleshow/80374631.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 21, 2021||Indore||Poultry rates crash 30% post avian influenza outbreak||Indore: Consumption of eggs and chicken has plummeted post the outbreak of avian influenza with prices crashing as much as 30 per cent in retail market. Demand for eggs and chicken has dipped to over 50 per cent in less than a fortnight dampening prices and raising worries among poultry owners struggling to accommodate towering inventories amid lack of storage space and fear of the disease. As per Indore Poultry Farmers Association, Indore division records around 20-25 lakh placement of broiler per month and a sharp drop in consumption has led to space crunch in farms and deteriorating the quality of poultry products. The association’s president Dr Surendra Kumrawat said, “Demand for poultry products has dropped by over 50 per cent after the administration ordered to shut poultry shops as a precautionary measure to contain the outbreak of avian influenza. Panic has gripped the consumers and this has adversely affected the industry.” Poultry owners said the sector was in a revival phase after a complete washout in lockdown but the outbreak of avian influenza has again pushed the sector in the negative territory. They said lack of storage space and infrastructure to store poultry products is causing huge losses to the sector. Prices of broiler chicken have fallen by around 30 per cent to 65 per kg farm rate as against 95 per kg a fortnight ago. Eggs have slipped to Rs 4.4 per piece from Rs 5.25 per piece, according to the association. Dinesh Makhija, a poultry owner said, “Shops have again opened but demand has completely disappeared. We are juggling with huge inventories and losses.” Institutional purchases have dropped the most as many hotels, resorts and other eateries have cut down on poultry items. Though experts said properly cooked poultry is safe for consumption. Kumrawat said, “Feed cost is rising every day as birds are growing. After 25 days of life, the intake by a bird is around 200 gm of feed per day. The sector is facing huge losses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/poultry-rates-crash-30-post-avian-influenza-outbreak/articleshow/80365937.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Kolkata||Bidhannagar civic head tests +ve; cases drop||Kolkata: The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area is currently witnessing a considerable drop in active Covid cases, with more recoveries than daily new cases over the past few weeks. However, the chairperson of the civic body’s board of administrators (BoA), Krishna Chakraborty, is among the few to have contracted the novel coronavirus. . “I had been feeling uneasy for the last few days and on Monday evening, I tested positive for Covid. I only have a little weakness,” said Chakraborty, who is in home isolation. Chakraborty was present at the urban primary health centre at Duttabad in Salt Lake last Saturday, when the vaccination drive was rolled out. Earlier, several Bidhannagar civic body officials had been affected by Covid-19, and in August last year, Ward 6 councillor Subhas Bose died of Covid. The scene has, however, improved with the number of active cases in the area hovering around 250 mark. So far, close to 15,800 Covid cases have been reported from the area and 106 deaths since March last year. The turnout for Covid vaccination remained low, as only 36 out of 200 enlisted recipients took the shot at the Duttabad PHC on Tuesday. On Monday, 41 out of 100 had turned up. Civic officials said they had been facing problems contacting the recipients, who had reportedly been receiving Co-WIN alerts only a few hours before the schedule. “It would have been easier for us if we could call people from our own list,” said a civic official. The late SMS might not be allowing the recipients enough time to mentally prepare for the shot, he said. “Hopefully, the turnout will increase in the next round,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bidhannagar-civic-head-tests-ve-cases-drop/articleshow/80373127.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 21, 2021||Delhi||Promise Delhi Republic Day rally will be peaceful: SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to entertain an application by Delhi Police to restrain farmers protesting against the three farm laws from taking out a tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day but said in the event they get permission for the rally, they must promise Delhiites that it would be “absolutely peaceful”. Finding the SC reluctant to entertain any plea related to law and order, solicitor general Tushar Mehta attempted to sidestep a ruling on the application and requested a bench headed by CJI S A Bobde to defer hearing on the issue till January 25 to wait and watch developments. The bench refused and said, “We told you repeatedly that we are not going to issue these directions. We consider it highly irregular and improper for this court in the first instance to allow or disallow any rally or a meeting or a procession when the norm is that it is a matter for the police to decide. The police will decide whether permission is to be granted or not. And we are not going to pass any order on the application. We mentioned this yesterday. We will allow you to withdraw it. You are the authority, the executive of the country. You are the authority to take whatever action. We will see later." Attorney general K K Venugopal said it would be difficult to keep peace on the congested roads of Delhi if 5,000 tractors were brought into the Capital and asked the court whether it would consider keeping the Delhi Police application pending. At the fag end of the hearing, he told the SC that the police would take a decision whether to permit the tractor rally on Republic Day or not. The CJI said, "No. We will not keep it pending. You pass orders. You have the power to pass appropriate orders. This is not a matter for the court at all in the first instance." However, it asked advocate Prashant Bhushan to counsel the protesting farmers to keep things peaceful. Bhushan said, "I am always counselling them that they must maintain absolute peace. Tractor rally will be on the Outer Ring Road. They are saying that we are only celebrating Republic Day and we have absolutely no intention of doing anything that will break peace." The CJI said, "The only rider we would add is that they must assure the citizens of Delhi of complete peace.” Bhushan said the protesting farmers' unions have already issued a call to maintain peace. When the AG said it would be difficult to maintain peace if 5,000 tractors were brought onto city roads already teeming with vehicles, the bench of the CJI and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said, “The police must talk to farmers unions to ensure that the rally remains peaceful. Whether to permit or not and what conditions to be imposed are matters purely in the domain of the executive. We trust Prashant Bhushan’s statement that they want to be peaceful." Venugopal said the protesting farmers were not so peaceful when the Haryana chief minister wanted to meet farmers in Karnal to discuss the farm laws. "The protesting farmers destroyed the pandal, they damaged the helipad and the CM's helicopter could not land there. There was a debacle. Therefore, I am sure so far as Bhushan is concerned, he may believe that nothing will happen. But, it is the police which will take a decision on this issue."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/promise-delhi-r-day-rally-will-be-peaceful-sc/articleshow/80375936.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 21, 2021||Pune||Hostels getting spruced up in Pune colleges and at university||PUNE: Preparations are underway for making hostels ready to accommodate the students as the university and affiliated colleges wait for the reopening date from the government. At a time when the rooms in college hostels are already limited and overcrowded, Covid-19 poses an bigger challenge. No more than one or two students can be assigned to one room. The city has nearly 20% to 30% population of students coming from out of Pune to study in various colleges in the city for graduate and postgraduate courses. Many education societies have on-campus hostel facilities and the rooms are always full. However, the Covid situation has posed challenges for management of hostel rooms before the educational institutions. Principal of St Mira's College for girls, Gulshan Gidwani, said, “We barely have a capacity of 30 students in our hostel, but we will not reopen now. The hostel is situated at Sadhu Vaswani Mission, away from the college campus, which would lead to travelling. Hence, we decided that even if the college reopens offline classes the hostel facility will not open as yet.” Cummins College of Engineering for Women will give priority to laboratory sessions once the colleges reopen and therefore only 50% students will be allowed. Principal Madhuri Khambete said, “About 30 to 40 students studying in our college stay in the hostel on campus while nearly 5% students stay in private hostels outside. We will accommodate only 50% students in order to follow all precautionary norms and we are also thinking of one room per student.” Deccan Education Society (DES) that runs Fergusson College, Brihan Maharashtra College of Commerce and DES Law College among other prominent colleges in the city also has a huge hostel facility used by several outstation students. Chairman of DES Sharad Kunte said, “We have already begun cleaning the rooms and we will be able to accommodate two students in some of our rooms as they are big. In the smaller rooms, we will have just one student. Management of the rooms and allotment will be decided once the reopening process begins.” The Savitribai Phule Pune University is awaiting state government orders on reopening and consequently hostel reopening guidelines. Deputy registrar Uttam Chavan said unless they get the guidelines from the government regarding the reopening of colleges and hostels it would be difficult to decide about the on-campus rooms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hostels-getting-spruced-up-in-colleges-at-university/articleshow/80374641.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 21, 2021||Patna||Journalist among two arrested in Jehanabad||PATNA: Two persons, including a web-portal journalist, were forwarded to judicial custody in Jehanabad for their alleged attempt to “manage” government authorities for a tainted PDS dealer by taking money from him, police said on Wednesday. Town police station SHO Vinay Kumar on Wednesday said the arrested persons Nitin Kumar (38) is from Dhuriyari village and Surendra Kumar (32) is a resident of Modanganj village, both falling under Ghosi police station in Jehanabad. SHO Kumar said Nitin is a journalist and runs a news portal in Jehanabad. “Police is verifying all these information along with the duo’s background,” he said. The SHO said both were arrested from Jehanabad town on late Monday night where they were called on the pretext of meeting government officers. He said both were forwarded to judicial custody on Tuesday night by a local court. “Their cellphones have been seized. A call recording has been made available to police where one of them could be heard asking about money from a PDS dealer to manage government officers,” he said. Modanganj block supply officer Sanjeev Kumar told TOI over the phone that they had cracked down against a PDS dealer of Modanganj panchayat on Saturday after getting complaint of irregularities. “By Monday morning, we came to know that two persons, including a web-portal journalist, had approached the tainted dealer claiming that they will get the inquiry report turned in his favour even after all the action against him. The duo had demanded around Rs 30,000 to Rs 40,000 from the dealer to manage we government authorities,” he said. Kumar said the sub-divisional officer, Nikhil Dhanraj, was apprised of the incidents after which an FIR was lodged against them following which they got arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/journalist-among-two-arrested-in-jehanabad/articleshow/80371767.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||On fitness mission, Kashmir cyclist arrives in city||HYDERABAD: A Kashmiri cyclist, who is on a mission to complete the long journey from Kashmir to Kanyakumari in a month, was welcomed in the Old City on Wednesday. The 23-year-old, Mannan Hassan Wani, hails from Sopore in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district. Wani left his hometown on January 1 this year and has covered almost 2,400km, facing several hurdles along the way. “I wanted to break from the monotony of the pandemic and focus on my health at the same time. I set out towards a mission of 4,000km from Kashmir to Kanyakumari to check my ability as well as to draw the youth’s attention to fitness, “ said Wani, who is a self-sponsored cyclist, having participated in small cycling events in J&K. Wani said, “So far, I have crossed J&K, Haryana, Punjab, UP, MP, Maharashtra and many districts of Telangana. I expect to reach Kanyakumari soon, even as early as January 27, passing through planned routes.” Several youth in the Old City asked Wani about his journey and welcomed him. Mohd Ghouse, co-corporator, (AIMIM), Ghansi Bazaar Divison lauded the cyclist’s efforts and intention. He said city’s youth should also focus on sports along with their education. “The effort and dedication of the Kashmiri cyclist is laudable. Fitness and sports deserve attention,’’ said, Mohd Ghouse, co-corporator Ghansi Bazaar Division (AIMIM). Expressing gratitude, the Kashmiri youth said he was much happy to be passing through Hyderabad.  “I am thankful to all those who came forward to support and encourage me in this journey,’’ said Wani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/on-fitness-mission-kashmir-cyclist-arrives-in-city/articleshow/80374647.cms||Omar bin Taher
January 21, 2021||Patna||Hospitals go all out to instil ‘confidence’ in vaccine||PATNA: From making individual calls to beneficiaries, to the head of the institutions taking the Covid-19 vaccine themselves, hospitals are going all out to instil confidence regarding the vaccines in the minds of the beneficiaries, who are increasingly taking the “wait-and-watch” stance until it is “safe” to the shots. For instance, the NMCH, which has seen just 28% of the beneficiaries turn up for the jabs in three days, the second-lowest turnout in Patna district, made individual calls to all those registered for vaccination on Thursday. “Till Wednesday morning, five doctors of our hospital have personally called 20 beneficiaries each registered for Thursday. They have got counselling, and their queries have been answered. We have given them the example of senior doctors of the city, like Dr AA Hai, PMCH superintendent and principal who have taken the shot. Hope this will help in increasing the numbers,” hospital superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh said. Dr Singh further said he requested the health department to let him and other senior faculty take the vaccination early as their name in the portal is far behind, to build confidence among other workers. The PMCH, which has achieved 95% of the target so far, is also implementing this. “Our hospital is doing well in terms of turnout and this is because we are personally interacting with beneficiaries. We have formed teams and they are calling the beneficiaries and sending messages,” said hospital’s superintendent Dr Bimal Karak. AIIMS-Patna, where 93% of the registered beneficiaries got vaccinated, is sorting out technical issues in the process. “We have a total of 3,542 healthcare workers registered with us. If anyone fails to turn up we others from the list so that the manpower is not wasted,” said the hospital’s nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar, adding 52 people who were registered for day one turned up for vaccination and 48 others were those registered for another day. He further said since the hospital’s director had himself taken the shot on the first day and the superintendent took during the trial, it led to confidence building among other workers in the hospital. He added, “We were the ones who had worked the most during the epidemic and there is no confusion among our healthcare workers regarding the vaccines. We are very clear that we have to take vaccines and reach herd immunity to avoid any negative consequences.” Several doctors said the state government should take steps to gain the confidence of the people, and a mass level campaign is needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hospitals-go-all-out-to-instil-confidence-in-vaccine/articleshow/80371369.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 21, 2021||Business||Sebi to Future: Shareholders’ nod must for deal with RIL||Mumbai/New Delhi: Sebi on Wednesday directed Future Group to inform shareholders of its listed retail companies involved in a buyout deal with Reliance Industries (RIL) about the details of the complaints made by Amazon against the proposed transaction and its status. Future has been asked to follow the direction by India’s securities regulator while taking the shareholders’ approval on the Rs 24,713-crore merger and acquisition (M&A) deal. It has also directed that the same should be brought to the notice of the NCLT while taking its approval on the M&A scheme. The directive comes after Future requested Sebi to expedite its review on the proposed deal. Amazon had initiated arbitration proceedings against Future in Singapore after the latter inked an agreement to sell its retail and related businesses to RIL last August. Future subsequently approached the Delhi high court, which last month upheld Amazon’s right to make representations to statutory authorities against the transaction. Sebi, through its January 20 letter, has also directed Future to inform shareholders that 74.2% of the business value of Future Enterprises will move to RIL after the deal. Further, it has been asked to convey that the acquirer “would not be seeking listing post the scheme of arrangement”. While Sebi has not made any adverse observations on the proposed deal, it has passed the ball into the shareholders’ court to decide on the M&A. Additionally, Sebi directed Future that it should ensure that the shares of the transferee entities issued in lieu of the locked-in shares of the transferor entities is subjected to lock-in for the remaining period after the M&A scheme. The regulator has also advised that its observations be incorporated in the petition to be filed before the NCLT. Future will also have to ensure that it updates shareholders about further regulatory actions, if any, involving the M&A scheme prior to the NCLT approval. Sebi’s moves come close on the heels of Amazon writing to the regulator, urging it to suspend its review of the deal and not grant a no-objection certificate on the ground that its challenge to the agreement was before the Delhi high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-to-future-shareholders-nod-must-for-deal-with-ril/articleshow/80374761.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Varanasi||Two autologous stem cell transplantations done at IMS BHU in a year||Times News Network Varanasi: The division of Paediatric Haematology-Oncology, department of Paediatrics, Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu University has successfully carried out the second autologous Stem cell transplantation within a span of one year. The first transplant was carried out last year in February 2020. The medical superintendent Prof SK Mathur said that due to Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown for a few months, further transplants could not be carried out. However, with reopening of the OPD services of Sir Sunderlal Hospital, a second transplant was planned and carried out successfully on December 23. This is an important milestone for the division especially because it has been carried out amid Covid pandemic. He said that the patient, a nine-year old boy, was suffering from refractory Hodgkin’s lymphoma (a type of cancer of the lymphnodes). He was given high dose chemotherapy to kill the remaining cancer cells. His stem cells were harvested in the Blood Bank of SS Hospital. The child tolerated the whole procedure well and was discharged home in good condition after 40 days of hospital stay. The second successful transplant has opened the way for treatment of children with several haematological and oncological diseases which include leukemia (blood cancer), aplastic anemia and thalassemia etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/two-autologous-stem-cell-transplantations-done-at-ims-bhu-in-a-year/articleshow/80373776.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Business||Govt works to control raw material price volatility||Chennai: The central government is working on a mechanism to control price volatility of raw materials particularly metals including steel, iron ore and nickel which has seen a sharp increase in prices hitting sectors including forging and foundry. Speaking on the occasion of the CII national foundry conclave, minister for road transport & highways, shipping and MSME Nitin Gadkari said,“We are already working towards controlling the price volatility of raw materials particularly metals and we are thinking about how to overcome this because this is a legitimate issue. I have had a long discussion with the industry commissioner and we are considering options to control this.” The foundry and forging industry has been petitioning the government to curb export of metal raw materials to allow prices to stabilise.The minister also said that the much awaited vehicle scrappage policy is awaiting “approvals from relevant authority” and will be announced as soon as possible. “We are in the process of getting approvals from appropriate authority and as early as possible we will declare,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-works-to-control-raw-material-price-volatility/articleshow/80373875.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Patna||2 shops gutted in Maurya Lok fire||PATNA: Property worth several lakhs was destroyed after fire gutted two shops and damaged two more located on Maurya Lok Complex in the state capital on Wednesday morning. Electrical short circuit due to water seepage from the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) office on the upper floor was stated to be the reason behind the fire. The PMC office is being renovated with an estimated expenditure of Rs4.38 crore. A photo studio and travel agency office were gutted while another photo studio and the Tamil Nadu government’s handloom showroom got badly damaged. All the shops are located in the C-block on the first floor of Maurya Lok Complex. The PMC office is located above these shops on the second floor. The firefighters failed to bring the flames under control at initial stages as they didn’t have access to the tour and travel shop due to locked shutters. They tried to break open the shutter, but failed. A gas cutter was brought to cut open the shutters and douse the flames. Ishteyak Ahmed, owner of the photo studio, told TOI that negligence in building maintenance by the PMC authorities resulted in the fire. “God knows where they are spending so much money,” Ishteyak wondered. “I suffered a loss of around Rs2 lakh, but the two shops next to mine have been destroyed,” he said. The tour and travel shop owner, Anil Kumar told TOI over the phone that constant water seepage from the upper floor caused electrical short circuit and led to the fire. “The PMC office on the upper floor is getting renovated. Drainage water seeps from the ceiling. All our complaints to the PMC authorities in the last one month went unheard,” Kumar said. He said a small fire had broken out on Tuesday evening also due to electrical short circuit from the water seepage, but that was controlled immediately. “We had complained to PMC authorities, but none took it seriously,” Kumar alleged and said he suffered an estimated loss of Rs13 lakh. Madan Mohan, the owner of another photo studio, said he suffered an estimated loss of around Rs30 lakh. “Two computers, laptops, cameras, printers, enlarger, scanner and costly lighting equipment were damaged,” he said. Mohan said heavy drilling machines were used in the PMC office renovation work, damaging the decades-old pipes and structure leading to water leakage. “The mayor’s chamber with attached bathroom has been reconstructed just above our shop. We had approached even the mayor’s son for help, but no one listened,” he said. The handloom showroom manager, Ashish Kumar, said costly saris and garments worth around Rs48 lakh were either damaged by soot or water. “The entire stock has been destroyed. Senior authorities in Tamil Nadu have been informed about it,” he said. When asked, Lodipur fire station officer Ajeet Kumar six firetenders and a hydraulic ladder vehicle were pressed into action for controlling the fire, which could have been disastrous. He said they came to know that the water leakage resulted in electrical short circuit, which caused the fire. When asked, mayor Sita Sahu said they were looking into the matter and immediately handed over her phone to son Shishir Kumar, who said he had come to know the leakage problem from Anil on Tuesday. “I had asked the contractor to look into the issue. He had sought a week’s time to get the problem solved, but fire broke out beforehand,” he said, adding they will get the leakage problem in the entire building rectified soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-shops-gutted-in-maurya-lok-fire/articleshow/80372162.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 21, 2021||Patna||Tension grips Barauni after NTPC worker dies||BEGUSARAI: Tension had gripped the NTPC’s Barauni thermal power plant township area on Tuesday as many employees of the plant were ‘held hostage’ by villagers who sat on a dharna and blocked the entry, exit points of the thermal station area to demand compensation for a contract worker’s family, who died in a road accident on Tuesday evening. Local panchayat body representatives also extended their support to the villagers in demanding compensation. Normalcy was, however, restored on Wednesday after the district administration intervened to clear the blockade. Police sources said that one Ramashish Thakur (56), resident of Malhipur village located near the plant area was returning home on his bicycle, when a speeding car hit him on NH-31 on Tuesday afternoon. He succumbed to injuries on way to the sadar hospital. According to thermal plant management sources, Ramashish was engaged in the plant under unskilled category by a private firm working for the NTPC. His death, however, sparked anguish and protests by local villagers as they blocked all entry and exit gates of the area demanding compensation for the victim’s family. NTPC officials and workers were stranded inside the plant till Wednesday morning as protesters kept the body of the victim near the main gate and did not allow any staff to enter the premises. The plant management had to seek the help of the district administration to end the impasse. AGM (HR) S K Dubey said, “The protesters denied entry to even shift employees for night duty. The employees, who were already on duty were stucked up even on Tuesday night and had to go without food,” Dubey said. NTPC sources said that the situation became tough due to the involvement of local trade unions. Local villagers along with Left union leaders blocked the plant area and township gates since Tuesday evening. However, Begusarai DM Arvind Kumar Verma told this newspaper on Tuesday that the matter was amicably resolved after talks between the representative of the NTPC management and the agitating locals. “The situation could have been averted had the local NTPC management sent its representative for talks early. Even though the victim was not directly engaged with the NTPC and lost his life in a road accident, but he is certainly entitled for the insurance claims under the provisions of law,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tension-grips-barauni-after-ntpc-worker-dies/articleshow/80371570.cms||Rajiv Kumar
January 21, 2021||Patna||NOU may get own campus in March||PATNA: Nalanda Open University (NOU) is likely to get its own campus soon. The Nalanda district administration will hand over a newly constructed building to the university in March. Established by the state government according to the provisions of the Nalanda Open University Act in 1987, NOU has been functioning from a rented building in Patna since its inception. A few years ago, it got a plot of the required 40 acres of land in Nalanda for the construction of its building whose foundation was laid by chief minister Nitish Kumar on March 1, 2018. The construction work, which was undertaken by the Bihar Educational Infrastructure Development Corporation, could not be completed due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. NOU registrar P K Verma told this newspaper on Monday that the construction of most of the proposed blocks had been completed and the entire campus was likely to be handed over to NOU in March. He, however, pointed out, “Construction work has been done only on 10 acres of land made available for the university.” NOU has already written to the education department that if it does not get at least 40 acres of land for its campus, the university will be derecognized by the University Grants Commission. Its demand is likely to be placed before the state cabinet soon. Verma said, “The administrative block, academic buildings with examination halls, counselling centres and boundary walls have been built on the allotted land. The construction of rooms for faculty members and staff, study material storage and distribution centres, computer labs, guesthouses, and residential quarters will be taken up shortly.” With the enrolment of around 1.25 lakh students in 120 courses, NOU is the second largest open university after Indira Gandhi National Open University in the country. It has altogether 220 study centres across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nou-may-get-own-campus-in-march/articleshow/80371785.cms||B K Mishra
January 21, 2021||Allahabad||NCR GM reviews prep for 160 kmph work||Prayagraj: General manager, North Central Railways (NCR) and North Eastern Railways (NER), Vinay Kumar Tripathi, held a detailed meeting on Wednesday to review the field-level preparedness for increasing the speed of trains operating on New Delhi-Howrah route and New Delhi-Mumbai trunk routes under NCR to 160 kmph. He specifically reviewed the status of works related to OHE modification, augmentation in power supply arrangement, etc. OHE and power supply augmentation works are most critical components of the speed raising process, and account for approximately 58% of the total value of this work. In the meeting held in DRM office Prayagraj, NCR principal chief electrical engineer (PCEE) Satish Kothari, Prayagraj DRM Mohit Chandra, Agra DRM S K Srivastava and other officers from NCR headquarters and Prayagraj division were present. According to chief public relation officer (CPRO), NCR, Ajeet Kumar Singh, Prayagraj DRM showed a detailed presentation covering field-level planning, resource deployment plan, assistance required from RDSO, RB and other departments. During the meeting, the integrated work of concerned departments for managing traffic block was presented and discussed in detail. Reviewing the field-level plan presented by the division, the GM remarked that the detailed plan for speed raising work should properly account for availability of DFC route in Bhaupur-Khurja section. He said that it will help in accurate planning of traffic block management, resource deployment, number of work sites and timeline for several critical activities. He also assured Prayagraj and Agra divisions that all requisite inputs and assistance from the headquarters shall be provided for the execution of this important work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ncr-gm-reviews-prep-for-160-kmph-work/articleshow/80370938.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 21, 2021||Patna||Diesel-filled tanker submerged in water||PATNA: Even after 24 hours, authorities in Saran could not get a tanker filled with 12,000 litres of diesel pulled out from a water body where it fell on Tuesday. A heavy-lift equipment sent by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had failed to pull out the loaded tanker. On Wednesday also two more heavy lift cranes had reached the spot from Muzaffarpur, but the tanker could not be taken out despite several hours of continuous effort. Diesel is still leaking continuously from the tanker. A fire tender was also rushed to the spot to meet any exigency. It may be mentioned here that the tanker carrying diesel fell into a water body, causing oil spill near Gandar village under the Taraiyya police station area in Saran district. The driver of the tanker, Anil Kumar (30), died in the accident. His body which was trapped in the tanker was taken out. Saran DM Nilesh Ramchandra Deore on Wednesday said, “Two heavy lift cranes had reached the spot with the help of which the driver’s body was taken out from tanker and sent for postmortem.” Marhaurha SDPO Indrajeet Baitha said Bharat Petroleum authorities got chemicals sprayed in the water body on Wednesday to check the damage being caused by the oil spillage.“Two 40-tonne cranes tried to pull out the loaded tanker but they failed. Attempts would me made again on Thursday,” Baitha said. The SDPO said, “Oil company authorities would reach the spot on Thursday again to resume operation for pulling out the tanker.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/diesel-filled-tanker-submerged-in-water/articleshow/80371703.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Kolkata||Midweek hope for vax season: Non-Covid child vaccination stats reach pre-Covid level||KOLKATA: Amidst the nation-wide Covid vaccination drive, government hospitals in Kolkata began the mid-week routine immunization programme targeting kids and infants on Wednesday with pre-Covid footfalls. Between 10am and 2pm, the majority of government hospitals went back to their usual Wednesday immunization drive with anything between 30 to 60 people turning up with their kids at each hospital according to the Centre-specified routine immunization schedule. “The usual rush was back at the vaccine centres. Women started reporting to the venues with their kids from as early as 8am. But we were ready with our entire workforce and the entire immunization process went smoothly,” said a senior official of SSKM Hospital. “We had reserved Wednesdays for routine vaccination programmes while we would be carrying out Covid-19 vaccination four days a week. The decision was taken to ensure that routine immunization doesn’t get hampered,” said Indranil Biswas, MSVP of Medical College and Hospital. Officials said the routine immunization programme hadn’t been hampered even during the lockdown. “The turnout had dipped because of non-availability of transport, but the vaccination programme was on according to schedule. Since August-September, there has been a steady increase in the number of recipients,” said a senior health department official. Under the Universal Immunization Programme, free vaccination is provided to check preventable diseases, like diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, polio, measles, severe form of childhood tuberculosis and hepatitis B, haemophilus influenza type b (Hib) and diarrhoea. The fact that the immunization schedule will not be disrupted due to the Covid vaccination has come as a relief to many young parents. “With such a large-scale Covid vaccination drive happening across all hospitals in the city, we were worried whether our child’s routine immunization drive would be hit. But the doctors and staffers assured us it would not and the process was smooth,” said Chandrika Dey, who was at NRS Hospital with her three-month-old daughter for her dose of pentavalent vaccine. Some parents had reached the hospitals early to ensure the programme was being conducted as per schedule. “I had come to the hospital two days ago, but couldn’t get proper information from the security guards. So I reached the hospital around 7am on Wednesday to check if the immunization was on. Once I was assured, I called my wife to bring our child,” said Md Shaufat, a resident of Amherst Street who was at Medical College and Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/midweek-hope-for-vax-season-non-cov-child-vaccination-stats-reach-pre-cov-level/articleshow/80373108.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 21, 2021||Kolkata||Study reveals presence of antibodies even six months after Covid infection||KOLKATA: A nation-wide study by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) published in a scientific journal says antibodies have been found in recovered Covid patients even six months after they had been infected. On Wednesday, a doctor who recovered from Covid six months ago donated plasma for the sixth time at Medical College Hospital (MCH). “We have found his antibody level to be persistently high for the past six months,” said Prasun Bhattacharya, head of immunohaematology and blood transfusion medicine head at MCH. The study collated data from more than 30 laboratories and institutes across India, including the Indian Institute of Chemical Biology (IICB) Kolkata. Doctors and researchers said the antibodies last barely two to three months in many individuals. But it could stay for a longer period in some cases. As long as a person has antibodies, s/he is protected from the infection. “The study by CSIR is the first of its kind in India. We need a detailed study on a larger population to find out why antibodies in some people vanish sooner than in others,” said immunologist Dipyaman Ganguly, scientist at IICB Kolkata. “We could not collect plasma from about 35% of potential donors as they either had not developed enough antibodies or the level had depleted by the time they came to us,” said Bhattacharya, who also heads the plasma bank at MCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/study-reveals-presence-of-antibodies-even-six-months-after-cov-infection/articleshow/80373119.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 21, 2021||Kolkata||Second Covishield batch reaches Kolkata||KOLKATA: The second consignment of 7 lakh doses of Covid vaccine arrived at Kolkata airport from Pune on Wednesday afternoon, ending the uncertainty over whether the second lot would comprise Covishield manufactured at Serum Institute of India in Pune — that the state had received earlier — or Covaxin from the Bharat Biotech facility in Hyderabad, which is also being shipped to various states. This lot was necessary for completing the vaccination of those who are getting their first doses now. With Bengal listing 6 lakh healthcare workers for the inoculation programme, the total requirement was for 12 lakh doses. Following Wednesday’s consignment, Bengal has received around 14 lakh doses. “Since the second dose has to be administered after 28 days, we have some time to despatch the vaccines to the districts,” said state family welfare officer Ashim Das Malakar. The GoAir Airbus A320neo took off from Pune airport at 12.31pm on Wednesday with 59 boxes of Covishield. The flight reached Kolkata at 2.49pm and taxied to bay 11R where it parked around 3pm. Even before the cabin door was opened for passengers, the cargo hatch was lifted and a baggage belt attached to unload the vaccines. The boxes, each containing 12,000 doses, were then loaded in two trucks from the state health department that had been allowed to enter the operational area. “The entire operation was completed in 13 minutes,” said airport cargo deputy general manager Rahul Nandy. The trucks left the airport around 3.20pm with four Kolkata Police pilot cars — two in front and two at the rear — with a vehicle carrying state health department officials following the trucks. The convoy reached the state-owned Central Family Welfare Store at Bagbazar via VIP Road, Maniktala Main Road, Vivekananda Road and CR Avenue around 3.45pm. “The route was clear and apart from getting stuck at a signal at Ultadanga crossing, the journey was seamless,” said a Kolkata Police officer. State health officials were relieved that it was Covishield and not Covaxin. “While being administered the first dose, I had repeatedly asked the coordinators if the second vaccine would also be Covishield. I am glad that it will be so. I will be there for my second dose in four weeks with much more confidence,” said SSKM Hospital’s ENT specialist Bijan Basak. The coordinators were also relieved. “One of the reasons behind the low turnout of recipients had to do with lack of information about whether the second batch of vaccine would also be of Covishield. Now that the second batch is here, we expect a better turnout,” said an official of MR Bangur Hospital. “Both vaccines are safe. But since the efficacy data of Covaxin is still under process, most people will feel more confident taking Covishield for now. I will surely be taking the jab when my turn comes,” said Prabhas Prasun Giri, associate professor of Institute of Child Health, Kolkata. Seven boxes of Covaxin had arrived from Pune in an Air India aircraft at 10am on Wednesday. These were bound for Aizwal, Imphal and Leelabari. While those for the first two destinations left in AI passenger planes shortly thereafter, the consignment to Leelabari was kept in the cargo area cold storage and shipped around 5.15pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/second-covishield-batch-reaches-kol/articleshow/80373098.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 21, 2021||Patna||Petrol & diesel prices touch new high in Patna||PATNA: Petrol and diesel prices touched yet another record high in the state capital with the oil marketing companies increasing the fuel prices. Petrol was being sold at Rs87.89 per litre while diesel prices climbed up to Rs 80.69 per litre on Wednesday. In just one week, the prices petrol and diesel in Patna has seen a rise of 97 paise and Rs1.2 per litre, respectively. In the lockdown period (between March and May last year) due to Covid-19, the prices of petrol and diesel remained constant at Rs74.23 per litre and Rs66.8 per litre, respectively. However, crude oil prices have maintained a rising trend since June last year. Ajay Kumar, manager of a fuelling station near Dak Bungalow roundabout said, “The fuel prices keep rising and the present prices are so far the highest, if we compare the last year figures. In 2020, the highest price of diesel was recorded at Rs79.49 per litre on December 17 while it was Rs86.81 for of petrol per litre. After every two days, the prices increased,” he said. Bihar Petroleum Dealers’ Association (BPDA) president Prabhat Kumar Singh said the present government has abolished the pricing norms for crude oil. “Earlier, the petrol and diesel prices were changed in line with the crude oil prices in the international market and the rupee-dollar exchange rate. Now, the established pricing norm to set the price of petro products is no longer being followed in the country,” he said. Singh told this newspaper that there could be one reason behind the rise in fuel prices is to cover up the funds crisis that the Centre had endured during the lockdown by imposing higher excise duty tax, VAT, GST and other transportation charges. “There is no certainty in oil pricing, as the government keeps on increasing the prices after a gap of 2-3 days as per their need,” he said. “If we consider an ideal zero tax situation (both central and state), then the base price of petrol and diesel would have to cost Rs30-35 per litre,” he added. The experts opined that the rising fuel prices would not only affect the commuters, but also have cascading effects on the prices of other commodities. DM Diwakar, an economist, told this newspaper that the government has no money to run the day-to-day business as the growth rate of the country is still flagging due to the unplanned lockdown and wrong policies. “As the market and businesses are not picking up, the revenue collection is almost negligible. In such a situation, the Centre is trying to generate revenue from essential commodities like petrol, diesel and LPG. Its burden is going to have the cascading effect on other commodities,” he said. “The price of crude per barrel is now $53-$54 and, accordingly, the fuel prices should not be more than Rs65-69 per litre. Even if the international prices come down, the government takes advantage by increasing prices to earn revenue,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/petrol-diesel-prices-touch-new-high-in-city/articleshow/80371509.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 21, 2021||Lucknow||Congress veteran & ex-UP minister Mata Prasad passes away||LUCKNOW: Former Arunachal Pradesh Governor and senior Congress leader Mata Prasad died at Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences late Tuesday. Governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath condoled the death of the 95-year old leader, who succumbed to multiple-organ failure. Director, SGPGI, Prof R K Dhiman, said, Prasad was critically ill, when he was brought to the institute on Tuesday. “He was immediately put on life support, but he passed away around midnight,” Dhiman said in an official statement. Congress leaders mourned the death of the party veteran. Uttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu said, Mata Prasad was born in Machchlishahar in Jaunpur district. “Mata Prasad represented the party as an MLA from Shahganj (reserved) seat for five terms (1957-1974) and was a member of the legislative council from 1980 to 1992. He was a minister in the N D Tiwari-led Congress government between 1988 and 89 and was appointed governor of Arunachal Pradesh in October 1993,” Lallu said. Party workers offered floral tributes to Prasad while senior Congress leaders, including former MP P L Punia and Amethi MLC Dinesh Singh attended his funeral. Arunachal Pradesh chief Minister Pema Khandu also consoled his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cong-veteran-ex-up-min-mata-prasad-passes-away/articleshow/80375388.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Business||Home loan rate war leads to Banks eat into NBFCs market share||Chennai: Banks have seen their share in home loan disbursements rise to 75% from about 66% due to lower interest rates and the cash crunch faced by smaller housing finance companies (HFCs) in the wake of the pandemic. With SBI offering home loans at 6.8%, small- and medium-sized HFCs are losing out the niche markets they held in tier-2 and -3 cities to banks and market leaders HDFC and LIC Housing Finance. These two HFCs have been able to capture the revival in the residential real estate (RE) space, with disbursements surpassing pre-Covid levels. HDFC’s market share is expected to have grow to 46-50% in the first half of 2021 from the current share of 45%, according to Motilal Oswal Securities. Due the lack of growth in corporate lending, banks are likely to remain aggressive in the foreseeable future, said Alpesh Mehta, deputy head (research — financial sector), Motilal Oswal Securities. “Share of banks and NBFCs in home loan disbursement has moved from 65%-35% respectively in FY20, to 75%-25% in FY21,” he said. This is also because DHFL, the third-largest HFC, went into bankruptcy in December 2019. “It is no secret that the lower rates offered by banks and the aggressive lending style adopted by them during the lockdown has eaten into our market share,” said Keshav Porwal, MD, Capital India Finance, a medium-sized lender, growth slipped to 17-18% in the previous year, from its April expectation of 22-23%. According to Renu Sud Karnad, MD, HDFC, her company’s faster-than-market growth may have resulted in market share gains. “The growth is driven by lowest-ever interest rates, stable property prices, work-from-home and study-from-home,” she added. Shriram Housing Finance MD Ravi Subramanian also said that while there is pressure from public sector banks, who are lending at 6-7%, there is room to grow. “We registered a 20% quarter-on-quarter growth in loan disbursements in the affordable segment at about Rs 500 crore. This segment is less likely explored by the PSU banks, as the cost involved here is much higher for them,” he added Over the past five years, affordable housing has been the key growth driver for the industry, led by the huge stimulus from the government, given its target of ‘housing for all’ by 2022. “Also in the mid-segment in Delhi and Mumbai, our rates are much lower than the affordable housing, such that it helps us to retain our customers. We do provide extra benefits like top-up on loans, etc,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/home-loan-rate-war-leads-to-banks-eat-into-nbfcs-market-share/articleshow/80374003.cms||Mamtha Asokan
January 21, 2021||Coimbatore||Schools to be open six days a week: Tamil Nadu minister||ERODE: Tamil Nadu school education minister K A Sengottaiyan confirmed that the schools should have to be open six days a week for classes X and XII. “The schools can remain closed only on the government holidays and Sundays,” he said. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by the school education minister. Following the meeting, the minister told the reporters that a total of 92 % of the students came to the schools. Mentioning the Tamil Nadu assembly election, the minister said that dates for boards will be decided after election dates are declared. “We will announce the board examination dates once the ECI declares the election date,” he confirmed. The minister also said that he was discussing a proposal with the education department officials to pass all students, except classes 10 and 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/schools-to-stay-open-6-days-a-week/articleshow/80380106.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Patna||Bihar govt to honour 75 corona warriors on R-Day||PATNA: Preparations for the Republic Day celebrations and parade are in full swing in the state capital. The district administration is busy making necessary arrangements while keeping the ‘new normal’ in mind. The number of invitees would be restricted to ensure physical distancing norms and other Covid-19 protocols during the celebration. Altogether 10 tableaux (jhanki) of education, health, water resources, tourism, agriculture, art, culture and youth affairs, women development corporation and building construction departments besides IPRD and Upendra Maharathi Shilp Anusandhan Sansthan would be displayed at Gandhi Maidan on January 26.The contingents to take part in the parade include CRPF, SSB, ITBP, CISF, district armed forces, BMP, home guards, NCC and fire brigade. The full dress rehearsal of the Republic Day parade will be held on January 24 at Gandhi Maidan. Patna DM Chandrashekhar Singh on Wednesday reviewed the preparations and issued several instructions. “All the Covid-19 protocols will be strictly followed. The wearing of face masks, use of sanitisers and thermal screening would be ensured at the entrance. Social distancing would be maintained inside the ground. The officers concerned have been directed to ensure availability of medical team, safe drinking water and urinals,” he said. “Altogether 75 corona warriors will be honoured for their selfless contribution to the society during the pandemic. There will be a special gallery for them,” he added. The DM has instructed the officials concerned to ensure cleanliness, barricading, uninterrupted power supply, lighting, public address system, pruning of trees and proper seating arrangements. “Traffic police have been instructed to take precautionary measures related to the movement of vehicles on the road and make proper parking arrangements for vehicles near Gandhi Maidan,” Singh said. Deputy development commissioner Richie Pandey, traffic SP D Amarkesh, additional collector (legal systems) KK Singh and ADM Vinayak Mishra among the other officers were present at the review meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-govt-to-honour-75-corona-warriors-on-r-day/articleshow/80372214.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 21, 2021||Patna||Railways to run special train from Muzaffarpur to Porbandar||PATNA: Railways has decided to run a biweekly special passenger train (09269/09270) between Muzaffarpur and Porbandar from January 21. It will run via Bapudham Motihari-Bettiah-Narkatiaganj-Gorakhpur-Lucknow-Bareilly-Delhi and Jaipur. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the train will leave Porbandar every Thursday and Friday at 7.40pm and reach Muzaffarpur every Saturday and Sunday at 6.59pm. On its return journey, it will leave Muzaffarpur every Sunday and Monday at 3.15pm and reach Porbandar every Tuesday and Wednesday at 10.51am. It will have one 2AC, five 3AC, 10 sleeper class and four general coaches, one pantry car and a brake van. Besides, railways has extended the run of Darbhanga-Pune special (01033/01034) till April 2. The CPRO said railways has provided stoppage of Bhagalpur-Anand Vihar special train (02367/02368) at Barahiya station under Danapur division of the ECR. Railways will also run a daily special passenger train (08185/08186) between Barauni and Gwalior from February 1 to March 1. It will leave Gwalior at 12pm and reach Barauni the next day at 12.50pm. It will return from Barauni at 6.45pm and reach Gwalior the next day at 8.35pm. It will have five 2AC coaches, three 3AC, one 2AC and 3AC composite coach and two brake vans. Meanwhile, Bihar Daily Passengers’ Association has urged the railway administration to ensure restoration of about 16 MEMU/DEMU trains. “The association has demanded stoppage of all MEMU/DEMU trains at halts to facilitate local passengers and vendors,” said association secretary Shoaib Quraishi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rlys-to-run-special-train-from-muz-to-porbandar/articleshow/80372120.cms||Kumod Verma
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: 3 JDA schemes, a prominent institute in way of northern ring road alignment||JAIPUR: The proposed 45-km northern corridor of ring road connecting Delhi and Agra highway may affect Jaipur Development Authority’s three schemes falling on the route alignment. As per the initial survey reports, Sumel housing scheme on Agra Road, JDA Golf Course and institutional plots in Achrol will be affected by the project. An official source said, “A prominent education institute near Agra Road and plots of Sumel scheme are falling under project-affected persons corridor (PAP Corridor) of the project. The decision will be taken at the state government-level, whether to acquire the entire land or only construct a transport corridor (excluding development corridor) in the particular area. Even if the transport corridor is constructed, a portion of the institute and Sumel plots are likely to be affected.” Sources further said, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which was earlier constructing the project, had mentioned in its report to reconsider the alignment at JDA Golf Course Scheme & Institutional Plots in Achrol. However, as JDA plans to build northern corridor on the lines of the 47-km, southern corridor (Agra Road to Ajmer Road) and acquire 360-metre-wide strip of land, the land for the scheme is likely to be acquired soon. It was informed, now the transport corridor will be constructed on a 90-metre-wide land as the civic body proposes 135-135 metres wide development corridor along the transport corridor for commercial purpose. “In the Master Plan 2025, the JDA has kept the northern corridor 360-metre wide, same as southern corridor. The JDA had earlier developed the commercial corridor after acquiring the extra land. The idea, however, of acquiring additional land other than the transport corridor did not go down well with farmers earlier and the state government faced many violent protests while taking possession of the land for the southern corridor. JDA might have to face protests by farmers in future,” said a source An official said, “The estimated cost of the project will be Rs 3,000 crore. The state government has provided the nod to JDA to execute the project. The JDA will soon acquire the land between Bagrana (Agra Road) to Achrol (Delhi Road). Dialogues with NHAI will also be initiated to construct the project on joint revenue sharing basis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-jda-schemes-a-prominent-institute-in-way-of-northern-ring-road-alignment/articleshow/80373145.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Patna||Post-matric dropout rate of girls declines in Bihar||GAYA: The intermediate examinations conducted by the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) this year is expected to witness maximum number of girl students appear, thereby registering a decline in post-matric dropout cases in the district. “This year, 41,530 and 31,112 girl students would appear in matriculation and intermediate examinations respectively. The number of girls appearing at the intermediate examinations this year is the highest during the last five years. In 2015-16, 2016-17, 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20, the number of postmatric dropout cases of girl students was 22,338, 23,712, 24579, 20,302 and 21,804 respectively,” district education officer (DEO) Md Mustafa Hussain Mansoori said. He added: “In 2015-16, 2016-17, 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 respectively, 29,738, 30,254, 31,507, 30,885 and 36,682 girls appeared at the matriculation examination against 7,400, 6,542, 6,928, 10,583 and 13,878 respectively in the intermediate examinations.” According to the DEO, providing school uniforms, bicycles, scholarships and other encouragements to the girls led to reduction in postmatric dropout rate. “There are 289 high schools across the district, apart from 24 Kasturba Vidyalayas only for girls. In each Kasturba Vidyalaya 100 girls are enrolled,” he said. This year, there altogether 35 examination centres for matriculation and 37 for intermediate examinations for girls in the district. The number of boys appearing at matric and intermediate examinations is 42,456 and 35,992 respectively. Altogether 1,51,090 students will appear at matric and intermediate examinations this year. Thus includes 72,642 girls, which is 48.06℅ of the total number. “This is a very good indication. Encouraged by state government initiatives, girls and their families are now showing keen interest in education, which would enable them to become self-dependent. In coming years, the graph of girl child education will certainly increase,” the DEO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/post-matric-dropout-rate-of-girls-declines/articleshow/80371658.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Business||Film insurance rebounds after pandemic hit||MUMBAI: Mega claims following movie production cancellations and delay in releases last year have burnt insurance companies. But a renewed demand for film insurance could see the industry’s annual premiums grow from the current Rs 150-200 crore to around Rs 300 crore. “We are getting almost two proposals a day. There is a huge number of productions that are taking the floor in Hindi, Tamil and Telugu, including from over-the-top (OTT) platforms,” said Aatur Thakkar, director of Alliance Insurance Brokers, which arranges for a large chunk of the films to be insured in India. After taking a beating last year on account of mega event cancellations like Wimbledon in the UK and the Olympics in Japan, event insurers globally have got badly burnt. Additionally, the pandemic became an excluded risk immediately after the World Health Organization’s announcement on March 11, 2020. “While risks arising out of Covid are excluded from insurance treaties, it is possible to get specialised covers from global underwriters under facultative programmes,” said Thakkar. Facultative reinsurance covers provide for a case-to-case acceptance unlike reinsurance treaties where there is a blanket acceptance of all proposals underwritten by a primary insurer in a year. “We arranged a Rs 140-crore insurance cover for Akshay Kumar-starrer ‘Bell Bottoms’, the first film in India and probably worldwide to go on the floors after the pandemic,” said Thakkar. The movie, produced by Vashu Bhagnani, was shot in a bubble — a term used to describe a situation where interaction is limited to a small cluster of people in a group. According to New India Assurance DGM K S Ramkumar, his company provided the bulk of the cover for ‘Bell Bottoms’ but excluded Covid-linked risks. He added that underwriters were wary after ‘Angrezi Medium’ and ‘Baaghi 3’ were hit by the pandemic. He said that the number of productions that were seeking cover was on the rise because most films are now bank-financed and insurance is almost mandatory in such cases. Also, producers making films for OTT platforms have movie-sized budgets, which they can easily finance because of their contracts. GIC Re GM Satyajit Tripathy pointed out that while the pandemic is excluded under reinsurance treaties, facultative covers make it possible for underwriters to accept on a case-to-case basis by pricing the risk or limiting the cover. He added that while GIC has reinsured films, it is cautious to ensure that the scripts are not controversial. With even regional movies going for cover, the industry is set to grow. “The film insurance market used to be Rs 150-200 crore. Given that rates are firming up and more productions are being insured, we feel that this could grow to Rs 300 crore,” said Ramkumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/film-insurance-rebounds-after-pandemic-hit/articleshow/80374744.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Airlines to reconnect Seychelles from March||MUMBAI: From March-end, the Seychelles archipelago is set to be reconnected with India with airline flights flying non-stop between Mumbai and Mahe twice a week, said an Air Seychelles official, adding that an air travel bubble between the two countries has been signed. That would add another outbound destination to the teeny list of foreign destinations that Indian tourists, who rely solely on airline flights, can travel to during the pandemic. Currently too Seychelles is open to Indian tourists -- those who fly into the island country onboard chartered flights or private aircraft with a negative RT-PCR test report in tow, that is. Tourists from India flying in on airline flights from March-end onwards too would need to carry a negative Covid-19 PCR certificate with the test taken maximum of 72 hours prior to departure, said a Seychelles Tourism Board (STB) official. Seychelles, which recently launched its Covid vaccination programme, announced on Wednesday that the island country has “re-opened borders to all countries worldwide with immediate effect”. In the coming months, the country will be simplifying and relaxing some of the restrictive measures to relaunch its tourism industry. The island country saw over 14,000 Indian tourist arrivals in 2019. Pre-pandemic, till March last year, Air Seychelles operated five flights a week on the four-and-a-half hour route between Mumbai and Seychelles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/airlines-to-reconnect-seychelles-from-march/articleshow/80374681.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: JMC Greater plans to open schools for EWS kids||JAIPUR: In the upcoming board meeting, Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) Greater will propose to open schools for the economically weaker section (EWS)in their area as earlier functioning five schools now comes under JMC Heritage after the bifurcation. This proposal is opposed by the educationists of the city who said that already the functioning of five schools are in pathetic condition with not more than 150 children in all these schools and enrolment is going down every day. Instead of opening schools in Jaipur, activists demanded this money to be utilised in some other civic work. Somya Gurjar, mayor of JMC, Greater, while talking to TOI confirmed that they are planning to propose this for the upliftment of children of EWS. “We will make a proper plan and will start these schools as per the powers given to us in our municipality act. We will make these schools with proper infrastructure and will be helpful for the students in weaker section,” said Gurjar. According to a report published in TOI in 2019, the five schools that are now in JMC, Heritage have only 12 teachers out which eight are on contract. Most of these teachers are just sanitation workers who are graduate and appointed as teachers but still withdraw salary as a sanitation worker. Due to sheer neglect by the authorities over the years the enrollment has decreased. K B Kothari, an educationist who has worked with the UN, said that the JMC neither has the resources nor the will to execute the plan they make. “It has been decades since the opening of municipal corporation schools but look at their condition. Authorities do not have technical support to run a school which is a difficult task. If JMC Greater is still willing to open schools they must work in collaboration with the education department as they will provide the necessary assistance for running a school,” said Kothari. The proposal will finally take shape after being passed in the general body meeting of JMC Greater to be held on January 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-greater-plans-to-open-schools-for-ews-kids/articleshow/80373140.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Patna||Four more Patna HC judges to retire by Sept||PATNA: The strength of Patna high court judges would come down to one-third as four more judges are to retire by September this year. There are 22 judges against the sanctioned bench strength of 53 judges the Patna high court. Out of the 53, 40 posts are of permanent judges while rest 13 are of additional judges. The posts of all additional judges are vacant, as per the information on the website of department of justice under the Union ministry of law and justice. The high court has started physical hearing limited number of cases from January 4 to avoid congregation amid Covid-19 pandemic. If no new appointments are made before the retirement of four judges, there will be 18 judges only, which is 33.9% of the sanctioned strength. As per the information available on the Patna high court website, Justice Hemant Kumar Srivastava is to retire on February 1, Justice Shivaji Pandey on May 7, Justice Prabhat Kumar Jha on July 15 and Justice Rajendra Kumar Mishra on September 30. The Patna high court is already among the four high courts in the country with the maximum vacant posts of judges. The other high courts having vacant positions are Allahabad high court with 64, Calcutta high court with 38 and Punjab and Haryana high court with 32 vacant positions as on January 1, 2021. The Patna high court collegium had recommended the names of 23 persons — 15 from its bar and eight from state judicial service — to the Supreme Court collegium for elevation in higher judiciary in July, 2019. However, the names were returned last year due to different reasons. There were more than 75,000 criminal cases pending before the Patna high court as on November 30 last year. The count of pending civil cases were a little less than one lakh on the same day. More than 35,000 criminal and 11,000 civil nature cases were instituted before the high court last year. Against this count, more than 36,000 criminal cases and 10,000 civil nature cases were disposed till November 30 last year. In 2019, more than 98,000 criminal and around 38,000 civil nature cases were filed against which more than 88,000 criminal and around 29,000 civil cases got disposed by the high court that year. Senior advocate Yogesh Chandra Verma, who is chairman of the coordination committee of all three lawyers’ association of the high court, told TOI that the stakeholders must act for appointment of judges. Patna High Court Bar Association secretary Mukesh Kant said appointments of judges must be made as soon as possible. “Due to pandemic, the number of case pendency has increased,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/4-more-hc-judges-to-retire-by-sept/articleshow/80372024.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 21, 2021||Business||Companies tap management gurus to tackle ‘unknowns’||MUMBAI: In a world where predicting even the short-term future is becoming difficult, organisations are rushing to management thinkers to understand how best they can cope with unforeseeable conditions— ‘the unknown unknowns’. Vijay Govindarajan, Coxe Distinguished Professor at Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth, said he has received several calls from CEOs in the past 12 months asking this very question. Covid will transform industries but one doesn’t yet know how. According to Govindarajan, what companies find useful to prepare for an uncertain world is the ‘Three Box Solution’ (see graphic). This is a framework for managing actions in three time horizons at once. Box 1 (in the above graphic) is executing the present core business, the performance engine, at peak efficiency. Box 2 is taking steps to avoid the inhibiting traps of past success, and Box 3 is inventing a future built on breakthrough ideas. “Leaders must set aside time to understand what is possible in the future, conduct one low-cost experiment and, based on the learnings from the experiment, build the future brick by brick. The process involves imagining the future but proceeding from the present,” said Govindarajan. Read AlsoIndian companies prepare to buy vaccines for employeesSeveral Indian companies are making plans to buy Covid-19 vaccines for their employees, just days after the country's government began one of the world's largest vaccination drives with healthcare and other frontline workers.He has been advising companies to set up two task forces — one to respond to the short-term challenges (Box 1) and the other devoted to preparing for the long-term future (Boxes 2/3). For instance, automobile companies can simultaneously excel in the traditional gasoline-powered, internal combustion-driven car (Box 1) as they prepare for a future defined by electrification, ride-sharing and autonomous vehicles (Boxes 2/3). Management gurus believe learnings from the financial crisis of 2008 should be applied here as well. Rohit Deshpande, who is the Sebastian S Kresge Professor of Marketing at Harvard Business School, said a majority of companies reduced their investments in marketing during the financial crisis. “We found that those companies that did not do that came out ahead of competition and gained market share. The moral of the story is if you understand your customers and stay with them, particularly in bad times, customers will reward you even more after the crisis is over,” said Deshpande. “During the pandemic, all that companies focused on was supply chain and manufacturing. What I am telling executives of companies is that they need to get back to thinking about what customers are doing. While companies have been thinking all this time about cutting back, I ask them why don’t you instead think about investing for the future?” said Deshpande. Read AlsoLarge companies don’t need debt recast: KV KamathVeteran banker K V Kamath says that soft interest rates will provide the tailwind for businesses to come out of the crisis. In an interview to TOI, he speaks on why a fresh pile of corporate bad loans is not expected to build up due to the pandemic.The fundamental issue now, said Deshpande, is a lot of companies have lost touch with customers and they need to go back to the paradigm that serving customers comes first and profit is a reward for serving the customer. “They also need to think about who the new customers are and how they can reach them. For this I have coined a term called customer centricity. Companies are focusing so much about the functionality of products, that they have forgotten about emotionality. A brand is a trust mark and customers need to feel reassured. What this requires is spending money now,” said Deshpande. Citing Amazon’s example, Deshpande said, “We have seen how they are investing in customers through data management and also expanding their footprint.” Lynda Gratton, professor of management practice, Organisational Behaviour Department, London Business School, said every company she has been advising or hearing from is anxious to best understand what to do now. Gratton had launched the ‘Future of Work Consortium’ over a decade ago, which has TCS as an early joiner. The biggest question Gratton is getting from companies is about hybrid work. “Multiple surveys have shown that employees don’t want to go back to their prior way of working — many are enjoying having more flexibility about time and place — but these are difficult to manage. One of the companies I advise, Fujitsu, moved 80,000 people in their Japanese office into home working within a week — very difficult for the Japanese culture of being in the office,” said Gratton. Gratton believes the best theories that have been useful in the current situation is the network theory (a problem is represented in the form of a graph to provide better clarity and problem solving) as also theories about autonomy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-tap-mgmt-gurus-to-tackle-unknowns/articleshow/80374831.cms||Namrata Singh
January 21, 2021||Patna||Masks, physical distancing new normal in city schools||PATNA: Senior secondary schools, which reopened on January 4, are facing a new set of challenges amid the Covid-19 pandemic. They not only have to make up for lost days, but also adhere to the safety protocols issued by the education department. City schools claim that they are taking all necessary measures to prevent the spread of the virus. Classrooms and campuses are sanitised twice every day. Thermal screening, masks and physical distancing have been made mandatory and classes are held with 50% capacity. Schools are also keeping tabs on all the students to ensure that they have no Covid symptoms. “There was a lot of hesitation among the students initially, but the attendance is regular now. The morning assembly is conducted in the classrooms and laboratories are also functioning,” Jesus and Mary Academy principal Puja Ann Sharma told this newspaper. Resumption of classes has, however, given rise to problems like arrangement of transportation and confusion over accommodation in residential schools. Shailesh Kumar, director of Bishop Scott Group of Schools, said, “Since only students from classes IX to XII are attending classes, limited transportation is being offered to them.” Gyan Niketan Boys’ School has reopened its hostels too. Vice-principal Shailendra Mohan Jha pointed out, “Covid safety protocols are being followed strictly in our hostels. One room is occupied only by two students instead of four.” Meanwhile, students are happy that schools have reopened after a gap of at least eight months and trying their best to stay safe. Nishant Raj, a student of St Karen’s High School, attends classes for four hours thrice a week. There is, however, no lunch break. “I religiously follow social distancing norms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/masks-physical-distancing-new-normal-in-city-schools/articleshow/80371479.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Patna||Students miss pre-Covid fun due to safety norms||PATNA: The fun that children used to have in schools — the chattering, sharing of food during lunch-break, playing games and other activities— that made school life lively are a thing of the past now courtesy the Covid-19 inflicted social distancing. The post-lockdown physical classes are now what students call “boring, lonely and monotonous”. Face-mask, sanitisation, regular washing of hands and thermal screening is not what bothers school children, limited interaction and maintaining social distance with close friends or classmates and teachers is making them jittery. Ritika Thakur, a Class XI student of Notre Dame Academy said she hardly talks to her best friends at school as there are so many restrictions. “There is also less interaction between teachers and students as we have to maintain social distancing. Earlier, we used to ask questions even after classes. We are not supposed to play games or talk in groups anymore,” she said. A Class XII student of Litera Valley School, Kaushiki Krishna is also facing a similar situation of not able to get together with her friends. “As only 8-12 kids sit in one classroom, I don’t even know who attend the classes and in which room they are. We have no lunch break, canteen or sports classes. This is the last year of our school life, which has completely ruined all the fun that we could have if Covid breakout never happened,” she told this newspaper. A student at Loyola High School, Sonam Kumari said, “We have to eat the lunch at our desk, we are not allowed to mingle with friends and share food. Lunch break is my favourite time, as we talk about our lives, gossip and play games. But we hardly suppose to talk. I only stare at my friends under the mask.” For Atul Kumar of DAV Public School, freshers’ experience was still not good as it would have been without restrictions. He took admission after he completed his class X from a different school. “I still can’t make friends at the new school, which we usually do after changing school. For me school life is very boring and frustrating with all masks and social distancing,” he said. “We have no usual gossips during the classes anymore. It’s harder to talk by maintaining a six- feet distance and can be slightly awkward. Sometimes, we forgot to maintain distance, but our teachers always caught us. We are all still adapting to this new style of teaching and learning, and schooling, which is completely dull in short,” said Ravi Ranjan, a student of St Karen’s Secondary School. It is hard for the teachers as well. Abha Choudhary, a senior teacher at Notre Dame Academy said she is only able to see the eyes of kids, not their usual smiles. “Seeing kids face, we know if they understand the topic or not. Sometimes, it feels awkward when so many are looking at you. Obviously, it is even harder for kids,” she said. A teacher of DAV Public School- BSEB Colony, Balram Kumar Singh said the workload of teachers has increased and they have become more vigilant. “Kids are not much cautious, but we need to be alert. Besides, a small gesture like patting kids to encourage them and one-to-one interaction has completely gone,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/students-miss-pre-covid-fun-due-to-safety-norms/articleshow/80371426.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 21, 2021||Allahabad||Etah brutality: Assaulted lawyer can move court for change of probe agency, says HC||Prayagraj: Hearing a PIL relating to assault on a lawyer in Etah district, the Allahabad high court on Tuesday said that the aggrieved person may avail appropriate remedy for the change of investigating agency in the case before the appropriate court in appropriate proceedings. The court passed this order when the counsels appearing in this case sought change of investigating agency in the matter from Uttar Pradesh Police to some other investigative agency on the ground that former cannot act in a fair and impartial manner. Hearing the PIL, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Saurabh Shyam Shamshery fixed February 2, 2021 as the next date of hearing and said that counsels for the rival parties shall address the court on the four issues. Earlier, while going through the report of Chief Judicial Magistrate, Etah, who had submitted his probe report as per direction of the court, the division bench said that the first issue for consideration is whether a police team is having any authority to use unlawful force while arresting a person who has been assigned for taking law in hands when police tried to arrest him? The second issue, as per court is, can the police be used as an agency to dispossess a person from possession of an immovable property or to restore possession of a property with a person on having a report with allegation of unlawful possession or unlawful dispossession of such person from such property? The third issue is whether the administrative authorities including the police authorities are well within their rights to get a person evicted from the premises against whom a decree has been granted by a competent court, without there being any order in execution proceedings by executing court? Lastly, as per court, whether the Advocates Act, 1961 extends any privilege to an advocate for not taking any coercive action by the police against him, if he is in prescribed robes? It is alleged that on December 21, 2020, the police broke open the door of Rajendra Sharma’s house and dragged him outside while he was still in his advocate’s dress and then assaulted him mercilessly. The video of this incident had gone viral recently on social media. The court passed this order on January 19 that came to light on January 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/etah-brutality-assaulted-lawyer-can-move-court-for-change-of-probe-agency-says-hc/articleshow/80370925.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
January 21, 2021||Patna||Guv and CM participate in 354th Prakashotsava||PATNA: Thousands of devotees, including governor Phagu Chauhan and CM Nitish Kumar, visited Takht Sri Harmandir Ji Patna Sahib Gurdwara in Patna City on Wednesday and participated in the religious programmes organized on the occasion of the 354th birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh. Soon after reaching the gurdwara, Nitish bowed before the Holy Guru Granth Sahib. The office-bearers of Sri Harmandir Ji Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee welcomed the CM by offering him ‘saropa’, shawl and a sword. The CM, accompanied by officials, later visited the Bal Leela Gurdwara where he was welcomed by the religious leaders led by Sant Baba Kashmir Singh Bhuriwale and Chhote Baba Sukhvinder Singh. Talking to media persons outside the gurdwara, Nitish said it is a matter of pride for Bihar that Guru Gobind Singh ji was born here. People know how the Bihar government had organized his 350th birth anniversary in 2017 in a grand way when a large number of devotees from across the world had reached Patna Sahib. “After the 2017 event, a large number of devotees keep coming to the birthplace of Guru Gobind Singh Ji. This year, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the event has been organized in a limited manner. Sill a large number of devotees have come to see the birthplace of the tenth Sikh guru. This is a special place for the members of Sikh community,” Nitish said. The CM also said the first Sikh guru, Nanak Dev, had also visited Bihar. “Guru Nanak Dev had visited Rajgir. There is a ‘sheetal kund’ there. A grand gurdwara is being built at Rajgir,” he said.Nitish further said, “It is a matter of pride for all of us that Guru Gobind Singh was born in Patna. I pay my respect to Guru Gobind Singh Ji by participating in the religious programmes organized here. I visit here every year to express my regards for the guru.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/guv-and-cm-participate-in-354th-prakashotsava/articleshow/80372050.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 21, 2021||Patna||‘Impact’ of Covid vaccine worries common citizens||PATNA: The relatively low turn-out of healthcare workers for Covid-19 vaccination is raising questions in the minds of people, who are in line to get these shots after the essential workers get their shots. In the three-day vaccination so far, nearly 55% of the registered healthcare workers took the jab, while others either skipped or missed because of late information. While healthcare workers are being given the vaccine in the first phase, frontline workers will be the next followed by those above 50 years or those below 50 but with comorbidity. After these preferred groups, common people will be given the vaccines. “But there is not much demand or craze for the vaccine as was expected. People are apprehensive and in a wait-and-watch mode,” said a health department official. IMA state senior vice-president Dr Ajay Kumar said the educated lot was more worried than less educated or illiterate ones. “This is more in case of doctors who know the process of vaccination. Also, such apprehension in anyone is natural,” said Dr Ajay. Another city-based physician Dr Diwakar Tejaswi said they were being frequently asked about the two vaccines. “There is doubt in the minds of people and they are asking doctors about the two vaccines. There is also confusion between the two vaccines — Covaxin and Covishield. The first is in the trial phase and its data for efficacy have not been tabled. However, it has been made of the killed virus and is safe.” Common people apart from being apprehensive about the vaccines were also raising questions as to why healthcare workers were skipping this vaccination. A Bakarganj septuagenarian who did not want to be named said the same and added he will not be taking any risk. Same was the response of a 20-year-old Aryan Raj who said he was afraid of repercussions post-vaccination. Many people are waiting for others to take the vaccine first. One such person is 43-year-old Kadamkuan resident Uma Shankar. He said, “If others get immune after the vaccination, we will reach herd immunity and in such a situation I will be safe. Right now I am waiting for others to take the vaccine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/impact-of-covid-vaccine-worries-common-citizens/articleshow/80371336.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Patna||Katihar civic body plans Rs 193-crore drainage system||KATIHAR: With the existing drainage system becoming old and not having the capacity to carry all the water during monsoon, the Katihar civic body has geared up to get a new drainage system for the town. Municipal commissioner Minendra Kumar said, “The town has a very old drainage system, which is unable to bear the load of drainwater during rainy season. Drainwater often overtops town roads causing immense problem to commuters. A new water drainage system with an outlay of Rs193 crore has been envisaged to reduce large-scale flooding of roads during monsoon. A detailed project report (DPR) has been sent to the state government for approval. Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation (BUIDCO) will be the implementing agency and work on the project is expected to start by February-March this year.” Keshari, a dealer in farm machinery on MG Road said, “The town lacks proper drainage and sewerage lines. During the rainy season, water is discharged or gets accumulated in a huge ditch in the New Market area of the town.” When asked about the routine cleaning of drains by municipal workers, he said they do it on regular basis. However, during the rainy season, the situation becomes miserable for traders. A betel shop owner Mehfoz Alam said “we face waterlogging for at least four to five days during the rainy season. The waterlogged MG Road badly hits our business.” Atul, a bookstore owner on MG Road, said, “The standard of sanitization work has deteriorated and I don’t see any improvement in the civic body’functioning.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/katihar-civic-body-plans-rs-193-crore-drainage-system/articleshow/80371721.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Patna||DSP writes to senior officers on prohibition||PATNA: A DSP-rank officer posted in the prohibition wing of the state police headquarters wrote a letter to all SSPs and SPs seeking inquiry and action against excise department inspectors, sub-inspectors and constables and their family members for allegedly amassing disproportionate assets from liquor smuggling. The letter, written in poor Hindi and in a language never used in official government communications, was issued on January 6. The state police headquarters, in a press note issued on Wednesday, said the letter was cancelled on Tuesday. It also said the DSP (administration) of prohibition wing has been directed to give a clarification for issuing such a letter without giving a deep thought on the entire matter. When asked, IG (prohibition) Amrit Raj told TOI over phone that the letter was not issued in a proper manner by the officer. “The DSP had issued the letter on behalf of SP (prohibition) Rakesh Kumar Sinha, who was on leave due to illness that time,” Raj said. He said the letter was cancelled on Tuesday night soon after the matter came to light. “The DSP had copied the entire content of a general complaint received by the state police headquarters from a common man earlier. The drafting of the letter was improper due to which it seemed to be an instruction to all the SSPs and SPs and, thus, was cancelled,” the IG added. Incidentally, the letter got highlighted in the media soon after Sinha got transferred to the special branch from the prohibition wing on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dsp-writes-to-senior-officers-on-prohibition/articleshow/80371529.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Patna||Katihar administration collects over Rs 6 crore land revenue||KATIHAR: Out of targeted Rs 12.5 crore land revenue collection, the Katihar district administration has procured Rs 6.34 crore land cess so far. Thus, the administration has already collected 50% of the land revenue target. Katihar ADM Vijay Kumar said, “We conduct meetings at the SDM-level after every 15 days and at the DM and SP level once in a month, to review the land revenue collection.” “The COs of respective blocks have been given instructions to meet the land revenue target. We are hopeful that 70% of revenue target will be achieved by the end of this month,” he added. Kumar further said, “Out of 194 land-related cases, 74 were disposed of, whereas 112 are pending cases, which will be resolved soon.” On resolving and rectification pertaining to land mutation cases in the district, the ADM said, “Around 9,280 cases were uploaded on the portal for modification, in which 5,573 cases were resolved.” “The COs have been told to solve the pending mutation cases on a priority basis and we have just 12.86% cases pertaining to land mutation pending. Besides, we have achieved 70% of the land possession certificate in the district so far,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/katihar-administration-collects-over-rs-6-crore-land-revenue/articleshow/80371634.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Business||Sensex nears 50,000 on global cues||MUMBAI: Ahead of Joe Biden’s inauguration as the 46th President of the US on Wednesday evening, a global rally lifted the sensex by 394 points to a fresh record closing level of 49,792. The surge came as foreign funds renewed buying into the Indian stock market. Wednesday’s rally lifted the Nifty on the NSE as well by 124 points to 14,645. The feel-good factor associated with the inauguration in Washington also lifted stocks on Wall Street in early trades on Wednesday with the Nasdaq and S&P 500 both rallying to new highs. Market players here say that with the US markets creating fresh records, the sensex too could witness smart gains on Thursday. In the currency market, the rupee finished 14 paise higher at 73.03 against the US dollar on Wednesday amid the rally in domestic equities and a weak greenback overseas. According to HDFC Securities head (retail research) Deepak Jasani, global shares were mostly higher ahead of Biden’s inauguration, with positive corporate earnings more than offsetting tighter German restrictions to fight the coronavirus in Europe. The day’s rally on Dalal Street was backed by a Rs 2,289-crore net foreign fund inflow, although domestic funds were net sellers at Rs 865 crore, data from the BSE showed. Wednesday’s gains also made investors richer by Rs 1.65 lakh crore with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 197.5 lakh crore. According to Religare Broking VP (research) Ajit Mishra, the recent buoyancy on the global front, combined with supportive local cues, are helping the index to regain momentum. “However, volatility is still high on the stock-specific front,” Mishra said. The sensex’s gains were led by RIL, Infosys and HDFC, while selling in HDFC Bank and ITC restricted the rise to some extent. Of the 30 index constituents, 20 closed higher. In the broader market, however, the number of stocks which declined — at 1,473 — nearly matched the number of advances at 1,541, BSE data showed. On the sectoral front, auto, IT, PSU banks and energy led the gainers, while utilities and FMCG witnessed some selling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-nears-50000-on-global-cues/articleshow/80374621.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Patna||Former ministers, ex-MPs in race for guv quota MLC seats||PATNA: Several former ministers, former Lok Sabha members and former MLAs are in the race for 12 seats of the governor’s quota in the Bihar legislative council. Lobbying for the 12 seats in the Upper House intensified in the recent days after the BJP and JD(U) leadership decided to send a list of 12 people to the governor for nomination as MLCs. The council comprises 75 seats of which 12 are from governor’s quota for a tenure of six years. The six-year term of 12 MLCs nominated in 2014 by the then governor expired on May 23 last year. Of the total 12 seats, two fell vacant in May 2019 after the resignations of former minister Pashupati Kumar Paras and JD(U) leader Rajiv Ranjan Singh, who got elected to the Lok Sabha in 2019. The rest 10 members whose term expired on May 23, 2020, are Ram Lakhan Ram ‘Raman’, Vijay Kumar Mishra, Rana Gangeshwar Singh, Javed Iqbal Ansari, Shiv Prasann Yadav, JD(U)’s chief whip Sanjay Kumar Singh alias Gandhiji, Ram Bachan Roy, Lalan Kumar Sarraf, Ranbir Nandan and Ram Chandra Bharti. Sources in the NDA said BJP and JD(U) have agreed to share the 12 seats of nomination quota on a 50:50 basis. “In JD(U), some former MLCs who are considered close to the top leaders, may get another chance but in BJP the list of aspirants is very long,” a senior BJP leader told TOI on Wednesday. Former MP Janak Ram, BJP’s state general secretary Sushil Choudhary, former MLC Rajendra Gupta (considered close to BJP president JP Nadda), senior party leader Devesh Kumar, former MLCs Krishna Kumar Singh (of Gaya) and Radha Mohan Sharma and Pramod Chandravanshi are being considered as front-runners, sources in the BJP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/former-ministers-ex-mps-in-race-for-guv-quota-mlc-seats/articleshow/80372198.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Business||Bajaj Finance to enter payments biz||Mumbai: Bajaj Finance, the market leader in consumer loans, has said that it will be entering the payments space. The company disclosed this to investors following its third-quarter results on Wednesday. The NBFC plans to launch Bajaj Pay, a platform that will include a digital wallet, an EMI card and UPI options. The new service is likely to be launched in the current quarter. It will also launch Bajaj Pay for merchants, targeting the 1-lakh-plus outlets that it has a relationship with, enabling it to grow its business fast. In 2017, Bajaj Finserv (Bajaj Finance’s parent) had made a Rs 225-crore investment into MobiKwik for an 11% stake. The company subsequently tied up with the e-wallet provider to use its tech platform to deliver credit to the e-wallet customers. The Bajaj Finserv–MobiKwik active e-wallet users (who have linked EMI cards to e-wallets) stood at 1.8 crore as on December 31, 2020. Bajaj Finserv also has a partnership with RBL Bank for a co-branded credit card, which has nearly two crore customers. The company is now looking to extend its partnership to other banks.Bajaj Finance reported a 29% drop in Q3 net profit to Rs 1,145 crore from Rs 1,614 crore in the corresponding period last year due to the pandemic. Bajaj Finserv reported a post-tax profit of Rs 1,290 crore as against Rs 1,126 crore in the previous year after improved performance from its general insurance subsidiary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bajaj-finance-to-enter-payments-biz/articleshow/80374643.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Coimbatore||1,087 people vaccinated in Nilgiris dist||Udhagamandalam: As many as 1087 frontline workers have been vaccinated for Coronavirus so far in the Nilgiris. According to the Nilgiris collector, at least 300 registered frontline workers are getting the shot administered every day since the launch. There was no case with immediate side effects reported in the district so far. 4845 frontline workers including doctors, nurses and health workers have registered at the CoWIN website for the vaccination in the Nilgiris. “So far about 1087 front workers were administered with the vaccine in the district at three vaccination centres”, said J.Innocent Divya, Nilgiris collector. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/1087-people-vaccinated-in-nilgiris-dist/articleshow/80374719.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 21, 2021||Pune||Search on for missing engineer||Pune: The car of a 32-year-old engineer, missing from Ravet since Saturday, was found abandoned on Monday along the road at Ambenali Ghat section, around 145km from here. A team of trekkers and the Mahabaleshwar police have been searching for him for the past two days. “We stopped the search after it turned dark. We will resume the operation on Thursday,” B A Kondubhairi, inspector of Mahabaleshwar police, said. The Mahabaleshwar police have found a cellphone and a jerkin inside the car. “With the help of the registration number of the car, we came to know that owner is from Ravet and had been missing since Saturday (January 16),” Kondubhairi said. The police said the engineer’s wife has lodged a first information report with the Dehu Road police. She said that her husband had left the house following an argument. The missing person was working as a project engineer in a private company in Haveli taluka, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/search-on-for-missing-engineer/articleshow/80374644.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Patna||Same syllabus worries a few JEE, NEET exam aspirants||PATNA: The announcement by the Union Ministry of Education on Tuesday about no changes in the syllabus for JEE (Main) and NEET (UG) but more options to answer questions has evoked mixed response from students and teachers in the city. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has already reduced its syllabus for the upcoming board exams by 30%. The announcement by the Centre has created confusion among a few students, who are appearing simultaneously for both +2 boards and competitive exams. Taashi Tanisha, a class XII student said: “What’s the point of reducing the syllabus of board examinations if I have to study the entire course for my competitive exams.” Ankit Kumar (18) said: “I have been preparing according to the reduced syllabus for all the exams. Now I have to change my strategy and preparations.” The candidates have, however, found some respite as there will be a choice to answer any 75 out of 90 questions. “The students will have to answer 25 out of 30 questions each in Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics. And as per the announcement, the questions from the curtailed portion will be in the optional part, so the students will have a choice,” explained Bipin Kumar, founder and managing director of a coaching institute at Buddha Colony. However, many said the announcement made no difference to their preparations. Saurabh Kumar, a mathematics faculty at an institute on Fraser Road, said: “It hardly makes any difference as most teachers and students are preparing according to previously set syllabus and pattern. Besides, several topics are interconnected. So, we can’t teach one and leave another.” JEE aspirant Priyansh Mishra said, “I am paying no heed to all such talks of what’s coming and what’s not. In the end, it’s my examination and all chapters are important for a comprehensive understanding of topics.” Meanwhile, the education ministry is yet to announce the exact pattern for NEET (UG) 2021. “Exams are fast approaching and we are still in the dark regarding the question pattern. It’s difficult to strategize without a set pattern,” said Sadhana Yadav, an 18-year-old NEET aspirant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/same-syllabus-worries-a-few-jee/neet-aspirants/articleshow/80378416.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Police to conduct job mela on Saturday||HYDERABAD: As part of community connect initiative, Hyderabad police are going to organise a job mela with the support of private companies for the benefit of unemployed youth on Saturday. Karkhana police, who are coordinating this mela, said that this year, the job mela programme will be held at SVIT Engineering College, Patny center, Secunderabad, between 9 am and 4 pm. According to police, candidates who have done degree, MBA, BTech, BPharmacy, diploma, ITI or intermediate can apply for suitable jobs as per their education qualification in the mela. For candidates who have cleared SSC or failed, they will have an opportunity for unskilled jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-to-conduct-job-mela-on-sat/articleshow/80374666.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Delhi||Amid slow start to vaccine run, first round goes to private hospitals in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A random survey of five major government and private hospitals where mass vaccination against Covid-19 was carried out over the last three scheduled rounds reflects a unique trend: the turnout of healthcare workers is much higher in private hospitals than in the government institutions. In Lok Nayak Hospital run by Delhi government, for instance, only 79 healthcare workers were vaccinated in three days. AIIMS, which operates under the central government, inoculated 163 people. In comparison, 245 and 244 people were present for the jab, respectively, at Apollo Indraprastha Hospitals and Max Hospital, Saket. A similar trend has been observed in many other hospitals also.  “There is vaccine hesitancy among healthcare workers,” explained a doctor at Lok Nayak Hospital. “Many of them want to wait and watch before taking the plunge.” He added that the glitches in the CoWin app and the lack of flexibility required to add a beneficiary in place of someone who isn’t willing to receive the shot – an anomaly that has now been corrected – also led to low turnout. “We are hoping the numbers will increase significantly in the days to come,” the doctor added. On Wednesday, the Delhi State Cancer Institute organised a contact programme to dispel common myths about the Covid-19 vaccines. Dr Pragya Shukla, the nodal officer for vaccination at the hospital, said the participants wanted to know how long the immunity would last and whether the vaccine being given would be effective against the newer strains of the Covid coronavirus. “Many people asked how the scientists had managed to come up with a vaccine in such a short time. We tried to answer them and encouraged them to take the vaccine,” she said. Other state-run hospitals are planning similar exercises to motivate staffers to roll up their sleeves for the vaccine. All hospitals, state-run and private, are administering Covishield, the vaccine developed by Oxford/Astrazeneca in collaboration with Serum Institute of India. The central government hospitals are giving Covaxin, developed by Indian Council of Medical Research in collaboration with Bharat Biotech. “The data for the third phase trials of Covaxin isn’t available yet. That is causing apprehension among health workers and so, the low turnout,” said a doctor at AIIMS. AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria took the Covaxin shot on the very first day of the vaccination programme to reassure people about the vaccine’s safeness. The heads of Safdarjung and Ram Manohar Lohia hospitals have also taken Covaxin. “It is important to lead by example. In our hospital, all senior doctors are taking the vaccine,” said Dr Rajesh Chawla of Apollo. Dr Aparna Jaswal, additional director, Fortis Escorts Heart Institute, she took the vaccine on Tuesday and asserted, “The vaccines approved for Covid in India are 100% safe. Every healthcare worker should receive it.” Raman Bhaskar, director, Manipal Hospital, is amenable to staffers taking the shot at a time of their choice. “We are flexible when it comes to employees getting vaccinated during their working shift. We want to ensure they are vaccinated and patient care is not compromised,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/amid-slow-start-to-vax-run-first-round-goes-to-private-hospitals/articleshow/80374749.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
January 21, 2021||Pune||Police bust online gambling racket||Pune: Pimpri police recovered cash and gambling equipment collectively worth Rs 2.8 lakh and registered offence against 25 people after raiding five online lottery and video game parlours outside Chinchwad Railway Station on Tuesday. Police received a tip-off that owners of these lottery centres and video game parlours were involved in illegal online gambling. “We sent a decoy customer and raided five spots after confirmation,” said an officer from the Pimpri police. He said the police found 25 people gambling online. “We have booked all of them. Three of them are on the run, while 22 have obtained anticipatory bail from the court,” the officer said. The social security cell of the Pimpri Chinchwad police on Tuesday registered an offence against seven men for accepting Matka bets. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-bust-online-gambling-racket/articleshow/80374671.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Nagpur||Only 82 of 36k flyers from 4 hotspot states tested +ve in 54 days||Nagpur: The state government’s standard operating procedures (SOPs) for air passengers arriving to the city from four Covid hotspot states — Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa — seem to have helped in curbing transmission of the disease in the city and other parts of Vidarbha between November 25 last year (when Covid negative report was made must) and January 18 this year. Though the four states witnessed fresh spike in Covid-19 cases during the period, 89% (32,132) passengers out of total 35,964 boarded flights with RT-PCR negative results. Of the remaining 3,832 flyers who did not carry such RT-PCR reports, only 82 tested positive for the infection in city. Moreover, not a single flyer tested positive in the city in the last four days. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) additional commissioner Sanjay Nipane told TOI that total 35,964 flyers from these four states arrived in the city in 365 flights between November 25 and January 18. Nipane said swab samples of 3,832 flyers were collected at the airport itself and 82 of them tested positive (52 from the city and 30 from other parts of Vidarbha). Percentage of positive flyers thus comes to 2.14% among those tested here. Though the SOPs are being strictly implemented here, the number of incoming flyers has not gone down. In the last six days of November, 3,404 flyers arrived in the city with an average 567 per day. The number was 20,284 for December, for a daily average of 654. In the 18 days of January, 12,276 flyers arrived in the city for an average of 682 a day. Though the figures indicate slight increase in the number of incoming air passengers, the number of persons testing positive was 20 in the last six days of November, 44 in December and 18 till January 18. Around 3,400 flyers arrived between January 15 and 18 of which tests were conducted on 240 passengers. None tested positive for Covid. As reported by TOI on December 25, despite such precautions, spread of the infection cannot be ruled out as RT-PCR test results come a day after the passengers reach their destination — be it in city or other places. Also, no such monitoring is being done for passengers arriving via rail or road. Joseph George from NGO Together We Can said, “I received information that a few flyers managed to get through without testing at the airport. There were also complaints that staffers at the airport do not cross-check whether the negative test report produced by the flyers is genuine or not. The authorities should verify name and date of the passengers as the guidelines mandate that the test report should not be older than 72 hours.” NMC officials, however, refuted the claim. An official said, “NMC team is monitoring all air passengers and ensuring testing of swab samples of those arrived without RT-PCR negative report for the last 57 days. We are doing this despite facing criticism from the public.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/only-82-of-36k-flyers-from-4-hotspot-states-tested-ve-in-54-days/articleshow/80373180.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Two accused nabbed over mobile theft in Raja Park||JAIPUR: Police on Wednesday cracked the mobile theft in two shops in Raja Park by arresting two hardened inter-state criminals from Jaipur-Delhi highway. The main accused Hanraj was involved in over 150 criminal cases registered in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi. The theft in Raja Park mobile shops took place on January 17 and a report were filed on January 18 by the owners of the shops. Acting on the inputs, police arrested Hansraj and Arif Khan, both residents of Delhi, from Daulatpura on NH-8 and recovered 25 android phones stolen from the shops. During investigation, police found that Hansraj was involved in multiple cases and both of them were running an inter-state mobile theft racket, which police said, they have busted by arresting them DCP Jaipur City Abhijeet Singh said the accused in the guise of riding luxury cars and branded clothes carries out the burglary in mobile shops late in the night. “They have been successful in distracting people’s attention by their appearance and have been carrying out the thefts since years. In all their crimes, they first recce the area and target the shops which are most vulnerable. They return in the night and park their car close to targeted shop and use tools to break in and catty out the burglary in minutes,” said Singh. He has several cases registered in the posh localities in Delhi and found to have invested money in different businesses. “Hansraj was arrested under arms act on several occasions and has been slapped with charges like assisting or providing arms to gangsters,” Singh Further adding on how they disposed of the stolen phones, Singh said that they have an active network in Uttar Pradesh which sold stolen phones in different cities. Investigation also revealed that they use to spend the money in pubs, discotheques, parties and keeping luxury cars. Disclosing how they cracked the case, “Acting on a complaint, the investigating team searched the CCTVs to figure out a car with suspicious activity in the area. Different agencies have been involved in the case which gave leads and they were apprehended by police in on NH-8.” Police were unaware that they had arrested a wanted accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-accused-nabbed-over-mobile-theft-in-raja-park/articleshow/80373151.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Pune||Pune: Screens at MSRTC depots to show bus details by next week||PUNE: The public information system of the city division of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) will be updated and should be functional by next week; providing commuters with information about buses and their schedules on screens installed at respective depots, similar to how it is showcased at a railway station or an airport. “There are screens at the major bus depots in Pune but the software and information is not updated. Commuters are informed about the bus schedules via loudspeakers. At present we are in the final stage of updating the software to have a visual information-relaying system,” a senior official with the Pune division told TOI. “Once the software is updated, the screens will showcase accurate information of the buses, routes, timings, bay in which they are parked, among others. It will also provide the registration numbers of buses to help people easily identify them. Pune has four bus stands — in Swargate, Wakdewadi, near Pune station and in Pimpri — which already have the screens,” the official said. Frequent commuter Raghav Thorat said visual information about buses was important as the audio of the public address system was not clear mostly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/screens-at-msrtc-depots-to-show-bus-details-by-next-week/articleshow/80374649.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 21, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Rs 6 lakh funds for event at Singhu border’||AMBALA: A journalist from Saha in Ambala, who runs a social media house and also does freelance, was issued a notice by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) last week for receiving about Rs 6 lakh as funds from overseas. As per information, since the launch of farmers agitation at Delhi borders, the journalist has been actively participating in the protest, as his firm provides coverage of events to media platforms, especially those run by Sikh diaspora settled abroad. Last week, the journalist received the NIA notice, similar to the one sent by the agency to hundreds of activists linked to farmers protest in one way or the other. The journalist confirmed he was the first one to appear before the investigation agency at Delhi on January 16. “I attended the investigation before a team of NIA officers that went on for 4.5-5 hours. I am associated with UK-based media channels and provide them coverage . I am also providing coverage of the kisan morcha at Delhi and I have received some payments from foreign-based Indian channels. So, NIA officials questioned me on the funds that I had received and the money spent. My entire work is official and all the transactions were received in my bank accounts.” “I told them (NIA) about my firm and services offered to different media channels. I satisfied the officers with my answers,” he said. Giving details about the funds that he received, the journalist said, “Basically, this year, one of the channels organised Saka Sirhind (martyrdom of younger Sahibzaadas) at kisan morcha on Singhu border of Delhi from December 21 to 27, (2020) which was earlier done abroad. The channel decided to organise the event at a protest site and I did the same. The payment was received for organising this event as there were expenses on diesel, generator, sound, LEDs and other arrangements. NIA officials questioned me regarding this event too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-6l-funds-for-event-at-singhu-border/articleshow/80374692.cms||JK Singh
January 21, 2021||Chandigarh||Rs 35 lakh tractor of khap chief a head-turner at Tikri Border||CHANDIGARH: Shakti Vahan, a modified tractor owned by Sunil Gulia, the president of Gulia Khap 84, is the talking point at the Tikri Border these days. The tractor is parked on the Haryana side, near police barricading, where Sunil is camping with other khap members and farmers. The tractor — which has huge tyres, more sitting space and a personalised trolley — cost Sunil (48) Rs 35 lakh. “The customised trolley cost us Rs 5.5 lakh and was designed in Nurmahal, Jalandhar. Some parts and accessories have been procured from abroad,” said Sunil. For Sunil, the tractor is the equivalent of the elephants that khap leaders would once ride to meetings. Asked if he could have used a luxury car instead, Sunil said a tractor was like a farmer’s extended family. “We cannot continue with elephant rides anymore, so we decided to get something special as an alternate. We bought this tractor in February 2020 and the modifications were done by November,” he said. Gulia is camping at Tikri border since inception of agitation, after arrival of farmers from Punjab. Referring to his as well as khap’s role, especially after registration of sedition case last week, Gulia said he would return from Tikri only after farmers win their fight. “The way government is reacting, I think this fight will go a long way. Me, my family and our khap is totally devoted as well as committed to the cause of farmers. We will leave Tikri borders a day after our brethren from Punjab leave after winning this battle,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-35l-tractor-of-khap-chief-a-head-turner-at-tikri/articleshow/80374654.cms||Manvir Saini
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||Police arrests 3 accused in Shipra Path||Jaipur: Police on Wednesday arrested three persons over a clash at a vegetable market in Shipra Path which caused death of a person late on Tuesday. Another person was critically injured. The arrested are Mohan Das, brother of the deceased Suresh Das, and two from another group Raja Ram and Ravi Sharma. The deceased Suresh, along with his brother Mohan, was selling vegetables on their cart at a temporary market on Tuesday. The duo used to rent a battery to light up their carts from Raja Ram. “The deceased and his brother were regular customers of Raja Ram who gives batteries on rent. On Tuesday, when Raja Ram and his brother Sunil Ram came to collect the battery, Mohan refused to return it and asked them come later. Raja got infuriated over the refusal and the four of them engaged in a brawl,” said Man Singh, ASI, Shipra Path police station. Mohan Das and Raja Ram got hold of knives and started attacking each other. Both Suresh and Sunil sustained injuries and the former died on the way to the hospital, while Sunil is still critical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-arrests-3-accused-in-shipra-path/articleshow/80373155.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Goa||SEC deferred municipal polls to benefit BJP: Cong||Panaji: Congress on Wednesday alleged that the State Election Commission (SEC) is working at the behest of the state government and has postponed the urban civic elections by three months in order to benefit the BJP-led government. State Congress general secretary Amarnath Panjikar said that the SEC should come clear on the reservation and delimitation of wards so that all the parties keen on contesting the elections can finalise the candidates. Citing apprehensions about a possible spread of Covid, the SEC postponed the  process for 11 municipalities and the Corporation of the City of Panaji. “They want to do delimitation and reservation as per their wish aiming victory. There is infighting within BJP candidates over delimitation and reservation. Hence to settle them, they require time and hence this political gimmick has been done by BJP,” Panjikar said. Congress questioned the state government’s fears about a rise in Covid cases despite allowing New Year festivities and the zilla panchayat elections to go ahead. Panjikar said that during the zilla panchayat elections, BJP MLAs, ministers, and chief minister Pramod Sawant were seen openly canvassing for BJP candidates. “Even now the CM is seen addressing BJP’s training programmes and Swami Vivekanand Youth Day programmes. If this is the case, then why is the SEC afraid of the spread of corona,” Panjikar said. He has accused BJP of using government machinery to influence the outcome of elections, including the recently concluded zilla panchayat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sec-deferred-municipal-polls-to-benefit-bjp-cong/articleshow/80375969.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 21, 2021||Lucknow||LMC staff face salary cut for skipping app attendance||Lucknow: Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has decided to deduct salaries of employees not using the new app-based system to register attendance. The order was issued on Wednesday. Additional municipal commissioner Archana Dwivedi said, “Directions to zonal in charges to deduct salaries of employees not marking their attendance through the Lucknow 311 app have been issued. Show-cause notices to employees reaching the workplace late will be served soon.” From January 5, the new attendance system was implemented to ensure employees reach office on time. It was also meant to address complaints of some employees that biometrics machines installed in the offices were not marking attendance accurately. However, as per LMC records, more than 200 employees are still not using the new system under which they have to click their selfies after reaching office and upload on the app. The latter uses GPS to verify their locations. Employees not using the app blamed it for not functioning properly. “I have been marking my attendance through app, but it does not show on record. I have already informed my superior about the glitch,” said Vinod Pathak, a junior engineer. “Whenever I open the app to mark attendance, my phone gets switched off. Senior officials should have first checked that the app is functioning properly before making the new system mandatory,” said an employee in zone 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-staff-face-salary-cut-for-skipping-app-attendance/articleshow/80375391.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 21, 2021||Thane||Narpoli cops arrest four for replacing bedsheets in sealed containers with stones||BHIWANDI: Narpoli police arrested a gang of four, including two drivers, who while transporting consignments to JNPT for export replaced goods in sealed containers with stones. The gang, while recently transporting consignments of two businessmen from Bhiwandi, stole bedsheets worth Rs 2.4 crore. Those arrested were Sarfraz Ansari (45), Farooq Qureshi (46), Rehan Qureshi (21) and Multajeem Qureshi (39). Two are residents of Govandi, while Rehan and Multajeem are from Moradabad in UP. Police said last October they filed two FIRs after businessmen Bharat Mehrotra and Sachin Jhunjhunwala, who run a bedsheet export business in Bhiwandi, complained that they had exported goods worth Rs 2.4 crore (Mehrotra’s consignment was worth around Rs 1.2 lakh and Jhunjhunwala’s around Rs 1.1 crore) to US and Canada but their clients received stones. After they said this had damaged the reputation of the country and demanded a probe, Thane police formed a team under assistant inspector K J Tekale. The team scanned call detail records and nabbed drivers Sarfraj and Farooq from Mumbai, and after interrogation nabbed Rehan and Multajeem from UP. Police are looking out for the fifth main accused, who also hails from Moradabad and got all together and planned the operation. Deputy commissioner of police (zone II) of Thane police Yogesh Chavan said, “A primary probe revealed that the drivers took the vehicle to Vasai and replaced the bedsheets with stones.” The accused have criminal backgrounds, he said. Senior inspector Maloji Shinde said they recovered bedsheets worth Rs 1.9 crore from places in Vasai and UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/4-held-for-replacing-rs-2-4cr-bedsheets-in-sealed-containers-for-export-with-stones/articleshow/80373905.cms||Pradeep Gupta
January 21, 2021||Chennai||Home chefs come under food safety dept lens||Chennai: People who make and sell food from home will now need approval from the food safety department. Food safety officials are tracking home chefs through the latter’s social media pages and are checking retail stores across the city to trace home-based food products. It is mandatory for all selling food out of their home kitchens to obtain approval from the state department to continue their sales. Violation of this rule can land them in prison or entail a fine up to Rs 5 lakh. To apply one must log on to the FSSAI portal, foscos.fssai.gov.in, after which the state officials would grant the registration and licences. Officials said they expedited the process in the past three months after home food businesses proliferated during the lockdown. During these months the department has registered about 150 businesses. “We initially began tracing them based on complaints from consumers. They often complained of poor quality of the products. But every time we went to check we found there were many more home food businesses running inside residential complexes,” said A Ramakrishnan, designated food safety officer of the city. Besides social media and retail stores, the officials are planning to reach out to residents’ welfare associations so they could bring more home chefs under their fold. Businesses that have a turnover of less than Rs 12 lakh per annum must get registered with the state food safety department and those with more than Rs 12 lakh need to have a state license. The licences are issued within three weeks. But if the home-chef fails to apply, they will be issued a warning notice, failing which they will be penalised accordingly. The drive, however, has not gone down well with a few.  “Before insisting on registration, authorities must first spread awareness or circulate IEC materials about the FSSAI rules, the dos, and donts,” said T Sadagopan, president of the Tamil Nadu Progressive Consumer Centre. The FSSAI rule on licensing and registration of home food business was issued in 2011. Home-based chefs welcomed the move and said this will help improve their quality. “I got to know about this rule only now and I have spoken to the official concerned. I will register as soon as possible,” said Priya Tanna, a home-chef in West Mambalam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/home-chefs-come-under-food-safety-dept-lens/articleshow/80373191.cms||Aditi R
January 21, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: VMRDA approves 160 final layout plans for last three years||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) has given final plan approvals to 160 layouts for the last three years since the introduction of the online AP Development Permission Management System in VMRDA precincts in 2017. However, the number of layouts approved in 2020 is less compared to the earlier two years, i.e. 34 in 2020, 77 in 2019 and 49 in 2018. The urban development authority accorded building plan permissions to 220 buildings in these three years. VMRDA earned a revenue of about Rs 44 crore by sanctioning these layouts and building plans. According to the VMRDA officials, the APDPMS (www.apdpms.ap.gov.in) was initiated in VMRDA in 2017 to facilitate a quick and uniform approval system in a time-bound manner. “While the timeframe is 15 days for issuing a building occupancy certificate, it is 21 days for giving layout permissions and 15 days for layout development completion certificate as per the new system,” said a VMRDA town planning official. Meanwhile, the VMRDA is processing the 5,716 applications it received under the layout regularisation scheme before the deadline ended on December 31, 2020. According to VMRDA officials, 219 applications belong to individual plots, while plots pertaining to 1,202 applications are located in already-approved layouts. The VMRDA is preparing 144 in-principle layouts for 4,288 applicants. The remaining applications are under scrutiny of the urban development authority. VMRDA metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara Rao said they conducted an awareness meeting on the LRS scheme for the applications. “The planning secretaries, licensed technical persons and the VMRDA officials clarified their doubts. Furthermore, the VMRDA has set up a dedicated helpline number #7337350117 for the LRS scheme applicants,” said Koteswara Rao. As per the guidelines of the LRS-2020, those individual plot owners or layout developers who have executed their registered sale deed before August 31, 2019 can apply for this scheme. The penalisation charges are fixed based on plot size and value of the land. The charges will be calculated based on the prevailing market value as of August 31, 2019. The scrutiny of single plot regularisation will be done based on the in-principle layout pattern approved by the concerned competent authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vmrda-approves-160-final-layout-plans-for-last-3-years/articleshow/80371798.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Chennai||Smart carts for 900 Marina vendors, those ignored protest||CHENNAI: More than 500 vendors on Wednesday protested on Marina beach road near Ayodhyakuppam against the city corporation allotting smart carts to 900 vendors as per a Madras high court order. The allotment should be stopped as the case is pending in court and including 360 new vendors is unfair, they said. Rajavel B, whose family has been running a shop on the beach for more than 45 years, said he had seen his grandfather sell juice there. “Allotting only 900 carts is unfair. There are over 1,800 vendors on the beach. Of the 900, only 540 are old vendors. Prioritizing new vendors is not fair.” Greater Chennai Corporation has completed allotment for all 900 vendors under the court-ordered process monitored by former Sikkim High court chief justice Satish K Agnihotri. While 540 vendors in category A were allotted carts by 3pm, the rest got them later. The protesting vendors met Justice Agnihotri with their grievances. “After we met him, we withdrew the protest temporarily. We will wait for the case to come up for hearing on January 24 and then decide on further course,” said Rajavel. Activists alleged that there was a stay in the Supreme Court based on some irregularity in the tender. However, corporation officials said the company that had gone to the court was not eligible. “The court only asked to maintain status quo in the construction of the carts. For the allotment process there is no order,” said an official. On the allegations of irregularities in the allotment of carts, Meghanath Reddy said that this was a one-of-a-kind process that was completely transparent, recorded and telecast live. “The retired chief justice has been overseeing the entire process. The background of every vendor who applied was checked and verified twice before the final list was put up. The allotment is based on lots so any kind of irregularity is not possible,” he said. As per the corporation’s revenue department, allotment took place under categories A and B. The existing marina vendors were given priority for allotment under category A, while those who applied under category B are new. About 1312 applications were received under category A and 12,841 under category B. Under the first category, 540 vendors were allotted carts, while 360 vendors got them under the second. As per the corporation’s data there are more than 28,000 street vendors across the city of which 1,430 are from the Marina.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-allots-smart-carts-to-900-marina-vendors-those-left-out-protest/articleshow/80373207.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Kolkata||Calcutta University forms open platform for research papers||KOLKATA: Calcutta University has set up a pioneering institutional repository or open-access platform with an aim to archive and reach so-far pay-walled papers to research scholars. It will help students find a large volume of papers and archived journals, which may have been out of bounds till now. Since 2010, CU has increased the accessibility of research articles, following which there has been a rise in open-access publications. CU, which brought out a volume of its works, including 51,241 publications, launched an exercise to find out the number of publications behind the paywall accessible only through a journal subscription. According to CU’s estimates, over 84.2% of the publications were behind the paywall, limiting accessibility and citation advantage of the papers as it reduces readership. “It has been estimated that 54% of the entire CU’s research output can be archived in their repository after the embargo period ends, without breaching publisher copyrights,” said a senior official. “Once papers are published, as citations increase, its importance goes up. Paid journals do not allow access without payment, while some can be available after a certain time. We have now got the archived papers and journals on a platform where researchers and students can study them,” said pro-vice-chancellor (academic) Asis Chattopadhyay. The work on building the repository started six months ago. CU vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee said the university aimed to be pioneers in Open Access Leadership in India. “Knowledge should be freely accessible and not behind 30$ paywalls. This institutional repository reflects our ethos of innovation and our commitment to make research knowledge accessible to the masses. We do hope that our efforts inspire similar steps by other top institutes in India,” she said. “Since its launch, the platform has a growth of 25% month-on-month impressions. This has been corroborated by an increase in publication downloads. Applied physics, bio-chemistry and political science are attracting international reader demographics. It also attracts the eyes of industry and MNCs. This has opened up potential collaboration avenues for CU. With more than 1,100 new publications across varied disciplines every year, the goal is to transition to a modern research-focused organization,” said another official. Chattopadhyay pointed out that in the 2019 academic calendar, CU’s publications received more than 4,500 new citations in Scopus index. “Setting up an open-access platform was the next logical step for us so that we could amplify our scholarly communication. Showcase our research to the global audience, and leave an impact,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cu-forms-open-platform-for-research-papers/articleshow/80374700.cms||Somdatta Basu
January 21, 2021||Pune||Criminal found murdered; crowd disrupts traffic flow||Pune: Criminal Jagdish Paradhe (28) was found murdered in the bushes along the service lane of Katraj-Dehu Road near Dukkar Khind on Wednesday morning.Police said the culprits had strangulated Paradhe to death. There were injury marks on his face and chin caused by sharp weapons. “We have ascertained the identity of the suspects involved in the murder. Separate teams from the Kothrud police and the Warje Malwadi police are working on their arrest,” assistant commissioner of police, Machhindra Chavan, told TOI.Vehicular movement on the busy Katraj-Dehu Road bypass was disrupted for some time due to a crowd of curious onlookers who had gathered near the Dukkar Khind underpass after noticing a police team at the crime scene.The Kothrud police detained five suspects on Wednesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/criminal-found-murdered-crowd-disrupts-traffic-flow/articleshow/80374684.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Pune||Chandigarh man dupes Pune jeweller of Rs 1.6 crore over franchisee deal||PUNE: The owner of PNG Jewellers, Saurabh Gadgil, on Tuesday lodged a police complaint accusing a man from Chandigarh of duping him of Rs1.6 crore over a deal for setting up its franchisee shop in Chandigarh. He approached the Vishrambaug police on Tuesday for lodging the FIR. A senior officer from the city crime branch, which has taken over the investigation from the Vishrambaug police, said, “We have obtained details of the Chandigarh businessman and are trying to locate him. We have also obtained copies of the agreement between Gadgil and the businessman.” The police have registered the case under the sections 406 (Criminal breach of trust) and 420 (Cheating) of Indian Penal Code. Gadgil, the owner of one of the oldest jewellery houses in the city with a chain of showrooms in Pune and elsewhere, told TOI, “We were looking for associates for our business expansion plans in northern India and came in contact with Rohit Kumar Sharma of Chandigarh through a common friend in 2018. He came to Pune and met me in our jewellery shop on Laxmi Road. He was keen to start his business of jewellery with our brand in Chandigarh.” He said, “A proper franchisee agreement was executed with him. Sharma told us that he needed money to show as initial capital investment for securing a Rs50 crore loan from financial institutions there. We gave him Rs1.6 crore, but things barely progressed thereafter. He kept giving evasive replies before going incommunicado during the lockdown period.” Gadgil said, “We were in contact with him until the Covid lockdown was announced. He cited difficulties in starting the business because of the lockdown. Till then, he had not obtained a loan from bank.” “We realised that he was not doing enough to start the jewellery store in Chandigarh. Post-lockdown, we tried to contact him, but he was unreachable. After waiting for a few weeks, we decided to lodge a complaint with the police,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/chandigarh-man-dupes-city-jeweller-of-rs-1-6-crore-over-franchisee-deal/articleshow/80374718.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Pune||Speed breakers sought on roads meeting highways||Pune: The Pune unit of the state highway safety patrol (HSP), which covers a vast jurisdiction of 12 districts in western Maharashtra and Marathwada, has requested the PWD and NHAI to install speed breakers at village roads intersecting the state or national highways. “Speed breakers are needed in at least 100 such intersections, superintendent of police (HSP) Sanjay Jadhav told TOI. “We have observed that many accidents in rural parts of these districts have occurred due to motorists coming onto the state or the national highways at full speed. The villages should also do their bit towards installing the speed breakers. Some work on this front is already on along the Pune-Bengaluru (NH4) and Pune-Hyderabad highways,” he said. Last week, an HSP study on the national and state highways passing through the 12 districts revealed that 1,466 persons died in 1,408 accidents. Of these fatalities, 836 were motorcycle-borne men and women. “The spots where the village roads intersect with the state or the national highways were found to be prone to such accidents. Vehicles from villages entering the highways at high speed also threaten vehicles speeding on the highways,” Jadhav said. “During their visit to these spots, our team members realized that local villagers were directly joining or crossing the highways without slowing down. A solution to tackle this, they felt, was to have speed breakers on the village roads ahead of the intersection points,” he said. “We have formed Highway Warrior Committees in each of the villages located along the state and national highways. Each of the committees will have several members, such as college students, college and school teachers, police constable and a local panchayat member. The committee will meet once a month. It will work for road safety awareness programmes and can suggest measures to reduce accidents on such intersections,” Jadhav said. The HSP has also written letters to the written to the public works department (PWD) and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to widen the roads at the congested spots in the rural areas prone to accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/speed-breakers-sought-on-roads-meeting-highways/articleshow/80374721.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Nagpur||128 more deaths than normal ones, Covid fatalities in Dec ’20||Nagpur: The city continues to record excess deaths other than normal ones and due to Covid-19. December 2020 reported 128 such fatalities, which were more than the victims of novel coronavirus for the month. The 10 months of the pandemic have registered 1,970 such deaths, which are reportedly suspected fatalities of Covid-19 and indirect victims of pandemic, as per experts. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) compiled data of cremations done at 23 ghats, 10 kabrastans and 2 Christian cemeteries in the city in December. The NMC registered 2,290 cremations in the month. Of the total Covid-19 deaths in city, 154 patients were from rural parts of the district and other districts who had died in hospitals here. Of them, 124 victims were cremated here. Thus, 2,166 deceased in December were from the city. In December 2019, the city had registered 1,934 deaths. It means there were 128 more deaths in the city in December 2020 as compared to the corresponding period in the previous year. As per data of District Civil Surgeon, there were 104 fatalities due to Covid-19 in the city in December last year. The district had registered first positive case of Covid-19 on March 11 and first death on April 5. Overall deaths in April, May and June in 2020 were less as compared to the corresponding months of 2019. Experts had attributed it to drop in unnatural deaths due to full lockdown in the city. The transmission of the disease was also very less during these three months which recorded 12 Covid deaths. Covid-19 cases and deaths due to the disease started increasing from July when the unlock phase began. Fatalities other than regular ones were double than official Covid deaths in July and more or less same in August, September and October. Such deaths were almost four times more than official Covid deaths in November. Experts, including convener of Vidarbha Hospitals Association Dr Anup Marar, say these excess deaths are more or less related to the pandemic. “Some of these deceased might be non-Covid patients who did not opt for regular follow-up and did not visit hospitals for ailments. There are chances that patients certified non-Covid deaths may have presented with other ailments and the cause of death may have been certified without Covid testing. These deaths need to be analysed when we are able to get the data,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/128-more-deaths-than-normal-ones-covid-fatalities-in-dec-20/articleshow/80373223.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 21, 2021||Indore||50 women take up driving challenge for better future||Indore: Driven by financial needs or looking for fresh career options, 50 women from across the state started their journey of becoming professional drivers on Monday. The transport department is organising special month-long professional driving training for women at ITC ground, Indore. One of the participants – Kusumlata, a 28-year-old single mother, wants to start her own taxi or autorickshaw services to give her daughter a better future. Her husband died a couple of years ago after a prolonged illness. “My elder brother told me about this drivers’ training programme, and assured me of taking care of my daughter till I complete this training and go back to my hometown and start driving a taxi or an electric vehicle,” said Kusumlata, who came from Shivpuri to attend the training. This training session which started from Friday is aimed at teaching professional driving skills to 50 women selected in the first batch. After this month-long training, the aspirants will also get a commercial driving licence in light motor vehicle category, and they will also get financial assistance in buying a vehicle. Other participants also have their own struggles. While some lost their jobs during the pandemic, others have no option due to financial constraints. Another participant - Mamta Pal, a former Karate player, has decided to start a taxi service. “I had to quit practicing after an accident. I don’t have any choice, but to learn something new to earn money,” said Pal. Sapna Chouhan, another aspirant who owns a taxi and runs it with the help of a driver, wants to start driving it on her own to set an example for others. “I will get a licence and start driving my taxi,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/50-women-take-up-driving-challenge-for-better-future/articleshow/80365984.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Delhi||Singhu border: Kirtan replaces fiery speeches in the memory of Sikh guru||NEW DELHI: Chardi Kala — the state of pure optimism and hope — is what Sikhs hope to achieve. And it is this concept that the protesting farmers at Singhu border rely on to remain confident of meeting their objective of having the new central farm laws repealed. Their inspiration also is their tenth Guru Gobind Singh, in whose honour on Wednesday, the dais from which only fiery speeches are being made played saw just a kirtan even as the makeshift gurdwara behind it saw a steady stream of the faithful coming to prostate themselves and to partake of the prasad. “The Guru’s life is what drives us,” declared Gurbaj Singh, kathakar at the tented gurdwara, who conducted a special katha in the morning as part of Gurpurab celebrations on Wednesday. “While our task is to tell people about the blessing that is our Guru Granth Sahib and Guru Gobind Singh Ji, we also prayed for the farmers’ tractor protest on January 26,” said the kathakar. “We told the protestors to be inspired by the teachings of the Guru who not only fought against an oppressor like the Mughal emperor, but also never compromised on his ideals.” Gurkamal Gill, an NRI protestor, said that Guru Gobind Singh’s life was filled with hardships and tough battles. “He lost so many of his family members during his tough times. Our struggle is nothing compared to his trials. That is what inspires us. The Guru’s teachings propel us to participate in the largest and longest protest in a peaceful manner,” declared Gill. Many langars decided to celebrate Gurpurab by serving sweets to everyone at the border. Sukhwinder Singh of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee langar said apart from the main event at Gurdwara Rakabganj, sweet rice with dry fruits was being served in Singhu to mark the special occasion. At his langar, Gurdeep Singh from Punjab’s Fatehgarh said that instead of the usual tea and biscuits, they decided to offer grams and halwa on Gurpurab. Ludhiana’s jathedar Pinda Singh recalled the tenth guru giving Sikhs the mantra of ‘Sava lakh se ek ladaun tabhi Gobind Singh naam kahaun’, the paraphrase of this being that one Sikh can fight a quarter lakh enemies. “This is enough for us to sit here for months while feeding anyone who approaches us,” said the Jathedar as he distributed jalebis to hundreds of people at Singhu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kirtan-replaces-fiery-speeches-in-the-memory-of-sikh-guru/articleshow/80375977.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
January 21, 2021||Pune||Duo wanted in sand trader’s murder case arrested||Pune: The crime branch of the rural police on Wednesday arrested the two suspects wanted in connection with the murder of sand trader Swapnil Ranasingh (24) at Takli Haji village in Shirur taluka on Monday and later handed them over to the Shirur police. Senior inspector Padmakar Ghanwat of the crime branch said, “Vijay alias Koytya Govind Shedge (25) and Akash alias Bablu Khandu Mashere (23), the two suspects hailing from Aamdabad village in Shirur taluka, were arrested from a spot along the Chakan-Shikrapur road following a tip-off.” He said, “We are yet to recover the firearm used in the crime. The Shirur police will produce the duo before court on Thursday for custodial remand.” Ghanwat said, “Shedge fired eight rounds at Ranasingh and his friend, Pappu Gawade (recuperating at a hospital), before speeding away on a motorcycle driven by Mashere. Shedge and Mashere were Ranasingh’s friends till there was a financial dispute between them a few months ago.” Ranasingh’s wife in her FIR had named Shedge and Mashere as the suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-wanted-in-sand-traders-murder-case-arrested/articleshow/80374737.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Vax turnout highest at KEM Hospital in Parel, but two suburban hospitals not far behind||MUMBAI: The municipal corporation’s biggest hospital, KEM Hospital in Parel, has managed the highest number of recipients (915) in the three days of Covid-19 vaccination so far, but the runners-up are two relatively smaller hospitals located in the faroff suburbs. Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar has had 836 recipients, while Shatabadi Hospital in Kandivli—now renamed Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital—has seen 808 recipients so far. Till the end of vaccination at 5pm on Wednesday, 5,251 healthcare workers across Mumbai had got vaccinated as against BMC’s ideal target of 12,000 in three days—due to Co-WIN app’s glitches, the target was downgraded to 10,500. The scores managed by Rajawadi Hospital and Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital seem as an achievement when the turnout at other hospital-centres are considered: Cooper Hospital in Juhu (640), Sion Hospital (458) and Nair Hospital (409). The jumbo field hospital in BKC where CM Uddhav Thackeray flagged off the vaccination drive on January 16, has seen 456 recipients so far. State-run JJ Hospital managed 67 recipients, while BMC-run V N Desai Hospital in Santacruz 196, so far. BMC officials said they haven’t got down to analysing centre-wise turnouts yet, but BMC additional commissioner Suresh Kakani said it could be due to the larger population base in the suburbs. “The draining area for Rajawadi Hospital extends from Ghatkopar to Mulund, while Shatabdi Hospital is the only centre between Borivli and Cooper Hospital in Juhu,” Kakani said. Rajawadi Hospital, with almost 600 beds, is the largest municipal hospital in the far eastern suburbs (beyond Sion). It had one of the biggest Covid-19 wards in the area as well. Dr Vidya Thakur, medical superintendent of Rajawadi Hospital, said her team has been enthusiastic about the vaccination drive. “We can easily handle 500 vaccinations a day, and increase the facility to handle double the number if needed,” she said. Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital is linked with five heavily populated municipal wards that have many health establishments. Dr Rujuta Baraskar (42), medical officer of health P-North ward, said around 4,500 healthcare workers are registered from the area that has 13 health posts, three maternity homes and 119 private hospitals. “There is a fair amount of awareness and enthusiasm here to take the vaccine. Now, with the ‘allot beneficiary’ option, we are hoping the response would be better as we can vaccinate those walking-in too,” she said. On Wednesday, almost half of the recipients here were walk-in beneficiaries. Anaesthetist Dr Anil Suchak was among the first in the ward to avail of the walk-in facility at the Kandivli hospital on Wednesday. “It was well-organised. However, given the population of western suburbs, the civic body would definitely add more centres if it wants vaccination to pick up pace,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/vax-turnout-highest-at-kem-but-2-suburban-hosps-not-far-behind/articleshow/80374752.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 21, 2021||Delhi||Amit Shah meets injured cops at hospitals, says nation proud of their restraint||NEW DELHI: Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday met several police personnel who have been hospitalised after being grievously wounded in the violence that erupted during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day. Shah, who visited two hospitals around noon, also spoke to the doctors treating the cops to find out about their health status. His visit was followed by the lieutenant governor meeting the injured personnel. In a tweet, Shah said, “Met the brave policemen of Delhi Police in hospital and wished them a speedy recovery.” The entire nation is proud of the example of bravery and restraint in the face of the violence that took place on Republic Day, he added. The home minister also met the families of the injured personnel. Shah, along with home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla and the commissioner of Delhi Police, S N Shrivastava, visited the personnel admitted at Sushrut Trauma Centre and Tirath Ram Shah Hospital at Civil Lines. The doctors treating them briefed Shah and assured best treatment for the cops. Delhi Police alleged on Wednesday that farmer leaders had made inflammatory speeches and were involved in the violence that left 394 cops injured. It had also warned that no culprit would be spared. The violence had erupted at multiple places in the capital as groups of farmers veered off the pre-decided routes for the rally and even forcibly entered the Red Fort.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/shah-meets-injured-cops-at-hospitals-says-nation-proud-of-their-restraint/articleshow/80526474.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Rajkot||Shivrajpur beach will have better facilities than Goa: CM||Rajkot: The Shivrajpur beach located 11 km from Dwarka town in Devbhumi Dwarka district will have facilities better than Goa, announced chief minister Vijay Rupani after performing the groundbreaking ceremony for a series of development works there, on Wednesday.Rupani laid the foundation stones for the tourist facilities to be developed at the cost of Rs 20 crore in phase 1. The beach recently got the Blue Flag status along with seven other beaches of the country. “The Shivrajpur will be developed at cost of Rs80 crore in phase 2 as per international standards. It will have more facilities than any Goa beach,” said CM.Rupani said that Gujarat is blessed with rich natural, cultural and geographical resources. Also, the new tourism policy lays emphasis on multi-pronged tourism, caravan tourism, medical tourism, wellness tourism, adventure tourism, wildlife tourism, coastal and cruise tourism, religious tourism and spiritual tourism.The Gujarat government has announced 20% subsidy for setting up hotels in tourist places. It will also appoint tour operators, tourist guides at various locations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/shivrajpur-beach-will-have-better-facilities-than-goa-cm/articleshow/80371818.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Chennai||Online betting banned to protect Tamil Nadu people from ill effects: Govt||CHENNAI: Citing at least seven suicides and many crimes related to online betting games, including rummy, in the past five years, the Tamil Nadu government said it was constrained to ban the game to insulate people from its ill effects. Explaining the severity of the crimes committed by people playing such games, the state home department told the Madras high court on Wednesday: “In one incident a father of two children attempted to murder his kids to threaten his wife and extract money to play online rummy.” This apart, several children have been reported playing online betting games using credit and debit cards of their parents causing them to financial losses, the department said. Citing an order dated July 24, 2020, passed by the Madurai bench of the court, the department explained that the suggestion to bring in such prohibition originally came from the high court. Pointing out a similar prohibition imposed in Telangana, a single judge of the court had suggested that Tamil Nadu government too pass suitable legislation to regulate and control such online betting games, the state added. “Playing games like rummy and poker online for money or stakes, which are addictive in nature, have developed manifold. As a result, innocent people get cheated and incidents of suicides are reported. People playing online games for money or stakes have lost their earnings and savings,” the state said. In order to prevent suicides and protect the innocent people from the “evils of online gaming” and on the advice of this court, this issue was taken up for consideration and it has been decided to ban wagering and betting in cyber space by suitably amending the relevant legislations, it added. Responding to the submissions of the gaming companies that the Supreme Court has already declared as a game of skill, the state said: “The present ordinance prohibits only playing rummy with stakes in a common gaming house and cyberspace and the same is not contrary to the ratio laid down by the Supreme Court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-online-betting-banned-to-protect-tn-people-from-ill-effects/articleshow/80373217.cms||Suresh Kumar
January 21, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Hazratganj multilevel parking lot turns into dark zone as power snapped over non-payment||LUCKNOW: Snapping of electricity supply in the multi-level parking lot in Hazratganj for the last one week due to non-payment of bill has raised security concerns among people parking their vehicles at the LDA facility. A TOI reality check found that the elevators and CCTV cameras installed in the vicinity are not operating due to discontinuation of power supply. TimesViewLDA should get the electricity connection restored at the earliest and come up with a mechanism to ensure that such a problem does not recur. People pay required parking fee and deserve adequate services in return. Better management of the lot will also encourage people to use the facility.Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) authorities said the issue would be resolved in a couple of days. An attendant at the parking lot said, “Previous month’s electricity bill of the parking facility is pending. Power department authorities have disconnected the supply without any notice.” Due to this, the entire parking lot has plunged into darkness making it difficult for commuters to use the facility even during the day. People said they were afraid that their vehicles might be stolen while women said they were wary of lumpen elements hanging around. “I parked my vehicle on the ground floor in the morning. It took me around 20 minutes to find my motorcycle when I returned after my duty late evening,” said Prashant Kanojiya, who works in a nearby hotel. “Vehicles are towed away if we park them outside and it’s also unsafe inside because of darkness and inadequate security,” said Anuja Awasthi, who came to Hazratganj for shopping. “It is pitch dark during the evening and night. I dropped my kids and wife outside the parking lot before coming in,” said Abhijeet Singh. LDA secretary Ritu Suhas said, “We have received information about snapping of electricity supply at Hazratganj multilevel parking due to non-payment of bill. The problem will be resolved in a couple of days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ganj-multilevel-parking-lot-turns-into-dark-zone-as-power-snapped-over-non-payment/articleshow/80375435.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh targets govt for deferring farm laws for 2 years||LUCKNOW: Targeting the BJP for the proposal to defer the farm laws for two years, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday questioned the very intent of the move which he described as irrational. “The BJP government has extended a proposal to defer the implementation of the farm laws for the next two years or so. Any such move will be illogical and without any rationale. Deferring implementation of the law will not change the consequences that will follow once the law is introduced,” he said in a tweet. “By deferring implementation of the law the BJP government is trying to counter popular public sentiment which is growing in favour of agitating farmers and against the law makers. The government will eventually implement the laws before the elections in 2024 to benefit the capitalists,” the tweet in Hindi said. The former UP CM also directed party carders and office bearers to dedicate their Republic Day celebrations to farmers protesting around the national capital against the new farm laws. He asked party men to reach the venues where Indian flag will be unfurled at the Tehsil level on tractors carrying the tricolour. He said that by taking out tractor rallies the SP workers and leaders will only reassert their support to agitating farmers and their tractor rally slated for January 26. He also attacked the ruling BJP for delay in clearing cane dues of farmers, increase in power tariff and raids by power department officials on farmers for recovery of power dues. Earlier in the day Prof Sudhir Panwar and Colonel (retd) Subhash Deshwal submitted a detailed report on the status and impact of the ongoing farmers agitation around Delhi and the condition of farmers in Uttar Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/akhilesh-targets-govt-for-deferring-farm-laws-for-2-yrs/articleshow/80375713.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Vasai boy booked for posing as sales tax man||MUMBAI: A 17-year-old Vasai boy has been booked for personating his grandfather, who retired from the sales tax department, and threatening a mobile repair shopowner. On Monday, the teenager arrived in a car and introduced himself as a sales tax officer. He demanded to see the books of accounts of the shop. The owner demanded to see the identity card of the “officer”, which had the photograph of a man in his late 40s. He called the police. The police found that the teenager had stolen his grandfather’s identity card. The grandfather had retired as an officer from the sales tax department. The teen has been booked under Section 170 of the IPC pertaining to to pretending to hold any particular office as a public servant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/teen-booked-for-posing-as-sales-tax-man/articleshow/80375985.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh govt releases Rs 1,000 crore for road repairs||VISAKHAPATNAM: Minister for roads and buildings M Sankara Narayana said the government has released Rs 1,000 crore for road repairs in various parts of the state. The minister along with principal secretary (roads and transport department) MT Krishna Babu held a regional review meeting in Vizag on Wednesday. The minister said regional meetings are being organised to take stock of prevailing conditions of roads and the governmenr has decided to take up repairs on a war-footing. The minister had recently said Rs 200 crore was sanctioned to take up repairs of roads destroyed by Cyclone Nivar. The minister said AP Road Development Corporation would spend Rs 2,200 crore over the next three years and a cess of Rs 1 per litre on diesel and petrol will be collected which would be diverted to road development in the state. The New Development Bank will also be sanctioning Rs 6,000 crore that would be utilised for developing two-lane rods from district to mandal headquarters. As many as 450 bridges would be rebuilt and tenders have been invited for Rs 2,500 crore of the NDB funds and Rs 85 crore could be saved due to the reverse tendering process, the minister said. Among other funds, Nabard would be sanctioning Rs 1,150 crore for road development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-releases-rs-1k-crore-for-road-repairs/articleshow/80371828.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Lucknow||Less than 100 active Covid cases in 75% of districts in UP||LUCKNOW: Citing an assessment of Covid-19 data for UP, health officials on Wednesday said that over 75% of the districts in UP have less than 100 active cases of the pandemic infection. They added that no district recorded more than 100 new cases in the past 24 hour. Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Alok Kumar said that the total number of active infections in UP was around 7,873 of which only 5,000 were under treatment at hospital, while the others were under home isolation. Covid bulletin revealed that with 1,858 active cases, Lucknow topped the list while Hamirpur was at the bottom with just one case. . Meanwhile, 404 new cases in the past 24 hours took state’s tally to 5,97,628. Of the total, 5,81,164 have recovered, while 8,591 have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/less-than-100-active-covid-cases-in-75-of-districts-in-state/articleshow/80375560.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 21, 2021||Lucknow||Hospitals mull raising no. of non-Covid beds||Lucknow: District health authorities are planning to restore non-Covid status of some Covid hospitals in February in view of the steady decline in transmission rate. At present, there are 31 hospitals which are designated Covid facilities and are admitting Covid-19 patients. Total bed strength of all these hospitals taken together is 3,924, including intensive care unit/ventilator and high dependency unit. According to the plan, while KGMU, SGPGIMS and RMLIMS will continue to run their full-fledged Covid hospitals along with non-Covid services as they are doing now, the rest 28 hospital will be asked to reserve an isolated section with 10 beds each for Covid-19 patients and restore non-Covid facilities on rest of the campus. The number of Covid patients hospitalised at present has dropped significantly in the past one month. At present, the occupancy is around 9% of the total bed strength of 31 hospitals. If numbers continue to decline, the administration may implement the plan. Chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar said, "We are reviewing the situation and will send a report to the state government in the first week of February. The number of hospitals or beds will be reduced as per instructions received from the government. As of now, focus is on the vaccination drive.” KGMU has 400 beds, including 40 HDU and 200 ICU beds, for Covid patients. SGPGI has 250 beds including 150 HDU and 80 ICU beds and RMLIMS has 200 beds. including 20 HDU and 73 ICU beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hospitals-mull-raising-no-of-non-covid-beds/articleshow/80375397.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 21, 2021||Goa||‘Reduce fuel prices as Parrikar did’||Panaji: With fuel prices hitting all-time highs in the state, GFP on Wednesday slammed the Centre for imposing an additional financial burden on the common man through rising fuel costs. The party’s working president, Kiran Kandolkar, said the Goa government should reduce VAT on fuel to lower costs. Kandolkar, who till a few months ago was part of BJP, said the ruling dispensation’s decisions are hurting the poor and middle class. “The way Manohar Parrikar reduced fuel prices, they should be now also, to the same level,” he said. GFP said the taxes levied on fuel amount to more than half the retail price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/reduce-fuel-prices-as-parrikar-did/articleshow/80375984.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Lucknow||UP CM releases Chauri Chaura logo, proposes postal stamp||LUCKNOW: Ahead of the Chauri Chaura centenary celebrations set to begin on February 4, Governor Anandiben Patel and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath released the logo for the event on Wednesday. The CM said that the government had also appealed to the Centre to release a postal stamp to mark the historic occasion, a landmark in India’s freedom movement. Reviewing preparations for the year-long event, the governor said that the programmes should instil among people a feeling of security, swadesi and self-respect. She said that a song should be composed to mark the incident which would convey the message of the incident. Patel suggested that martyrs’ memorials should be constructed in villages on which names of martyrs and freedom fighters should be inscribed. Books on martyrs should be published while photographs or pictures of martyrs should be put up in schools so that they can inspire students. Events to felicitate families of martyrs should also be organised. The CM said that the programmes to mark the event will be held in all districts. These will be organised at or around martyrs’ memorials. A police band will play at all events which are organised at memorials, while another project would be started immediately to beautify memorials. He added that over the next year, essay writing events, debates and painting competitions would be held in schools as part of the centenary programme. Along with this, exhibitions and book fairs will also be organised. Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma said that to mark the occasion, universities will promote research on the freedom struggle and the Chauri Chaura incident. The contribution of unknown or lesser known martyrs would also be highlighted and their families would be felicitated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-releases-chauri-chaura-logo-proposes-postal-stamp/articleshow/80375605.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: KGMU respiratory department gets latest tech to test lung function||LUCKNOW: The latest technology for lung function test is now available in the city with the installation of an impulse oscillometer at the respiratory medicine department of KGMU on Wednesday. Said to be the first in the state, the machine assesses obstruction in the large and small peripheral airways and has been used to measure bronchodilator response and reactance. Till now, lung function tests were performed through spirometry in which patients have to blow air forcefully into an apparatus that measures the volume of air inspired and expired by the lungs. Since many patients, especially elderly or those with severe lung damage and children could not blow air forcefully, impulse oscillometry will be useful as it requires minimal patient cooperation. Prof Surya Kant, head of respiratory department at KGMU, said, “IOS generates minimum aerosols hence it is safe in Covid times. It can also be used for bedridden and ICU patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kgmu-respiratory-dept-gets-latest-tech-to-test-lung-function/articleshow/80375447.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Delhi||QR code-based health cards for all in Delhi may be reality by August||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has set the ball rolling for ensuring that by August every Delhiite has a QR code-based health card with his or her basic clinical details to easily access public healthcare facilities. The health card would be linked to the government’s ambitious cloud-based Health Information Management System (HIMS), which would make information like location of public healthcare facilities, availability of beds in government hospitals, doctors’ qualification, specialisation and availability, medicines in stores, etc, just a click away. An expression of interest (EOI) has been floated for the selection of a health card issuing and distribution agency (IDA) and a request for proposal for selection of a service provider to operate a call centre of a centralised health helpline. While HIMS is envisaged to track and record the complete medical record of each resident and help provide continuum of care, the health cards issued by the IDA would help by containing complete records and key clinical details, along with other related information about the individual’s eligibility under various health scheme and programmes of Delhi government in one place and also function as a Unique Health ID. The health cards would facilitate easy identification of key clinical information that may be vital for the treating doctor to provide personalised healthcare services from anywhere in the city and any new diagnosis would get included in the card. The data would also be updated on HIMS, which would digitally bring together the 38 government-run hospitals, apart from approximately 180 dispensaries, 25 polyclinics and 500 operational Aam Aadmi Mohalla Clinics that would be scaled up to 1,000. Every Delhiite aged 18 or older would be issued the health cards and those between 1 and 18 years would also be issued the document linked to their parents cards. Newborns up to 1 year of age would be linked to their mother’s health card. The cards would have the GIS coordinates of the patients based on their current address in the form of QR codes and would be assigned a unique health ID based on the guidelines defined under National Digital Health Mission. While the card would help them get healthcare services in any institution of Delhi, the benefits may be further extended to institutions outside Delhi too. Initially, all Delhiites would be issued e-health cards with all required details. Subsequently, PVC cards would be sent to their registered address along with a letter from chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and a brochure highlighting the benefits, usage, and Dos and Don’ts. Cardholders would be able to rectify mistakes in demographic details and also request issuance of a duplicate card. While the IDA would make cards based on Delhi’s electoral roll, there would be an option of self-registering and counters would be opened at healthcare facilities for this purpose. According to the EOI, the IDA would have to take “utmost care” to ensure data privacy of all citizens. There are plans of capturing facial recognition and biometric data of all Delhiites and linking it to the health cards in the future. Delhi government is also planning a mobile application and a 24x7 centralised helpline number, which would be mentioned on the health card for any support patients might need. The proposal for the helpline mandates that selected service providers would create a 50-seater call centre with trained responders to answer queries related to any healthcare facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/qr-code-based-health-cards-for-all-may-be-reality-by-aug/articleshow/80374794.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 21, 2021||Lucknow||Sikh Gurus dedicated their lifeto religion, still inspire us: Yogi||Lucknow: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath visited the historic Yahiyaganj Gurdwara to pay obeisance to Guru Gobind Singh, the tenth Sikh Guru, on his 355th birth anniversary on Wednesday and seek blessings. The CM said people should take inspiration from Sikhs Gurus for being selfless and devoted in service. “Sikh Gurus did not live for themselves. Their lives were dedicated to their religion and the country. Guru Gobind Singhji first encouraged his father to serve the country and then sacrificed his four sons for the country. One cannot expect such devotion from a common man,” he said. “The sacrifice of Sikh community for the betterment of humanity will always be remembered,” Yogi added. The CM knelt down and bowed before the holy Guru Granth Sahib in the gurdwara and heard the Shabad Kirtan sung by Ragi Bhai Davinder Singh from the Golden temple in Amritsar. The CM was also presented the Baba Deep Singh award on the occasion. He said that Covid-19 presented an obstacle in festivities, but the government was keen for a solution. “Mayor Sanyukta Bhatia came to me and asked how to go about celebrations in the city. I told her we will find a way and we did,” Yogi said. “Guru Gobind Singh ji and his mother Gujri Ji had spent two months and 13 days at this very place when the Guru was six years old. This single event has made this Gurdwara even more important than it already is,” he added. “The first time I visited Patna, I went to see Patna Sahib. All Indians should go there and experience the magic and aura of the Guru in his service to the country in that era,” the CM said. Yogi was accompanied by deputy CM Dinesh Sharma, cabinet ministers Brijesh Pathak and Ashutosh Tandon and the city mayor. CM Yogi had first visited Yahiyaganj Gurdwara soon after he took over as the chief minister of the state in 2017, on Baisakhi day. “All through the day, the shabad kirtan of the Guru was rendered by Golden temple’s Ragi Bhai Davinder Singh in his soulful voice while Gyani Angrez Singh highlighted the life story of the Guru,” said Gurdwara general secretary Mamohan Singh Happy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sikh-gurus-dedicated-their-lifeto-religion-still-inspire-us-yogi/articleshow/80375515.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 21, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Smart cams to read expressions of women in distress, alert cops||LUCKNOW: Soon, a change in facial expressions of a girl subjected to stalking, threat or eve-teasing will be enough to send an alert to police control room to nab the culprit. The Lucknow police is set to equip public places with AI-enabled cameras that will click pictures of women in distress on the basis of facial expressions and alert the nearest police station. Speaking about the ‘safe city’ initiative during a workshop titled ‘Aashish: Abhay aur Abhyudaya’ at LU’s Tilak hostel on Wednesday, Lucknow police commissioner DK Thakur said: “After collecting feedback, we have identified 200 hotspots where the movement of girls is maximum and from where most of the complaints are received.” “We will set up five AI-based cameras which will be capable of sending an alert to nearest police station. These cameras will become active as soon as the expressions of a woman in distress change. Before she takes out the phone and dials 100 or UP 112 for help, an alert will be reach the police,” he added. “Lucknow is the only city in Uttar Pradesh which has been selected nationally to be developed as a ‘safe city’ for women,” the police commissioner said. “At least 31 pink booths, 10 patrolling cars and 100 scooties, managed by women cops, are already deployed in the city,” he said. Female hostellers, Tilak hostel provost Bhuvneshwari Bhardwaj, dean, student welfare, Poonam Tandon and other officials were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/smart-cams-to-read-expressions-of-women-in-distress-alert-cops/articleshow/80375401.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Aurangabad||Cheating case against 8 members of college mngmt||Aurangabad: The city police have registered a case of cheating, criminal breach of trust and forgery against eight members of a college management for allegedly usurping scholarship received by the reserved category students.“Based on directives from the court, we have registered a case and the process to collect relevant records has been initiated,” said Kranti Chowk police inspector Ganpat Darade. The officer added that they have been told that two cases on the similar lines have already been registered at the Bidkin and Jinsi police stations.Investigation officer Rahul Suryatal told TOI: “Mangilal Chavan (62), is one of the members of the Nisargdip Shikshak Prasarak Mandal and he has lodged a complaint against his fellow members.” He said the alleged cheating amount is still unclear. “The college’s records, audit reports and all the other documents will be scanned to ascertain that,” said Suryatal. He also said that no one named in the complaint has yet been arrested.As per the complaint, between June 2009 and January 25, 2021, the eight members named in the complaint had allegedly placed forged documents on records, usurped the scholarship money from students coming from reserved category and had illegally collected fees from the students pursuing education in one of its arts, science and commerce colleges located in Chitepimpalgaon.Earlier, on finding some flaws in the complaint, the police had refused to register an offence. Subsequently, Chavan went to the court and filed an application seeking directives to the police to register an FIR against nine people, including an official serving with the Zilla Parishad.After a detailed hearing, the court directed the police to register an offence against eight people who are in the college management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cheating-case-against-8-members-of-college-mngmt/articleshow/80485865.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 21, 2021||Lucknow||UP deputy CM threatens legal action against Tandav’s crew & cast||LUCKNOW: As the apology by the cast and crew of web series ‘Tandav’ has failed to soothe frayed tempers, UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on Wednesday said people hurting Hindu religious sentiments will have to face serious repercussions. “The producer, director and actors of the web series, ‘Tandav’, are trying to disrupt social harmony and destroy unity. They are also guilty of hurting the religious sentiments of Hindus. Strict legal action will be taken against them,” Maurya tweeted. Three FIRs have already been lodged against the web series in Uttar Pradesh – one each in Lucknow, Shahjahanpur and Greater Noida. A police team from UP is already in Mumbai for investigation. Talking to TOI, Maurya said: “The scenes in which a character portrays Lord Shiva in an objectionable manner and where a caste commentary is made are unacceptable. It seems to be a deliberate attempt to vitiate the atmosphere.” “This is a mischievous act and it is immaterial that they have apologized. One cannot commit a murder and then ask for forgiveness. If their intention was to insult, they have already done it. Why did they not pay attention to this before releasing the series? They have to be punished for it,” he said. “The entire country is upset and UP was the first state to initiate action,” Maurya said, adding that one should not be allowed to insult any religion or faith. The series has kicked up a major storm with people, organisations and political parties objecting to the representation of Hindu deities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dy-cm-threatens-legal-action-against-tandavs-crew-cast/articleshow/80375641.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Vijayawada||Start land registration at village level: Andhra Pradesh CM Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday directed officials to begin the process of land registration at village secretariats. He wanted the staff of the sub-registrar office to move to the village secretariats and start registrations at the village level. The chief minister reviewed the integrated land survey and village secretariats work at his Tadepalli camp office on Wednesday. He asked officials to closely monitor the land resurvey being executed in the state after 100 years. He wanted the officials to ensure that all existing land disputes are resolved on the spot. The mobile tribunals too should start working in coordination with the field staff. The chief minister wanted officials to give regular training to the field staff and hold tests to improve the quality of work. The officials told the chief minister that they have conducted two rounds of tests after training, in which 92% of the field staff have been successful. The third stage of tests would be held in February, officials said. The officials also briefed the chief minister that they have started training the village secretariat staff for the land survey. The staff were also being constantly trained in their respective subjects to give quality service to the people. Referring to the house site pattas distribution and construction of houses in the new colonies, the chief minister wanted the officials to map all new colonies, besides existing villages. He also directed them to allot a unique identification number to every house for future communication. The officials informed the chief minister that they have prepared a schedule to start land registrations in village secretariats. This would start once the integrated land survey is completed. The chief minister wanted the officials to follow standard operating procedures (SOPs) in land surveys and other activities of the government, including those available at the village secretariats. The SOPs should be the same for the surveyor to the joint collector, he said. The chief minister also directed the officials to ensure that there was no corruption in providing services to the people, including in land registration. On house site pattas distribution, the chief minister extended the last date of distribution to January 30. The chief minister wanted the officials to take the beneficiary directly to the plot and show them their plot, besides handing over the patta. He also directed them to take applications from the beneficiaries for house construction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/start-land-registration-at-village-level-jagan/articleshow/80371848.cms||Gopi Dara
January 21, 2021||Varanasi||BHU scientists test new vaccine against Kala-Azar||Varanasi: A research carried out by the scientists of the School of Biochemical Engineering of IIT-BHU, in collaboration with the Institute of Medical Sciences, BHU brings a ray of hope for a vaccine against Kala-Azar, a major health challenge in India caused by Leishmania parasite. The scientists including Prof Vikash Kumar Dubey of the School of Biochemical Engineering and Prof Shyam Sundar of the department of medicine, IMS, investigated and tested a new recombinant vaccine against Leishmania parasite that halts the progression of the infection. Dr Sunita Yadav, a National Postdoctoral Fellow with Prof Dubey, is lead investigator. Prof Dubey said that the prophylactic potential of this vaccine was evaluated in preclinical studies in mice model that showed a significant reduction in parasite load in liver and spleen organs of vaccinated infected mice than infected control mice. “Clearance of the parasite burden in vaccinated challenged mice is correlated with immune response expected in a vaccine candidate,” said Professor Vikash Kumar Dubey. It is a type of defence mechanism that happens in our body after vaccination and helpful for prevention of disease progression. This research has been recently reported in the prestigious journal “Cellular Immunology”. He said this study provides insight towards the evaluation of vaccine molecules against Leishmania infection. In future, it might be utilized as a vaccine candidate against the pathogen. However, more study is needed to better understand its mode of action. The team next plans to further evaluate its potential in other clinical trials. Prof Dubey said that there is no vaccine yet available in the market for humans against this disease and the treatment depends on drugs with limitations which is a serious concern towards the complete elimination programme of WHO. Vaccination is the safest and one of the most effective ways to fight against any infectious diseases. A vaccine molecule trains our immune system to fight against a given pathogen. It stimulates several immune cells in our body that produce antibodies, cytokines and other active molecules that collectively work and protect from infection and provides long term protection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-scientists-test-new-vaccine-against-kala-azar/articleshow/80373802.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Varanasi||‘Never dreamt I would have my own home’||Varanasi: Kamala Devi, resident of Ramnagar Gajendra village in Pindra block of Varanasi, was overwhelmed with gratitude and emotions as she heaped blessings and praise on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on getting funds under PM Awas Yojana transferred into her bank account on Wednesday. The PM was interacting with Kamla Devi, a beneficiary of PMAY (Rural), through video conferencing and also expressed his desire of visiting his parliamentary constituency soon. “It has been too long since I visited Varanasi,” Modi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/never-dreamt-i-would-have-my-own-home/articleshow/80373814.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Nagpur||Top doctors lead 167 Covaxin takers at GMCH, Amravati dist hospital||Nagpur: After the poor show on Tuesday when only 29 took the Covaxin jab at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), beneficiaries led by top doctors thronged the inoculation centre on Wednesday. Out of the 56 health care workers who turned up to take the jab, four of them were found to have contraindications and were accordingly not given the shots. Among the 52 who were inoculated on Wednesday, there were 25 male and 27 female. Amravati district general hospital, which is the only other inoculation centre for Covaxin in Vidarbha, too saw many medical officers among the 115 beneficiaries take the shot on Wednesday. GMCH vice dean Dr Brajesh Gupta, medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande, surgery head and professor Dr Arti Mitra, were among the three professors, 27 associate professors and 25 assistant professors who turned up for the Covid vaccination. One nurse, who had been on Covid duty, was also among the high profile beneficiaries of the day. The confidence shown by seniors is expected to boost the morale of rest of the 5,200 health care workers registered for Covid vaccination at GMCH. Following a fact sheet issued by Bharat Biotech, the Covaxin manufacturer, and adverse effect reports from different parts of country, inoculation number at GMCH fell by 50% on Tuesday, the Day 2 of the vaccine drive. On Day 1 on January 16, 53 beneficiaries had taken the jab. Day 3 was considered to be a litmus test for GMCH as beneficiaries included mostly Class I officers in addition to Class III and IV staff. After going through the fact sheet of the indigenous vaccine and filling the mandatory declaration for Covaxin, Dr Gawande said no specific directives were given for vaccination. “The beneficiaries came on their own as inoculation is important for all,” he said, after taking the intramuscular injection. “None of the beneficiaries complained of any Adverse Effect Following Immunization (AEFI),” he said. Unlike previous two days, the immunization team led by Dr Abhay Chavan didn’t make any phone calls to the beneficiaries. They were sent text messages by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). “This is an absolute voluntary decision. No one can force a beneficiary to take the shot,” said officials. A couple of enrolled beneficiaries took the jab as per the on-spot appointment trial being held across the state. They are among the 5,200 registered beneficiaries but their names were not in Wednesday’s list. At Amravati district hospital, just 38 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Tuesday. The hospital had registered an impressive cent per cent figures on Day 1. “Out of the 120 beneficiaries, 115 were vaccinated on Wednesday,” Akola deputy director of health services Dr Rajkumar Chauhan told TOI. “Everyone was motivated as all are front line workers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/top-doctors-lead-167-covaxin-takers-at-gmch-amravati-dist-hospital/articleshow/80373244.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 21, 2021||India||Committee will proceed with or without protesting farmers: Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday told the protesting farmers’ unions that its committee, tasked to submit a report to the court after collating farmers’ views on the contentious agri laws, would proceed with or without their participation and strongly deprecated attempts to besmirch the reputation of members of the panel by branding them as biased. “If you do not want to appear before the committee, we won’t force you,” a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said immediately after eight of the 40 farmers’ unions protesting at Singhu border for last 50 days informed the court, through their advocate Prasahant Bhushan, that they would neither take part in the proceedings before the apex court nor appear before the SC-appointed committee. While seeking response in two weeks from parties on filling the vacancy in the four-member committee caused by resignation of B S Mann, the CJI-led bench frowned upon the manner in which the expert members of the panel had been branded as biased by the protesting farmers’ unions, and questioned the credentials of the critics who had even cast aspersions on the court, suggesting it had some interest in selecting them as members of the committee. Other members of the committee are Parmod Kumar Joshi, agricultural economist, director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute; Ashok Gulati, agricultural economist and former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices; and Anil Ghanwat, president, Shetkari Sanghatana. Terming the members “most brilliant minds in the field of agriculture”, the bench said, “When the committee has no adjudication power, how can the members be biased and how will it affect the cause? We appointed the committee to hear farmers and stakeholders and give us a report as to which are the clauses that are causing problems. It is the Supreme Court which will adjudicate the validity of the laws.” It added, “There is no need to brand people and malign them like this. And on top of that, cast aspersions on the court? On the first day, we had told (Harish) Salve that this (farmers’ protest) is not a proper case for us to adjudicate. We should not entertain this issue at all. We entertained this in the interest of the public, including farmers. We stayed operation of the laws and appointed a committee. That committee does not have powers of adjudication. If you don’t want to appear, don’t appear, why do you brand people like this?” Advocate Ajay Choudhary, appearing for the All India Kisan Mahapanchayat, told the court that according to newspaper reports, the members had already expressed their views in favour of the farm laws and the protesting farmers felt that they were biased. The bench asked, “What do newspaper reports say? These members do not understand the subject? They are the most brilliant minds in agriculture today. They have a reputation which none of their critics have. They are experts of the field. How do you malign them just because they have expressed some opinion in the past?.” “In fact, Mann had asked for modification of the laws. So, can you say he was in favour of the laws? This has become almost a cultural thing now. Branding people whom you do not want and criticising people like this. We do not appreciate this,” the bench added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/committee-will-proceed-with-or-without-protesting-farmers-supreme-court/articleshow/80376544.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 21, 2021||Kanpur||Report on police encounters after Bikru ambush sent to govt||Kanpur: The report regarding magisterial inquiries of three police encounters after the Bikru ambush on the night of July 2, 2020, has been dispatched to the state government for perusal. Eight cops, including a deputy superintendent of police, had died in the ambush masterminded by gangster Vikas Dubey, who too was later killed in an encounter by the police. In the first encounter, which took place at Kashiram Newada village on July 3 morning, Prem Prakash Pandey and Atul Dubey, both close aides of Vikas, had opened fire at a police team. In retaliation, both Prem and Atul were killed. The cops, who were combing the area in search of Vikas and his aides soon after the Bikru ambush, had claimed that both Prem and Atul fired at them. They had stated that the firing was in self-defence. IG (Kanpur range) Mohit Agarwal and the then SSP Dinesh Kumar P had narrowly survived the encounter. Similarly, while being brought to Kanpur from Ujjain, Vikas was killed in an encounter in the morning of July 10 when a police vehicle met with an accident and he tried to escape from the spot in Bhaunti area in Sachendi. “Vikas ran away with a police pistol soon after the police vehicle overturned. After which he fired on the police after being chased upon. Police fired back and Vikas died in the exchange of fire,” the police had stated. Along with this, in the third police encounter on July 9, Prabhat Mishra, another aide of Vikas, was killed when a police team was bringing him to Kanpu, and the tyre of the vehicle in which they were travelling got punctured near Panki. He was taken out by SI (sub-inspector) Devendra and constable Sunil Kumar. Taking advantage of the situation, Prabhat punched constable Sunil and snatched 9 mm pistol from SI Sunil and opened fire at the cops escorting him. Constables Vikas and Sunil were injured while SI Pravin Tyagi received a shot on his bulletproof jacket. In retaliation, police also fired upon him and he suffered injuries. He was later pronounced dead at the Bara Sirohi CHC in Kalyanpur. The police recovered a 9 mm pistol from his possession. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, district magistrate Alok Tiwari, said, “The report of the magisterial investigation into these three encounters has been received and further dispatched to state government for perusal.” Sources in the district administration, on the condition of anonymity, informed TOI that the report with regard to magisterial investigation has been received and these encounters have been found to be genuine. However, no confirmation was immediately available either from the district administration of the police. “Magisterial inquiries into the three encounters after the Bikru ambush that claimed the lives of eight cops on July 2 & 3 night, gave clean chit to the police,” the sources said further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/report-on-police-encounters-after-bikru-ambush-sent-to-govt/articleshow/80373836.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
January 21, 2021||Ludhiana||Punjab OTS slanted: Business community||Ludhiana: Within just a fortnight of its grand launch, the Punjab government's one-time settlement (OTS) scheme has run into rough weather, as several businessmen have questioned its limited scope.The plan waives 90% tax and 100% penalties and interest of those whose old VAT cases of the year 2013-14 were reopened for assessment and framed up to December 31, 2020. The businessmen say this will benefit only those whose tax liability is up to Rs 1 lakh, and those beyond this limit will get no relief. They want the government to end this disparity and treat every taxpayer equally to take the benefits of this scheme to maximum people.Coming forth with the grievances of his fraternity, Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal state general secretary (PPBM) Sunil Mehra said: “The state government brags about its OTS for tax assessment but the reality is in the details, which restrict waivers of tax, interest, and penalty to a certain liability bracket. Those who pay more than Rs 1 lakh in tax get only interest and penalty waivers and no tax rebate. So it is obvious that only a tiny segment of assessees with a very small tax liability will gain instead of the majority."Saban Bazar Traders Association president Kamal Gupta said: “The OTS launched by the state government is not much useful to us, as almost everyone in business has tax liability of more than Rs 1 lakh. This is the first OTS that differentiates between the assessees based on their tax liability. The previous government, too, introduced a similar scheme but that didn't discriminate against people on the basis of turnover. Everyone got the same benefits. The state government should realise the ground reality and make necessary changes to the OTS, as still there is time left in its official rollout, which is scheduled for February 1.”Business Bachao Morcha president Gurdeep Singh Gosha said: “The OTS of the Congress government is a sham, as its real motive is not to benefit the businessmen but to just earn publicity by claiming that it gave benefit worth hundreds of crores to the state's businessmen. If the government is serious indeed about helping the business community, then why doesn't it open the scheme to all businessmen, regardless of their turnover?”On January 11, the Punjab cabinet approved this one-time settlement scheme for the traders to clear their tax arrears. The scheme will cost the state exchequer Rs 121.06 crore, according to a government statement, and all dealers with assessments framed up to December 31, 2020, can apply for benefit till April 30.The dealer can even submit additional statutory forms like C-forms which were not produced at the time of assessment, with the application form and will have to make the self-assessment and submit the proof of payment net tax payable as the result of settlement. The concerned Ward in-charge would issue an order of settlement which would not be reopened in any proceeding by way of review or revision.Trade associations had requested the state government to introduce an OTS for the clearance and settlement of arrears under the Punjab Value Added tax Act, 2005, and Central Sales tax Act, 1956, the government's statement had said. Small dealers especially, have suffered a lot in the Covid-19 lockdown and subsequent decline in the business activity. Various trade associations had raised a concern that they were facing difficulties in procuring statutory forms prescribed under the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, for availing themselves of concessional or zero rate of tax on the inter-state transactions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-ots-slanted-business-community/articleshow/80371859.cms||Mohit Behl
January 21, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh high court stays SIT probe into Waltair Club land||VIJAYAWADA: The high court on Wednesday stayed all further proceedings of the special investigation team with respect to the lands of Waltair Club in Vizag. After hearing a writ petition moved by the club management, the HC prima facie held the interests of the petitioner should be protected with available facts on record. After receiving a complaint over the lands in possession of Waltair Club, the SIT, which was constituted to probe alleged land scams in Visakhapatnam, initiated an inquiry. Challenging the action of the SIT, the club management moved the high court, contending the property is purely private in nature and SIT has no jurisdiction to probe the same. Arguing on behalf of the club, senior counsel D V Sitharam Murthy said the property is purely private in nature and the government has no claim over the same, he said. Murthy further argued that in 2013, the then state government had issued a show-cause notice to the club, and the management had moved the high court challenging the notice in the same year and was granted a stay. Advocate N Ashwani Kumar, who also argued on behalf of the club, said the SIT has no authority to probe as its term has ended. Even if the term of the SIT is subsisting, it has no jurisdiction to enquire into the properties of the club as the Perla family, who claim to be the original lessors, have filed a civil suit for resumption of land and the SIT has no jurisdiction to entertain any petition in a private civil dispute, Kumar said. Arguing on behalf of the SIT, additional advocate general P Sudhakar Reddy said the SIT was within its terms when it took up the investigation and it has the power to examine any dispute. After hearing both sides, the high court expressed displeasure over the SIT’s investigation and observed that the interest of the petitioner is to be protected. The court passed an interim order staying all further proceedings of the SIT, and directed it not to interfere with the title, possession, occupation and affairs of Waltair Club.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/high-court-stays-sit-probe-into-waltair-club-land/articleshow/80371892.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 21, 2021||Dehradun||Agitating Terai farmers celebrate Guru Gobind Singh anniversary at Ghazipur border||Rudrapur: The farmers of the Terai region, protesting against the three farm laws, celebrated the 354th birth anniversary of the tenth Sikh Guru, Shri Guru Gobind Singh, at the Ghazipur border on Wednesday. On the day, they pledged to not pull back from the protest until the central government revokes the agricultural laws. Talking to TOI over video call from Ghazipur border, spokesperson of the ‘Kisan Andolan Committee Ghazipur’, Jagtar Singh Bajwa, said that the Samyukta Kisan Morcha had called for celebrating ‘Prakash Utsav’ at all the agitation sites near several Delhi borders. On Wednesday, the committee organised ‘Nagar Kirtan’ which was led by the Panj Pyare (five beloved ones) of the revered Guru. The procession started at 8:30 am and culminated at 10:30 am. “Hundreds of agitating farmers, women, and elderly people at various places welcomed the Panj Pyare and the congregation by showering flowers. Later, we garlanded them and the ex-servicemen present in the procession and also honored them by presenting shawls,” said Bajwa. Bajwa further said, “Our Guru has taught us not to succumb to injustice. All agitating farmers will continue their non-violent movement and the world will also witness live examples of his teachings. On this Prakash Utsav, we have vowed not to bow down before the Modi government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/agitating-terai-farmers-celebrate-guru-gobind-singh-anniversary-at-ghazipur-border/articleshow/80371879.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 21, 2021||Ludhiana||Girl dies as gravel truck falls on hut||Ludhiana: A girl aged 10 died, while her maternal grandparents were injured when a gravel-laden tipper truck overturned on their hut near Machhiwara. Fog had blinded the driver.Sulekha of Gari Tarkhana near Machhiwara was the victim, while her grandparents are Bablu and Ramaiah Devi. The tipper was headed to the Gadhi bridge on the Sirhind Canal from Machhiwara around 10am when it first hit a tree in the fog and then overturned on the roadside hut, burying the sleeping poor family in gravel.In 20 minutes, the migrant workers from the slum pulled out Ramaiya Devi and Bablu and moved them to the Samrala civil hospital, while Sulekha suffocated to death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/girl-dies-as-gravel-truck-falls-on-hut/articleshow/80371870.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Delhi||Siege on borders adds hours to interstate travel from Delhi||NEW DELHI: For two months now, commuting in the city and travelling out of it has been a nightmare due to the farm protests. Reaching Delhi from Jaipur, normally a five-hour trip, now takes eight-nine hours through detours in Rajasthan and Haryana. Many close destinations have suddenly become farther by hours due to congestions and barricades on the roads. “I had to travel to Rishikesh with friends in the first week of January. I was the only one who could drive in this group, and what I thought would be a pleasant six-hour trip lengthened into a 10-hour hassle,” said Sahil Malik, a resident of west Delhi’s Hari Nagar. “We were diverted at Haridwar and had to take roads I have never heard the names of. Earlier, when I was driving out of Delhi, I was diverted to smaller roads leading to the border, but there were huge traffic jams on these roads.” For Karan Mathur, who recently went to Shimla for a wedding, the traffic congestion was a big mood spoiler. “There were cops who were diverting the traffic from Singhu border to Singhu Poll Tax Road, which was heavily crowded. We were told it was the only route for Shimla. For a trip that takes even hours, we spent more than 12 hours on the road,” said Mathur. A traffic police officer did not think the diversions would end soon. “There are major traffic diversions from the Singhu border, but the roads are jammed due to the increased traffic volume in the last two months,” said the officer. “It is best for people travelling to Chandigarh and Shimla or somewhere in that direction to take the Singhu Poll Tax Road.” Police had expected to see heavy traffic as is usual every year during December and January. “As we had apprehended, the traffic volume is very heavy these days and the ripple effect of this is being experienced by commuters on the arterial roads. We have increased the traffic police deployment on city roads to manage the vehicular load,” said another traffic officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/siege-on-borders-adds-hours-to-interstate-travel-from-capital/articleshow/80376069.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Goa||Goa: Tourism body plans to move HC again over taxi meters||PANAJI: The Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) is gearing up to move the high court yet again over non-implementation of taxi meters by the government as more than three years have lapsed since the court order. In 2019, the high court came down heavily on the state government and issued a notice to the transport director over the delay in implementing digital meters. TTAG president Nilesh Shah said they are “frustrated” that nothing has happened even after the court order and tourists continue to get fleeced. “We have no choice but to approach the court stating that its order has not been non-implemented,” said Shah. In 2016, TTAG had gone to court over the taxi meter issue, after which the court had issued an order directing the government to ensure that digital taxi meters are installed. Since the court order, the transport department has repeatedly sought extensions in the deadline to implement digital taxi meters. The department floated a tender inviting bids for digital meters, but cancelled the whole tendering process in 2019, and floated a fresh tender. Also, a petition was filed challenging the first tender which some believed was a ‘proxy’ to delay the whole process of implementation of digital meters in Goa. The tourist taxi operators’ lobby has resisted the implementation of taxi meters, and even staged strong protests to the point of going off roads in the past after the government granted permission GoaMiles, the state’s first taxi app service. The government has engaged representatives of taxi meters in talks, but the exercise has not yielded positive results. The taxi issue has come to the fore once again as tourist taxi operators are demanding with the government to scrap the taxi app service There have been multiple instances of taxi operators clashing with Goa Miles drivers, that has led to cases being filed at police stations. “It is no surprise that the government is deliberately delaying the implementation, while tourist taxi operators continue to oppose the app-based taxi service,” a tourism stakeholder said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourism-body-plans-to-move-hc-again-over-taxi-meters/articleshow/80375993.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Lucknow||Firm signs LoI for Rs 600 crore investment in Defence Corridor||LUCKNOW: In a major investment breakthrough in the Jhansi node of defence industrial corridor, the Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) has received a letter of intent for investment of Rs 600 crore on 100 acres of land. The proposed investment by Nitro Dynamics Aerospace and Defence Private Limited was committed by chief executive officer of the company Rekha Verma with UPEIDA chief executive officer Awanish Awasthi. Awasthi said the company would invest Rs 600 crore in next 3-4 years and promised jobs to over 1,000 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/firm-signs-loi-for-rs-600cr-investment-in-defence-corridor/articleshow/80375580.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man lured into sex act on video call, later blackmailed||MUMBAI: Sextortionists are trotting out new ways to lure and blackmail gullible people. A 40-year-old man who got into the act with an absolute stranger on a video call recently now finds himself in a sticky situation after the woman clandestinely recorded the sexual escapade and then used it to extort money from him. She threatened to upload the video on social media if he did not shell out. The man, who works for a private company, received a ‘friend request’ from a woman. He accepted it and they got chatting on the social media platform, said the police. After some time they exchanged phone numbers. Recently the man received a video call in which he could see a woman in the nude, although her face was not visible, said a police officer. The woman lured the man into pleasuring himself on phone. In no time, the man accepted the invitation to indulge in the virtual sex act. He undressed and fell for the trap, said the officer. Soon after, the woman told him that she had recorded the entire act and threatened to upload it online unless he paid up. She warned him that she would share the same with all his contacts on social media if he refused to pay Rs 31,500, said the police. The man developed cold feet and begged her not to do so. He told her that he did not have much money to pay. This paved the way for a round of negotiations over the extortion amount. “The woman quickly lowered the demand to Rs 20,000. But he said he would not be able to pay so much money,” said the police officer. “The man then told her that he had only Rs 1,500 with her. She agreed, albeit reluctantly, to settle for the amount and shared an account number to which the man was told to transfer the money.” This exchange happened within 30 minutes after their call, said the police. Realising that he had been lured into a trap, and scared that the woman might continue to demand more money in future, the man later approached the police. Officials of Agripada police station are probing the case. They are getting details of the account number which the woman had provided and technical data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-lured-into-sex-act-on-video-call-later-blackmailed/articleshow/80369983.cms||Mateen Hafeez
January 21, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Video of cruelty to puppies goes viral, woman booked||LUCKNOW: Months after videos of a woman stomping puppies in a car went viral, videos of another woman mistreating puppies in Jankipuram went viral on Tuesday and Wednesday. When a neighbour objected and urged the woman to not indulge in such a cruel act, the latter threatened him with dire consequences. However, police have taken cognisance of the complaint and lodged an FIR. Lucknow police commissioner DK Thakur said that an FIR was lodged under relevant sections and a thorough investigation would follow. The incident had come to light on January 19, when the accused’s neighbour Asha (name changed) posted two videos in which a woman identified as Rekha Singh is seen catching and bundling up five puppies and their mother in a tub. Thereafter, she takes them in her car dumping them at an unknown location. In another video, she is seen running her car over a pup. She then dumps the puppy screaming in pain in the boot of her car, picking it by its crushed leg. “The Jankipuram woman along with her husband continue to hound and intimidate us. They also threatened my father to not pursue legal action and to not share the videos on social media,” Asha told TOI. The complainant had also requested police to help find the dogs and initiate action. In a detailed FIR to police, she alleged that her neighbour had bundled a dog and her five puppies in a bucket and dropped them to some unidentified location. Asha had shot the video of the act. She further alleged that the woman had also run her car deliberately over one of the puppies. Police have registered a case in this connection for cruelty against animals and also mischief by killing/maiming an animal against the offender. “Animals are well protected under Indian laws even though many people, sometimes even police officers, may be unaware of it. Let this be known to people that if they harm any animal they will face legal action as per law with provision of up to five years of imprisonment,” said animal rights activist Kamna Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/video-of-cruelty-to-puppies-goes-viral-woman-booked/articleshow/80375490.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Kanpur||UP: Woman feeds powdered glass to son, ends life||KANPUR: A 30-year-old woman allegedly attempted to kill her five-year-old son by forcibly giving him powdered glass and then committed suicide by consuming it at her house in Lalpura police area of Hamirpur district on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as Soni Nishad and her son Shani. Following differences with her in-laws, Soni was living with her parents in Sahurapur village under the limits of Lalpura police station of the district since the past six-seven months. Her husband Bhola (40), a resident of Brahma Ka Dera in Kotwali police area of the district, is a labourer and works in Gujarat’s Surat city. He was not present in the house when the incident happened. The incident came to fore when the woman’s mother Marri, a cook at a basic school, returned home and spotted her daughter Soni and her five-year-old son Shani lying unconscious and raised an alarm. Police reached the spot after receiving information and admitted them to the district hospital, where Soni died during treatment. “Locals stated that Soni was upset as neither her husband nor her in-laws had attended a ‘chhati’ function of her daughter, besides she was undergoing several hardships in taking care of her three children,” said Inspector Tara Singh. Preliminary investigation suggested that Soni apparently forcibly gave powdered glass to her son and then committed suicide by consuming the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/woman-feeds-powdered-glass-to-son-ends-life/articleshow/80373866.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Lucknow||Siddiqui, Rajbhar to remain in jail for 2 more days||Lucknow: The special MP-MLA court on Wednesday deferred the hearing on bail pleas of former minister and Congress neta Naseemuddin Siddiqui and BSP functionary Ram Achal Rajbhar for two days, in connection with a case of using abusive language against a BJP leader’s minor daughter and his family. The judge has fixed January 22 for the next hearing. When their bail applications were put up for hearing, the government lawyer Munish Babu Yadav demanded two more days to place the stand of the state government. The two were sent to jail on Tuesday as they surrendered following issuance of order for attachment of their properties, because they had not been appearing in the court since 2018 to face the court proceedings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/siddiqui-rajbhar-to-remain-in-jail-for-2-more-days/articleshow/80375469.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Nagpur||Fearing next Covid wave in April, nurse takes jab||Nagpur: Overcoming anxiety caused by purported Covid conspiracy theories claiming people ‘dying after vaccination’ and WhatsApp videos showing people collapsing on streets apart from stiff resistance from family members, 31-year-old Simran (name changed) came forward and took the Covid vaccine jab at Government Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday. Simran was probably the only nursing staff to turn up at the inoculation centre, beside top doctors of the college. “I have done five Covid rotation duties till date. After every rotation, I underwent RT-PCR testing and report came negative each time. I thought why to take the jab when I haven’t contracted the infection for so many days. Then, some colleagues and doctors said there may be another Covid wave in April and we must be vaccinated by then,” said Simran. Simran also spoke to specialist doctors who told her there was no harm or side effects if she preferred the vaccine. “I didn’t inform my husband before coming here. Later, I sent him a photograph taking the jab. He was concerned and asked how I was feeling,” she told TOI, before leaving for home on her bike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fearing-next-covid-wave-in-april-nurse-takes-jab/articleshow/80373254.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 21, 2021||Nagpur||Govt hospitals not following fire norms, no fresh audit: NMC fire dept||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s fire and emergency services department has refused to conduct a fresh fire safety audit of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH). Instead, it has asked the public works department to consider earlier fire safety inspection reports. The fire department has said it had conducted fire audits of both the hospitals in 2013 and 2016 and firefighting measures were already suggested to the state PWD. Now, we cannot do the inspection again, said a senior official from the department. Sources said fire fighting arrangements are compulsory for all government and private buildings. “But all city-based government hospitals openly violate the orders. Hundreds of patients from far flung areas come to these two government hospitals every day and the absence of any firefighting equipment poses a severe threat to their lives,” sources from the fire department said. The fire department had been issuing instructions to all the government institutions to install mandatory firefighting equipment but in vain, sources said. In GMCH’s G+2 storey building, the fire department even in 2016 had suggested a slew of measures pertaining to firefighting arrangements and they included one internal staircase of width two to 10m should be provided. Staircase, corridor, exit way, escape route should be kept free from any obstruction. The fire department has also recommended separate fire lift provision in the hospital as per the national building code. The fire department had also instructed to carry out periodic inspection of fire fighting systems in the GMCH. Similar provisions had been recommended to the IGGMCH. Here, 43 buildings of the hospital have already been declared unsafe by the fire department after the state’s public department failed to take preventive measures. “Whenever there is a fire in any hospitals anywhere in the country, the fire department issues letters to all hospitals reminding them to comply with firefighting measures at the earliest,” said the officer. Officials from both the government hospitals told TOI that they have already approached the state’s public works department in this regard. “But we never get any support from the department,” they said. Despite repeated attempts, PWD’s superintending engineer Vidyadhar Sardeshmukh was not available for comments. The senior official further said that following instructions from the collector officer, the fire department has visited both the hospitals and instructed the state’s PWD to comply with the earlier firefighting safety measures suggested by the department. Meanwhile, commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar has deputed deputy commissioner of police Vivek Masal as a nodal officer to coordinate between NMC’s fire department and city police to resolve FIRs registered against different property owners for flouting fire safety norms. Around 85 FIRs have been registered by the fire department against various institutions for failing to comply with fire safety norms despite repeated reminders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-hospitals-not-following-fire-norms-no-fresh-audit-nmc-fire-dept/articleshow/80373329.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Ludhiana||Covid-19: 72-year-old dies, 38 test positive||LUDHIANA: A Ludhiana resident died of Covid-19 and 38 tested positive on Wednesday. As per the local media bulletin, the deceased, a 72-year-old patient, was a resident of Salem Tabri. He had hypertension, diabetes and chronic kidney disease and died at DMCH. Besides, a patient from Himachal Pradesh succumbed to the virus at a city hospital and nine from outside the district tested positive here on the day. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said the district toll has risen to 985 and that of outsiders to 469. To date, 5,78,949 persons have been tested. Of the 38 new cases, 21 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), three contacts of positive patients, 11 from OPD and three through tracing process. The local health department officials said the district case count was 25,399 and that of outsiders 3,846. So far, 24,130 patients have recovered, which constitutes 95% of the total cases. There are 281 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 844. On Wednesday, 70 persons were quarantined and 2,173 samples collected. There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four of the government at CMCH. Of the two patients on ventilators, one is a Ludhiana resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-72-yr-old-dies-38-test-positive/articleshow/80371899.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Ludhiana||Health dept gives its best shot to motivate workers for jab||LUDHIANA: As less-than-expected number of health workers is turning up for vaccination, the department is sending them videos of reputed doctors getting vaccinated to motivate them. The department is also setting up mass media teams to persuade them. Civil surgeon Dr Sukjeevan Kakkar said, “The number of those vaccinated rose from 214 on the first day to 340 on Tuesday, which is an improvement. But to motivate the healthcare workers, we are sending them videos of doctors getting vaccinated.” Health department officials said doctors getting the jab would dispel rumours surrounding the vaccine and its adverse effects. They said while many health workers were getting vaccinated, there was a sizeable percentage that had apprehensions. They added that there have been no major side-effects among those inoculated in the district. “Such rumours do the rounds every time a new vaccine comes. Similar was the scene when measles rubella vaccine came. We want to tell people that there are no side-effects and a recipient may sometimes have myalgia, fever, mild pain or nausea, which are manageable symptoms,” said a senior doctor at the civil hospital, who received the shot on the first day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/health-dept-gives-its-best-shot-to-motivate-workers-for-jab/articleshow/80371905.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 21, 2021||Ludhiana||Major tragedy averted, 4 kids rescued from house fire||Ludhiana: A major tragedy was averted on Wednesday morning when four children got stuck in their own house after a fire broke out in Janakpuri area of the city. The four kids were at home while their parents were out for work.According to eyewitnesses, as the door was locked from inside and the children were unable to come out, they were rescued by the neighbours, who accessed the house on fire through an adjoining building even before the fire brigade team arrived on the scene. The fire personnel had to break the door to enter the house to control the blaze.Anu, the owner of the house and the mother of these children, said, “I had gone out for work, while my husband was off to Chandigarh and the four kids were at home. I got a call from my neighbours about the fire and rushed to my house.”On reaching there, she found that the fire had engulfed their ground floor house, but with the help of neighbours, her children were rescued. She said the furniture, clothes and some cash kept in the house were charred.According to the fire brigade personnel, the call was received at 10.25am. Fireman Harvinder Singh said when they reached the spot, they found the main door locked from inside and for entering the house, they had to break it. He said the fire had spread on the ground floor, which they controlled in about an hour’s time. Luckily, the kids were already saved by the neighbours, or else there could have been a major tragedy.As for the cause of fire, he said a gas geyser in the house was found damaged badly, apparently due to a blast, and most likely, the fire started from this geyser only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/major-tragedy-averted-4-kids-rescued-from-house-fire/articleshow/80371896.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Man dies; not related to vax, say Telangana officials||HYDERABAD: A 42-year-old ambulance driver from Telangana who received the Covishield vaccine on Tuesday developed chest pain late evening and died in the early hours of Wednesday. But authorities said it was unrelated and purely coincidental. The ambulance driver identified as Vittal was attached to the Kuntala primary health centre in Nirmal district and had taken the jab along with dozens of other healthcare workers around 11.30 am on Tuesday, before resuming his usual duties. A post-mortem was being conducted to assess the cause of death, said officials. Death just coincidental, says official“He had taken the vaccine at 11.30 am and was with us till 5 pm. He was fine but developed chest pain late in the night. This incident is completely accidental and coincidental,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director of public health, Telangana. Rao told TOI that such “accidental coincidental deaths” could happen in the coming days as well, when they vaccinate the next line of beneficiaries, including frontline workers, the elderly, and people with co-morbid conditions. “These incidents however cannot be attributed to vaccination as it will never kill anybody. It is meant to save our lives. Normally if there is some fault with vaccination, it will not affect only one person. At this centre we have vaccinated 80 people and none of them have had any issues,” he said. He added that all vaccines might have some accidental cases with one or two people in a lakh developing severe reactions to the vaccine, but such people also recover. “It is possible that he already had some underlying issue which erupted. However, a post-mortem is being done and we will get to know the cause,” the official added. The district Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) committee is examining the matter and will submit its report to the state AEFI committee, which will in turn be submitted to a central committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-dies-not-related-to-vax-say-t-officials/articleshow/80376000.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 21, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh HC quashes charges filed against 11 under SC/ST Act||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Wednesday quashed the proceedings initiated by Mangalagiri rural police under SC/ST Act against persons belonging to scheduled caste. The court observed that booking cases under the Act against persons from SC community is a serious illegality and liable to be quashed. Mangalagiri police had booked a case against 11 persons from Krishnayapalem village under various sections of IPC and the SC/ST Act following a complaint from one Epuri Ravi Babu, alleging that they threatened to tread on him with tractor after he tried to settle a quarrel between two groups on October 23, 2020. The reported clash happened between pro and anti-Amaravati protesters and the complaint was lodged against pro-Amaravati protesters. Three persons named as accused in the case moved the high court, seeking to quash the proceedings in the FIR registered against them. Arguing on behalf of the petitioners, advocate Karumanchi Indraneel Babu told the court that booking persons from scheduled caste under SC/ST Act is a serious illegality. He also sought to quash all other charges under the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The court observed that the statement of the complainant and the caste certificates submitted by the petitioners clearly establish that they belong to scheduled caste and cannot be booked under the SC/ST Act. When it came to other sections of IPC, the high court quashed all proceedings except the charges under section 506 of IPC which is a non-cognizable crime. Justice M Satyanarayana Murthy said in his judgement that charges under 120(B), 143, 341 will not apply to the alleged crime committed by the petitioners other than 506 (criminal intimidation) and partly allowed the petition quashing all other charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-quashes-charges-filed-against-11-under-sc/st-act/articleshow/80371908.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 21, 2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 14-year-old raped, left outside school||LUDHIANA: The police on Tuesday booked a driver for raping his 14-year-old neighbour. The survivor’s father said in his police complaint, “I live with my daughter here. When I returned home on the night of January 18, my daughter was not at home. After my search bore no result, I lodged a police complaint.” Around 11am on January 19, his daughter returned home. “She told me that our neighbour took her along in his pick-up van. After roaming around the city, he drove her to an isolated place and raped her at night. In the morning, he abandoned her outside a school here. She returned home on her own,” the complainant added. Investigating officer ASI Jatinder Kumar said, “A case has been registered under Section 376 (rape) of the IPC and under the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. We are trying to trace the accused. According to the initial investigation, the accused is around 17-year-old. We are, however, yet to ascertain it.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/14-year-old-raped-left-outside-school/articleshow/80371931.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Nagpur||NMC move to audit pvt hospital bills challenged in HC||Nagpur: Hospitals’ Association here has once again moved the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court objecting to Maharashtra government and civic body’s decision to audit accounts of the private entities terming it as “intrusion of fundamental rights”. Through Dr Pradeep Arora of KRIMS Hospital, the petitioner association demanded quashing of directions 16 and 17 of government’s August 31 notification and Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) orders of September 16 through which over 100 city hospitals were subjected to audit of their bills. On the basis of the notification, many private hospitals were forced to refund excess amount charged from patients. While issuing notices to respondents, including state public health department’s principal secretary and NMC’s commissioner and others, a division bench comprising Justice Nitin Jamdar and Justice Anil Kilor on Wednesday directed them to file reply within two weeks. Corporation’s counsel Gemini Kasat received notices on behalf of both the commissioners. Citing a case of one of its members, the petitioner informed that NMC chief had issued an order on August 11 and sent a team for inspection and audit, removed books of account, determined liabilities, levied fine and took coercive action to recover the amount. The hospital was levied a hefty penalty of Rs5 lakh for overcharging patients. Terming it an example of high-handedness, the petitioner contended that all these actions were in breach of principles of natural justice and performed without sanction of law. Moreover, a pre-audit was obligated on the health care providers without any specifications, said the plea. “No quasi-judicial power has been entrusted with the NMC to determine private hospitals’ financial liability,” said the petitioner. According to the petitioner, due to such directives, hospitals are required to go through burdensome exercise of locating the patients and go through humiliation of refunding money that was allegedly overcharged. “Such harassment is causing profound distress to doctors, blunting their cognitive abilities and can lead to deleterious consequences. It’s important that the liability of health care providers should be crystallized by formal judicial process,” said the plea. “The hospitals are also being threatened with cancellation of registration and slapping of criminal cases in case they fail to adhere to NMC’s directives of refunding excess amount to the patients,” said the petition. “It is frightening proposition for health care providers to establish their hospitals worth crores of rupees, which would be instantly of no use if registrations are cancelled. It’s nothing but utter disgrace meted out to Corona warriors in return for supreme sacrifice made by them while treating Covid-19 patients, despite risk to their lives,” said Dr Arora. Earlier, the petitioner had moved the judiciary challenging May 21, 2020, notification that fixed rates for treating Covid-19 and non-Covid patients in private hospitals, nursing homes and clinics across the state. Through it, the government had warned all these establishments against charging over fixed rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-move-to-audit-pvt-hospital-bills-challenged-in-hc/articleshow/80373397.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 21, 2021||Ludhiana||Despite tepid response, vaccination sites to be increased in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Even as the Covid-19 vaccination drive in Ludhiana has received a lukewarm response so far, the health department is set to increase the number of vaccination sites from Thursday. On Wednesday, vaccination was done at only two sites, both private hospitals, by four teams. Confirming the plan to increase the site count, civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said 11 teams would be sent to various vaccination sites to inoculate healthcare workers (HCW). He said five teams would administer the vaccine to the HCWs at community health centres (CHCs), while the remaining would do the same at CMCH and SPS Hospital during the day. The civil surgeon said the vaccination drive at certain centres, including Civil Hospital Ludhiana, was suspended on Wednesday, as the number of persons to be vaccinated was below the expectation. Vaccination at these centres would start once there is sufficient number of people to be vaccinated. Health department officials said on Tuesday, about 340 HCWs were vaccinated at various centres, including DMCH, CMCH, Fortis Hospital, and sub-divisional hospitals (SDH) at Jagraon and Samrala. They said on Wednesday, four teams are vaccinating the HCWs at CMCH and Fortis Hospital, and the day’s target has been set at 400. Health officials said after the department started the drive at various hospitals, including the Civil Hospital, SDHs and some private hospitals with over 100 employees, the HCWs at these health outlets, who were willing to take the shot, were administered the first dose. Not many HCWs at these hospitals are left for the first shot, they said. Now, the government hospitals in peripheries have been asked to vaccinate the staff of neighbouring private hospitals/ clinics with less than 100 staff members, the officials said, adding that the going is unlikely to be a smooth affair at the government hospitals, as there does not seem to be much enthusiasm among the HCWs there to take the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/despite-tepid-response-vaccination-sites-to-be-increased-in-city/articleshow/80371920.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 21, 2021||Chennai||Railways plans to link four prime tourist spots||Chennai: Indian Railways may try linking four tourist attractions in the state — Mamallapuram, Gangaikonda Cholapuram, Mudhumalai national park and Kodaikanal — to its rail network when the next route expansion is suggested. Mamallapuram, Gangaikonda Cholapuram, Mudhumalai national park are Unesco heritage sites. These locations have been assessed as tourist destinations without a rail connection as the nearest railway stations are 25km to 120km away. The National Rail Plan draft, prepared to chalk out a plan to expand the rail network in the country by 2050, says rail links to tourist spots were important as tourist areas play a pivotal role in the economy of a country. Trains are always preferred and considered safe, convenient, reliable and economical to travel to tourist destinations by domestic as well as international tourists, the draft cited. A comprehensive list of tourist spots and cities in all states that do not have rail connectivity has been prepared so they could be linked on priority when an expansion is considered. “This could be considered as the first step towards bringing trains closer to these spots. It may not be feasible to lay new lines to all these spots, especially through forest areas, but the idea could be to bring trains closer so that visitors can use them to reach these spots. A list of locations that need to be linked is now ready after a study,” said a railways official. The unsuccessful attempt of railways to link Mamallapuram, through a new line from Chennai to Cuddalore via Mamallapuram, shows that construction of new lines is expensive and time consuming. The linking was proposed, included in the budget and a survey was done in 2008 but it has not taken off yet. The total project cost has touched Rs 1,200 crore and acquiring land will be tough due to residential and commercial developments between OMR and ECR, along which the line was planned. N Ravi, a former TTDC official, said, “We have to see who the customers will be. Domestic tourists may not prefer trains as they would want to cover two to three destinations at the shortest possible time.” “Rail links may help cater to foreign tourists if rail-cum-road tours, by which tourists who arrive by trains can be moved into buses and vans for further trips, can be operated. The state used to bring tourists from Mumbai, Hyderabad, Delhi and Bengaluru on such tours.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/railways-plans-to-link-four-prime-tourist-spots/articleshow/80373382.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Covaxin hesitancy greater among non-doctors at centres in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Centres giving Covaxin in the state have noticed hesitancy more among non-doctors in certain places and across board in others. On the third day of vaccination, the number of Covaxin recipients saw a 49% uptick after a decline on the second day. At Government Medical College in Aurangabad, 53 doctors had taken the vaccine till Tuesday and 35 non-doctors. Among the 88 recipients, 71 were men. Similarly, in GMC, Nagpur, where 114 have taken the vaccine, a majority are doctors. In Amravati too, efforts are made to administer doctors and nurses in bigger volumes initially. At Mumbai’s JJ Hospital though, both doctors and non-doctors have kept away from the vaccination booth. At five of the six centres in Maharashtra where it is being given, 269 people had taken Covaxin of the estimated target of 500-600 on Wednesday. The district hospital in Amravati saw the highest turnout with 115 people opting to take it under the ‘clinical trial mode’. On the launch day too, the centre had 100 people taking the shot, which however dropped to 38 on Tuesday. Civil surgeon Dr ShyamSunder Nikam said they are motivating more doctors to take the shots initially so they can enthuse others. JJ, on Wednesday, saw an extremely low turnout again. Merely 16 beneficiaries came to take the vaccine. On Tuesday, 13 had showed up. A senior surgeon said hesitancy was a factor. “I think Covaxin would be a better vaccine since we believe in the technology, but I would like to wait for data on efficacy. What’s the rush anyway? Covid cases are under control and we are working with all precautions,” he said. Authorities don’t want to blame it on hesitancy alone and said glitches in the Co-Win app too had a role to play. Both on Tuesday and Wednesday, the centre received a list of beneficiaries that had multiple duplicate entries. “On Wednesday, our target was down to 70-odd as over 30% names were repeated,” said Dr Lalit Sankhe, nodal officerat JJ. He agreed there was hesitancy and outright refusals too. “We hope the numbers would improve once glitches are eliminated,” he said. Authorities in GMC, Aurangabad, are optimistic that as more doctors take the vaccine, more beneficiaries would be willing to take it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/covaxin-hesitancy-greater-among-non-docs-at-centres/articleshow/80381599.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra ‘dishonest’ in denying governor nod to pay contractor, Bombay HC told||MUMBAI: Bombay high court was told on Wednesday the state government was “blatantly dishonest” in its refusal to acknowledge governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s approval for a payment of Rs 358 crore to a road contractor during President’s rule in Maharashtra in November 2019. “The approval was not just by the governor. It virtually goes through the ranks of the government—desk officer, under secretary, deputy secretary, additional secretary and the chief secretary. It is unfortunate for the government to say that the signatures of its secretaries are not to mean anything,” senior advocate Aspi Chinoy with advocate Cherag Balsara told Justice Girish Kulkarni. They represented Manaj Tollway that was given a four-laning and improvement works contract for two state highways in 2011. Following disputes, in December 2019, HC passed a consent decree to pay the contractor Rs 358 crore. The government filed a review plea, saying consent terms were hurriedly arrived at during President’s rule and no approval was taken of the newly appointed government. Senior advocate Anil Anturkar for the state argued that it was necessary to take approval of the “democratically elected government” sworn in on November 29, 2019. “It was not done,’’ he said, adding on November 22, the governor “at the most gave the green signal for negotiations”. Anturkar questioned who took the decision between November 23 and 28 to draw the consent terms and withdraw a petition before a Pune court challenging the arbitral award in favour of the contractor. “Secretaries can’t take the decision. The government of Maharashtra means the cabinet and the CM. Secretaries, IAS officers, commissioners and collectors are not the government of Maharashtra. They are only officers of the state,” he said. Also, “higher officers to save their skins” got the superintendent engineer to give an undertaking to HC for making the payment. Chinoy countered that approvals went right up to the then chief secretary (Ajoy Mehta). “It is not by fly-by-night operators. Is it seriously suggested that the governor just signs on the document?” he asked. He also said records belie the government’s claim. On December 13, 2019, it paid Rs 1 crore to the contractor “much after the government came into being”. In the winter session, it took the legislature’s sanction to pay the remaining Rs 357 crore (following a contempt petition by Manaj, this money was deposited in court). “No governor did that. The government did it,” said Chinoy. The matter will continue on Thursday. Manaj Tollway was given a four-laning and improvement works contract for 2 state highways in 2011. Following disputes, it opted out in 2015 and litigated. In Dec 2019, HC passed a consent decree to pay the contractor Rs 358cr. The govt filed a review plea, saying consent terms were hurriedly arrived at during President’s rule||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-dishonest-in-denying-guv-nod-to-pay-contractor-hc-told/articleshow/80373403.cms||Rosy Sequeira
January 21, 2021||Thane||Covaxin hesitancy greater among non-doctors at centres in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Centres giving Covaxin in the state have noticed hesitancy more among non-doctors in certain places and across board in others. On the third day of vaccination, the number of Covaxin recipients saw a 49% uptick after a decline on the second day. At Government Medical College in Aurangabad, 53 doctors had taken the vaccine till Tuesday and 35 non-doctors. Among the 88 recipients, 71 were men. Similarly, in GMC, Nagpur, where 114 have taken the vaccine, a majority are doctors. In Amravati too, efforts are made to administer doctors and nurses in bigger volumes initially. At Mumbai’s JJ Hospital though, both doctors and non-doctors have kept away from the vaccination booth. At five of the six centres in Maharashtra where it is being given, 269 people had taken Covaxin of the estimated target of 500-600 on Wednesday. The district hospital in Amravati saw the highest turnout with 115 people opting to take it under the ‘clinical trial mode’. On the launch day too, the centre had 100 people taking the shot, which however dropped to 38 on Tuesday. Civil surgeon Dr ShyamSunder Nikam said they are motivating more doctors to take the shots initially so they can enthuse others. JJ, on Wednesday, saw an extremely low turnout again. Merely 16 beneficiaries came to take the vaccine. On Tuesday, 13 had showed up. A senior surgeon said hesitancy was a factor. “I think Covaxin would be a better vaccine since we believe in the technology, but I would like to wait for data on efficacy. What’s the rush anyway? Covid cases are under control and we are working with all precautions,” he said. Authorities don’t want to blame it on hesitancy alone and said glitches in the Co-Win app too had a role to play. Both on Tuesday and Wednesday, the centre received a list of beneficiaries that had multiple duplicate entries. “On Wednesday, our target was down to 70-odd as over 30% names were repeated,” said Dr Lalit Sankhe, nodal officerat JJ. He agreed there was hesitancy and outright refusals too. “We hope the numbers would improve once glitches are eliminated,” he said. Authorities in GMC, Aurangabad, are optimistic that as more doctors take the vaccine, more beneficiaries would be willing to take it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/covaxin-hesitancy-greater-among-non-docs-at-centres/articleshow/80381598.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Covaxin hesitancy greater among non-doctors at centres in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Centres giving Covaxin in the state have noticed hesitancy more among non-doctors in certain places and across board in others. On the third day of vaccination, the number of Covaxin recipients saw a 49% uptick after a decline on the second day. At Government Medical College in Aurangabad, 53 doctors had taken the vaccine till Tuesday and 35 non-doctors. Among the 88 recipients, 71 were men. Similarly, in GMC, Nagpur, where 114 have taken the vaccine, a majority are doctors. In Amravati too, efforts are made to administer doctors and nurses in bigger volumes initially. At Mumbai’s JJ Hospital though, both doctors and non-doctors have kept away from the vaccination booth. At five of the six centres in Maharashtra where it is being given, 269 people had taken Covaxin of the estimated target of 500-600 on Wednesday. The district hospital in Amravati saw the highest turnout with 115 people opting to take it under the ‘clinical trial mode’. On the launch day too, the centre had 100 people taking the shot, which however dropped to 38 on Tuesday. Civil surgeon Dr ShyamSunder Nikam said they are motivating more doctors to take the shots initially so they can enthuse others. JJ, on Wednesday, saw an extremely low turnout again. Merely 16 beneficiaries came to take the vaccine. On Tuesday, 13 had showed up. A senior surgeon said hesitancy was a factor. “I think Covaxin would be a better vaccine since we believe in the technology, but I would like to wait for data on efficacy. What’s the rush anyway? Covid cases are under control and we are working with all precautions,” he said. Authorities don’t want to blame it on hesitancy alone and said glitches in the Co-Win app too had a role to play. Both on Tuesday and Wednesday, the centre received a list of beneficiaries that had multiple duplicate entries. “On Wednesday, our target was down to 70-odd as over 30% names were repeated,” said Dr Lalit Sankhe, nodal officerat JJ. He agreed there was hesitancy and outright refusals too. “We hope the numbers would improve once glitches are eliminated,” he said. Authorities in GMC, Aurangabad, are optimistic that as more doctors take the vaccine, more beneficiaries would be willing to take it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covaxin-hesitancy-greater-among-non-docs-at-centres/articleshow/80374928.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 21, 2021||Varanasi||Second lot of Covid-19 vaccine reaches LBS airport||VARANASI: The second consignment of the vaccine against Covid-19 reached the district on Wednesday while the district administration and health department officials remained busy in finalizing preparations for the second round of vaccination to be conducted on Friday, Januray 22. The consignment, containing 1,77,500 doses of the vaccine in 15 boxes reached LBS International Airport by a Vistara flight at 11.40am and was taken to the regional drugs warehouse amidst tight security arrangements. The officials started dispatching the share of each of 14 districts of Varanasi, Prayagraj, Mirzapur and Azamgarh divisions by late evening. Talking to TOI, the district magistrate Kaushal Raj Shrama said, “With the arrival of the second lot of the vaccine, the district has now the stock for vaccinating 18,000 beneficiaries. As per the schedule finalised for vaccination, the next round of vaccination will be conducted on January 22 (Friday), 28 and 29. The number of sites and sessions for vaccination has been finalised with a target of administering Covid-19 vaccine to 3,000 on Friday while 7,500 beneficiaries will be covered on January 28 and 29, each. On the first day of vaccination on January 16, a total of 600 beneficiaries were shortlisted for vaccination, said the DM adding that, but only 393 had turned up. And the vaccination drive scheduled on January 18 was cancelled following glitches faced in the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (CoWIN) application, which was developed to monitor and track the inoculation process. The chief medical officer Dr VB Singh admitted that the CoWIN malfunctioning was one of the reasons behind the slow vaccination on the first day of the drive and said that the application was not working properly and difficulties were faced while uploading the data of the recipients after vaccination. The glitches faced at most of the centres due to the process was delayed. The DM said that after solving the problems, including of CoWIN, all preparations have been finalised for the Friday’s drive at 15 sites, where vaccination will take place in two sessions. In each session, 100 beneficiaries will be administered the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/second-lot-of-covid-19-vaccine-reaches-lbs-airport/articleshow/80373827.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Lucknow||Owning a house key to self-reliance: PM Narendra Modi||LUCKNOW: Praising Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for the prompt implementation of Prime Minister Awas Yojana in the state, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said that owning a house raises people’s confidence which is a key driving force of Atmanirbhar Abhiyan, the Centre’s prestigious campaign envisioning self-reliance of the country. PM Modi was speaking through virtual medium after releasing Rs 2,691 crore to 6.1 lakh beneficiaries of PM Awas Yojana-Rural (PMAY-R) in Uttar Pradesh. Of the 6.1 lakh beneficiaries, 5.3 lakh would be getting the first instalment of financial aid. The rest 80,000 would be getting the second instalment. PM lauds swift execution of scheme, law & order controlThe PM maintained that the dream of every poor to own a house would be fulfilled through the PMAY-R scheme which was initiated five years ago. “The scheme has infused confidence amongst people of owning a house of their own,” he said, lauding the efforts of CM Yogi Adityanath in executing the scheme in the state. "With the pace, the UP government implemented the Central government's schemes in the last four years, it has given a new identity and new heights to the state. On one side, there is action against criminals and rioters while on the other side, there has been a control on law and order in the state," the PM said. Last year, UP had topped the country in providing most number of houses under the housing scheme. “The state was not only on track to get a number of expressways but also institutions like AIIMS,” he said, observing that the facilities were attracting the industrial sector while opening avenues for the MSMEs. At the same time, Modi hit out at the previous SP government, accusing it of framing wrong policies which led to suffering of the poor. “Earlier, the poor did not have the confidence that the government could help in fulfilling their housing needs,” he said, recalling that though the scheme was started from Agra, the previous Akhilesh Yadav-led SP government did not send names of beneficiaries despite repeated reminders. Reiterating that UP was the best performing state under the PMAY-R scheme, Modi said that the government did not resort to `Bhai-Bhatijawaad’ (nepotism) nor thought of any vote bank. “The idea was implemented with an aim to help the poor,” he said, adding that most houses were allotted in the name of women. Modi said that fulfilling housing needs of the people was happening in an auspicious time of the year, just like rolling out vaccination against the Corona pandemic. He said that he was hopeful that the financial aid provided by the government would speed up construction of houses and give the much needed relief by the next winter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/owning-a-house-is-key-toself-reliance-says-modi/articleshow/80375767.cms||Pankaj Shah
January 21, 2021||Lucknow||UP: GeM helped govt check corruption, bring transparency||LUCKNOW: Departmental purchases worth Rs 7,177 crore were made in the last four years through the government e-marketplace (GeM) portal, which was mandated by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to check corruption and ensure transparency. Data shared by the government shows that purchases worth Rs 602 crore were made in 2017-18 through the portal which went up to Rs 1,674 crore 2018-19. Similarly, departmental purchases through the portal further went went up to Rs 2,401 crore in 2019-20. In the current financial year till December, the government made purchases worth Rs 2,500 crore taking the total purchases in four years to Rs 7,177 crore. Till December last year, 71,814 sellers were registered with GeM out of which 26,029 are MSMEs. The portal provides services like product, manpower outsourcing, taxi, cleaning services, etc. Additional chief secretary (MSME) Navneet Sehgal said, “The use of GeM portal reflected transparency and eliminated human interface in purchases which naturally diminished chances of corruption. The government is committed to end corruption. Our efforts are also being appreciated at the national level.” A government spokesperson said there was rampant corruption in departmental purchases under previous governments but Yogi Adityanath adopted zero tolerance policy towards corruption and ensured transparency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gem-helped-govt-check-corruption-bring-transparency/articleshow/80375740.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Delhi||Delhi’s fifth and largest sero survey set to be over today||NEW DELHI: The capital’s fifth and biggest serological survey being carried out by Delhi government is all set to be completed on Thursday as scheduled. The district authorities have managed to collect 28,000 blood samples, highest till date, within 10 days while ensuring adequate arrangements for a seamless Covid-19 vaccination drive. The fifth serological survey in Delhi had started on January 11 and was scheduled to be completed by January 21. “Though there were apprehensions that carrying out the serological survey with the biggest sample size till date along with making arrangements for the massive vaccination drive might lead to some delays in sample collection, the district administration has managed to complete the exercise within deadline,” a senior Delhi government official said. The first serological survey conducted in Delhi between June-end and first week of July last year had revealed the presence of Covid-19 antibodies in around 24% of the total 21,387 samples collected. The fourth survey carried out in October, showed that the prevalence of Covid-19 antibodies in Delhi’s citizens didn’t see either a significant rise or decline since the first survey, as 15,015 samples collected from 272 municipal wards revealed a 25.5% prevalence of antibodies. The third survey carried out in September had shown 25.1% prevalence of antibodies. The official said that after carrying out four serological surveys since June, when Delhi witnessed the first wave of Covid-19 cases, the district administration and teams of health workers who collect the samples are well conversant with the drill and standard operating procedures, which ensured completion of the target in 10 days. “While sample collection will be completed on Thursday, the final survey report will take some time to come. The samples will be first analysed by the laboratories and then the analysis of the laboratory reports will be carried out,” the official said, adding that the final report is expected to be ready by the first week of February. “We have been carrying out arrangements for the vaccination drive and the serological survey seamlessly and it is almost done. There are some locations where we will have to collect samples again and with that, the process will be complete,” a south district official said. An official of the east district also said that sample collection in the district has been on track since beginning and they have been able to meet their target well within time. The first serological survey in Delhi was led by the National Centre for Disease Control, after which Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain had announced that Delhi government will conduct such surveys every month. While three more surveys were carried out after the first one, there was no huge difference in the prevalence of antibodies found in the samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/citys-fifth-and-largest-sero-survey-set-to-be-over-today/articleshow/80375004.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 21, 2021||Chennai||‘Original housing project’s facilities not to be shared’||Chennai: The Tamil Nadu Real Estate Appellate Tribunal (TNREAT) observed that amenities and facilities that exclusively belong to a particular project cannot be shared or integrated with others. The order assumes significance as it prevents promoters from opening up facilities meant for one phase of homebuyers to annexes that come up in future. The issue pertains to Ananya’s Nana Nani Homes Phase III at Thaliyur in Coimbatore. While the housing project with villas has common facilities such as temple, indoor games, gym and swimming pool, a resident moved the TNREAT accusing the promoter of violating the construction agreement by promoting these amenities and facilities of the original project to homebuyers of Annexe I and II of Phase III. The complainant also claimed that that a compound wall was demolished. In its order, the tribunal said, “We make it clear that they (promoters) will not allow facilities and amenities duly given for the original project to be utilised or enjoyed by anyone other than the residents/owners of the original project." However, the developer stressed that the vision of the promoter was to be a ‘caretaker’ of retired/senior citizens. The demolition of the compound wall of the original project would not affect the complainant nor any of the residents as it would only help in achieving the very purpose behind the project — Delivering services to the elderly residents within a short span of time. Further, according to the promoter, most residents of original project had suggested demolishing the wall for easy delivery of services. The promoter added that residents of the original project also suggested using the entry/exit gates of the annexe projects as the original Phase III project has only one entry/exit gate, which proved inadequate. The tribunal, however, directed the promoter to reconstruct the compound wall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/original-housing-projects-facilities-not-to-be-shared/articleshow/80373416.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Rs 30 crore disproportionate assets: Retired deputy mamlatdar booked||AHMEDABAD: In the biggest case of disproportionate assets recorded by the Gujarat Anti-Corruption Bureau, a retired deputy mamlatdar of Gandhinagar was booked with assets worth Rs 55 crore. His total income over 14 years was computed to be about Rs 25 crore. According to an ACB officer, an input was received that the accused, Viram Desai, who had served as the deputy mamlatdar in e-Dhara centre in Kalol, had bought various properties though illegal means. An investigation was conducted in the case. After analyzing his bank accounts and documents of various government offices, it was worked out that his legally acquired assets should be worth Rs 25 crore. But his assets, including properties, were worth Rs 55 crore. Thus, he had disproportionate assets worth Rs 30 crore, said ACB officers. “Desai had deposited about Rs 5.48 crore in his bank accounts between April 1, 2006, and March 31, 2020. Apart from that, he had deposited Rs 7.42 crore in his family members’ accounts,” said an ACB officer. “During the period of about 14 years, he had withdrawn Rs 3 crore from his bank accounts.” Desai had also invested about Rs 5 crore in several foreign countries where he had run various businesses. ACB officers said that Desai had 11 luxury cars, two bungalows in Gandhinagar, 11 shops, three flats, one office and two residential plots at different locations across the state. ACB officers said that the investigation is ongoing and more assets could surface in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-30-cr-da-retd-dy-mamlatdar-booked/articleshow/80373323.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Kanpur||64 bullet injuries on bodies of 8 cops martyred in Bikru||Kanpur:The chargesheet filed by police in Bikru case reveals that 64 bullet injuries were found on the bodies of eight martyred policemen, including deputy SP Devendra Mishra. Going by the postmortem and forensic reports, two policemen, Mandhana police out-post in charge Anup Kumar and constable Jitendra Pal, had sustained 12 bullet wounds each on their vital body parts. “Similarly, nine bullet wounds were found on the bodies of station house officer Shivrajpur Mahesh Chandra Yadav, SI (sub-inspector) Nebu Lal and constable Rahul Kumar. Likewise, Dy SP Devendra Mishra had suffered five wounds caused by the bullets of a rifle. The bullets fired upon by more than 40 aides of slain gangsters were of semi-automatic rifles, rifles and 12 bore guns, besides pistols, according to the content of the postmortem and forensic reports that had been included in the chargesheet by the police. “Going by the revelations made by injured cops, it also came to the fore that one among the aides of the gangster Vikas Dubey was distributing cartridges to criminals during the encounter,” said a senior police officer preferring anonymity. To recall, eight policemen, including DSP Devendra Mishra, were ambushed in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest Dubey and fell to bullets fired from rooftops shortly in the night of July 2, 2020. Dubey, arrested by Madhya Pradesh Police on July 9, was killed in an encounter in the morning of July 10 when a police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident and he tried to escape from the spot in Bhauti area in Sachendi, the police had said. Prior to Dubey’s encounter, five of his alleged associates were killed in separate encounters, while more than 40 accused have been identified and sent to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/64-bullet-injuries-on-bodies-of-8-cops-martyred-in-bikru/articleshow/80373860.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
January 21, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Of 42 adverse events in two days, just one due to Covaxin||NEW DELHI: In the last two days of Covid-19 vaccination, that is Monday and Tuesday, 42 people have suffered from adverse events post-vaccination. Data shows only one such event was related to Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine that has been under scrutiny since it was given emergency use approval in ‘clinical trial mode’. Covaxin is being given at only six centres, all of them at hospitals run by the central government. The state-run and private hospitals, which are running 75 vaccination booths for healthcare workers, are using Covishield. “Most of the adverse events reported so far are minor. Some people developed mild fever, pain at the injection site or headache. It can happen with any vaccine,” said a health official. He added that both Covishield and Covaxin are 100% safe and that’s why they have been approved by the regulatory bodies. Dr V K Paul, member of Niti Aayog, who is leading Covid-19 management taskforce formed by the central government, recently said that people should embrace the vaccines to end the pandemic. “In the next few months, we may have more options. But the vaccines we have are equally good. They have been approved for immunisation following due diligence. I have myself received Covaxin,” he said. There has not been any death due to Covid-19 vaccination in Delhi as yet. The incidence of adverse events in the country is reported to be only 0.18%. “As per the data available so far, only 0.18% is the Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI) and 0.002 is the percentage of the people who were hospitalised following immunisation. These are fairly low, in fact lowest so far as we know in the world in the first three days,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/of-42-adverse-events-in-two-days-just-one-due-to-covaxin/articleshow/80374901.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Surge in diesel prices spells more trouble for transporters||VIJAYAWADA: The rising cost of diesel in Vijayawada from Rs 68.15 in April 2020 to Rs 83.88 on Wednesday has hit a transport sector already reeling from the impact of Covid-19. A number of transport operators in the city have stopped operations after private finance companies seized their vehicles for failure to pay EMIs on time. Considered a major transport hub in the state, around 35,000 trucks operate from Vijayawada. Covid-19, however, had an adverse effect on the industry and matters worsened after the special excise duty collected by the Centre and VAT collected by the state were increased after the lockdown. Y V Rao, general secretary of Andhra Pradesh Lorry Owners Association (APLOA), told TOI, “The transport industry is on its deathbed. We are not in a position to continue our operations with this diesel price. While small countries like Bangladesh are selling diesel for Rs 40 per litre, we are buying it for Rs 83 per litre. Both Centre and state are seeing fuel as a major source of income which is killing the industry.” Tough competition from the Railways has also restricted the industry from increasing transport charges. “We are not in a position to load goods at old rates. Many industries have now shifted to railway transport as they are offering cargo and goods carriage at cheaper price. Around 3,000 tuck operators from the city stopped operations as they are not getting maintenance costs,” said M Hanumantha Rao, a transport operator from Kankipadu. K Lakshmana Rao, an operator from Kanuru said private finance companies seized four of his lorries as he failed to pay EMIs. “We have been in the transport field for 23 years. I bought five trucks in 2018 with a loan provided by a private finance company. But hike in fuel price made us defaulters. We cannot continue operations at old transport charges and stopped operations.” APLOA stated that around 22% of trucks in Krishna district have been seized by finance companies for improper payments of loans. Transport operators have urged the Centre to reduce special excise duty and the state government to reduce the additional Rs 4 collected on 22.5% VAT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/surge-in-diesel-prices-spells-more-trouble-for-transporters/articleshow/80371967.cms||Venu Lanka
January 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Dholka mamlatdar, accomplice caught accepting Rs 25 lakh bribe||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat anti-corruption bureau (ACB) late on Tuesday night nabbed the mamlatdar of Dholka division and an accomplice accepting a Rs 25 lakh bribe from a farmer, in exchange for modifying the recorded size of his land and turning non-agricultural land into agricultural land. The accused are Hardik Damor, the Dholka mamlatdar, and his accomplice Jagdish Parmar, who is a worker of a political party. Police sources said Damor’s father is a retired police officer and his brother is a serving police officer in Tamil Nadu. According to ACB officers, the complainant has land at Badarkha village in Dholka taluka of Ahmedabad district. As he wanted to modify the size of the land on survey records and change the purpose to agricultural land from non-agricultural land, he approached Damor through Parmar. They told him to pay Rs 75 lakh as a bribe as the land use entry had only recently been changed to non-agricultural from agricultural. After negotiation, it was finally decided that Rs 25 lakh would be paid to Damor and Parmar. Damor was supposed to get Rs 20 lakh and Parmar’s share was Rs 5 lakh. As the complainant did not want to pay the bribe, he approached the ACB and a trap was laid. When they came to receive the bribe at the mamlatdar’s office in Dholka, they were held by ACB officers while accepting the money bribe and were sent for Covid-19 tests before they are arrested them under the Prevention of Corruption Act. This is the second case involving a large bribe this month. On January 1, an assistant sub-inspector of the Ahmedabad rapid response cell was caught by the ACB accepting a Rs 50 lakh bribe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dholka-mamlatdar-accomplice-caught-accepting-rs-25-lakh-bribe/articleshow/80373361.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||MIM flying high, TRS skips donor list, reveals EC report||HYDERABAD: Even as Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) tries to extend its footprint across the country and shed its regional party tag, it appears the party is already flying high these days. In its contribution report submitted to the Election Commission of India, MIM revealed that it had received donations for helicopter rides of party’s star campaigners. Four chopper rides were undertaken to transport the star campaigners in 2019-20. For each ride, the party received Rs 3 lakh. Among those who donated for the Majlis party include an individual from Jharkhand and another from Mumbai. Donations for the helicopter rides came from individuals such as Mohammed Najibuddin Khan, Enthekhab Ansari, Riyaz Sharif of Jharkand and Iqbal Alam Alauddin Ansari of Mumbai. A cursory look at the contribution reports filed by recognised political parties for 2019-20 has thrown up some interesting facts. While the ruling TRS has not submitted its contribution report to the ECI, contribution reports submitted by other parties do not include the electoral bonds that they had received. Donations to both YSR Congress Party in Andhra Pradesh and opposition TDP has decreased when compared to the election year 2018-19. Political analyst and former MLC professor K Nageshwar said MIM’s stock had gone up. “The party leadership has to fly leaders from one place to another for taking part in poll campaign. There has been a significant shift in how the AIMIM is being looked at now. From being a mere regional party, the party’s growing presence in other parts of the country is notable,” he said. In neighbouring AP, the TDP received Rs 2.6 crore and YSRCP around Rs 8.9 crore in 2019-20 as per the contribution reports with the ECI. For TDP, Triumph Electoral Trust based in Chennai is one of its biggest donors. It has donated around Rs 1 crore. Jana Chaitanya Housing Private Ltd donated Rs 20 lakh. Publisher Vemuri Balaram and his Anil Swati Balaram Foundation have donated Rs 1 crore. MLA Gadde Rammohan and MLC Paruchur Ashok Babu were among other donors of TDP. For YSRCP, JSR Infra donated Rs 2.5 crore followed by a Nellore indvidual P Sivakumar Reddy at Rs 1 crore. IB Infra Private Ltd and United Telelinks, Bengaluru, were among other donors. They topped the regional parties list. The YSRCP received Rs 181 crore in the form of donations through electoral bonds in 2018-19 when compared Rs 14.2 crore in the previous years. Rakesh Reddy Dubbudu of Factly, a data research and fact-checking organisation, told TOI that there should be more transparency in donations for political parties. “Most of the donations pertain to electoral bonds which are anonymous. There is a delay in submission of contribution and expenditure reports of political parties. There is a need for instant publishing of reports in public domain,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mim-flying-high-trs-skips-donor-list-reveals-ec-report/articleshow/80376023.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 21, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Shivamogga doctor dies; govt says not linked to vaccine||BENGALURU: A 58-year-old doctor from Shivamogga died on Wednesday, two days after he was given Covishield vaccine. The Union health ministry’s report on Adverse Effects Following Immunisation said the death was due to cardiac problems. District health officer Rajesh Suragihalli said the death of Dr Jayaprakash TA, who was with Subbaiah medical college hospital, is not linked to the vaccination drive. ‘Doc conducted classes after vaccination’He developed severe chest pain in the early hours of Wednesday and was admitted to a private hospital where he died hours later, said Dr SM Katti, principal of the medical college. District health officer Dr Rajesh Suragihalli told TOI: “He died due to cardiac problems. He had been suffering from heart-related issues for some time now. His death is not related to the vaccine drive, which is also confirmed by the Union health ministry. After taking vaccination, he had shared his pictures on social media and requested frontline warriors to come forward.” Jayaprakash’s wife, a gynaecologist who works in Shivamogga, and two daughters are away in the US. Katti said the doctor suffered a cardiac arrest and the death is not linked to the vaccine. Pankaj Kumar Pandey, commissioner, health and family welfare department, said the doctor had conducted classes after his vaccination and was doing well after taking the jab. “It is learned that he was highly diabetic and had undergone bypass surgery earlier. The reports say that he has died due to cardiac arrest,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/shivamogga-doc-dies-govt-says-not-linked-to-vax/articleshow/80376704.cms||Udaya sagar
January 21, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Agents of cash empty out ATMs bit by bit||NEW DELHI: An engineering graduate working as the leader in a cash replenishment firm has been arrested along with three of his associates for stealing money from ATMs. The main accused had the responsibility of maintaining ATMs and replenishing them with cash as per the requirements of the banks. He used to refill the ATMs with only half the assigned amount, while the team leader manipulated the internal reports to cover up the shortfall. The four men were caught after they tried their usual operation at an ATM last December. One of them had vandalised the kiosk a day after they had loaded it with half the required cash. The police started a probe on December 28 after receiving a complaint from a company that provided payment services to replenishment firms on behalf of the bank. The payment firm had hired two companies for replenishing cash in the ATMs. The cops mounted technical surveillance on the company employees and were able to identify the four suspects. While one of the men was present in the area on the day of the crime, the other three were constantly in touch with him. Police first nabbed the custodian of the company, who led the cops to the others. According to Ingit Pratap Singh, DCP (Southwest), one of the accused has been identified as Manoj. He worked as the team leader in the firm called National Cash Register. He is accused of receiving Rs 1 lakh from the misappropriated amount. The DCP added, “Another accused, Deepak, worked as a custodian for the company. On December 15, he was handed over Rs 8 lakh to be loaded into an ATM of Axis Bank at Bijwasan in southwest Delhi. According to the the plan, he put just Rs 4 lakh into the money dispenser. Deepak received Rs 2 lakh as his share from the defalcated amount.” The third suspect is Satyajit, according to police. On December 16, he went to the ATM and damaged its motherboard, stole the hard disk and sprayed black paint on the camera. For his part in the con, he got Rs 45,000 as his share. The fourth accused has been identified as Krishan Singh, an automobile technician. He too had certain responsibilities in the thievery and was given Rs 55,000 from the misappropriated amount. Police have recovered the stolen amount. Investigation is being carried out to ascertain if the four men were involved in other crimes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/agents-of-cash-empty-out-atms-bit-by-bit/articleshow/80375008.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Cricket team to be spared quarantine in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Having just beaten Australia 2-1 in an exciting series Down Under, some of Team India’s cricketers are in for a major relief right after landing in India. TOI has learnt that the team’s Mumbai-bound cricketers have been granted special “exception” from the mandatory 14-day quarantine rule, which includes first seven days quarantine in a hotel or institution, provided they test negative for Covid-19 at the Mumbai airport after arriving from Dubai on Thursday morning. Ajinkya Rahane, who captained India in the last three Tests, vice-captain Rohit Sharma, Brisbane Test hero Shardul Thakur, opener Prithvi Shaw and coach Ravi Shastri are all expected to arrive in Mumbai, since they all hail from the city. “Since they are coming from Australia and just transiting through Dubai, we are considering this as a special case to give them exemption from hotel-institution quarantine,” a BMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cricket-team-to-be-spared-quarantine/articleshow/80374979.cms||Gaurav Gupta
January 21, 2021||Meerut||ED arrests two businessmen in MP in e-tender scam||New Delhi: The Enforcement Directorate has arrested two businessmen in MP in an e-tender scam where a large number of infrastructure companies, mostly based in Hyderabad, had allegedly conspired with few senior government officials to tamper with the state's eTenders system and illegally obtain large value contracts.The accused, who have been remanded to ED custody till February 3, include Srinivas Raju Mantena, chairman of Mantena Constructions, and his associate Aditya Tripathy of Arni Infra. One of the Mantena group companies won a tender for over Rs 1,000 crore which is under investigation. Similar other contracts were bagged by the group in the past few years.Srinivas Raju of Mantena Construction acted as a kingpin in the scam where he paid bribes to officials of the IT management firm that managed MP’s eTenders and other government officials. The Bhopal-based Arni Infra was just a front of Raju who subcontracted work to the company managed by his aide Aditya Tripathy. The accused were involved in round tripping of funds through hawala dealers.“Both Srinivas Raju Mantena and Aditya Tripathy have admitted that Mantena Constructions have given sub contracts of earth works worth around Rs 93 crore to Aditya Tripathy. Investigation further revealed that Arni Infra was just a front entity of Mantena to book fictitious work orders, generate cash and pay bribes to senior government functionaries,” ED said.Initial probe has revealed “unexplained financial transactions between Mantena and its front entity Arni Infra with the accused directors of Osmo IT Solutions who are already in the custody of EOW (Economic Offences Wing),” ED said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ed-arrests-two-businessmen-in-mp-in-e-tender-scam/articleshow/80371983.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||US national booked for getting Indian election card||Ahmedabad: Sola police booked a US citizen, Himanshu Patel, a resident of 24 Golden Residency on Science City, on Wednesday, for obtaining an Indian election card despite being a US citizen. Sola police sources said he been booked under Section 31 of the Representation of the People Act.Sola police inspector J P Jadeja said they are investigating the case.According to the FIR, Patel obtained the election card for the Ghatlodia assembly constituency and kept it with him.“After this came to the notice of the authorities, he was served a notice on January 8, 2019 and asked him to present himself on January 22, 2019. He was again served a notice on January 22, 2019, and asked him to remain present before them with evidence on January 28, 2019,” said Jadeja.According to police sources, Patel appeared before the competent authority in May 2019 and stated that being a US citizen, he had mistakenly not informed the authorities about striking off his name from the voters list and had filled in the form No.7 had submitted it to the authorities.Police sources said Patel also stated that his voter ID was destroyed in the presence of panch witnesses and a report was also sent to the authorities. Police sources said that Patel’s name had been added to the voters list in 2013 and he had been issued a voter ID. When they searched for the relevant records, they were not found.According to the papers submitted to Sola police by the authorities, Patel, an educated man, obtained the Indian voter ID illegally and kept it with him from 2013 to 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/us-national-booked-for-getting-indian-election-card/articleshow/80373411.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Coimbatore||Beware of fake passport sites||Coimbatore: The passport office has advised residents to beware of fraudulent sites promising quick passports in lieu of hefty amount.The issue was brought to the notice of regional passport officer K Palravindran by a denizen through social media. “It is learnt that fake websites are functioning with address like www.passportonlineindia.com in the guise of extending various passport facilities at exorbitant charges. All are requested to apply through official website www.passportindia.gov,” said a statement from the official.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/beware-of-fake-passport-sites/articleshow/80373455.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Chennai||117 MBBS seats, 459 BDS seats wasted due to delay in intake||CHENNAI: At least five MBBS seats in government medical colleges and 112 seats in self-financing medical institutions are vacant in TN this year after two rounds of counselling. This is not because of the dearth of qualified students but because of the state’s own admission policies and “early” deadline for admission procedure due to the pandemic. The state selection committee says it will not be able to allot these seats as the deadline set by the National Medical Commission for the admission process ended on January 15. Besides, 12 undergraduate dental seats in government colleges and 447 management seats in self-financing dental colleges are vacant. In the second round, students were allowed to “upgrade” seats — take admission in colleges where seats weren’t available during first allotment. The committee could not fill the vacancies created, particularly in government colleges, with giving the option of “upgrade” to other students. On January 15, when the second round of counselling ended, one seat each at Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital and Government Vellore Medical College Hospital and three at Rajah Muthiah Medical College were vacant. “All seats in colleges were taken in the first round. During the second round, a student allotted a seat in Kilpauk Medical College, opted for Christian Medical College. We can’t allot the vacant seat to the next student without giving “upgrade option” to all students below his rank,” said selection committee secretary Dr G Selvarajan. The council didn’t have time to fill 112 lapsed NRI MBBS seats and 469 BDS seats. The state has set a separate fee structure for lapsed NRI seats, he said. The counselling process was also slowed because officials had to ensure pandemic protocols were followed. The directorate of medical education has now moved the Supreme Court seeking additional time for mop-up counselling. “At least 23,000 students had applied for government quota seats and more than 14,000 students had applied for management quota seats. A week-long mop up will give others a chance,” said director of medical education Dr R Narayanababu. The case is likely to come up for hearing on Thursday. While states such as Karnataka have also reported vacancies in MBBS/BDS seats this year, student counsellors say TN has not just been “slow” with counselling, but also did not plan ahead of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/117-mbbs-seats-459-bds-seats-wasted-due-to-delay-in-intake/articleshow/80373478.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Nashik||Nashik man, his mother and sister arrested after pregnant wife commits suicide||NASHIK: Three of a family have been arrested by the city police for alleged dowry harassment and suicide abetment after a 30-year-old pregnant woman ended her life by hanging herself from the ceiling at her parents’ home. Those arrested have been identified as Pramod Gaikwad (34), his 55-year-old mother and 27-year-old sister — all residents of Manmad in Nandgaon taluka. According to the police, the woman took the extrement step on Sunday evening when nobody was home. She was six-month pregnant. Police sub-inspector Y S Kokate from Gangapur police station said, “We have arrested the deceased woman’s husband and in-laws. According to the complaint lodged against them, the suspects used to torture and harass the woman as she had not got ‘adequate dowry’. They kept forcing her to bring money to buy a car.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-man-his-mother-sister-arrested-after-pregnant-wife-commits-suicide/articleshow/80363891.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Puducherry||College principal on sit-in protest for basic facilities||PUDUCHERRY: The principal of a government college in Puducherry has launched a novel protest to highlight the problems students and faculty face. From Wednesday, Sasi Kanta Dash, principal of Tagore Government Arts College, refused to use his chamber and instead set up office on the floor near a bust of Tagore at the entrance to the institution. He’s also decided to spend his nights at the college until the government fulfills a 12-point charter of demands. These demands are to provide basic amenities for students such as classrooms with adequate seating, toilets and common rooms for girl students, and renovation of the computer laboratory, physics laboratory and auditorium. From just 647 students in 2016, the college no had more than 14,000 students, but infrastructure had not kept pace. The result: The 45-year-old dilapidated auditorium now houses three classrooms without partitions. The toilets for girl students are inadequate and computer and physics laboratories have not been upgraded. "How will the toilet facilities set up for 600-odd students cater to the needs of 14,000-odd students. Within 30 minutes the toiletsrun dry and we have to call the services of water tankers. The auditorium is dilapidated and if any untoward incident happens the teachers must not be made scapegoats," said the principal. He said repeated pleas to the officials concerned fell on deaf ears. "My conscience does not allow me to sit in the principal's chamber while all my students and staff members are suffering in this pitiful environment. Therefore from January 20, I shall discharge my official duty by sitting on the floor of the college and staying in the college day and night till the grievances are met. I wish to categorically declare that my action is not a protest against the government or any authority but an expression of the unbearable anguish I feel when I see my students and staff members suffer," said Dash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/college-principal-on-sit-in-protest-for-basic-facilities/articleshow/80373475.cms||Bosco Dominique
January 21, 2021||Meerut||FSDA finds cold drinks crossing best before dates during raid at factory, issues improvement notice||Meerut: The Food Safety and Drugs Authority (FSDA) raided a cold drink factory and found drinks that had crossed the durable life dating (i.e best before dates) here. The raid was conducted following a complaint received by the authorities. A few cold drink brands that were restricted from the further sale were also seized at the factory for return to the respective companies.Archana Dheeran, designated officer, FSDA, said, “A few cold drink brands which had passed the best before date was found at the factory on Rohta road. They were restricted from further distribution and sale, and the factory was instructed to recall the stock to the brands concerned.”The samples of various brands were collected and sent to a Lucknow laboratory. The factory owners have been issued an improvement notice with an instruction to recall the stock within four days.“If the factory owners failed to recall the stock, they would face action as per law,” added Dheeran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/fsda-finds-cold-drinks-crossing-best-before-dates-during-raid-at-factory-issues-improvement-notice/articleshow/80372028.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 21, 2021||Dehradun||Kumaun University to establish two chairs to honour BR Ambedkar and former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee||DEHRADUN: The Kumaun University is soon going to establish two separate chairs to honour Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar and former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. An announcement in this regard was made by the state higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat. Through these two chairs, the university aims to hold various seminars, panel discussion sessions, and conclaves, among others. Rawat also announced that another student hostel will also be set for the university. He said that the university will encourage students to undertake research work as mentioned in the National Education Policy (NEP), 2020. Notably, the university will undergo a few development projects at an estimated budget of Rs 20 crores. Meanwhile, Rawat said that all government school children will be provided with milk four days a week along with their mid-day meal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumaun-univ-to-establish-two-chairs-to-honour-br-ambedkar-and-former-pm-atal-bihari-vajpayee/articleshow/80372051.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 21, 2021||Nashik||Gambling dens raided, 14 booked||Nashik: The police, over the past two days, have carried out raids on gambling dens across the city and have booked 14 people under the Maharashtra Prevention of Gambling Act. The raids were conducted by the Panchavati, Indiranagar, Upnagar and Satpur police stations. After the Satpur police got information from their sources that a gambling den was being operated in a small shed opposite the Khoka market, fa police team raided the place on Monday afternoon and booked a 39-year-old man who was identified as the operator. The Upnagar police also raided a house in the Wadner village on Monday evening and booked three people who were found indulging in gambling activities. On Tuesday, the Indiranagar police booked another man and seized a little over Rs 2,000 from him for running a gambling den in the Pathardi Patha area of the city. Meanwhile, the Panchavati police booked nine people in a raid that was carried out at a dilapidated house along the the Waghadi river in Walmik Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/gambling-dens-raided-14-booked/articleshow/80363912.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Delhi||Testing crosses 1-crore mark in Delhi; 228 Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 228 fresh Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths on Wednesday. The total number of tests conducted till date crossed the one-crore mark. On Monday, the city had recorded 161 cases, the lowest in nearly nine months, with a positivity rate of 0.32%. The infection tally in the city stood at over 6.3 lakh and the death toll mounted to 10,774 with the new fatalities, authorities said. A total of 63,161 tests, including 32,957 RT-PCR tests and 30,204 rapid antigen tests, were conducted the previous day, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. This month, 585 cases were reported on January 1, 494 on January 2, 424 on January 3, 384 on January 4, 442 on January 5, 654 on January 6, 486 on January 7, 444 on January 8, 519 on January 9, 399 on January 10, 306 on January 11, 386 on January 12, 357 on January 13 and 340 on January 14. From January 15-18, the daily figures stood at 295, 299, 246 and 231, respectively. The active cases’ tally on Wednesday dropped to 2,147 from 2,334 the previous day, while the positivity rate was 0.36%. The bulletin said the total number of coronavirus cases had climbed to 6,33,049, while the recovery rate was over 97%. According to the Wednesday bulletin, out of the total number of 9,200 beds in Covid hospitals, 8,232 were vacant. The bulletin said 6,20,128 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated out of the city so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/testing-crosses-1cr-mark-in-delhi-228-cases-in-last-24-hrs/articleshow/80375062.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Puducherry||Puducherry CM asks officials to remove barricades||PUDUCHERRY: Chief minister V Narayanasamy, who is also the chairman of Puducherry state disaster management authority, has directed the territorial officials to remove barricades that prevent easy movement of people within the city within a day. He convened a meeting with members of the authority on Wednesday at the chief secretariat and passed the direction. Speaking to reporters later, he said lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi was responsible for the protests near Raj Nivas on Tuesday, in which he had participated. Bedi did not give an audience to welfare minister M Kandasamy, who wrote to her seeking an appointment twice, he said. "By doing so, the lieutenant governor disrespected the elected members, which is equivalent to disrespecting the people of the Union territory," he said. The BJP-led Union government continues to remain as a mute spectator to arrogant attitude of the lieutenant governor towards the elected government and people of the Union territory, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/pondy-cm-asks-officials-to-remove-barricades/articleshow/80373481.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Chennai||Corrupt govt staff are like weeds, must be nipped early: Tamil Nadu court||CHENNAI: Government servants who demand bribe are like weeds that need to be nipped early for the general public to have faith in the system, observed a special court in Chengalpet while sentencing a city traffic police inspector to three years imprisonment under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Iyappan, who was with the Valasaravakkam police station, had demanded bribe from the staff of a contractor hired by the city corporation after seizing his two-wheeler. According to the prosecution, during the early hours of November 19, 2018, Thangadurai was overseeing stormwater drain work along Arcot Road when the inspector seized his two-wheeler stating they did not have police permission to carry out the work. Despite several attempts to meet the inspector at the station, he was unavailable, and a week later, when Thangadurai requested the two-wheeler, the inspector demanded Rs 10,000 bribe. The contractor alerted DVAC (Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption) officials and Iyappan was caught red-handed while taking Rs 8,000 near a traffic signal along Arcot Road, the prosecution submitted. The prosecution submitted 17 witness statements. In response, the counsel for the tainted police official submitted that the prosecution has not submitted enough evidence to prove the allegations against the inspector and contended that the complaint itself was fabricated due to previous enmity. The counsel further argued that the seized money was not sent for chemical analysis. After perusing all submissions and documents, A K K Rajini, principal sub-judge, Chengalpet, said the arguments by the inspector’s counsel were far-fetched and stated that if the inspector did not have the intention to take a bribe, there was no reason for him to have seized the two-wheeler and kept it in custody for over a week. Based on the evidences submitted, the special court held Iyappan guilty and sentenced him to three years imprisonment with a fine of Rs 10,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corrupt-govt-staff-are-like-weeds-must-be-nipped-early-court/articleshow/80373555.cms||Srikkanth D
January 21, 2021||Chennai||BJP launches enrolment drive in state||Chennai: With the assembly election a few months away, the Tamil Nadu unit of BJP has launched an intensive membership enrolment drive. The week-long drive is focused on enrolling young voters across the state. State president of the party L Murugan has set a target of 10 lakh new members for the enrolment campaign that began on January 18.“We will encash the Centre’s welfare schemes and our good work during the lockdown during this drive,” said BJP state vice-president K S Narendran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bjp-launches-enrolment-drive-in-state/articleshow/80373498.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 21, 2021||Delhi||Survey: 85% of beneficiaries getting ration in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR), in collaboration with not-for-profit organisation Indus Action, has conducted a rapid response survey to assess the success of distribution of dry ration from anganwadis to the entitled beneficiaries — pregnant women, lactating mothers and children below 6 years of age. With random sample of 1,267 beneficiaries, the survey was conducted — from 4 January to 9 January, 2021 — in 12 areas of Delhi — Aman Vihar, Chandni Chowk, Rohini, Shakurpur, Okhla, Patparganj, Bhatti Mines, Babarpur, Najafgarh, Burari, Shiv Vihar and Seemapuri. Stressing upon the need to bridge the gap between policy intention and policy implementation, Anurag Kundu, chairperson, DCPCR, said , “Monitoring and tracking are the pillars of ensuring that the beneficiaries of a scheme get equitable access to their entitled aids.” When the distribution channels were disrupted in May 2020, the average distribution rate was found to be 44%. However, after over six months of rigorous tracking, a strengthened success rate of 85% distribution was observed in December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/survey-85-of-beneficiaries-getting-ration/articleshow/80375065.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Pune||Tata Tech focus on electric mobility||Pune: Engineering and product development digital services firm Tata Technologies on Monday said they were focusing on electric vehicles and a previously in-house learning platform to train students as a part of its post-pandemic turnaround plan in India. “There is a real shift in terms of firms investing in digital solutions. They are building supply chains and performing optimizations to them. The dependence on dealerships is also shifting towards direct sales and manned interventions are moving towards automated solutions. There is also a transition to e-mobility and autonomous driving and that is not just from the startups, which has driven up demand for automated solutions. We have set up a software development hub in Bengaluru for e-mobility solutions,” said Warren Harris, the CEO and MD of Tata Technologies, in an interaction with TOI. The firm’s corporate social responsibility work has also led to a full-fledged programme to train and mentor students in engineering and technical schools with skills required for the new markets. “We are deploying a line of service around education. We have an in-house e-learning platform for our employees, which we are deploying to colleges and universities in various states across India. There is also an agreement in place with the government of Karnataka, where we will mentor and coach students from 150 ITIs, where we will also be deploying tech assets, such as computer aided design or CAD solutions and 3D printing, and we will also be training them in new curricula,” he said. Harris said due to headwinds in the first quarter of 2020-21, the topline of the firm reduced by about 30%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tata-tech-focus-on-electric-mobility/articleshow/80375063.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
January 21, 2021||Meerut||UP’s most wanted fugitive’s mansion to be razed today||MEERUT: The palatial mansion of UP’s most wanted fugitive don Badan Singh Baddo in New Punjabipura area in Meerut city will be razed on Thursday following approval by the commissioner court that set aside a petition filed by the don’s sister-in-law Kuldeep Kaur against the move by the local police. Earlier, police had attached Baddo’s movable assets worth over Rs 1 crore. Confirming the development, Meerut senior superintendent of police Ajay Sahni said, “The Meerut Development Authority will carry out the demolition on January 21.” Claiming the ownership of the mansion, Kaur had in her appeal stated that she had bought the bungalow in 2003. She further stated that even as she had no connection with Baddo, she was often subjected to harassment by police. The commissioner court, however, in its verdict contended that the applicant failed to produce any approval for the construction or map or any other documentary evidence to buttress her claim over the building. Baddo, 48, has more than 30 cases of murder, loot, robbery and extortion lodged against him in various police stations in Meerut and adjoining districts. He was sentenced to life imprisonment on October 31, 2017 for the murder of lawyer Ravinder Singh in 1996. Baddo had escaped from the custody of police during his transit to a Ghaziabad court on March 28, 2019, allegedly after entertaining the police team accompanying him in a hotel where alcohol was served. Nine accused, including six policemen, were initially arrested but they were later granted bail. In a PIL filed last year, petitioner Abhishek Som had alleged that no effort was made to arrest Baddo after he escaped. Hearing the PIL, the Allahabad high court had directed the principal secretary, UP home department, to submit an affidavit with complete details on the efforts made by the state to arrest Baddo. Baddo is said to have businesses in Australia where his estranged wife and daughter are settled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ups-most-wanted-fugitive-baddos-palatial-mansion-to-be-razed-today/articleshow/80372056.cms||Piyush Rai
January 21, 2021||Kolhapur||Bird flu confirmed in Khandala village||Kolhapur: Satara district collector Shekhar Singh has sounded an alert in the 10km radius area of a village in the Khandala tehsil after laboratory report of birds — that were found dead last week — came back positive for avian influenza. Singh has declared the area of Mauje Mariaaichiwadi as “bird flu affected”. Earlier, birds at two private poultr farms at Kapare Vasti and Shinde Vasti were found dead and the administration was waiting for the lab report. Singh has ordered immediate steps to arrest the spread of avian flu. According to the order, the animal husbandry department will cull all the birds in poultry farms in the 10-km radius of the affected village. Moreover, all items used in the poultry farms will also be destroyed scientifically. Sale and purchase of chicken has been banned in the prohibited area. The ban will be in force for the next three months. Through another order, Singh has lifted the prohibitory orders in Hanbarwadi village in Karad tehsil after the reports on cause of death of birds came out negative for avian flu. Last week, birds were found dead in a suspicious manner in Khandala, Karad, Khatav and Maan tehsils of Satara district. All the incidents were reported in private poultry farms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/bird-flu-confirmed-in-khandala-village/articleshow/80363942.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Dehradun||NTCA lauds tiger relocation in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: The apex tiger conservation body of the country – National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) – has appreciated the efforts of the Uttarakhand forest department in relocating tigers from the Corbett to Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR). This comes after the body conducted an inspection of the Rajaji Tiger Reserve from January 6 to 8. Following the inspection, an eleven-point communication was sent to the Uttarakhand forest department by the NTCA for ‘strengthening’ tiger relocation exercise in the western part of the RTR. Earlier in 2017, the NTCA had given its nod to the relocation of five tigers to the western part of Rajaji in a phased manner. Surender Mehra, deputy inspector general of forest, NTCA, told TOI, “Undoubtedly, it is a great feat that the Uttarakhand forest department has been able to relocate two tigers from Corbett to Rajaji without the help of any external source. NTCA has given suggestions to boost this exercise further as tigers are being brought to a new landscape.” The communication, a copy of which is available with TOI, suggests that after visiting the reserve, NTCA authorities feel that the two existing tigers need time to acclimatise. It adds that before bringing in the third cat, reserve officials have been advised to accentuate safety, security, and vigilance of the facility. “The two tigers that have been relocated to the western part of Rajaji are still under the process of establishing their territories in the new habitats. In view of this, the next tiger should be relocated once the chief wildlife warden feels that the already translocated tigers have acclimatised to the new habitat,” read Mehra’s communication, sent on January 12, to chief wildlife warden JS Suhag. The NTCA has also suggested more patrolling on foot and on elephants. Also, the south boundary and fringe areas of RTR needs more vigilance, according to the regulatory body. The chief wildlife warden is also suggested to keep Motichur and Kansro ranges closed for the tourists till the big cats establish their territories in the area. The communication also advises better liaison with the National Highways Authority of India as construction of flyovers is underway at Chilla-Motichur, Teen-Pani and Kansro-Barkot corridors through NH-72. This, according to the NTCA, will help in timely completion of flyovers and unhindered movement of wildlife. Meanwhile, the senior officers in the forest department agree that the relocated tigers need more security than ever. “It is a very well known fact that Corbett is a safe and secure heaven for tigers while Rajaji has highways as well as railway tracks running through it. Thus, more vigilance is needed from the frontline force deployed at the reserve to protect these two tigers from any kind of mishap. The big cats would need time to settle down in the new habitat,” said a senior IFS officer, requesting anonymity. When queried on the matter, JS Suhag told TOI, “We are observing the movement of both the cats constantly. The new tigers and the two other tigresses, which were already there in the western Rajaji, are adjusting very well in the new landscape. We should be in a position to bring in the other cats soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ntca-commends-uttarakhand-for-relocating-two-tigers-from-corbett-to-rajaji-independently-asks-authorities-to-wait-for-the-two-existing-cats-to-establish-themselves-in-the-new-landscape-before-bringing-third-one/articleshow/80372070.cms||Shivani Azad
January 21, 2021||India||Unions reject CJI appeal to shelve stir till verdict on validity of laws||NEW DELHI: Protesting farmers’ unions, which have blocked the highway at Singhu border for nearly two months, on Wednesday rejected Chief Justice S A Bobde’s appeal to suspend their agitation since the Supreme Court has stayed implementation of the three farm laws and await its verdict on validity of the legislations. Heading a three-judge bench, CJI Bobde told counsel Prashant Bhushan, appearing for eight leading protesting farmers’ unions, “See what solution can be found. In a case like this, it is not enough for a counsel to argue the perspective of farmers’ unions. We are calling upon you to counsel your clients in such a way that it brings peace.” Bhushan said the farmers’ unions were firm on not easing the pressure being exerted on the government democratically through agitation to repeal the laws as they feared that suspending the agitation would let the government off the hook. He said they feared that if the SC upheld the legality of the farm laws, it would leave the protesting farmers nowhere. The bench of CJI Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said, “We can only say that if the SC upholds the validity of the legislations, then you can restart the agitation.” But Bhushan said each protesting farmers’ union and their members were convinced that the three laws were against their interests and that there would be no let up in the agitation till the government repealed the laws. Taking a cue from the CJI’s observation for working towards peace, Bhushan said, “I have always counselled them that it is absolutely necessary to maintain peace.” Bhushan said, “All members of these unions are convinced that these laws have to be repealed. So, they are saying that we do not want to discuss amendments any more now. The laws were passed without any prior consultation, without prior notice, without referring to any parliamentary committee, without discussion in Parliament and without even voting in Rajya Sabha.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/unions-reject-cji-appeal-to-shelve-stir-till-verdict-on-validity-of-laws/articleshow/80376715.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 21, 2021||Meerut||Meerut health dept gets ready for phase two of Covid-19 vaccination; health authorities say no option to choose brand of vaccine||Meerut: The Meerut health department has started getting ready for the phase two of Covid-19 vaccination wherein the health authorities have said that no option has been given to choose the brand of the vaccine. While currently, Covishield was given to Meerut, the next batch of vaccine will be given after 9700 more health workers are given the first jab.Dr Praveen Gautam, Meerut district immunisation officer, said, “First of all, the remaining stock of the vaccine will be utilised while vaccinating 9700 health workers on January 22. After their vaccination is complete, only then the new stock of the vaccine will be opened.”The next batch of vaccines reached Meerut on Wednesday evening. No option was asked for the brand of the vaccine. “For day one of vaccination, 27000 vaccines were delivered but since they were not used completely due to technical glitch. The remaining vaccination will be conducted on three different dates starting January 22,” said Dr Gautam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-health-dept-gets-ready-for-phase-two-of-covid-19-vaccination-health-authorities-say-no-option-to-choose-brand-of-vaccine/articleshow/80372062.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 21, 2021||Meerut||50 crows found dead in UP's Bijnor||BIJNOR: Amid panic about bird flu in the region, over 50 crows were found dead here on Wednesday. Over 325 samples have been collected so far in the district with none positive for bird flu. Notably, neighbouring Muzaffarnagar district and Uttarakhand have already confirmed bird flu. On Wednesday, locals spotted over 50 dead crows in Itawa and Mandawali villages and alerted the officials of forest and animal husbandry departments. Chief veterinary officer Bhupendra Singh said, “We visited the area and collected samples. They will be sent to IVRI, Bareilly, for testing.” The dead birds have caused panic among villagers. Bijnor has over 20 poultry farms with more than five lakh hens which lay around 3 lakh eggs a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/50-crows-found-dead-in-bijnor/articleshow/80372072.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 21, 2021||Thane||Maharashtra: Three held with Rs 4.5 lakh drugs||THANE: Three alleged drug peddlers, including a woman from Mumbai, were arrested with 90gm mephedrone (MD) powder worth Rs 4.5 lakh. Banobar Safique Khotal (31) is from Masjid Bunder, Mumbai, while Adil Nazirbhai Shaikh (24) and Asama Mohammad Hussain Baba (19) are from Junagadh in Gujarat. Acting on a tip-off that some persons were coming to a place below a bridge on a service road of the highway officials laid a trap on Monday, said senior inspector (crime branch unit-1) Nitin Thakre. They were arrested and an offence was registered against them with Rabodi police under sections of NDPS Act, police said. A magistrate remanded them to police custody till January 22. Police are probing the source of the drugs and to whom they were to sell it to. Last week, Mumbra police arrested Sameer Jetha Khatri with 105gm mephedrone from Thakurpada, Mumbra. Police identified two other accused who gave the consignment but are absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/3-held-with-rs-4-5l-drugs/articleshow/80373855.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
January 21, 2021||Pune||Pune: Boards to stop drivers from switching off engine on slope||PUNE: The NHAI has installed awareness boards along the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass related to the risk of driving with engines switched off to curb the tendency among many heavy vehicle drivers while moving along a 10km downward gradient from the Katraj tunnel to Bhumkar Chowk. A senior National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) official said the habit of some heavy vehicle drivers to switch off the engines to save fuel was one of the primary factors leading to accidents on the bypass. The NHAI has been taking a slew of measures following a spate of accidents on the bypass since October 2020. TimesViewSeveral accidents have occurred on the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass due to the bus and truck drivers’ failure in controlling the vehicles after switching the ignition off. It is a known fact that the switching off the ignition on a slope affects a vehicle’s braking ability. The authorities have taken the right decision to create awareness among the drivers on the issue. Simultaneously, they should focus on improving infrastructure along the 10km stretch between the Katraj tunnel and Bhumkar Chowk and reduce its gradient.The NHAI has put up the awareness boards near the new Katraj tunnel and Dari Pul and along the approach route to Bhumkar Chowk. City traffic police officers and NHAI officials are unanimous that it becomes difficult to apply brakes during an emergency situation if the ignition is switched off. NHAI project director Suhas Chitnis told TOI, “The aim to install the big awareness boards along the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass was to urge the heavy vehicle drivers not to switch off the ignition while moving downhill. Similar boards have also been installed near the Khed-Shivapur toll plaza, apart from the new Katraj tunnel, Dari Pul and Bhumkar bridge sites.” He added, “The maximum speed limit on the bypass stretch from the New Katraj Tunnel to Navale bridge was brought down to 60kmph from 80kmph, for all vehicles, last week. The NHAI has also started an announcement system at the Khed-Shivapur toll plaza, addressing the heavy vehicle drivers not to switch off the ignition or drive in the neutral gear while moving downhill.” Sadashiv Gowda-Patil, a truck driver from Belgaum, said, “I never switch off the engine of my truck on a downhill stretch. But I know many truck drivers often do this to save fuel. If the ignition is switched off, one cannot apply brakes during emergency.” Senior police inspector (traffic) Nandkishor Shelke said, “We are filing almost 100 cases of speeding on a daily basis against heavy vehicle and light motor vehicle drivers.” State transporters’ body president Baba Shinde said, “The downhill gradient on the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass is unscientific and it has to be reduced. The stretch needs infrastructure development to support the movement of heavy vehicles. Many drivers opt to move along the stretch after switching off the ignition to save fuel. We have launched an awareness drive for the truckers. I have written a letter to the NHAI, requesting them to look into the downhill gradient.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/boards-to-stop-drivers-from-switching-off-engine-on-slope/articleshow/80375066.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||Research institute IDS struggling for survival||JAIPUR: The Institute of Development Studies (IDS), Jaipur, which was conceived as a think tank to advice the government on policy issues based on research, is now in dire straits. The Indian Council of Social Science Research (ICSSR) and the government of Rajasthan are the main source of support to the institute. But the ICSSR has been withholding its support to the institute in the last one year and it is struggling even to pay salary to its employees. Sources said the employees were not paid the salary for December so far. The institute was established in 1981 at Jhalana on the initiative of a group of academicians, scholars and administrators from Rajasthan to promote research-based policies and planning. Eminent economist like Dr V S Vyas, a former director of IIM-Ahmedabad and a member of the prime minister’s advisory council during Man Mohan Singh, was an emeritus professor of this institute. Sources in the institute said ICSSR used to provide a grant of Rs 2.75 crore a year mainly for maintenance and salary of its employees. The government of Rajasthan contributes Rs 40 lakh per annum. The institute also generates some income from the research projects carried out for private and public organisations. But the ICSSR since the last quarter of financial year 2019-20 stopped paying its grant. According to sources, ICSSR stopped payment claiming it had paid an excess amount of Rs 1 crore grant in 2019-20. However, it is more than a year it stopped grant to the institute. Even if it was accepted that an excess grant has been paid that year to the institute it had not resumed the grant even after year, sources said. The financial crisis taken a toll on the academic activities. The institute which had over 40 employees earlier has been reduced to just half now. Out of a strength of 15 faculties, now only four left. The institute had not a permanent director for the last seven years. All these paint a gloomy picture of the institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/research-institute-ids-struggling-for-survival/articleshow/80373507.cms||Joychen Joseph
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||Abuse, bullying during online classes worry parents, teachers||JAIPUR: A 12-year-old, Sameer Singh (name changed) is facing an inquiry from his school for using unparliamentary language for his classmate during an online class in Jaipur. Singh’s statement to the school says that he was under the impression that he had muted his account and while talking to a friend over the phone used foul language. The matter was reported to the school by a parent of a girl student who demanded suspension of Singh. The school is trying to fix the matter by directing the student to refrain from online classes for some time, but the parent who is a leading advocate has threatened to file a case under the IT Act. This is not an isolated case in the city. Jaipur police are investigating three cases related to abusive conduct during online classes. Bhankrota police is investigating a case in which complainant’s 13-year daughter, who is a student at Asian World School, received sexually explicit content on her chat box in a private message in the midst of a web class on Zoom. The school has reportedly terminated the student. The father has taken the screenshot of the abusive content as the main evidence. “The IP address of the concerned student has been traced who has blamed his elder brother for doing it unknowingly,” said Bhankrota SHO Mukesh Choudhary. Police is also going slow on these cases since they fall under IT Act which has a provision of rigorous punishment up to 5 years. Investigating the matter, Mukesh Choudhary, a cybercrime expert at Jaipur police, says, “In many cases, students impersonate their friends thinking their identity will remain anonymous. They, however, don’t understand that the conduct which they think is casual can have serious repercussions. I assure that tracing these offenders through IP addresses and device identity is quite easy,” said Choudhary. Additional commissioner of police Jaipur Commissionerate, Ajay Pal Lamba, says, “It is unfortunate the cases related to sharing of abusive and explicit content by school and college students during web classes is being reported in the city. I advise parents and schools to monitor the classes and not to hesitate to report such incidents to police.” However, educationists hold a different view. Damodar Goyal, an educationist, says that police and government shouldn’t intervene until the matter creates law and order sitution. “Undesirable content from students during online education is a byproduct of what is happening in the society. All stakeholders are required to take the responsibility of proper orientation of young children. Instead of dealing such issues by applying criminal laws, I suggest proper counselling, understanding and handling the cases delicately,” said Goyal. Aware about such incidents: DotasraEducation minister Govind Singh Dotasra says he is aware of such incidents happening in the state and deeply concerned with it. “We have realised that there is need to come up with laws governing online classes. Atleast schools are required to keep the recording of one month of classes,” said Dotasra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/abuse-bullying-during-online-classes-worry-parents-teachers/articleshow/80373538.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Pigs found eating human body near Nanded hospital||AURANGABAD: Pigs were found gnawing on an unidentified human body near the Nanded-based Dr Shankarrao Chavan Government Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday morning. The administration has ordered a probe into the matter. The hospital is located in the Vishnupuri area, on the outskirts of Nanded, around 225 km from here. This incident came to light after some locals spotted a bunch of pigs taking chunks off a body lying in the nullah outside the hospital, that remains crowded round the clock with thousands of patients coming from Nanded and surrounding districts. The locals alerted the authorities. Subsequently, some employes of the hospital and a police team from the area police station went to the spot. With some difficulty, the partially decomposed body was fished out and sent for autopsy at the hospital. When contacted, Nanded district collector Vipin Itankar said, “The police are looking into the matter.” Citing preliminary autopsy report, the Nanded police said the deceased is suspected to be more than 30-years-old and so far, no one has identified or claimed the body. Police have reached out to the residents in the localities around the hospital, apart from contacting security guards deployed at the hospital. A case of accidental death has been registered while a final autopsy report is awaited to ascertain whether the death was accidental, natural or homicidal. Dr Sudhir Deshmukh, the dean of the hospital, told TOI: “The body was found outside the hospital premises and we suspect that it was lying in the nullah for about 24 hours before being spotted.” Hospital authorities are also checking if he had been to the hospital as a patient or a patient’s relative in the past two to three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pigs-found-eating-human-body-near-nanded-hospital/articleshow/80370776.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 21, 2021||Nashik||Highway robbers beat up trucker, steal vehicle & liquor cargo worth Rs 1.4cr||Nashik: A gang of highway robbers allegedly beat up a truck driver and decamped with his truck that was loaded with liquor worth Rs 1.38 lakh on the intervening night of January 18 and 19.The truck driver, Jagdish Borkar (37), a resident of Rajwada, Vilholi, has registered a case with the Mumbai Naka police station. In the FIR, the complainant said he had loaded his vehicle with liquor bottles from Dindori and was on his way to Panvel, Navi Mumbai when the incident took place.As he was passing by the Indira Nagar jogging track at 10.45 pm on Monday, four unidentified people stopped him and forcibly entered his truck. They then started beating him up.Chetan Srivant, the police sub-inspector of Mumbai Naka police station, said as per the complainant, the four suspects beat him up, blindfolded him and took him to Umrane. At 2.30 am, he was released and the robbers decamped with the truck and the liquor bottles, all worth over Rs 1.43 crore. The complaint was lodged at 11.30 pm on Tuesday. Borkar said he had to walk from Umrane, which is almost 80km from Nashik, to lodge a complaint. The PSI also said they were cross-verifying the complaint made by the truck driver.In the past, there have been cases of robbery in and around Nashik city where robbers have beaten up truck drivers and escaped with the truck along with the cargo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/highway-robbers-beat-up-trucker-steal-vehicle-liquor-cargo-worth-rs-1-4cr/articleshow/80370783.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 21, 2021||Aurangabad||New inquiry into Bamu appointments likely||Aurangabad: The management council of the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) has rejected the official report of the inquiry into the appointments to three key posts filled by the university. This makes way for a fresh probe. The appointments that are in question are of Bamu registrar Jayshree Suryawanshi, director of board of examination and evaluation Yogesh Patil and dean of faculty of commerce and management Walmik Sarwade. The appointments were made in March last year. Justice P R Bora (retired), who carried out the inquiry into the allegations of lack of requisite academic qualification, teaching experience and other anomalies, has given a clean-chit to the university. However, management council member Sanjay Nimbalkar said the statutory body has a right to constitute another inquiry into the appointments concerned. “We are not happy with the inquiry and, therefore, have rejected the report. The probe panel could not work in a free manner. We still maintain that the candidates were hand-picked and basic eligibility criteria was ignored,” he said. The management council witnessed voting on the report of inquiry panel wherein seven members voted against it, while six, including vice-chancellor Pramod Yeole, voted in its favour. Bamu public relations officer Sanjay Shinde said the date of next management council has not been decided yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/new-inquiry-into-bamu-appointments-likely/articleshow/80363953.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Udaipur||Abuse, bullying during online classes worry parents, teachers||JAIPUR: A 12-year-old, Sameer Singh (name changed) is facing an inquiry from his school for using unparliamentary language for his classmate during an online class in Jaipur. Singh’s statement to the school says that he was under the impression that he had muted his account and while talking to a friend over the phone used foul language. The matter was reported to the school by a parent of a girl student who demanded suspension of Singh. The school is trying to fix the matter by directing the student to refrain from online classes for some time, but the parent who is a leading advocate has threatened to file a case under the IT Act. This is not an isolated case in the city. Jaipur police are investigating three cases related to abusive conduct during online classes. Bhankrota police is investigating a case in which complainant’s 13-year daughter, who is a student at Asian World School, received sexually explicit content on her chat box in a private message in the midst of a web class on Zoom. The school has reportedly terminated the student. The father has taken the screenshot of the abusive content as the main evidence. “The IP address of the concerned student has been traced who has blamed his elder brother for doing it unknowingly,” said Bhankrota SHO Mukesh Choudhary. Police is also going slow on these cases since they fall under IT Act which has a provision of rigorous punishment up to 5 years. Investigating the matter, Mukesh Choudhary, a cybercrime expert at Jaipur police, says, “In many cases, students impersonate their friends thinking their identity will remain anonymous. They, however, don’t understand that the conduct which they think is casual can have serious repercussions. I assure that tracing these offenders through IP addresses and device identity is quite easy,” said Choudhary. Additional commissioner of police Jaipur Commissionerate, Ajay Pal Lamba, says, “It is unfortunate the cases related to sharing of abusive and explicit content by school and college students during web classes is being reported in the city. I advise parents and schools to monitor the classes and not to hesitate to report such incidents to police.” However, educationists hold a different view. Damodar Goyal, an educationist, says that police and government shouldn’t intervene until the matter creates law and order sitution. “Undesirable content from students during online education is a byproduct of what is happening in the society. All stakeholders are required to take the responsibility of proper orientation of young children. Instead of dealing such issues by applying criminal laws, I suggest proper counselling, understanding and handling the cases delicately,” said Goyal. Aware about such incidents: DotasraEducation minister Govind Singh Dotasra says he is aware of such incidents happening in the state and deeply concerned with it. “We have realised that there is need to come up with laws governing online classes. Atleast schools are required to keep the recording of one month of classes,” said Dotasra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/abuse-bullying-during-online-classes-worry-parents-teachers/articleshow/80377714.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Meerut||Hindu groups demand ban on Amazon Prime series Tandav||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Members of Hindu group Kranti Sena on Wednesday organized a protest against the Amazon Prime web series Tandav, for allegedly hurting Hindu sentiments, in Muzaffarnagar. They burnt the poster and effigy of the series, director and actors, and demanded the series be banned immediately. Earlier on Tuesday, Hindu Jagran Manch also held a protest against Tandav, demanding action against its director and other crew. Elsewhere, dozens of members of another Hindu group, Rashtriya Hindu Shakti Sangathan, filed a complaint at City police station against the director, producer and CEO of Amazon, the company which released the movie. Sharita Sharma Arora, the national president (women’s wing) of Hindu Shakti, who filed a police complaint, said, “They made a joke on [Hindu] gods and goddesses in the film. This is unacceptable. Hence we filed a police complaint against four people.” Narender Panwar, vice-president Hindu Jagran Manch, said, “Insulting Hindu gods and goddesses is unacceptable. The film’s director, producer and actors should be punished for making objectionable remarks in the film, and the film should be banned. Otherwise, we’ll launch a massive protest.” It should be noted that the web series Tandav, directed and created by Ali Abbas Zafar, was released several days ago. Soon, various Hindu groups began raising hue and cry against the film. A case against its director and others was also registered at Hazratganj police station on Sunday. This is not the first time a Bollywood film has fallen foul of extremist Hindu outfits. In 2017, the Thakur community protested against the film Padmaavat. Hundreds of members of Rajput Uthaan Sabha forcefully entered Muzaffarnagar’s largest mall and threatened its management with dire consequences if the film was projected in its theatre. Protesters also hit the streets against the film Shorgul, based on the Muzaffarnagar riots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hindu-groups-demand-ban-on-amazon-prime-series-tandav/articleshow/80372125.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 21, 2021||Jodhpur||Abuse, bullying during online classes worry parents, teachers||JAIPUR: A 12-year-old, Sameer Singh (name changed) is facing an inquiry from his school for using unparliamentary language for his classmate during an online class in Jaipur. Singh’s statement to the school says that he was under the impression that he had muted his account and while talking to a friend over the phone used foul language. The matter was reported to the school by a parent of a girl student who demanded suspension of Singh. The school is trying to fix the matter by directing the student to refrain from online classes for some time, but the parent who is a leading advocate has threatened to file a case under the IT Act. This is not an isolated case in the city. Jaipur police are investigating three cases related to abusive conduct during online classes. Bhankrota police is investigating a case in which complainant’s 13-year daughter, who is a student at Asian World School, received sexually explicit content on her chat box in a private message in the midst of a web class on Zoom. The school has reportedly terminated the student. The father has taken the screenshot of the abusive content as the main evidence. “The IP address of the concerned student has been traced who has blamed his elder brother for doing it unknowingly,” said Bhankrota SHO Mukesh Choudhary. Police is also going slow on these cases since they fall under IT Act which has a provision of rigorous punishment up to 5 years. Investigating the matter, Mukesh Choudhary, a cybercrime expert at Jaipur police, says, “In many cases, students impersonate their friends thinking their identity will remain anonymous. They, however, don’t understand that the conduct which they think is casual can have serious repercussions. I assure that tracing these offenders through IP addresses and device identity is quite easy,” said Choudhary. Additional commissioner of police Jaipur Commissionerate, Ajay Pal Lamba, says, “It is unfortunate the cases related to sharing of abusive and explicit content by school and college students during web classes is being reported in the city. I advise parents and schools to monitor the classes and not to hesitate to report such incidents to police.” However, educationists hold a different view. Damodar Goyal, an educationist, says that police and government shouldn’t intervene until the matter creates law and order sitution. “Undesirable content from students during online education is a byproduct of what is happening in the society. All stakeholders are required to take the responsibility of proper orientation of young children. Instead of dealing such issues by applying criminal laws, I suggest proper counselling, understanding and handling the cases delicately,” said Goyal. Aware about such incidents: DotasraEducation minister Govind Singh Dotasra says he is aware of such incidents happening in the state and deeply concerned with it. “We have realised that there is need to come up with laws governing online classes. Atleast schools are required to keep the recording of one month of classes,” said Dotasra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/abuse-bullying-during-online-classes-worry-parents-teachers/articleshow/80377715.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Going for jab? Wait 1 to 6 months after transplant||Ahmedabad: While the debate on who should and should not get Covid-19 vaccine goes on, the Indian Society of Organ Transplantation on Wednesday submitted its guidelines to the central government for those going for organ or tissue transplants or have already undergone it. The guideline suggested vaccination for all transplant patients. However, it advised those who have already undergone the procedure to wait for one to six months after the procedure. The advisory also asked patients about to undergo the procedure to take the vaccine two weeks prior to the scheduled transplant date. The guidelines recommend that the patients should be given ‘inactivated vaccine’. "In general, in immune-compromised patients, live vaccines can cause vaccine-related disease. Therefore, patients with organ transplant should not receive live vaccines," mentioned the recommendation. The experts also pointed out that so far only healthy individuals have been administered the shot. Thus, the impact or any possible side-effects of the vaccine in immuno-compromised patients is not known. Dr Vivek Kute, a professor at IKDRC-ITC in Ahmedabad and secretary of ISOT, said that the guidelines are in response to the queries by the patients and also to address common concerns about the procedure. The experts suggested creating awareness about the vaccination among the community to take it to the patients and their relatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/going-for-jab-wait-1-to-6-months-after-transplant/articleshow/80373774.cms||Parth Shastri
January 21, 2021||Ajmer||Abuse, bullying during online classes worry parents, teachers||JAIPUR: A 12-year-old, Sameer Singh (name changed) is facing an inquiry from his school for using unparliamentary language for his classmate during an online class in Jaipur. Singh’s statement to the school says that he was under the impression that he had muted his account and while talking to a friend over the phone used foul language. The matter was reported to the school by a parent of a girl student who demanded suspension of Singh. The school is trying to fix the matter by directing the student to refrain from online classes for some time, but the parent who is a leading advocate has threatened to file a case under the IT Act. This is not an isolated case in the city. Jaipur police are investigating three cases related to abusive conduct during online classes. Bhankrota police is investigating a case in which complainant’s 13-year daughter, who is a student at Asian World School, received sexually explicit content on her chat box in a private message in the midst of a web class on Zoom. The school has reportedly terminated the student. The father has taken the screenshot of the abusive content as the main evidence. “The IP address of the concerned student has been traced who has blamed his elder brother for doing it unknowingly,” said Bhankrota SHO Mukesh Choudhary. Police is also going slow on these cases since they fall under IT Act which has a provision of rigorous punishment up to 5 years. Investigating the matter, Mukesh Choudhary, a cybercrime expert at Jaipur police, says, “In many cases, students impersonate their friends thinking their identity will remain anonymous. They, however, don’t understand that the conduct which they think is casual can have serious repercussions. I assure that tracing these offenders through IP addresses and device identity is quite easy,” said Choudhary. Additional commissioner of police Jaipur Commissionerate, Ajay Pal Lamba, says, “It is unfortunate the cases related to sharing of abusive and explicit content by school and college students during web classes is being reported in the city. I advise parents and schools to monitor the classes and not to hesitate to report such incidents to police.” However, educationists hold a different view. Damodar Goyal, an educationist, says that police and government shouldn’t intervene until the matter creates law and order sitution. “Undesirable content from students during online education is a byproduct of what is happening in the society. All stakeholders are required to take the responsibility of proper orientation of young children. Instead of dealing such issues by applying criminal laws, I suggest proper counselling, understanding and handling the cases delicately,” said Goyal. Aware about such incidents: DotasraEducation minister Govind Singh Dotasra says he is aware of such incidents happening in the state and deeply concerned with it. “We have realised that there is need to come up with laws governing online classes. Atleast schools are required to keep the recording of one month of classes,” said Dotasra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/abuse-bullying-during-online-classes-worry-parents-teachers/articleshow/80377717.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu has 6.26 crore voters, majority women||CHENNAI: As per the final electoral rolls of special summary revision, 2021, the total electorate in the state is 6.26 crore. The data released by the state elections department on Wednesday suggests that the state has 3.08 crore male voters, 3.18 crore female voters and third gender 7,246. The revision of electoral roll was done with January 1 as the qualifying date for inclusion of names. “During the above revision, 21.82 lakh applications for inclusion of names were received, while 21.39 lakh were admitted, and names included. As many as 5.09 lakh deletions have been made due to shifting, death and duplicate entries,” chief electoral officer Satyabrata Sahoo said. Sholinganallur assembly constituency in Chengalpet district recorded the highest electorate with 6.94 lakh voters on final roll, while Harbour in Chennai district recorded lowest with 1.76 lakh voters. “So far, 4.62 lakh people with disabilities (PwD) have been flagged in the electoral rolls,” Sahoo said. The PwD voters and 12.98 lakh voters above 80 years are eligible for postal ballots. As many as 8.97 lakh voters in the age group of 18-19 have enrolled themselves to cast votes for the first time. Sahoo said the period of continuous updation was on and all eligible people, who had completed 18 years as on January 1, 2021, and who did not find their names in the roll, could apply by – visiting the respective offices of the electoral registration officers and submitting Form-6 (inclusion of names), online through www.nvsp.in, or through voter helpline app available on Google playstore. The electoral rolls are available online and voters can check their names by visiting the site, http://elections.tn.gov.in. As per the directions of the election commission, district contact centres have been established in all the districts and they have been provided with toll free helpline, 1950, uniformly across the state. The state contact centre is also functioning in the office of the chief electoral officer with the toll-free number 180042521950||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-has-6-26cr-voters-majority-women/articleshow/80373610.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Nashik||Nandurbar: Home isolation not an option for asymptomatic patients||Nashik: Alarmed by the sudden rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the Nandurbar district — especially in Nandurbar and Shahada talukas — since the first week of January, the district administration has decided to not allow home isolation for any positive patient with immediate effect till February 20. Nandurbar district collector Rajendra Bharud said the decision has been taken as there have been reports of Covid-19 patients, who had been advised home isolation, roaming around in public spaces. “It is a dangerous trend as others could easily be infected. Henceforth, those testing positive and are asymptomatic would have to get admitted to the different Covid Care Centres. The symptomatic patients would have to be admitted to either the district civil hospital or private hospitals,” added Bharud. Bharud appealed to the residents to cooperate with the district administration. At present, the district has 557 active cases — most of them from Nandurbar and Shahada talukas. While the Nandurbar taluka has 246 active cases, Shahada has 221. According to the district officials, since early this month, the per-day positive case tally has been hovering around 40-50, which is distressing. Therefore, tough measures are needed to prevent the spread of the infection. The district collector had held a discussion with the authorities of the state Covid task force before taking the decision. According to the district collector, he has directed the district police, health department and authorities concerned to prevent large gatherings in the district. “Off late, there have been huge gatherings at some social functions in the district in violation of the rules laid down by the state government. I have directed the police to immediately lodge cases if there are large gatherings during such events,” added Bharud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nandurbar-home-isolation-not-an-option-for-asymptomatic-patients/articleshow/80352579.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Ex-Army man moves HC over denial of quota benefit||JAIPUR: Rajasthan high court issued notice to department of personnel and RPSC over denial of ex-serviceman quota benefit. The single bench of Justice SP Sharma issued notice on a petition by Jagmal Singh who retired from the post of Naik in the Army. Singh applied for senior teacher in the school teacher recruitment 2014 and got selected under ex-serviceman quota. R P Saini, counsel for the petitioner, said following advertisement for the post of school lecturer in 2018, the petitioner applied for the same after obtaining NOC from the concerned department. The petitioner was declared successful in the written examination. But during document verification, the RPSC objected to him availing the quota under ex-serviceman again as he had availed the ex-serviceman quota in the previous job. The RPSC said ex-serviceman quota could be used only once. This was challenged in the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ex-army-man-moves-hc-over-denial-of-quota-benefit/articleshow/80373597.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Meerut||Big cats carry out two attacks in 24 hours in villages 30 km apart||BIJNOR: Big cats have attacked two people at spots 30 km apart in the district within 24 hours. On Wednesday, a leopard entered Madpura village under Barhapur in Bijnor and attacked an 11-year-old boy. He was rushed to a private hospital, where he is reportedly recuperating. Villagers have demanded the forest department to set up a cage and catch the leopard. According to villagers, Prince (11), was on his way home when a leopard appeared on the scene and attacked him. When he shouted for help, passersby rushed to his rescue and scared it away. Prince, who sustained minor injuries, was taken to a private hospital. Earlier, at around 7 pm on Tuesday, an unidentified big cat attacked bike mechanic Balvinder Singh (22) in Nawabpura village of Afzarganj, which is over 30 km away from Barhapur. Singh was returning home after shutting down his shop. The attack took place around 500 m away from the village. Balvinder somehow managed to escape and screamed, at which villagers rushed to the rescue. Earlier on December 29, a boy was dragged away by a leopard from outside his home. His partially eaten body was later recovered from a sugarcane field. Najibabad’s divisional forest officer Manoj Shukla said they are probing the matter to ascertain whether the attacks were carried out by a leopard or some other big cat. Shukla said, “We have set cameras and cages at locations where the attacks were carried out. All villagers have been asked to be on alert and only venture into fields in groups to foil attacks.” According to officials, since November 25 last year, there have been eight deaths from attacks by big cats. The population of leopards has seen a sharp 60% jump in the recent census. Big cats thrive in the district as it is part of the sugar bowl, and the cats find it easy to hide in the cane fields. But with sugarcane harvesting in full swing, many fields have been vacated by farmers, leading to rise in leopard sightings and attacks. Forest authorities have been sensitising farmers on dos and don’ts, to reduce man-animal conflict.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/big-cats-carry-out-two-attacks-in-24-hours-in-villages-30-km-apart/articleshow/80372139.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||Major’s mortal remains reach Jaipur late Wednesday night||JAIPUR: The mortal remains of the army major, who allegedly committed suicide in Kupwara on Monday, reached his home in Jaipur on late Wednesday night. The delay has left his family agitated and concerned about the events which transpired that led to the officer’s death. They alleged that there appears to be a larger conspiracy behind the major’s sudden death. Major Fayazullah Khan, a company commander of the Jammu and Kashmir Rifles, allegedly committed suicide in Kupwara on Monday. The officer hailed from Jaipur and the reason behind his suicide is yet to be determined. His uncle Shafi Khan told TOI, “We were told that his remains have been sent from Jammu by road but we are not sure as to what exactly happened with him. We know only what the officials have told us but we are finding it difficult to believe that he can actually kill himself. There seems to be larger conspiracy at play.” The 29-year-old officer was posted in Kupwara for last two years and was unmarried. His family stays in Vaishali Nagar, though they have ancestral home in Walled City. On Sunday, Fayazullah spoke to his father and was a bit disturbed as he was not getting leave. However, after being told not to get worried as it was not a big issue which the major understood, there was no reason for him to commit suicide, claimed his family. He had 10 years of service and was due for a promotion. “Officials say that he was Covid positive. His younger brother, who is a Captain in the army and posted in Jaipur also is unable to get any details about Fayazullah’s death and even details about the arrival of his body were told to us in bits and pieces.We are extremely saddened about how the whole incident was handled We want to know what actually happened with him,” added his uncle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/majors-mortal-remains-reach-jaipur-late-wednesday-night/articleshow/80373568.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
January 21, 2021||Kolhapur||12 new Covid cases reported in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: The number of active Covid-19 cases in Kolhapur district increased to 102 after 12 new cases were reported on Tuesday. The district also reported one death, taking the death toll due to the contagion to 1,713. Four patients were discharged following which the number of people who have recovered till date has gone up to 47,965. Sangli district reported 10 new cases. However, there were no Covid-related death here. The number of active cases in the district has come down to 186. So far, the district has reported 47,943 patients. Of them, 1,745 have succumbed to the infection. Solapur city reported 45 cases while 85 patients were discharged. The city also registered three deaths — all senior citizens. Solapur city has so far reported 11,540 cases and 624 deaths. There are as many as 314 active cases, including 171 men and 143 women, while till date 10,602 people have got discharged. Meanwhile, Solapur rural registered 41 new cases and no death due to Covid. A total of 21 people also got discharged from various hospitals. Rural Solapur has registered 39,143 Covid cases till the date along with 1,150 deaths. The number of active patients stands at 466, including 285 men and 181 women. Satara district on Tuesday reported as many as 43 new cases and one death, a 73-year-old woman from Wai tehsil. The district has reported 55,657 cases till the date and 53,092 have been discharged. The death toll stands at 1,806, while the active cases are 759.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/12-new-covid-cases-reported-in-kolhapur/articleshow/80363971.cms||---
January 21, 2021||World||Biden takes sweeping Day One action on energy, climate, immigration||WASHINGTON: US President Joe Biden on Wednesday began signing 15 executive actions addressing the coronavirus pandemic, climate change and racial inequality, and undoing some policies put in place by his predecessor Donald Trump. The actions, fulfilling his promise to move quickly on Day One of his presidency, initiate the process of the United States rejoining the Paris climate accord and include the revocation of the presidential permit granted for the controversial Keystone XL oil pipeline. The steps Biden is taking will end a travel ban Trump put in place on some majority-Muslim countries. He is also calling upon his administration to strengthen the DACA program for immigrants brought to the United States as children. The new president is also ordering the wearing of masks and social distancing in all federal buildings and on all federal lands and is ending a national emergency declaration that was the basis for diverting some federal funds to build a wall along the US-Mexico border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-takes-sweeping-day-one-action-on-energy-climate-immigration/articleshow/80376806.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Ajmer||Occupancy of beds for Covid patients only 3% in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Occupancy of beds reserved for Covid-19 patients is just 3% in Jaipur as the number of patients currently undergoing treatment for Covid-19 is 151. Still half of the patients undergoing treatment for Covid-19 are in ICUs and among them 25 are on ventilator support. At one point of time in October and November, finding a bed for Covid-19 patients in some hospitals in the city was a difficult task. Now, the situation has completely changed. A lot of hospitals do not have even a single Covid-19 patient undergoing treatment. In RUHS, which is the biggest dedicated Covid-19 hospital, having a capacity of 1,200 beds, only 28 patients are undergoing treatment. Out of those, 10 are on ventilator support, while 18 are undergoing treatment in ward beds. Viewing that the hospitalization of Covid-19 patients has gone down, the health department has given some relaxation to the private hospitals. “We have withdrawn the condition of reserving 30% beds for Covid-19 patients. Now, we have asked them to keep 10 beds only for Covid-19 patients,” said Siddharth Mahajan, secretary (health). The hospitals are witnessing more patients of post-Covid-19 complications rather than the Covid-19 cases. “A lot of patients are coming with post-Covid-19 complications related to heart, lungs and kidneys,” said Dr Sheetu Singh, director Covid-19 pulmonary rehab at a private hospital. Besides, two persons died, while 213 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Wednesday bringing its overall tally to 3,15,816. With two more deaths, state’s toll rose to 2,754. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (42), Kota (34), Nagaur (25), Alwar (18), Jodhpur (15), Bhilwara (14), Ajmer (9), Jhalawar (8), Rajsamand (8), Udaipur (8), Banswara (7), Sriganganagar (6), Bundi (6), Jaisalmer (3), Chittorgarh (2), Banswara (2), Pali (1), Barmer (1), Bikaner (1), Hanumangarh (1), Dungarpur (1) and Sikar (1). Udaipur reported its 113rd Covid-19 death and Pratapgarh reported its 21st Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/occupancy-of-beds-for-covid-patients-only-3-in-city/articleshow/80382872.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Jodhpur||Railway martyrs’ memorial now open for public near Indo-Pak border||JAISALMER: The first-of-its-kind Railway martyrs’ memorial was dedicated to the public at Gadra Road near the Indo-Pakistan border by NWR GM Anand Prakash on Tuesday. On this occasion, Jodhpur DRM Geetika Pandey and BSF Barmer DIG Gurupal Singh were present. Prakash on this occasion felicitated the family members of the martyr railway personnel. There is a unique anecdote at Gadra Road in Barmer, in which 17 railway employees sacrificed their lives at the Indo-Pak border while discharging their duties during the Indo-Pak war in 1965. NWR senior public relations officer Gopal Sharma said that these railway personnel during the Indo-Pak war in 1965, were repairing the rail route which was damaged by the Pak army and were carrying supplies to the army by train. The Pakistan army, to stop the supplies to the army, attacked them, in which these rail personnel lost their lives. A martyrs’ memorial was made near the Gadra Road railway station in Jodhpur rail division, which was dedicated to the public by Prakash. NWR GM, Jodhpur DRM Pandey and BSF DIG Singh offered wreaths at the memorial. 142nd battalion of BSF gave guard of honour. The family members of the martyrs were felicitated with garlands and shawl. Barmer railway station was also checked and orders were given to improve the services. GM Anand Prakash during the event said that these martyrs are the pride of the railways and read out their names. He called it a privilege to felicitate the family members of the martyrs. He said their names have became immortal in the history of the country. DRM Geetika Pandey paid tribute to the martyrs by reciting a poem and praised their sacrifice. BSF DIG Singh called the cooperation of rail personnel and army historical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/rly-martyrs-memorial-now-open-for-public-near-indo-pak-border/articleshow/80383167.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||Docs use rare radiology procedure on a liver cancer patient||JAIPUR: City-based doctors performed a rare interventional radiology procedure on a liver cancer patient to provide him relief. Dr Nikhil Bansal, an Interventional radiologist TARE (Trans Arterial Radio Embolization) said that is a latest and innovative incesionless procedure to treat liver cancer. “It is a minimally invasive procedure that uses special gadgets and micro-catheters which is placed selectively into the blood vessel through the groin to access the tumour which combines embolization and precise radio therapy,” Dr Bansal of Mahatma Gandhi hospital said. Dr Nikhil said that radioactive agent is made up of tiny glass beads filled with the radioactive isotope yttrium Y-90 which blocks the supply of blood to the cancer cells and delivers a high dose of radiation to the tumor. The dose is calculated and prepared in Canada from where the dose is transported in a premeasured amount and delivered on specific dates using special system in the Cathlab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/docs-use-rare-radiology-procedure-on-a-liver-cancer-patient/articleshow/80373615.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Nashik||Average wholesale onion price drops to Rs 2,600/quintal||Nashik: The average wholesale price of onions registered a marginal drop, from Rs 2,850 per quintal on Tuesday to Rs 2,600 per 100kg on Wednesday, at the Lasalgaon APMC. “The recent bouts of rainfall not only damaged the onion crop, but also affected the quality of the produce. Hence, the good quality onions are fetching higher price and poor quality onions are fetching lower rates,” Manoj Jain, an onion trader, said. “There is gap of Rs 600 per quintal between medium and good quality onions. This is the reason why the average wholesale onion price has come down,” he added. Jain further said that the central government should introduce incentives on onion export that will boost the export of the produce. The minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices at Lasalgaon on Wednesday were recorded at Rs 1,000 and Rs 3,240 per quintal, respectively.  “Around 24,000 quintal of onions were auctioned at Lasalgaon on Wednesday. Even though the arrival of onions has increased in the market, the average wholesale onion price has stabilized in the price range between Rs 2,500 and Rs 2,900 per quintal,” Jain said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/average-wholesale-onion-price-drops-to-rs-2600/quintal/articleshow/80370795.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 21, 2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal asks PWD to remove obstacles, finish road redesigning project by 2023||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday reviewed the status of redesigning and streetscaping of seven road stretches and 540 km of identified major roads of the capital. He directed officials to complete the project by early 2023. “The process of designing the roads should be done in a swift manner and the project should be completed within the stipulated deadline, i.e., by 2023. The PWD should ensure the removal of all obstacles, the project needs to be completed in two years. There should be no laxity in the completion,” Kejriwal said in a meeting. Under the project, major roads of 100feet and above in width have been selected for redesigning so that they can have pedestrian paths, cycle tracks and green spaces among other facilities. The project comes under the jurisdiction of the public works department and was approved in November 2019. The Chandni Chowk road has been recently redeveloped as a pilot project. The development of these roads will be on the lines of the Built-Operate-Transfer model and the construction company will take care of the maintenance for 15 years. The main objectives of the project will be removing bottlenecks from the roads for a smooth flow of traffic and decongestion, encouraging the use of non-motorised vehicles, constructing disabled-friendly infrastructure, and ensuring efficient use of space alongside the road stretches. People currently face issues as bottlenecks on roads create the problem of traffic congestion at various locations in the city. On the identified roads, there will be measured and planned spaces for vehicles, non-motorised vehicles, footpaths and side-lanes. The footpaths will be widely mapped to an average of 10 feet for the convenience of pedestrians. These footpaths will also be disabled people-friendly. The project will help increase greenery as well and no surface will be left unpaved or uncovered for dust control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kejriwal-asks-pwd-to-remove-obstacles-finish-road-redesigning-project-by-2023/articleshow/80375136.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Segregate high viral load patients: Study||Ahmedabad: In the initial months of the Covid pandemic, many patients were shifted to common Covid care rooms for treatment. A similar rule was followed in case of those needing oxygen too. But now a study by National Institute for Occupational Health (NIOH) Ahmedabad has found patients with high viral load should be separated from those with low viral load to curtail further infections. The study found that in rooms with patients with high viral load there is “100% possibility of viral RNA surviving on surfaces” stainless steel and cardboard — two common surfaces in hospitals. The scientists collected 15 square shaped sterilised cardboard pieces and 15 stainless steel surfaces that mimicked the bio-safety cabinet. Swab samples, of high and low viral load patients were collected and wiped on these surfaces and observed after 90 minutes. The results indicate fomites — small particles that emanate from a person coughing or talking — play a role in spread the disease in addition to human contact, particularly at Covid19 care facilities. “Awareness of fomite-based Covid19 transmission and about the persistence of viral particles on these surfaces among healthcare workers could reduce their risk of contracting Covid19. Viral load on fomites and their potential role in disease transmission have implications in limiting transmission,” claims the research published by the divisions of toxicology, Poison Information Center, Microbiology, and Clinical Epidemiology, of the NIOH, Ahmedabad. “The Covid-positive patients with high viral load should be treated with great care,” by separating patients with high viral load from those with low viral load. “Common inanimate surfaces are potential sources of the viral transmission, however the viral load on these surfaces are key determinants of such transmission,” claims the study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/segregate-high-viral-load-patients-study/articleshow/80373770.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Chennai||Temple idols national treasures, protect them: HC to govt||CHENNAI: Asserting that ancient temple idols are national treasures that have to be protected and preserved, the Madras high court has directed the state government to come up with a plan to retrieve idols stolen from temples. The first bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy issued a direction to this effect on Wednesday on a public interest writ petition filed by activist R Venkataraman. The petitioner alleged that many unlisted temples under the administration of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department have vanished or remain in dilapidated condition with their main deity stolen. Venkataraman further alleged that even documents of lands owned by the temples had been lost. According to him, during a recent inspection conducted by the department, it came to light that in some places where unlisted temples existed, there were no signs of the temples at all. This apart, the authorities found that even the main deity of such temples were missing. However, the same was not informed to the commissioner of the department. Instead, the authorities are trying to create new registries by modifying the existence of such temples and the lands owned by them, he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/temple-idols-natl-treasures-protect-them-hc-to-govt/articleshow/80373616.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Jodhpur||Occupancy of beds for Covid patients only 3% in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Occupancy of beds reserved for Covid-19 patients is just 3% in Jaipur as the number of patients currently undergoing treatment for Covid-19 is 151. Still half of the patients undergoing treatment for Covid-19 are in ICUs and among them 25 are on ventilator support. At one point of time in October and November, finding a bed for Covid-19 patients in some hospitals in the city was a difficult task. Now, the situation has completely changed. A lot of hospitals do not have even a single Covid-19 patient undergoing treatment. In RUHS, which is the biggest dedicated Covid-19 hospital, having a capacity of 1,200 beds, only 28 patients are undergoing treatment. Out of those, 10 are on ventilator support, while 18 are undergoing treatment in ward beds. Viewing that the hospitalization of Covid-19 patients has gone down, the health department has given some relaxation to the private hospitals. “We have withdrawn the condition of reserving 30% beds for Covid-19 patients. Now, we have asked them to keep 10 beds only for Covid-19 patients,” said Siddharth Mahajan, secretary (health). The hospitals are witnessing more patients of post-Covid-19 complications rather than the Covid-19 cases. “A lot of patients are coming with post-Covid-19 complications related to heart, lungs and kidneys,” said Dr Sheetu Singh, director Covid-19 pulmonary rehab at a private hospital. Besides, two persons died, while 213 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Wednesday bringing its overall tally to 3,15,816. With two more deaths, state’s toll rose to 2,754. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (42), Kota (34), Nagaur (25), Alwar (18), Jodhpur (15), Bhilwara (14), Ajmer (9), Jhalawar (8), Rajsamand (8), Udaipur (8), Banswara (7), Sriganganagar (6), Bundi (6), Jaisalmer (3), Chittorgarh (2), Banswara (2), Pali (1), Barmer (1), Bikaner (1), Hanumangarh (1), Dungarpur (1) and Sikar (1). Udaipur reported its 113rd Covid-19 death and Pratapgarh reported its 21st Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/occupancy-of-beds-for-covid-patients-only-3-in-city/articleshow/80382869.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Udaipur||Occupancy of beds for Covid patients only 3% in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Occupancy of beds reserved for Covid-19 patients is just 3% in Jaipur as the number of patients currently undergoing treatment for Covid-19 is 151. Still half of the patients undergoing treatment for Covid-19 are in ICUs and among them 25 are on ventilator support. At one point of time in October and November, finding a bed for Covid-19 patients in some hospitals in the city was a difficult task. Now, the situation has completely changed. A lot of hospitals do not have even a single Covid-19 patient undergoing treatment. In RUHS, which is the biggest dedicated Covid-19 hospital, having a capacity of 1,200 beds, only 28 patients are undergoing treatment. Out of those, 10 are on ventilator support, while 18 are undergoing treatment in ward beds. Viewing that the hospitalization of Covid-19 patients has gone down, the health department has given some relaxation to the private hospitals. “We have withdrawn the condition of reserving 30% beds for Covid-19 patients. Now, we have asked them to keep 10 beds only for Covid-19 patients,” said Siddharth Mahajan, secretary (health). The hospitals are witnessing more patients of post-Covid-19 complications rather than the Covid-19 cases. “A lot of patients are coming with post-Covid-19 complications related to heart, lungs and kidneys,” said Dr Sheetu Singh, director Covid-19 pulmonary rehab at a private hospital. Besides, two persons died, while 213 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Wednesday bringing its overall tally to 3,15,816. With two more deaths, state’s toll rose to 2,754. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (42), Kota (34), Nagaur (25), Alwar (18), Jodhpur (15), Bhilwara (14), Ajmer (9), Jhalawar (8), Rajsamand (8), Udaipur (8), Banswara (7), Sriganganagar (6), Bundi (6), Jaisalmer (3), Chittorgarh (2), Banswara (2), Pali (1), Barmer (1), Bikaner (1), Hanumangarh (1), Dungarpur (1) and Sikar (1). Udaipur reported its 113rd Covid-19 death and Pratapgarh reported its 21st Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/occupancy-of-beds-for-covid-patients-only-3-in-city/articleshow/80382868.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||Occupancy of beds for Covid patients only 3% in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Occupancy of beds reserved for Covid-19 patients is just 3% in Jaipur as the number of patients currently undergoing treatment for Covid-19 is 151. Still half of the patients undergoing treatment for Covid-19 are in ICUs and among them 25 are on ventilator support. At one point of time in October and November, finding a bed for Covid-19 patients in some hospitals in the city was a difficult task. Now, the situation has completely changed. A lot of hospitals do not have even a single Covid-19 patient undergoing treatment. In RUHS, which is the biggest dedicated Covid-19 hospital, having a capacity of 1,200 beds, only 28 patients are undergoing treatment. Out of those, 10 are on ventilator support, while 18 are undergoing treatment in ward beds. Viewing that the hospitalization of Covid-19 patients has gone down, the health department has given some relaxation to the private hospitals. “We have withdrawn the condition of reserving 30% beds for Covid-19 patients. Now, we have asked them to keep 10 beds only for Covid-19 patients,” said Siddharth Mahajan, secretary (health). The hospitals are witnessing more patients of post-Covid-19 complications rather than the Covid-19 cases. “A lot of patients are coming with post-Covid-19 complications related to heart, lungs and kidneys,” said Dr Sheetu Singh, director Covid-19 pulmonary rehab at a private hospital. Besides, two persons died, while 213 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Wednesday bringing its overall tally to 3,15,816. With two more deaths, state’s toll rose to 2,754. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (42), Kota (34), Nagaur (25), Alwar (18), Jodhpur (15), Bhilwara (14), Ajmer (9), Jhalawar (8), Rajsamand (8), Udaipur (8), Banswara (7), Sriganganagar (6), Bundi (6), Jaisalmer (3), Chittorgarh (2), Banswara (2), Pali (1), Barmer (1), Bikaner (1), Hanumangarh (1), Dungarpur (1) and Sikar (1). Udaipur reported its 113rd Covid-19 death and Pratapgarh reported its 21st Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/occupancy-of-beds-for-covid-patients-only-3-in-city/articleshow/80373611.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||Railway martyrs’ memorial now open for public near Indo-Pak border||JAISALMER: The first-of-its-kind Railway martyrs’ memorial was dedicated to the public at Gadra Road near the Indo-Pakistan border by NWR GM Anand Prakash on Tuesday. On this occasion, Jodhpur DRM Geetika Pandey and BSF Barmer DIG Gurupal Singh were present. Prakash on this occasion felicitated the family members of the martyr railway personnel. There is a unique anecdote at Gadra Road in Barmer, in which 17 railway employees sacrificed their lives at the Indo-Pak border while discharging their duties during the Indo-Pak war in 1965. NWR senior public relations officer Gopal Sharma said that these railway personnel during the Indo-Pak war in 1965, were repairing the rail route which was damaged by the Pak army and were carrying supplies to the army by train. The Pakistan army, to stop the supplies to the army, attacked them, in which these rail personnel lost their lives. A martyrs’ memorial was made near the Gadra Road railway station in Jodhpur rail division, which was dedicated to the public by Prakash. NWR GM, Jodhpur DRM Pandey and BSF DIG Singh offered wreaths at the memorial. 142nd battalion of BSF gave guard of honour. The family members of the martyrs were felicitated with garlands and shawl. Barmer railway station was also checked and orders were given to improve the services. GM Anand Prakash during the event said that these martyrs are the pride of the railways and read out their names. He called it a privilege to felicitate the family members of the martyrs. He said their names have became immortal in the history of the country. DRM Geetika Pandey paid tribute to the martyrs by reciting a poem and praised their sacrifice. BSF DIG Singh called the cooperation of rail personnel and army historical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rly-martyrs-memorial-now-open-for-public-near-indo-pak-border/articleshow/80375132.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Aurangabad||Petrol price in Parbhani at Rs 94.16/l highest in state on Wednesday||Aurangabad: Parbhani district recorded the highest petrol price in the state on Wednesday after breaching the Rs 94/litre-mark. In comparison, petrol was priced at Rs 92.98 per litre in Aurangabad, while in Jalna it was Rs 92.78 per litre.Parbhani district petrol and diesel association’s Amol Bhedsurkar confirmed that the current price was a record high.Petrol and diesel retail outlet dealers maintained that apart from the hefty taxes and duties imposed by the government, the distance between the destination and the depots where the fuel tankers are filled has a direct impact on the cost.Uday Lodh, the president of the Federation of All Maharashtra Petrol Dealers’ Association (FAMPEDA), said, “The petrol price on Wednesday was Rs 94.16 per litre. The distance a fuel tanker must cover to just fill its load reflects on the total cost of the petrol.” Members of the association said Parbhani-based petrol pumps procure petrol from three different depots located in Manmad, Solapur and Akola, which are at a distance of 342 km, 266 km and 203 km respectively.Viren Patel, the association’s office-bearer in Aurangabad, said, “Rehashing the existing system, including calculating transportation cost, should give some relief to the commoners.” He said that compared to Parbhani, the cost in Aurangabad is always lower, as the distance between Aurangabad and Manmad is just about 120 km.Nashik fuel prices unchangedMeanwhile, in Nashik, petrol and diesel prices remained unchanged on Wednesday. In the past few days, the petrol and diesel prices in the city have peaked at Rs 92.26 and Rs 81.34 per litre, respectively.Vijay Thakare, the vice-president of FAMPEDA, said there had been a continuous rise in fuel prices over two consecutive days on Monday and Tuesday, but the fuel prices remained unchanged on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/petrol-price-in-parbhani-at-rs-94-16/l-highest-in-state-on-wednesday/articleshow/80370787.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan receives 5.5 lakh more doses of Covishield||JAIPUR: The state received 5,50,500 doses of Covishield vaccine on Wednesday which will be distributed to different districts. Out of 5,50,500 vaccine doses, as many as 4,32,500 were received at Jaipur airport, which were transported from Pune by a flight. The vaccines were transported without any police protection unlike earlier when the first lot of vaccines reached Jaipur airport. Besides, 1,18,000 vaccine doses were landed at Udaipur airport which will be distributed to the districts in Udaipur division. “Now, we have sufficient numbers of doses which are enough to vaccinate our registered healthcare workers,” said Siddharth Mahajan, secretary (health). On January 13, the state had received 5,63,500 doses of vaccines, out of those, 4,43,000 lakh doses had reached Jaipur, while 1,00,500 had reached Udaipur. So far, the state has received 11,13,500 doses, out of those 32,379 have been administered, while rest of them are kept in vaccine stores across the state maintaining the temperature from 2 degree Celcius to 8 degree Celcius. “The vaccines which have received on Wednesday will be distributed to other districts across the state on Thursday,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunization), health department. The officials from districts will reach Jaipur along with vaccine vans for the transportation of shots. The health department has prepared a list of districts which will be supplied with the vaccines according to the need of the districts. The vaccines received by the health authorities at Jaipur airport and Udaipur airport have been kept at state-level vaccine stores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-receives-5-5-lakh-more-doses-of-covishield/articleshow/80373643.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan receives 5.5 lakh more doses of Covishield||JAIPUR: The state received 5,50,500 doses of Covishield vaccine on Wednesday which will be distributed to different districts. Out of 5,50,500 vaccine doses, as many as 4,32,500 were received at Jaipur airport, which were transported from Pune by a flight. The vaccines were transported without any police protection unlike earlier when the first lot of vaccines reached Jaipur airport. Besides, 1,18,000 vaccine doses were landed at Udaipur airport which will be distributed to the districts in Udaipur division. “Now, we have sufficient numbers of doses which are enough to vaccinate our registered healthcare workers,” said Siddharth Mahajan, secretary (health). On January 13, the state had received 5,63,500 doses of vaccines, out of those, 4,43,000 lakh doses had reached Jaipur, while 1,00,500 had reached Udaipur. So far, the state has received 11,13,500 doses, out of those 32,379 have been administered, while rest of them are kept in vaccine stores across the state maintaining the temperature from 2 degree Celcius to 8 degree Celcius. “The vaccines which have received on Wednesday will be distributed to other districts across the state on Thursday,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunization), health department. The officials from districts will reach Jaipur along with vaccine vans for the transportation of shots. The health department has prepared a list of districts which will be supplied with the vaccines according to the need of the districts. The vaccines received by the health authorities at Jaipur airport and Udaipur airport have been kept at state-level vaccine stores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/state-receives-5-5-lakh-more-doses-of-covishield/articleshow/80377690.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Govt tweaks rules to boost vaccination target||JAIPUR: Striving to improve the percentage of daily target achievement of Covid-19 vaccination, health department has issued a notification stated that in spite of waiting for healthcare workers who are not turning up for vaccination, give the jab to those registered healthcare workers who are willing to receive it. The new arrangement will help improving the percentage of daily target achievement. Immunisation in-charge of a session site has been given a target of vaccinating 100 healthcare workers in a day. On Co-WIN, the list of 100 healthcare workers for the particular session site is released in advance and all the 100 healthcare workers get a message through Co-WIN a day before their scheduled vaccination day informing them to turn up for vaccination on next coming day. But, out of those 100 listed healthcare workers for vaccination on the particular day, a lot of them do not appear. It affects the daily target achievement. Earlier, the orders issued by the Centre was to vaccinate only the listed 100 healthcare workers, but now that has been changed. “We have issued directions to add ‘allot beneficiary’ facility on the basis of the order issued by the Centre. Those healthcare workers who are already registered for Covid-19 vaccination but their turn will come for vaccination after some days, those will be allowed to get the vaccine during an ongoing vaccination session, if the healthcare workers listed for that particular day to get the vaccine do not turn up,” said Siddharth Mahajan, secretary (health). Along with that, directions have been issued to the chief medical health officers to give priority to the healthcare workers who are in the list of 100 issued by Co-WIN. If they come for vaccination, they should not be deprived of vaccination on that given day. The health department has witnessed that the percentage of target achievement is decreasing every day. On Day 1 of Covid-19 inoculation drive, the achievement of target in the state was 73.7%, on Day 2 of the vaccination drive, the achievement of target was 68.7% and on Day 3 (Tuesday), it has done further down to 54.8%, shows the report issued by the health department on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-tweaks-rules-to-boost-vaccination-target/articleshow/80373632.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad’s Covid shot compliance at 56%||AHMEDABAD: Over two days of Covid-19 vaccination drive in Ahmedabad across hospitals and healthcare facilities. data shows only 56% of those registered turned up to take the shot. While no serious adverse event of side-effects has been reported in the state, city health officials admit that not 100 percent of frontline warriors registered are coming forward to take the shot. Many of those who have recovered from coronavirus are citing presence of antibodies in their systems which would give them a fighting chance against reinfection. Most who are avoiding the vaccine otherwise, highlight non-availability of long-term research data of the vaccine’s effect on humans as key reason for their delay in getting vaccinated. “We are awaiting other vaccines to hit the market to compare the efficacy of different vaccines and choose the best shot. We also want to wait and watch to ensure the vaccine does not have any major side effects. So far, the scenario is quite promising as no major adverse event has been recorded barring fever and weakness. Fever and some weakness is definitely a major issue,” said a doctor at SVP Hospital who has not taken the shot yet. “We are not sure of how long the vaccine protection will last. If it is going to be only three to six months, I would rather wait. The vaccine was given permission for emergency use without much data. I have decided to wait for the next fortnight to ascertain its safety and then opt for vaccination,” said another doctor. A private doctor who was invited for vaccination on priority did not take the shot citing his having recovered from Covid-19. “Currently, I have protection of antibodies. I have a window of the next three months to monitor the performance of various vaccines and choose to get vaccinated when different vaccines are available in the open market," said the doctor. An AMC officer said that there is some reluctance among the frontline health workers. “Many claim being too busy with patients. Some even say they were out of town. Some reluctance was anticipated, but once people get assured the vaccine is safe, the drive will post robust compliance,” the official said. Deputy municipal commissioner Dr Om Prakash Machra said “Taking the vaccine is not compulsory, it is voluntary. We cannot mandate; all those who turn up will be vaccinated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabads-covid-shot-compliance-56/articleshow/80373767.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Bond doesn’t help university retain prof||Ahmedabad: Executing a bond on a Rs 50-stamp paper did not help Dharmsinh Desai University retain a faculty member after completion of his PhD, nor did it ensure that he paid the money the professor had promised to pay the institute if he quit before the bond period was over. The university claimed Rs 81 lakh from the faculty member for violation of the bond condition, but a Nadiad court said the bond was not executed properly and the university was entitled to get merely the pay for the notice period, as the employee had resigned suddenly. The case involves Saurin Shah, an assistant professor in the university’s Instrumentation and Control department in the faculty of technology. In 2007, Shah went to Nirma University for a PhD programme and promised the university he would not leave the job for at least five years after obtaining his degree. The university made him sign a bond, but laxity in its execution resulted in a loss in the legal battle for the institute. Despite the university’s insistence, Shah prepared the bond one year later. He purchased the stamp paper in July 2008, but mentioned July 1, 2007 in his signature. This discrepancy proved fatal to the university’s case, which was pursuing the litigation since 2004 after unsuccessfully approaching the police for Shah’s act of alleged “cheating” and “breach of trust”. Shah returned with his PhD in April 2012 and stopped going to the university in May 2012 and resigned the next month. The university sued him citing the bond he had signed and demanded Rs 81 lakh from him because he had promised to return his full salary from 2007 and for five years after his resignation with interest as well as the sum for the three-month notice period, which came to around Rs 2.19 lakh. The professor told the court he quit because he was not promoted despite his additional qualifications and felt he was being exploited. He also told the court that he had joined IIT, Madras for two years for his MTech and had given a similar bond to the university, which he had adhered to. Shah, who had earlier maintained that he was forced to sign the bond by the university for the PhD programme, later told the court he had not signed the bond at all. The court concluded that the execution of the bond was faulty and it was not signed on the day it reflected – July 1, 2007. The court said Shah had not given three months’ notice for his resignation and hence was liable to pay for the notice period only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bond-doesnt-help-university-retain-prof/articleshow/80373765.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan receives 5.5 lakh more doses of Covishield||JAIPUR: The state received 5,50,500 doses of Covishield vaccine on Wednesday which will be distributed to different districts. Out of 5,50,500 vaccine doses, as many as 4,32,500 were received at Jaipur airport, which were transported from Pune by a flight. The vaccines were transported without any police protection unlike earlier when the first lot of vaccines reached Jaipur airport. Besides, 1,18,000 vaccine doses were landed at Udaipur airport which will be distributed to the districts in Udaipur division. “Now, we have sufficient numbers of doses which are enough to vaccinate our registered healthcare workers,” said Siddharth Mahajan, secretary (health). On January 13, the state had received 5,63,500 doses of vaccines, out of those, 4,43,000 lakh doses had reached Jaipur, while 1,00,500 had reached Udaipur. So far, the state has received 11,13,500 doses, out of those 32,379 have been administered, while rest of them are kept in vaccine stores across the state maintaining the temperature from 2 degree Celcius to 8 degree Celcius. “The vaccines which have received on Wednesday will be distributed to other districts across the state on Thursday,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunization), health department. The officials from districts will reach Jaipur along with vaccine vans for the transportation of shots. The health department has prepared a list of districts which will be supplied with the vaccines according to the need of the districts. The vaccines received by the health authorities at Jaipur airport and Udaipur airport have been kept at state-level vaccine stores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/state-receives-5-5-lakh-more-doses-of-covishield/articleshow/80377692.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan receives 5.5 lakh more doses of Covishield||JAIPUR: The state received 5,50,500 doses of Covishield vaccine on Wednesday which will be distributed to different districts. Out of 5,50,500 vaccine doses, as many as 4,32,500 were received at Jaipur airport, which were transported from Pune by a flight. The vaccines were transported without any police protection unlike earlier when the first lot of vaccines reached Jaipur airport. Besides, 1,18,000 vaccine doses were landed at Udaipur airport which will be distributed to the districts in Udaipur division. “Now, we have sufficient numbers of doses which are enough to vaccinate our registered healthcare workers,” said Siddharth Mahajan, secretary (health). On January 13, the state had received 5,63,500 doses of vaccines, out of those, 4,43,000 lakh doses had reached Jaipur, while 1,00,500 had reached Udaipur. So far, the state has received 11,13,500 doses, out of those 32,379 have been administered, while rest of them are kept in vaccine stores across the state maintaining the temperature from 2 degree Celcius to 8 degree Celcius. “The vaccines which have received on Wednesday will be distributed to other districts across the state on Thursday,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunization), health department. The officials from districts will reach Jaipur along with vaccine vans for the transportation of shots. The health department has prepared a list of districts which will be supplied with the vaccines according to the need of the districts. The vaccines received by the health authorities at Jaipur airport and Udaipur airport have been kept at state-level vaccine stores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/state-receives-5-5-lakh-more-doses-of-covishield/articleshow/80377691.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Srinagar||Gujarat University to take statements of Jammu & Kashmir girls||AHMEDABAD: The Women Development Cell (WDC) at Gujarat University is planning to hold a video conference with the two female nursing students from Jammu & Kashmir who complained of being harassed by a university clerk. “The students have gone to their native place as their studies have been completed. The WDC is yet to question them in connection to their complaint,” said a GU official. The WDC usually records statements of the victims in a day or two after the issue is reported to them. Allegations are rife about the accused being connected to some political organization and hence the delay, claimed sources. The nursing students from Jammu & Kashmir had last week accused a Gujarat University clerk of sending them unwanted and objectionable messages. The authorities have instituted an inquiry against the accused, who was posted in the exam department. The accused has been transferred to Saraspur Library, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/gu-to-take-statements-of-jk-girls/articleshow/80382652.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat University to take statements of Jammu & Kashmir girls||AHMEDABAD: The Women Development Cell (WDC) at Gujarat University is planning to hold a video conference with the two female nursing students from Jammu & Kashmir who complained of being harassed by a university clerk. “The students have gone to their native place as their studies have been completed. The WDC is yet to question them in connection to their complaint,” said a GU official. The WDC usually records statements of the victims in a day or two after the issue is reported to them. Allegations are rife about the accused being connected to some political organization and hence the delay, claimed sources. The nursing students from Jammu & Kashmir had last week accused a Gujarat University clerk of sending them unwanted and objectionable messages. The authorities have instituted an inquiry against the accused, who was posted in the exam department. The accused has been transferred to Saraspur Library, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-to-take-statements-of-jk-girls/articleshow/80373763.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Jammu||Gujarat University to take statements of Jammu & Kashmir girls||AHMEDABAD: The Women Development Cell (WDC) at Gujarat University is planning to hold a video conference with the two female nursing students from Jammu & Kashmir who complained of being harassed by a university clerk. “The students have gone to their native place as their studies have been completed. The WDC is yet to question them in connection to their complaint,” said a GU official. The WDC usually records statements of the victims in a day or two after the issue is reported to them. Allegations are rife about the accused being connected to some political organization and hence the delay, claimed sources. The nursing students from Jammu & Kashmir had last week accused a Gujarat University clerk of sending them unwanted and objectionable messages. The authorities have instituted an inquiry against the accused, who was posted in the exam department. The accused has been transferred to Saraspur Library, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/gu-to-take-statements-of-jk-girls/articleshow/80382651.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Police summon Kangana again in defamation case||Juhu police summoned Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut in a defamation case filed by veteran writer Javed Akhtar. She has to appear before police on January 22 after an inquiry had been ordered by the magistrate in December 2020. Akhtar had filed a criminal complaint against Ranaut for allegedly making defamatory comments against him in TV interviews. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone IX) Abhishek Trimukhe confirmed that the Juhu police is inquiring into the magistrate order on the defamation case filed against her. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/police-summon-kangana-again-in-defamation-case/articleshow/80376079.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid deaths highest in 6 days||MUMBAI: After two days of a slight dip in cases, Maharashtra was back to reporting over 3,000 cases. On Wednesday a total of 3,015 cases and 59 fatalities were reported, taking the state’s total Covid-19 caseload to 19,97,992, inching very close to the 20-lakh mark. The total fatalities stood at 50,582 as of Wednesday. The fatalities reported on Wednesday are the highest in six days; in the past five days, the state has been reporting around 50 deaths per day. Cases in Mumbai also reported a slight increase while deaths have remained consistently under 10. A total of 501 Covid-19 cases and 9 deaths were reported in the city, taking the total caseload of Mumbai to 3,04,126 and the total deaths to 11,268. For the past two days the daily discharges have been much ahead of the daily additions. A total of 4,589 people were sent home on Wednesday, taking total discharges in the state to over 18.9 lakh. With this, active Covid-19 cases in the state dipped further to 46,769, of which 6656 were in Mumbai. Civic officials said that of the nine patients who died, seven had comorbidities and six deaths occurred in people above 60 years of age. “The majority of deaths continue to be in the 60-plus bracket,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner. As far as the doubling rate was concerned, it currently stands at 411 days for Mumbai. The city’s recovery rate has touched 94%. Of the positive cases in state, Mumbai circle reported 993 cases and 40 deaths. Within MMR, Thane city reported 126 new positive cases on Wednesday, taking the tally of infected people in the city to 57,645 while one Covid death took the virus toll to 1,287. The recovery rate in Thane was 97%. There were 79 positive cases from within NMMC areas on Wednesday, taking their total Covid count to 52,375. Of these, 96% of the patients have successfully recovered from coronavirus so far. One death was also reported, taking the total toll to 1,077. PCMC areas reported 54 fresh cases on Wednesday, taking the total case tally to 28,414. With no death reported on Wednesday, for the sixth day in a row, the total death toll remained at 619. (Inputs by Vijay Singh and B B Nayak)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/states-covid-deaths-highest-in-6-days/articleshow/80375036.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 21, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Highway robbers’ gang busted, three women arrested||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Wednesday claimed to have busted a gang of women robbers who targeted people on highways and posed as sex workers to lure them in outer Delhi areas and robbed them of cash and valuables. A case of robbery and two theft cases have been solved with the arrest of three women. The arrested women have been identified as Arti, Jisha and Nandini (names changed). All of them are married. While Aarti has one child, Jisha is mother to two children. Nandini has four children. The accused were nabbed when they recently targeted a delivery man in outer Delhi’s Bawana. On Monday, Neeraj, a resident of Poothkhurd, alleged that he had been robbed of around Rs 2 lakh by four unidentified women. The 25-year-old man said the incident took place when he was going in his delivery van carrying Rs 1.4 lakh in a bag, which was kept in the dashboard. He was also carrying Rs 22,500 separately in his pocket. “Around 2.45 pm when he reached near CNG pump at Bawana Road, he noticed four women standing there who signalled him to stop the delivery van. When he stopped his van, at first, the women started a conversation with him but soon allegedly overpowered him and snatched the cash kept inside the dashboard. They also frisked him and took the cash kept in his pocket,” said a police officer. The victim said as the women started to flee, he got out of his car and raised an alarm. “On this, a Delhi Police constable Jagpal who was on patrolling duty close by, rushed for help. The cops, along with the complainant and others, then intercepted the women. While three of them were caught, the fourth woman managed to escape. Rs 1.4 lakh out of the stolen amount was recovered from the three women,” the officer said. Additional deputy commissioner of police (outer north) Ghanshyam Bansal said the three women were booked for robbery. “Search for their fourth accomplice is being made,” Bansal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/highway-robbers-gang-busted-three-women-arrested/articleshow/80375138.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid deaths highest in 6 days||MUMBAI: After two days of a slight dip in cases, Maharashtra was back to reporting over 3,000 cases. On Wednesday a total of 3,015 cases and 59 fatalities were reported, taking the state’s total Covid-19 caseload to 19,97,992, inching very close to the 20-lakh mark. The total fatalities stood at 50,582 as of Wednesday. The fatalities reported on Wednesday are the highest in six days; in the past five days, the state has been reporting around 50 deaths per day. Cases in Mumbai also reported a slight increase while deaths have remained consistently under 10. A total of 501 Covid-19 cases and 9 deaths were reported in the city, taking the total caseload of Mumbai to 3,04,126 and the total deaths to 11,268. For the past two days the daily discharges have been much ahead of the daily additions. A total of 4,589 people were sent home on Wednesday, taking total discharges in the state to over 18.9 lakh. With this, active Covid-19 cases in the state dipped further to 46,769, of which 6656 were in Mumbai. Civic officials said that of the nine patients who died, seven had comorbidities and six deaths occurred in people above 60 years of age. “The majority of deaths continue to be in the 60-plus bracket,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner. As far as the doubling rate was concerned, it currently stands at 411 days for Mumbai. The city’s recovery rate has touched 94%. Of the positive cases in state, Mumbai circle reported 993 cases and 40 deaths. Within MMR, Thane city reported 126 new positive cases on Wednesday, taking the tally of infected people in the city to 57,645 while one Covid death took the virus toll to 1,287. The recovery rate in Thane was 97%. There were 79 positive cases from within NMMC areas on Wednesday, taking their total Covid count to 52,375. Of these, 96% of the patients have successfully recovered from coronavirus so far. One death was also reported, taking the total toll to 1,077. PCMC areas reported 54 fresh cases on Wednesday, taking the total case tally to 28,414. With no death reported on Wednesday, for the sixth day in a row, the total death toll remained at 619. (Inputs by Vijay Singh and B B Nayak)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/states-covid-deaths-highest-in-6-days/articleshow/80381656.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 21, 2021||Thane||Maharashtra’s Covid deaths highest in 6 days||MUMBAI: After two days of a slight dip in cases, Maharashtra was back to reporting over 3,000 cases. On Wednesday a total of 3,015 cases and 59 fatalities were reported, taking the state’s total Covid-19 caseload to 19,97,992, inching very close to the 20-lakh mark. The total fatalities stood at 50,582 as of Wednesday. The fatalities reported on Wednesday are the highest in six days; in the past five days, the state has been reporting around 50 deaths per day. Cases in Mumbai also reported a slight increase while deaths have remained consistently under 10. A total of 501 Covid-19 cases and 9 deaths were reported in the city, taking the total caseload of Mumbai to 3,04,126 and the total deaths to 11,268. For the past two days the daily discharges have been much ahead of the daily additions. A total of 4,589 people were sent home on Wednesday, taking total discharges in the state to over 18.9 lakh. With this, active Covid-19 cases in the state dipped further to 46,769, of which 6656 were in Mumbai. Civic officials said that of the nine patients who died, seven had comorbidities and six deaths occurred in people above 60 years of age. “The majority of deaths continue to be in the 60-plus bracket,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner. As far as the doubling rate was concerned, it currently stands at 411 days for Mumbai. The city’s recovery rate has touched 94%. Of the positive cases in state, Mumbai circle reported 993 cases and 40 deaths. Within MMR, Thane city reported 126 new positive cases on Wednesday, taking the tally of infected people in the city to 57,645 while one Covid death took the virus toll to 1,287. The recovery rate in Thane was 97%. There were 79 positive cases from within NMMC areas on Wednesday, taking their total Covid count to 52,375. Of these, 96% of the patients have successfully recovered from coronavirus so far. One death was also reported, taking the total toll to 1,077. PCMC areas reported 54 fresh cases on Wednesday, taking the total case tally to 28,414. With no death reported on Wednesday, for the sixth day in a row, the total death toll remained at 619. (Inputs by Vijay Singh and B B Nayak)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/states-covid-deaths-highest-in-6-days/articleshow/80381655.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 21, 2021||Nashik||Corporators seek development funds||Nashik: With the civic administration curtailing funds for several development projects due to a cash crunch, the elected members of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) have started seeking allocation of funds for development works in their respective wards. The civic body elections are likely to be held early next year, and the corporators want to carry out the civic works ahead of the polls. Mayor Satish Kulkarni has written a letter to Nashik municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav, suggesting that the funds earmarked for the two proposed flyovers — to be constructed at a cost of Rs 250 crore — be diverted and the corporators be allowed to use the same for development works in their wards. Kulkarni advised the civic administration to raise funds for the flyovers through bank loans and pursue the state government to get permission in this regard. The mayor also suggested temporarily stopping funds to the Smart City cell and diverting that amount too for ward development. According to Kulkarni, the NMC has provided Rs 200 crore to the Smart City cell so far, but those funds are yet to be spent. “I want the NMC to take back the funds temporarily and use the money for the development of the wards,” he Kulkarni. The NMC has set a revenue generation target of over Rs 1,800 crore for the current financial year. But the revenue of the civic body through various taxes has declined to the pandemic. Jadhav recently made it clear that the NMC’s revenue collection through various taxes will decline by Rs 375 crore this financial year. Jadhav said the revenue remains, after spending on administrative expenses, will be used only for priority works — health, education, water supply and sewage management. He had also talked about his plan to mop up over Rs 100 crore by levying property tax on new buildings in the city in cases where possession has been given, but the properties are still not under the tax net.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/corporators-seek-development-funds/articleshow/80370823.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 21, 2021||Nashik||Give adequate water to Nashik Road division: Mayor||Nashik: In a meeting with the corporators and officials from the water supply department on Wednesday, mayor Satish Kulkarni directed the civic officials to provide adequate water to Nashik Road division, After the corporators from Nashik Road division raised the issue of irregular water supply with contaminated water in the general body meeting of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Tuesday, the mayor called for the meeting. He has directed the officials to provide adequate water to Nashik Road division from Gangapur dam, said Kulkarni At present, Nashik Road division gets water from Chehedi weir of the Darna dam. But now Waldevi river is connected to Chehedi weir. The contaminated water of Waldevi river mixes at a jack well from where NMC lifts water. During the GB meeting last month, the mayor had approved the proposal for laying a separate pipeline to supply water from Gangapur dam to the residents of Nashik Road division. Accordingly, NMC has floated a tender for construction of a pipeline between Gandhinagar Water Treatment Plant (WTP) to Nashik Road WTP in the division so the water from Gangapur dam can be carried to Nashik Road WTP. The estimated cost of the new pipeline project is Rs 19 crore. According to the NMC, the tender process is expected to be completed within two months. Works are expected to begin thereafter. Earlier, the civic body had plans to construct a new jack well on the upper side of the Chehedi weir, but it would cost over Rs 35 crore. The city residents along with the corporators had taken up the issue of clean water supply in Nashik Road division to the mayor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/give-adequate-water-to-nashik-road-division-mayor/articleshow/80370812.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Nashik||38 cellphones worth Rs 5.5L recovered||Nashik: City police recently arrested two people for stealing mobile phones and recovered a total of 38 cellphones worth Rs 5.5 lakh from them. The detection branch of Bhadrakali police got information from their sources about the suspect duo being involved in stealing money and cellphones in different parts of the city. Accordingly, a team was prepared to arrest Shafiq Taufiq Shaikh (35) and Mohammad Amin Ansari. Preliminary probe revealed that the suspects were also involved in several theft and burglary cases across the city. They also used to steal the cellphones in Nashik and sell it in Malegaon. The investigation was carried under the guidance of senior police inspector Sajan Sonawane. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/38-cellphones-worth-rs-5-5l-recovered/articleshow/80370845.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Five months on, MTC patronage yet to touch pre-Covid levels||CHENNAI: Nearly five months after Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) resumed government bus services in Chennai post-lockdown, the daily passenger footfall crossed the 20-lakh mark for the first time on Tuesday. This can be largely attributed to Pongal crowd and reopening of schools for Classes 10 and 12 in the state. The average daily patronage for MTC buses remained around 17 lakh to 18 lakh -- almost half of what was reported before the lockdown. With many offices yet to reopen, ticket sales were much less compared to usual at key stretches like Old Mahabalipuram (OMR) and Mount-Poonamallee Road. At OMR, the number of MTC bus services has dropped from 450 to 250 per day, said a MTC official. Now that local trains too have resumed operation, demand for MTC along arterial roads like Grand Southern Trunk (GST) Road, Avadi High Road and Marina Beach Road too dropped. As a result, MTC has diverted a portion of these buses to suburban areas like Walajabad (route number 579A), Thiruvallur (572) and parts of North Chennai. Not just conventional buses, patronage for small buses too witnessed a decline forcing MTC to operate just 110 to 120 out of the 200 available buses. These buses, which are operated along interior roads to boost last mile connectivity, is causing heavy losses to a corporation which is already facing a financial crisis. According to official data, MTC on an average spends Rs.40 per kilometre to operate a small bus. Of this, not even half is collected back through ticket sales. Passengers on the other hand say that only if timings are regular, MTC can gain their trust and naturally more will start using it. Amid this confusion, share auto drivers in Chennai have taken advantage of the situation and increased their rates from Rs.5-10 per head in areas where MTC has reduced services. T Sadagopan, a transportation activist from Avadi said, “When there is no much noise when MTC increases fares by Rs.2-4, there is literally nothing when it comes to share autos. Why doesn’t the government take any initiative to regularise this mode of public transport?” As far as the cab industry is concerned, drivers in Chennai say that they witnessed a 25% increase in bookings last week. Apart from the fact that it was a festival weekend, there were two muhurthams (days considered auspicious for weddings) last week increasing their daily income to Rs.3,500. Excluding those days, their average daily booking has increased from mere two or three last month to 10-12 bookings now. “Majority of these bookings are in core areas like Anna Nagar, Adyar, Royapuram and railway stations. More importantly, 100-odd business trips happen from Airport to industries in suburbs every day. This has boosted morale of drivers,” said T Ramanujam from Tamil Nadu Call Taxi Drivers Association. EOM/||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/5-months-on-mtc-patronage-yet-to-touch-pre-covid-levels/articleshow/80373685.cms||Ram Sundaram
January 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Mumbai man held with MDMA worth Rs 1 crore||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat Anti-Terrorism Squad arrested a Mumbai resident near Shahibaugh with 1 kg of methamphetamine (MDMA) drug worth Rs 1 crore in the international market. The drug was packed in two packets sealed with adhesive tapes. The accused has been identified as Mohammed Sultan Mohamed Firoze Shaikh, a 30-year-old resident of New Masjid Lane in Jogeshwari, East Mumbai. This is the second time in a week that MDMA has been seized in the city.DSP (ATS) B A Chavda said, “We received a tip-off that a man, with a beard and moustache, wearing blue jeans and a jacket would pass by Mahapragynaji Railway Overbridge in Shahibaugh carrying drugs.”He added, “On Tuesday, a team was dispatched which intercepted a man with the same description on the same day. They checked his bag and found two sealed packets. We found MDMA inside it.”The accused told cops that the drugs had been sent to him through an unknown man by a man named Wasim on January 18. He claimed that Wasim is a khadim at Ajmer Sharif Dargah. “The unidentified man delivered the drugs to Shaikh near Shalimar Hotel in Mumbai, and told him to deliver it to a man who would approach him at a temple located near Musa-Suhag cemetery in Shahibaugh. However the man did not turn up. We have his name and address but are exploring whether to arrest him or not,” added a senior ATS official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mumbai-man-held-with-mdma-worth-rs-1-crore/articleshow/80373768.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Lens on private buses as extra-fare complaints pour in||KOLKATA: The state transport department has asked Kolkata traffic police to write to them about the complaints against private buses not sticking to the fare chart. The move came days after the state human rights commission took cognizance of multiple complaints on exorbitant bus fares demanded by private bus operators. According to the officers at Lalbazar, the questionnaire that reached them earlier this month has been distributed among all the traffic guards for response. “There are complaints about buses that ply on same routes but charge different fares in various parts of the day. For example, a bus that was charging Rs 8 between Exide crossing and Mullickbazar in the morning, charged Rs 10 on the same stretch during the afternoon when there are less commuters. Even the minimum fare that is supposed to be Rs 7 is also being changed,” said a senior police officer. According to police, three key traffic guards handling a maximum number of buses — the headquarters, Howrah and south — have reported 16 specific cases of charging extra fares in the past two months. Besides, the Kolkata Police’s Twitter handle has been flooded with several such complaints. Prasenjit Mohanty, who travels from Shyambazar to Minto Park, said: “The routes 234 and 230 charge Rs 10 for my journey to the office. While returning, they mostly demand Rs 12.” Similarly, those commuting on Route 223 between Golf Green and Park Circus have to pay Rs 10 or Rs 12, depending on the “whims of the conductor”.  The commuters of Route 212 between Kasba and Howrah often pay Rs 14. On certain days, however, they pay only Rs 10 or Rs 12. The conductors of Route 77 are allegedly charging from Rs 16 to Rs 18 for the trip between Birlapur and Esplanade. Pradipnarayan Basu of West Bengal Bus Minibus Owners’ Association said the situation has been beyond the control of bus owners as workers have been desperately trying to make some money after the diesel price touched Rs 77. “The expert committee on fares promised us a revision but met us just once. Even after one of our drivers died of Covid, the government has not made enough efforts to compensate his family. Now, we don’t really know how many buses are hitting the roads on a particular route,” said Tapan Banerjee, general secretary of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lens-on-private-buses-as-extra-fare-plaints-pour-in/articleshow/80373644.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||‘Pedestrians account for 47% Mumbai road deaths, bikers 41%’||MUMBAI: Pedestrians account for 47% of fatalities on Mumbai roads, while bikers comprise 41%, transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne said on Wednesday while announcing “pedestrian safety” as a priority during Road Safety Month. The campaign is being observed from January 18 to February 17 on the theme ‘Sadak Suraksha, Jeevan Raksha’. A total of 90% deaths in the city were among vulnerable road users (pedestrians), motorcyclists and cyclists, Dhakne pointed out. “Pedestrian fatalities decreased by 40% since 2015, although they still make up for the largest group of road victims,” he said. Speed management and pedestrian infrastructure improvements were key to reduce deaths among these road users. Dhakne said, “Pedestrians need to be given priority on the road. The local government must ensure their safety. All pedestrian pathways should be free of encumbrance (like encroachment by hawkers) and people should be encouraged to walk more and use less road transport.” He added, “Today, it is risky to walk on roads, so people take an auto-rickshaw for a 2-3km distance. If there are better footpaths, one can walk that distance, which will lead to better health, less use of vehicles on road, less congestion/pollution and reduction in mishaps involving pedestrians.” He said ‘Pedestrian First’ should be a mission for all including BMC, police, transport department, media and other agencies. Transport department statistics show the risk of pedestrians aged above 60 and getting hit in mishaps was high. The city has 58 accident-prone black spots of 1,324 black spots across Maharashtra. RTO and traffic police (city and highway) will be involved in re-examining black spots and incorporating intervention measures, including minor road alignments, signage and crash barriers. In Mumbai, a survey to find out the number of vehicles accessing busy stretches at any given hour and speeds at 20 locations is being conducted by United Way Mumbai. “We will come out with a final report and solutions soon,” said Ajay Govale, director, Community Impact, UWM. BEST general manager Surendrakumar Bagde issued a diktat few days back to over 22,000 drivers and conductors to ply buses cautiously, as their buses have been involved in maximum mishaps with two-wheeler riders and pedestrians. Bloomberg Philanthropies had chosen Mumbai as one of the 10 cities to be funded for road safety initiatives to improve pedestrian safety and reduce road fatalities. Its report stated that few years back, Mumbai saw the peak period of fatal crashes happen between 8pm-9pm on weekdays. On weekends, mishaps occurred between 2am-3am, but mishaps and fatalities dipped in the past two years due to increased vigilance and enforcement, with nakabandis, especially for drunk-driving late at night. Penalties for drunk-driving were increased to Rs2,000, and with government mulling implementation of Motor Vehicles Amendment Act, the fine could jump to Rs10,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pedestrians-account-for-47-mumbai-road-deaths-bikers-41/articleshow/80426891.cms||Somit Sen
January 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Equity MF AUM grows to Rs 92,335 crore in December||AHMEDABAD: With rising stock market indices and an increase in net asset value, the total assets under management (AUM) for equity-linked mutual funds stood at Rs 92,335 crore in December 2020. The data was released by the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI). Against Rs 87,317 crore in November 2020, AUM grew by 6%. According to financial analysts, while the net asset value (NAV) of investments went up in December, fresh inflows too remained strong, especially through Systematic Investment Plans (SIPs). “Stock market indices were up in December and as a result, the NAV of existing investments went up,” said a city-based financial analyst. In December, Sensex and Nifty were up by 8.2% and 7.8%, respectively. Experts also said that a few investors have shifted their investments to equity-linked MFIs from other asset classes. Explaining this, Jayesh Vithalani, a financial consultant, said: “Some domestic as well as HNI investors have moved towards equity markets anticipating better returns.” Largely, however, analysts indicated that there is a flight to safe havens. Therefore, investors are moving towards debt funds, amid the growing uncertainty over the current rally in the equity markets, especially in the run-up to the Union Budget. In Gujarat, there was a 3.3% growth in AUM for debt-oriented funds, from Rs 72,535 crore to Rs 74,597 crore in December. Gujarat is now the third largest in terms of total AUM for mutual fund investments, according to AMFI, behind Maharashtra and New Delhi. In fact, the total AUM across all categories in Gujarat crossed the Rs 2 lakh crore mark in November to settle at Rs 2.02 lakh crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/equity-mf-aum-grows-to-rs-92335-crore-in-december/articleshow/80373762.cms||Niyati Parikh
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Maha govt depts can open salary accounts with pvt banks||Mumbai: State government departments will be allowed to open salary accounts for government employees in private banks. The decision came more than a year after a political storm over transfer of salary accounts of police personnel to Axis Bank, where the wife of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis worked as vice-president and head of western region. National Congress Party minister and spokesperson Nawab Malik had objected at the time to the transfer of accounts from State Bank of India, a nationalised bank, to the private bank. In July last year, when its contract ended, Mumbai Police shifted accounts to HDFC Bank. Thane Municipal Corporation followed suit. “I had raised the issue of a bank being favoured as the then first lady of the state was associated with it. Today, the cabinet decided that it would be for all private banks,” said Malik. The cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal allowing departments to enter into contracts with an approved private bank to open salary accounts, and avail of direct benefit transfer facility, for which banks cannot charge a fee. Besides salary and Dearness Allowance, no deposits will be allowed to be kept with the private banks. Pensioners can open pension accounts in approved private banks too. The banks will have to submit proposals to the government by February 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-govt-depts-can-open-salary-accounts-with-pvt-banks/articleshow/80373862.cms||Clara Lewis
January 21, 2021||Nagpur||‘Giving panchayats power to kill wild animals will need amendment of law’||Nagpur: The decision of the standing committee of National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) to empower gram panchayats under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 to deal with problem wild animals listed in Schedule II, III & IV of the Act has not gone down well with experts. In its 60th meeting, while approving the human-animal conflict guidelines, the NBWL empowered gram panchayats to deal with wild animals like dhole, rattle, common langur, rhesus monkey, boar, sambar, barking deer, chital, hyena, hare, porcupine, nilgai, and others, if they become problematic. Leading tiger expert and conservation zoologist K Ullas Karanth said, “The wildlife board is only an advisory body to MoEFCC. The term “deal with” is not a clear legal definition. I think this will require amendments to the law.” “Secondly, gram panchayats will need to hire technically trained biologists and veterinarians in some cases involving human-wildlife conflicts. I am not sure this is a practical proposition overall,” said Karanth. Praveen Bhargav, managing trustee of Wildlife First, who was a member of the NBWL from 2007-10, said, “The decision to empower gram panchayats may not be in consonance with the law. This is because the specific section deals with permission to hunt wild animals in certain cases.” Bhargav added, “The law grants exclusive powers to the chief wildlife warden to permit hunting of Schedule-I animal if it has become dangerous to human life, after recording reasons in writing. Another subsection empowers authorized officers as well to do the same with regard to wild animals in other schedules of the WPA.” “Prima facie, it appears there is no provision to empower gram panchayats to grant permission to hunt wild animals. Apart from questions on this legality, such a poorly designed solution may be hugely problematic and cause serious problems on the ground and susceptible to abuse,” said Bhargav. Wildlife conservationist Prafulla Bhamburkar said, “This is an attempt to dilute Wildlife Protection Act. . The NBWL is a statutory body constituted under the act primarily for the promotion of wildlife conservation and protection of forest, and not to amend laws. For granting any such powers to gram panchayats, government will have to amend the act.” Former honorary wildlife warden of Gadchiroli Uday Patel says, “It is an attempt to reduce the importance of wildlife. Such a decision will encourage poachers, industrialists, and mining lobbies as well as local encroachers who are eyeing forest land and wildlife habitat. The decision will be misused.” Sociologist Anil Kumar Nair said, “The right decision remains with the chief wildlife warden. I think instead of having individual requests, the NBWL must have authorized gram panchayats to take a collective decision pertaining to the problem in their area. We should wait for the minutes and further orders from the government to see what exactly it wants to say.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/giving-panchayats-power-to-kill-wild-animals-will-need-amendment-of-law/articleshow/80373738.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||Gajendra Singh Shaktawat, Congress MLA from Vallabhnagar, passes away at 48||JAIPUR: Congress legislator from Udaipur’s Vallabhnagar constituency Gajendra Singh Shaktawat, 48, died of prolonged illness on Wednesday. He was undergoing treatment at a hospital in New Delhi for the past 15 days and breathed his last at 5am, according to family sources. His cremation will be held at 11am on Thursday at his native village Bhinder in Udaipur district. He is survived by wife, a son and two daughters. He is the fourth MLA from Rajasthan and third from the ruling Congress to have died in the last six months. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot expressed condolences at the untimely demise of the legislator. Gehlot tweeted he had been in touch with Shaktawat’s family and the doctor treating the MLA for the past fortnight. Gehlot also cancelled a Cabinet meeting scheduled on Wednesday. Pilot in an emotional tribute to the departed leader said it is not only a big loss for the Congress, but a loss at the personal level. “I am deeply saddened by the devastating news of the passing away of my colleague & MLA Shri Gajendra Singh Shaktawat ji,” Pilot said on Twitter. “He was a humble and a kind soul, always dedicated towards the development of his constituency. My heartfelt condolences to his family,” Pilot further said in his tweet. Shaktawat had recovered from Covid-19, but had developed infection in liver and lungs, family sources said. The two-time MLA was son of Congress stalwart from Mewar and former state minister Gulab Singh Shaktawat. He served as parliamentary secretary in the previous Gehlot government (2008-13). Shaktawat was among the 19 Congress MLAs, along with Pilot, who rebelled against Gehlot’s leadership in July last year. Shaktawat is the fourth legislator of the current Rajasthan assembly to have died of illness in past six months. Before him, two Congress MLAs Bhanwar Lal Meghwal and Kailash Chandra Trivedi and BJP MLA Kiran Maheshwari died while undergoing treatment. Both Trivedi and Maheshwari died of Covid complications. Bypolls will have to be held for Sahada, Sujangarh, Rajsamand, and Vallabhnagar. Currently, there are 196 MLAs in the 200-member Rajasthan assembly. The Congress has 104 MLAs, BJP 71, Communist Party of India-Marxist 2, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party 3, Bharatiya Tribal Party 2, Rashtriya Lok Dal 1, and Independents 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shaktawat-cong-mla-from-vallabhnagarpasses-away-at-48/articleshow/80375173.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Kolkata||Fewer Kolkata Metro trains to ply on Republic Day||KOLKATA: There will be fewer Metro trains on Republic Day that falls on a weekday. On coming Tuesday, there will be 118 services — just for one day. With no office-goers that day, trains will ply at 15 minutes’ intervals and there will be no peak-hour schedule. A Metro spokesperson said, “On Republic Day, the first service will start from Dum Dum and Kavi Subhash at 7am and from Noapara at 7.09am as usual.” The last train will leave Kavi Subhash and Dum Dum at 9.30pm and from Noapara at 9.25pm as usual. Only smart cards will be used and no tokens will be issued. E-passes are a thing of the past as Metro withdrew the norm from this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fewer-metro-trains-to-ply-on-republic-day/articleshow/80373723.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Nashik||Woman found murdered in Mhasrool||Nashik: A 23-year-old woman was found dead — with injuries caused by sharp weapons on her neck, chin, forehead and stomach — in the Mhasrool area of the city on Tuesday late night.The deceased, identified as Puja Vinod Akhade, was a resident of the More Mala area in Makhmalabad.Pandharinath Dhokane, the senior police inspector of the Mhasrool police station, said the woman had left her house at 8.30 pm. When she did not return, her husband started looking for her. Meanwhile, some passersby found a body on an untarred road near the Pawar Mala around 11.50 pm, after which the police was informed. As the word about the murder spread, the victim’s husband also got to know of it and approached the police.Vinod Akhade, the victim’s husband, has a paan stall. The couple also has a child. Mhasrool police are interrogating the family members of the deceased to get leads on the case. The culprit(s) will soon be arrested, added the PI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woman-found-murdered-in-mhasrool/articleshow/80370861.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 21, 2021||Jodhpur||Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat slams Rahul for ‘misleading farmers’||JAISALMER: In a scathing attack against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Wednesday said the Congress leader, who can’t tell the difference between a goat and a sheep, has issued a booklet criticising the three laws on agriculture. Shekhawat said the government is not on backfoot over the laws and is continuously talking to farmers and persuading them. They will soon arrive at some solution. He said the BJP will win over 200 seats in West Bengal and will form the government. He was on a visit to Jaisalmer. He further said that the agriculture policy of the country is based on the Swaminathan report. “There are many parties which are on the verge of extinction and some might vanish in the forthcoming elections. All such parties have ganged up and are spreading lies, misleading the farmers. There are over one lakh farmer families in Jaisalmer district, but no one is agitating,” he said. On West Bengal elections, he said, “Corruption has been institutionalised in that state under Mamata’s rule. People of that state will not tolerate injustice anymore and they have made up their minds to elect BJP. Lotus will bloom with over 200 seats and a new sun will rise in the East.” On the success of vaccines, he said many people tried to spread rumours about the vaccination drive to reap political benefit out of it, but it is a matter of pride that India is among the first four countries that made the vaccines and rolled out the vaccination drive. With regard to the pathetic condition of Indira Gandhi Canal, Shekhawat said funds are being provided by the central government for improvement and repairing of all canals in the country. The state government should work with some seriousness in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/shekhawat-slams-rahul-for-misleading-farmers/articleshow/80378459.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Udaipur||Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat slams Rahul for ‘misleading farmers’||JAISALMER: In a scathing attack against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Wednesday said the Congress leader, who can’t tell the difference between a goat and a sheep, has issued a booklet criticising the three laws on agriculture. Shekhawat said the government is not on backfoot over the laws and is continuously talking to farmers and persuading them. They will soon arrive at some solution. He said the BJP will win over 200 seats in West Bengal and will form the government. He was on a visit to Jaisalmer. He further said that the agriculture policy of the country is based on the Swaminathan report. “There are many parties which are on the verge of extinction and some might vanish in the forthcoming elections. All such parties have ganged up and are spreading lies, misleading the farmers. There are over one lakh farmer families in Jaisalmer district, but no one is agitating,” he said. On West Bengal elections, he said, “Corruption has been institutionalised in that state under Mamata’s rule. People of that state will not tolerate injustice anymore and they have made up their minds to elect BJP. Lotus will bloom with over 200 seats and a new sun will rise in the East.” On the success of vaccines, he said many people tried to spread rumours about the vaccination drive to reap political benefit out of it, but it is a matter of pride that India is among the first four countries that made the vaccines and rolled out the vaccination drive. With regard to the pathetic condition of Indira Gandhi Canal, Shekhawat said funds are being provided by the central government for improvement and repairing of all canals in the country. The state government should work with some seriousness in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/shekhawat-slams-rahul-for-misleading-farmers/articleshow/80378461.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Ajmer||Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat slams Rahul for ‘misleading farmers’||JAISALMER: In a scathing attack against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Wednesday said the Congress leader, who can’t tell the difference between a goat and a sheep, has issued a booklet criticising the three laws on agriculture. Shekhawat said the government is not on backfoot over the laws and is continuously talking to farmers and persuading them. They will soon arrive at some solution. He said the BJP will win over 200 seats in West Bengal and will form the government. He was on a visit to Jaisalmer. He further said that the agriculture policy of the country is based on the Swaminathan report. “There are many parties which are on the verge of extinction and some might vanish in the forthcoming elections. All such parties have ganged up and are spreading lies, misleading the farmers. There are over one lakh farmer families in Jaisalmer district, but no one is agitating,” he said. On West Bengal elections, he said, “Corruption has been institutionalised in that state under Mamata’s rule. People of that state will not tolerate injustice anymore and they have made up their minds to elect BJP. Lotus will bloom with over 200 seats and a new sun will rise in the East.” On the success of vaccines, he said many people tried to spread rumours about the vaccination drive to reap political benefit out of it, but it is a matter of pride that India is among the first four countries that made the vaccines and rolled out the vaccination drive. With regard to the pathetic condition of Indira Gandhi Canal, Shekhawat said funds are being provided by the central government for improvement and repairing of all canals in the country. The state government should work with some seriousness in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/shekhawat-slams-rahul-for-misleading-farmers/articleshow/80378462.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat slams Rahul for ‘misleading farmers’||JAISALMER: In a scathing attack against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Wednesday said the Congress leader, who can’t tell the difference between a goat and a sheep, has issued a booklet criticising the three laws on agriculture. Shekhawat said the government is not on backfoot over the laws and is continuously talking to farmers and persuading them. They will soon arrive at some solution. He said the BJP will win over 200 seats in West Bengal and will form the government. He was on a visit to Jaisalmer. He further said that the agriculture policy of the country is based on the Swaminathan report. “There are many parties which are on the verge of extinction and some might vanish in the forthcoming elections. All such parties have ganged up and are spreading lies, misleading the farmers. There are over one lakh farmer families in Jaisalmer district, but no one is agitating,” he said. On West Bengal elections, he said, “Corruption has been institutionalised in that state under Mamata’s rule. People of that state will not tolerate injustice anymore and they have made up their minds to elect BJP. Lotus will bloom with over 200 seats and a new sun will rise in the East.” On the success of vaccines, he said many people tried to spread rumours about the vaccination drive to reap political benefit out of it, but it is a matter of pride that India is among the first four countries that made the vaccines and rolled out the vaccination drive. With regard to the pathetic condition of Indira Gandhi Canal, Shekhawat said funds are being provided by the central government for improvement and repairing of all canals in the country. The state government should work with some seriousness in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shekhawat-slams-rahul-for-misleading-farmers/articleshow/80375167.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: No last-mile connectivity for metro users||CHENNAI: The opening of workplaces and resumption of domestic flight services have boosted patronage of metro rail and suburban trains since services resumed after shutdown rules were relaxed. However, last-mile connectivity remains unresolved.. Metro services resumed in September while suburban train services, which began as workmen specials for railway staff, were gradually opened to more categories of people in the past few months. According to metro rail, from 14,798 average daily patronage in September, the numbers have increased to around 54,000 in January though the footfall is still only 45% of the pre-Covid daily average of 1.16 lakh. An official said the opening of educational institutions has not increased the footfalls. “School and college students formed a very small number of our regular commuters. Most of them are office-goers and passengers heading to or from airport or railway stations,” the official said. To improve patronage, metro rail introduced facilities like smartcard readers and QR-code tickets to enable contactless travel for passengers to feel safe. Despite the new facilities, the patronage is yet to reach pre-Covid levels. One of the reasons is the absence of a uniform first and last-mile connectivity. Metro rail discontinued the previously operated share-auto and share cab services due to poor patronage. They also floated tenders twice to set up a cab service across all stations for last-mile connectivity, but there have been no takers. The patronage of suburban trains has increased during peak hours as women and children including college and school students are allowed to use the trains. Only 2.35 lakh commuters are using suburban trains per day and 15,000 people use MRTS though the number of services have touched the pre-Covid-19 level. The patronage is yet to reach 11 lakh a day because of restrictions in allowing people during peak hours. Railways operates 660 suburban services and 80 MRTS services a day. On Sundays, 410 trains are being operated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-last-mile-connectivity-for-metro-users/articleshow/80373720.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||Development officer among 4 arrested for taking bribe||KOTA: A sleuth of ACB Jhalawar on Wednesday arrested a village development officer (VDO) from his house in Ramganjmandi town of Kota district and three touts with him, for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 18,000. The accused VDO had demanded bribe of Rs 54,000 from a ward councillor of Suket gram panchayat for issuing 12 land deed papers (patta) and had already taken first instalment of Rs 36,000. Village development officer, posted in gram panchayat Suket, identified as Mahipal Singh (56), a resident of Ramganjmandi town of Kota district was on Wednesday arrested after he had accepted bribe of Rs 18,000 at his residence, additional superintendent of police, ACB, Jhalawar, Bhawani Shankar Meena said. Three touts with the accused VDO, identified as Mohammad Rafsanjani (24), Abdul Islam (61) and Waquar Ahmad (34), all residents of Suket town, were also arrested, he added. Sensing the presence of ACB personnel, the accused VDO tried fleeing away with the bribe amount in a car with the three touts outside his house. However, the ACB team soon rounded up the four accused and recovered the bribe amount from their possession, the ASP said. He added that the accused VDO handed over the bribe amount to tout Rafsanjani, then it moved to the other two in the car, in an attempt to ditch the ACB. The accused VDO had demanded the bribe for issuing 12 land deeds papers from ward number 5 councillor of gram panchayat Suket Sanjubai, wife of Satyanarayan Yogi. The husband of the ward councillor approached ACB on Tuesday and lodged complaint against the VDO, following which the ACB carried out verification of the complaint and laid the trap on Wednesday noon, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/development-officer-among-4-arrested-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/80375186.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Thaltej school reopens for Classes 9, 11||Ahmedabad: An English-medium school in Thaltej seems to have invited trouble by flouting the state government’s directives and conducting classroom examinations for Classes 9 and 11, in person, at the school. The district education officer (DEO) for Ahmedabad (rural) R R Vyas said he had got complaints from parents about a school reopening for classroom studies and flouting government ban. “We are investigating the matter and two officials Will visit the school to find out the exact details,” said Vyas. Some parents complained to Vyas that the school reopened for their wards and internal exams were being conducted at the school. According to the the state government directive, all schools in the state have re-opened from January 11 only on Classes 10 and 12. For other classes, schools are closed till further directions from the government. The government has said online education will continue for other classes. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/thaltej-school-reopens-for-classes-9-11/articleshow/80373772.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||Defence ministry nod for rly overbridge in Jodhpur||Jodhpur: After two years, the defence ministry has cleared an important railway overbridge here. For the project, the ministry has agreed to provide 18,425 square metre of defence land to the Jodhpur Development Authority (JDA) on licence basis. It is first of its kind a case where the defence ministry has provided its land to the civil authorities as a positive gesture of its contribution in civil development by expediting the process of addressing hurdles. Defence estate officer of Jodhpur Circle Abhinav Singh said that considering the importance of the project for the city and railways as well, it has been agreed to provide this land to the JDA at a meagre rate of Rs 1/- per square metre per annum as licence fee. He said that the JDA would have to ensure all the safety and security measures through construction, completion and maintenance of the bridge and would have to permit the defence officers or representatives to visit the site at any time to review the security concerns of the adjoining defence area. “Also the construction authority would be bound to build a two metre high wall to restrict the view in defence area from the bridge, install CCTVs and lights with their controlling and display units established under defence control and make a no-traffic-stoppage zone on the bridge,” Singh said. Construction of this H-shape bridge across the railway track had begun in July 2018 and stopped in March 2019 following objection by defence ministry as the side falling on Jodhpur-Jaipur highway had fallen on defence land. The project had been undertaken at the cost of Rs 71 crore considering huge pressure on railway crossing at Kalvi Peao leading to constant traffic jams and endeavours of the railways to enhance the efficiency of its services by eradication of unmanned level crossings. An official from JDA said that an MoU would soon be signed on this agreement and work would soon begin with a view to complete the work by next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/defence-ministry-nod-for-rly-overbridge-in-jodhpur/articleshow/80375185.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra governor tells Mumbai University vice-chancellor to engage services of Union government firm||MUMBAI: Maharashtra governor’s office has written to Mumbai University vice-chancellor to engage advisory services of India Infrastructure Finance Co Ltd (IIFCL), a central government-owned organisation, for campus development projects. The proposal has been opposed by some university management council members at a recent meeting. The matter has been deferred to the next meeting. The university entered into an MoU with MMRDA for campus redevelopment in lieu of land. If a central government advisory agency is involved as an advisory body at this stage for campus projects, it will lead to a convoluted agreement between three parties, members claimed. The university administration did not clarify details about the role of the company at the meeting, they said. Members said that if an external agency is engaged and if cost is involved, it cannot be done without floating a tender. The university has its own expertise and there is no need to seek external advice, the members said. The letter by chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s office to vice-chancellor Suhas Pednekar had the subject: ‘Regarding guidance and direction for engaging services of IIFCL Projects Ltd for various projects of Mumbai University’. The letter said, “...it is conveyed that the Hon’ble Chancellor has directed that IIFCL Projects Ltd (IPL) being a wholly-owned Government of India undertaking can be engaged for rendering advisory services on nomination basis, keeping in view its specialised expertise in infrastructure projects. The Hon'ble Chancellor has also made an observation that IIFCL is already engaged in advisory capacity by several Government of India/state government entities and should enable the university to expedite its various projects”. It requested the university to keep the chancellor posted about the progress. A management council member said, “The governor may have recommended the central agency in good faith, but we are not sure if the university administration has briefed him well about the issue. There has been a delay in starting the revamp project, but we do not know if the university has been following it up well with MMRDA. If a central government agency is getting involved, the university will have to sign a tripartite agreement. There will be a question of jurisdiction too. It looks very complicated with little clarity from the university administration.” Another council member, Pradeep Sawant, said even if it is a government-owned company, no one can be engaged without floating a tender. “There will be some kind of consultation fee involved for hiring an advisory body. When we have experts, why should we engage an external firm? We are not sure if the chancellor can directly ask the university to engage a firm. It should ideally come through the state government,” said Sawant. While Mumbai University authorities claimed the matter is yet to be discussed in detail at the management council meeting, sources said IIFCL is a premier infrastructure financing institution in the country, which is a wholly owned Government of India enterprise. “It is a project advisory company in the areas of project appraisal, which caters to the demand for advisory services to green field and brown filed projects across the spectrum of infra sector in several states and central government. It is handling projects with a capital cost valuing up to Rs 1 lakh crore,” said the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-governor-tells-mu-vice-chancellor-to-engage-services-of-union-govt-firm/articleshow/80373863.cms||Yogita Rao
January 21, 2021||India||Eye on tractor rally, farmers prepare to start for Delhi||BATHINDA/JAIPUR: In their second meeting in two days with police officials, farmer organisations on Wednesday reiterated that they would take out a tractor parade in Delhi on Republic Day, even as farmers in Punjab, western UP and Uttarakhand began preparing to reach Delhi. They made it clear that the parade will be carried out inside Delhi in a peaceful manner and rejected the proposal of the police of taking out parade outside Delhi. Earlier in the day, a Supreme Court bench had declined to intervene and asked Delhi police to deal with the issue. “The police insisted that it is a day of national pride, but we pointed out that the tractor parade will not lower the prestige of the country,” said farm leader Jagmohan Singh. Tractor marches were taken out at various places across Punjab on Wednesday, to mobilise and prepare farmers for the proposed tractor parade in Delhi. Meanwhile, farmers in Rajasthan are preparing themselves too as they plan to engage around 500 tractors from the state in the rally. Farmers of Agra region in western UP too have begun preparations to participate in the tractor parade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/eye-on-tractor-rally-farmers-prepare-to-start-for-delhi/articleshow/80376809.cms||Neel Kamal
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||‘Order is a violation of Disability Rights Act, 2016’||Jaipur: The office of the commissioner for specially-abled persons, based on the application by Hemant Goyal of Divyang Adhikar Mahasangh, has written to the director of secondary education objecting to its proposal to conduct counselling of only those persons with disability (PwD) candidates who are more than 70 per cent disabled for the posting of school lecturers in the districts. The disability court pointed out that the department’s order was a violation of the provisions under Disability Rights Act, 2016. “Our objection was that it had allowed PWDs with more than 70% disability for counselling. As per the Act, those with more than 40 per cent disability should be allowed for counselling,” said Goyal. Earlier, the court had written to the state’s law department to give priority to persons with disabilities (PwDs) in the notary public appointments, in 2,000 posts, made by the state government. According to the provisions of notary rules, a maximum of 1,500 notary public appointments can be made in Rajasthan by the central government and appointments in 2,000 notary public posts can be done at the level of the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/order-is-a-violation-of-disability-rights-act-2016/articleshow/80375204.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 21, 2021||Pune||Car driver attacks traffic cop, booked||Pune: The Mundhwa police on Tuesday night booked a car driver on the charge of abusing and attacking a sub-inspector from the traffic branch for taking action against the former’s private luxury bus at Mundhwa-Keshavnagar Chowk around 10am. Sub-inspector Prakash Daundkar and his team from Mundhwa traffic police were manning traffic at the busy chowk when they spotted a speeding bus heading in the direction of Hadapsar. Daundkar (58) told TOI, “We signalled the bus to stop, but its driver tried to hit a constable and fled. We then chased and intercepted the bus and told the driver to park the vehicle at the side. He parked it in the middle of the road and obstructed traffic.” “He called his employer, who reached there in a car and picked up a dispute with me. I told him the driver was told to proceed to his destination after action was taken against him under the Motor Vehicles Act,” he said. Daundkar said he politely explained the matter, but the car owner hurled abuses and attacked him. He abandoned the car and fled. “I alerted the Mundhwa police and a police team reached the spot, seized the bus and fixed a jammer on the car. But the car owner later broke the jammer and sped away with the vehicle,” he said.“The driver later called me and apologized. He also exerted pressure to not take legal action against him. I later decided to register an FIR under relevant sections of the IPC,” he added. Mundhwa police’s sub-inspector Shivaji Kate, who is investigating the case, said, “We visited the car driver‘s residence at Shewalwadi in Hadapsar to arrest him, but he was not there. We will arrest and file a chargesheet against him soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/car-driver-attacks-traffic-cop-booked/articleshow/80375203.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 21, 2021||Goa||Goa: How many got the Covid jab? DHS can’t add up the numbers||PANAJI: Confusion continued to reign regarding the number of persons who received the Covid-19 vaccine last Saturday. Even as TOI reported that 444 healthcare workers received the jab, the directorate of health services maintains that only 426 were vaccinated. The DHS’s figure does not account for the additional HCWs who got the jab at Hospicio hospital’s vaccination centre on Saturday evening. This, despite efforts by hospital staff who made dozens of calls and worked overtime to convince their colleagues to get vaccinated. ‘Hospital was motivated, wanted to give everyone opportunityAt the end of the day, 83 healthcare workers, including 52 doctors, turned up, the highest among government hospitals. DHS acknowledged only 65 of these. The department, however, was quick to update the figures of a private hospital whose staff were vaccinated after 5pm. “The hospital was motivated and wanted to give everyone an opportunity to get vaccinated,” said a senior official overseeing the vaccination drive. “So they worked at it and made dozens of calls from their private phones and waited till late till some of their colleagues finished their shifts and came to get vaccinated. It’s not easy to mobilise government staff on a Saturday evening, but they persisted.” The official also said that all details of those vaccinated were fed into the app, contrary to the excuse given by the directorate — “the institution didn’t feed in the data”. Director of health services Dr Jose D’Sa also continued to maintain that only 426 beneficiaries received the vaccine, and added that he would check whether those vaccinated later would be added to the tally. The directorate in the past too has not corrected its Covid death statistics, maintaining that the death of a 12-year-old with cancer on September 18, 2020, was not due to Covid. Goa Medical College (GMC), Bambolim, however, stated that it was primarily a case of leukaemia with intracranial bleeding, and the Covid infection was an incidental finding. GMC had mentioned the death in its Covid mortality bulletin on September 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/how-many-got-the-covid-jab-dhs-cant-add-up-the-numbers/articleshow/80375205.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Goa||Goa cabinet approves severe dilution of Lokayukta powers||PANAJI: Stung by several indictments by the Lokayukta in cases involving corruption by public functionaries, the state cabinet on Wednesday approved several amendments to severely dilute the powers of the institution. The proposed amendments will omit provisions enabling complaints against public functionaries on allegations of nepotism, lack of integrity, maladministration, and improper or corrupt motive. While the Lokayukta was earlier empowered to conduct detailed investigations after forwarding a copy of the complaint to the public functionary and competent authority, the proposed amendment states that prior sanction shall be obtained before the initiation of such investigation, in cases where the law provides for prior sanction. The cabinet, shielding itself, also proposed to drop a section that states that chief minister and other ministers may resign from office after a declaration from the Lokayukta for vacation of office is accepted or deemed to be accepted by the competent authority. The cabinet, however, retained the provision of filing complaint on the basis of corruption and favouritism and personal interest. The bill will be introduced in the assembly session next week. The cabinet also relaxed the criteria for appointment of Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayukta. Now, any person who has been judge of the Supreme Court or high court can be made Lokayukta, while the Upa-Lokayukta could be any person of eminence in public life. The Upa-Lokayukta must be one of “impeccable integrity and outstanding ability having special knowledge and expertise of not less than twenty years in matters relating to anti-corruption policy or public administration, finance, including insurance and banking or law management.” TOI was the first to report that the state government would amend the Act to make it possible for retired high court judges to be appointed Lokayukta. The existing law provided for the appointment of only a former Supreme Court judge or a high court chief justice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabinet-nod-to-sharp-dilution-of-lokayukta-powers/articleshow/80375188.cms||Murari Shetye
January 21, 2021||Indore||50 women take up driving challenge for better future||Indore: Driven by financial needs or looking for fresh career options, 50 women from across the state started their journey of becoming professional drivers on Monday. The transport department is organising special month-long professional driving training for women at ITC ground, Indore. One of the participants – Kusumlata, a 28-year-old single mother, wants to start her own taxi or autorickshaw services to give her daughter a better future. Her husband died a couple of years ago after a prolonged illness. “My elder brother told me about this drivers’ training programme, and assured me of taking care of my daughter till I complete this training and go back to my hometown and start driving a taxi or an electric vehicle,” said Kusumlata, who came from Shivpuri to attend the training. This training session which started from Friday is aimed at teaching professional driving skills to 50 women selected in the first batch. After this month-long training, the aspirants will also get a commercial driving licence in light motor vehicle category, and they will also get financial assistance in buying a vehicle. Other participants also have their own struggles. While some lost their jobs during the pandemic, others have no option due to financial constraints. Another participant - Mamta Pal, a former Karate player, has decided to start a taxi service. “I had to quit practicing after an accident. I don’t have any choice, but to learn something new to earn money,” said Pal. Sapna Chouhan, another aspirant who owns a taxi and runs it with the help of a driver, wants to start driving it on her own to set an example for others. “I will get a licence and start driving my taxi,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/50-women-take-up-driving-challenge-for-better-future/articleshow/80366360.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Pune||MahaMetro expedites work of foot overbridge link to station||PUNE: The MahaMetro has expedited the work of entry-exit points of a foot overbridge coming up in the Deccan Gymkhana area to enable commuters reach the Metro station on the banks of Mutha river at Pulachi Wadi. There will be three entry-exit points on JM Road for commuters to enter the foot overbridge (Fob), which will directly take them to the concourse level of the station. The civil work at two locations of the entry-exit points has been started. An official from the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) said, “One entry point will be near the PMPML bus stop at Deccan Gymkhana. There will be an escalator and staircase. The Fob will take a turn towards the river and converge at the concourse level of the Metro station. Similarly, another entry point will come up near the entrance of the Z-bridge. This entry point will have access from both sides of the road. The Fob will land at the concourse level of the station. The work of the third point will begin after getting the required land.” The MahaMetro said the FoBs would help reduce the congestion on the road and provide seamless access to commuters to the Metro station. Hemant Sonawane, general manager (public relations), MahaMetro, said, “We are planning to provide easy access to the Metro stations. There will be adequate entry-exit points for commuters at every station. There is a plan to provide escalators and staircases as per the requirement. Some FoBs will have entries from both sides of the road so that commuters do not have to negotiate the traffic.” Besides Deccan Gymkhana, another Metro station will come up near Sambhaji Garden. It will also have three entry-exits from JM Road.  Their locations have been identified and the work has started. The MahaMetro is also planning to extend the Fob up to the Fergusson College (FC) Road and Goodluck Chowk to help commuters reach the Metro station easily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mahametro-expedites-work-of-foot-overbridge-link-to-stn/articleshow/80375192.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||Geo tagging of over 40k houses done in two seats||JAIPUR: The state’s election department, on the instructions of the Election Commission of India (ECI), has piloted an initiative in two assembly constituencies of the state - Ramgarh and Alwar - through which it has geo-tagged over 40,000 houses with the nearby polling stations in order to make rationalisation of polling stations easier. In the process, every voter, living in these houses, has been geo-tagged. “The idea is to make rationalization of polling stations easier with respect to the number of voters present in each of them,” said chief electoral officer (CEO) of Rajasthan Praveen Gupta. Currently, the maximum voters’ limit in each polling station is 1,500. This component will be added to the ECI’s ‘Garuda app’ once it gets approved by the ECI. “At present, the rationalization of polling stations is done physically by the booth level officers (BLOs). Geo-tagging will help as a tool to make rationalization of polling stations easier, which means allotting voters new polling booths with respect to increase in the numbers of voters in a polling booth or dividing an area into two polling booths. Our basic idea is to promote e-facilities,” said Gupta. “The pilot has been completed (in Rajasthan) and submitted to ECI. They will take a decision on this. We had started it on November 15 and it took us two months to tag every house,” he added. Gupta further said, “We are going to launch e-EPIC facility for the voters on National Voters’ Day (January 25). Currently, we have mobile numbers of around 70 lakh voters, whose e-EPICs can be generated immediately. One can register his/her mobile number through KYC to generate one’s e-EPIC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/geo-tagging-of-over-40k-houses-done-in-two-seats/articleshow/80375202.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Models out of work forced into sex trade, three held||MUMBAI: A “high-profile” prostitution racket operating in Juhu has been busted with the arrest three pimps and the rescue of eight women, some of them models. Two pimps are still at large, said crime branch officials.  Crime Intelligence Unit led by assistant inspector Sachin Waze and his team had got information of the racket through a website and on WhatsApp. The accused persons would send pictures of women with rates of services. The arrested pimps were identified as Sandeep Ingole (38), Tanya Sharma (31) and Hanufa Sardar alias Taniya (26) while two — Himesh and Ashish — are at large. Cops posed as clients and it was decided that nine girls would be sent. The cops told the pimps they had booked nine rooms at a five star hotel in Juhu. “On Tuesday evening, the pimps were arrested when they came to take money,” said an officer. The women said a big chunk of the money was kept by the pimps. The women were out of work in the lockdown and were were forced into prostitution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/models-out-of-work-forced-into-sex-trade-3-pimps-held/articleshow/80376109.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||NAACH MERI BULL-BULL||Mumbai: On a good day on Dalal Street—which houses the headquarters of BSE, Asia’s oldest stock exchange —one can hear talk of ‘teji’ in the market, indicating a bullish session. On bearish days, the dominant term is ‘mandi’. Then there are those days when even seasoned players can’t fathom the market’s trajectory and turn philosophical, saying ‘Bhav Bhagwan Chhe’ (price is god). Lately, more traders have been looking skyward as the sensex, the 30-share pack that is the most popular gauge of market sentiment in India, has gone on a record-setting spree. From a multi-year low of 25,639 points on March 24 last year, the sensex crossed the 50K mark to a lifetime high at 50,181 points on Thursday. That’s a double vault in only 10 months. By a remarkable coincidence, the landmark was achieved on the 21st day of the 21st year of the 21st century. It’s not that the sensex is new to milestones in its 41-year journey (the base year is taken as April 1, 1979) but the fact that this ‘fast fifty’ came despite a pandemic, one of the world’s strictest lockdowns, weak industrial production numbers, sliding exports and selling by most domestic institutions is what makes it thrilling or alarming, depending on what kind of investor you are. Thanks to its 10-month rally, investors’ wealth, measured by BSE’s market capitalisation, has been breaking the ceiling regularly and is currently within touching distance of Rs 200 lakh crore or about $2.7 trillion, according to exchange data. Nifty on the NSE, which is actually ahead of BSE in terms of volume and turnover, has been following a similar trajectory. “If it (the stock market) runs at this speed, in a couple of years we will be a $5 trillion stock market, even if we lag in becoming a $5 trillion economy by quite a distance,” a trader said, in a reference to PM Narendra Modi’s statement in mid-2019 that India would be a $5 trillion economy by 2024. The current market cap also makes India one of a handful of countries to have a market cap to GDP ratio of almost 1:1. Unfortunately, that ratio is also one of the popular indicators of a highly unsustainable stock market, a theory first propagated by billionaire investor Warren Buffet and followed by many others to decide whether to buy or sell a market. On the valuations front too, the sensex is at an all-time high price-to-earnings ratio of 34.4, compared to its 10-year average of 21.8. This ratio in essence indicates the amount in rupees an investor is willing to pay for every rupee of a company’s earnings. Foreign funds, however, do not seem to be worried either by the Buffet indicator or the all-time high PE ratio. They have been pumping in a record amount of money into the domestic market. Since October, foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) have net pumped in over Rs 1.6 lakh crore, or about $21.2 billion, making India the largest recipient of foreign funds among emerging markets. In comparison, mutual funds have been selling stocks aggressively with the net outflow at nearly Rs 75,400 crore, official data showed. According to Shiv Sehgal, president—institutional client group, Edelweiss Securities—a combination of global and domestic factors has led to this rush for Indian stocks among foreign fund managers. “Across the world, the news of Covid-19 vaccines and a Democratic victory in the US augur well for global reflation. On the domestic front as well, the absence of a second wave and a strong bounceback in pent up demand have given a fillip to high frequency indicators like GST collections, imports, PMI, etc,” Sehgal said. In addition, he feels that surprise earnings by India Inc are prompting analysts to up price targets for leading stocks. Corporate earnings have bounced back despite weak demand, which in turn is giving confidence to investors that stock prices will sustain once demand revives. Lastly, “domestic financial conditions have been kept quite benign by the RBI. After all, this is a necessary if not sufficient condition to revive risk sentiments,” Sehgal said. “Given the high foreign ownership (of Indian companies), risk on sentiments aid India disproportionately.” The nearly 10-month old rally has been mostly led by a handful of stocks that include Infosys, Reliance Industries, TCS, HDFC Bank and HDFC. In the earlier part of the rally while RIL, some banks and financials lifted the sensex, IT soon took over the lead and then pharma joined in. The rally in RIL was backed by a record foreign fund infusion in its telecom and retail subsidiaries. The strong buying in IT, banks and pharma stocks emerged after investors realised that as people remained confined to their homes due to Covid-induced issues, the demand for technology-driven solutions, healthcare and finance was increasing. As sector leaders were able to rise to the new challenges and meet those demands, their stock prices also galloped, market players said. In Thursday’s market, the sensex started the session at 50,097 points, scaled a new life-high at 50,184 points and after a late sell-off that shaved off over 800 points from the day’s high, closed at 49,625, down 167 points on the day. Selling in HDFC Bank, HDFC and Bharti Airtel contributed the most to the day’s selling while buying in RIL, Bajaj Finance and Bajaj Auto cushioned the slide to a large extent. On the NSE, the nifty too rose to a new life high at 14,754 points but closed lower at 14,590 points, down 54 points on the day. Technically, the indices are at crucial levels. On daily charts, the nifty and sensex are showing formations which suggest “high chances of quick intraday correction”, Shrikant Chouhan, EVP—equity technical research, Kotak Securities—wrote in a note. At a nifty level of below 14,750, correction could continue till 14,550-14,500, while on the up side, 14,750 would be the immediate hurdle for the bulls, Chouhan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/naach-meri-bull-bull/articleshow/80396172.cms||Partha Sinha
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||Farmers plan rally of 500 tractors from Rajasthan on R-Day||JAIPUR: The farmers in Rajasthan are preparing themselves for the ‘Kisan tractor parade’ to be organized on the Republic Day (January 26) as they plan to engage around 500 tractors from the state in the rally. “We will organize a tractor rally from here (Shahjahanpur border) on the Republic Day and will head towards Delhi. We have already readied around 500 tractors for the rally. We will organise a peaceful rally on January 26,” said farmer leader Himmat Singh, who has been protesting at the Shahjahanpur’s protest site for the past few days. “ The farmers also observed Guru Gobind Singh Jayanti at the Alwar’s protest site on Wednesday. Meanwhile, on Wednesday, the Supreme Court has sought a reply from the government of India on an ‘application for modification’ filed by Kisan Mahapanchayat leader Rampal Jat in the court objecting to the its order appointing four members of the committee constituted for the purpose of listening to the grievances of the farmers relating to the farm laws and views of the Central government and to make recommendations. The applicant had urged the court to replace the persons nominated for the committee, as they, according to the application, have “highly biased and preconceived notions about the farm laws”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-plan-rally-of-500-tractors-from-raj-on-r-day/articleshow/80375209.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Pune||Daily infections exceed recoveries, 8 more dead||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added 578 cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, which were marginally more than its 557 recoveries recorded in the last 24 hours. The Pune municipal limits added 310 cases on Wednesday, followed by the rural areas (155) and the Pimpri Chinchwad areas (113). With this, the number of cases in PMR has increased above 3.74 lakh as against 3.60 lakh recoveries. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that eight more patients succumbed to the infection in the region on Wednesday, taking the total casualty count to 8,980. While six patients died in the PMC limits, two succumbed to teh infection in the rural areas. The PCMC areas did not report a single death due to Covid-19 on Wednesday. The region’s active caseload reported a slight increase and reached 5,040 on Wednesday evening. Of these, as many as 2,021 were admitted in various hospitals in the region, while 3,019 patients were in home isolation. With 7,162 tests conducted on Wednesday, the region reported a slight rise in daily tests. The PMC conducted over 3,800 tests, while the rural and PCMC areas conducted over 1,900 and 1,300 tests, respectively, on Wednesday. The total testing has reached 20.25 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-infections-exceed-recoveries-8-more-dead/articleshow/80375213.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||Central team takes stock of situation in drought-hit dists||Jaisalmer: The inter-ministerial Central team visited many villages in Barmer and Jaisalmer districts on Tuesday and Wednesday and took stock of the drought situation there. The villagers apprised them about the problems of fodder and drinking water along with issue of unemployment. They requested the team to provide relief. The Central team, including DMD, agriculture advisor and farmer welfare department director Dr Subhash Chandra, water resources department director SD Sharma, and disaster and assistance department Jaipur joint secretary Vijayendra Singh on Tuesday visited Chauhatan, Sutharon Ka Tala, Kaisar, Abhe Ka Paar, Sheo and Devka and many villages in Barmer district and took stock of the situation. The team visited Madava, Bhaniyana, Jaloda, Pokhran and other villages of Jaisalmer on Wednesday with Jaisalmer collector Ashish Modi. The team and the Barmer district collector Vishram Meena first held a meeting with public representatives and villagers at panchayat samiti conference hall at Chauhatan and took stock of the drought situation there. Chauhatan pradhan Ruparam apprised them about the problems of water, fodder etc. in the area. He asked for a subsidy amount for those poor farmers also whose Kisan card is not made. The team then went to Sutharon Ka Tala and Jaisar and met the farmers. The team conducted field inspection and asked to send proposals. The team later went to Ramsar tehsil’s Abhe ka Paar and held a meeting with public representatives and villagers on the situation. Sarpanch Haseena Bano apprised the team about problems of water, fodder and damage to crops due to drought. Mohammad Haiyaab and Ibrahim Khan of Sajjan ka Paar asked for a resolution of the problem of water, fodder and unemployment. The villagers asked for subsidy and crop insurance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/central-team-takes-stock-of-situation-in-drought-hit-dists/articleshow/80375215.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Goa||Two arrested for assault||Saligao: Saligao police on Tuesday arrested two persons for wrongfully restraining a group of tourists from Indore, assaulting them and later robbing them of their car. Police held Shabbir Shikapurkarand Kassim Nasib Eklaskar who were planning to travel to Belagavi with the car and intended to sell it. Police said that the duo stopped the group of four tourists while travelling in a car from a hotel in Pilerne towards Panaji. The incident occurred at around 9.30pm on Monday. The accused assaulted the tourists with slaps and threatened them with dire consequences. Fearing the accused, the tourists fled from the spot, leaving their car behind. Shikapurkar and Eklaskar then drove away with the car. Police nabbed Shikapurkar near Thivim petrol pump with the car. The second accused was arrested from another spot. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-arrested-for-assault/articleshow/80375217.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Five flights cancelled, 15 delayed||Ahmedabad: Fifteen flight departures were delayed from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad on Wednesday. These include flights to Chennai, Delhi, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Riyadh (Saudi Arabia), Bangalore, Goa, Hubli, Patna, Dehradun, Chandhigarh and Kishangarh. That apart, flights were cancelled from the city airport. These include flights to Dubai (UAE), Sharjah (UAE), Mumbai along with those to Jammu and Darbhanga.. Flight operations, as is learnt from sources were hampered due to operational constraints as well as bad weather conditions in certain parts of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/five-flights-cancelled-15-delayed/articleshow/80373797.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Goa||‘Little marginal utility’: Goa govt scraps traffic sentinel scheme||PANAJI: The traffic sentinel scheme, in which citizens could report road violations to the police, was scrapped by the state cabinet on Wednesday. The scheme offered financial rewards to citizens who reported violations, and CM Pramod Sawant said that “some people started it as a business”. Speaking to reporters, Sawant said that traffic police and CCTV cameras would bring in discipline on the roads. “It was been noticed that for some, the scheme turned out to be a means of abnormal earning, as there has been a large accumulation of points entailing payments of a substantial amount from the state treasury,” Sawant said. “Certain individuals utilised the scheme as a steady source of income.” The scheme was introduced in 2017, to reduce traffic violations with the active participation of the citizenry and encourage community policing. Sentinel scheme kept in abeyance from July last year“Sentinels” had to enrol on an app and then report violations, which fetched them points. A certain number of points made the sentinel eligible for a cash incentive. The scheme was kept in abeyance on July 15 last year, with effect till December 2020. On January 4, TOI was the first to report that the state government would take a decision on the continuation of the scheme. A cabinet note suggested that there’s “little marginal utility” in continuing it, and it involves substantial financial outlay. The scheme had also become a source of controversy. There were complaints that sentinels were reporting “minor violations”, leading to “persecution”. The violations that could be reported under the scheme were driving against the flow of traffic, parking on footpaths or zebra crossings, triple-seat riding, improper number plates, driving without seatbelt, riding without helmet, using vehicle with tinted glasses, using phone while riding or driving, red light jumping, and dangerous driving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/little-marginal-utility-govt-scraps-traffic-sentinel-scheme/articleshow/80375216.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Pune||Bus hits bike, dumper runs over pillion rider after fall||Pune: A woman, riding pillion on a motorcycle, was run over by a dumper and her husband was injured when the couple fell of the two-wheeler after being rammed by a luxury bus near Mamabadevi Chowk at Camp on Monday night. The junction connects vehicular traffic to Pune-Solapur-Satara roads. The Wanowrie police identified the deceased as Uzma Pathan (34), a homemaker from Saibabanagar in Kondhwa. Her husband, Mohsin Pathan (36), a tourist car operator, sustained injuries to his left hand and right leg. Police on Wednesday said Uzma fell off the bike due to the dash by the bus and was run over by the dumper. Though the dumper driver stopped after the accident, the man driving the bus fled the spot without giving information of the incident to police. The police said the Pathan couple had visited Vimannagar for some work and stopped at a petrol pump near the Mamabadevi Chowk for filling fuel. They were on way to Kondhwa and was passing via the garage when the bus hit their bike. The police said such was the impact of the accident that Pathan fell off the bike on left side and his wife on the right. She came under the left rear wheels of the dumper moving in the same direction. She died on the spot. The Sassoon General Hospital in its post-mortem report certified that the woman died because of multiple injuries. Sub-inspector Bholenath Ahiwale from the Wanowrie police said ,“ We have booked the bus driver on the charge of causing the victim’s death due to negligence under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Motor Vehicles Act on Tuesday night after investigations revealed that he was responsible for the accident.” He added, “Pathan has given registration number of the bus and we will arrest the driver and file charge sheet against him at the earliest.” When TOI contacted Pathan over phone, he refused to offer his comments as he was in a state of shock since the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bus-hits-bike-dumper-runs-over-pillion-rider-after-fall/articleshow/80375206.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Kolkata||Mini book fair changes name after guild request||Kolkata: The organisers of the mini book fair at Hrishikesh Park on Amherst Street have changed the name of the event to Boi Mela 2021 following objections from the Publishers and Book Sellers Guild that organizes the annual International Kolkata Book Fair (IKBF). “We have no intention of hurting anyone. IKBF is like a mother to all publishers and we participate in it as well. This is an effort to help the publishers who have already suffered heavy losses during the pandemic,” said convenor, Rupa Majumdar. West Bengal Publishers Co-ordination Committee decided on the mini fair after the guild pushed back the IKBF dates, citing the Covid situation. At the executive committee meeting on Tuesday, guild asked for the change of the name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mini-book-fair-changes-name-after-guild-request/articleshow/80373740.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 11 properties sealed for tax default||AHMEDABAD: Eleven properties in the western part of the city were sealed on Wednesday after its owners failed to pay property tax to the tune of Rs 13.81 lakh. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation sealed five properties in west zone over which owners had defaulted tax amounting to Rs 4.14 lakh. The remaining properties were sealed in north-west zone.  Officials said that of the 11 properties, six were rented to some other party. "The highest tax due of Rs 3.29 lakh was on a property situated in Shlok Infinity in Chandlodia. It belonged jointly to Umangkumar Patel, Pinky and Shrey Patel," said officials. They added that AMC has decided to disconnect water and drainage connection of the defaulters. "AMC had given notices to all property owners and had also announced rebate for tax defaulters. However, when the owners failed to pay the tax, AMC sealed the property," officials said. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has so far sealed about 40-odd properties in the western part of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/11-properties-sealed-for-tax-default/articleshow/80373781.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Pune||Bizman held for attempt to extort Rs 6L from widow||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police have arrested a 37-year-old man from Kondhwa on the charge of attempting to extort Rs6 lakh from a woman by threatening to post her objectionable videos on the social media.The police said the man, Ahmed Lakhani, was a resident of Kondhwa. A police team, led by inspector Santosh Patil, arrested him on the basis of a first information report filed by the woman (34).The complainant is a widow and had enrolled her name with a matrimonial website. “About a year ago she came in contact with the man on the website. The man had registered himself on the website with a fake name,” Patil said.The officer said the woman agreed to a live-in relationship with the man, as he had promised to marry her. “After some days, the man started demanding money from the woman for his business. The woman had given him Rs50,000. When he continued to ask for money, the woman became suspicious and ended their relationship,” Patil said.Last week, the man had sent her a video clip of their private moments from a cellphone number that he usually did not use. “He called her and demanded Rs6 lakh. He also threatened her that he would post the clip on the social media, if she did not pay him the amount,” Patil said.After receiving the complaint, the police laid a trap to arrest the man when he would come to collect the money. “The man, however, did not come to collect the money,” Patil said, adding that they tracked him with the help of the cybercrime cell and arrested him on Saturday,He said the man was running a furniture business in Kondhwa. “He had also tried to extort money from another woman by using a similar modus operandi. He had, however, did not succeed then,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bizman-held-for-attempt-to-extort-rs-6l-from-widow/articleshow/80375241.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Pune||Pune civic body allows 60 gardens to reopen from January 25||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to allow 60 gardens to be reopened in the city from January 25 with social distancing norms in place. The gardens will be open from 6am to 10am and 4pm to 8pm. Citizens can utilize the gardens for individual exercises such as walking and jogging. Senior citizens above 65 years and children below 10 years will not be allowed and cultural or public programmes will not be allowed in the gardens. Municipal chief Vikram Kumar issued an order on Wednesday, which also stated that the gardens would be closed immediately if the citizens were found to be violating the stated norms. The PMC had opened 81 gardens from November, but some were closed because of overcrowding. Mayor Muralidhar Mohol said, “We are opening the facilities, but citizens are appealed to follow the norms pertaining to Covid-19.” As per the norms, the visitors are expected to wear masks and avoid using the open gym equipment, play area, benches and lawns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-allows-60-gardens-to-reopen-from-january-25/articleshow/80375218.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Cases of cellphone-use by drivers surged amid curbs||AHMEDABAD: In the year marred by Covid-19, the subsequent lockdown, and the night curfew, traffic movement was restricted but the offence of talking on the cellphone while driving recorded a two-fold rise in the city. Curiously, amid the curbs, other traffic offences decreased.  According to the figures of the city traffic police, as many as 17,246 cases of using the cellphone while driving were reported in 2020. The number was only 9,062 in 2019. The fines collected rose from Rs 50 lakh in 2019 to Rs 86 lakh in 2020. Two-wheeler riders accounted for the highest number of offences with 8,086 cases, followed by car drivers with 6,962 cases. Earlier, police booked people who used the cellphone while driving under Section 184 of the Motor Vehicles Act for dangerous driving which attracted a fine of Rs 1,000. But the amended Act provided a new category for using the cellphone while driving, under which only a Rs 500 fine is imposed. The change can be one of the factors that sparked a rise in the cellphone-use offence among drivers, said police officers. A city traffic police officer said most violators are in the age group of 18-35. “In this pandemic year, people caught using the cellphone while driving said that they had some emergency at home,” said the officer. “Some were let off. Others were clearly bluffing to avoid fines.” City traffic police wanted to slap the charge of rash driving for the cellphone-use offence in March 2020, but the move was postponed because of the pandemic. The decision may be implemented this year, said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cases-of-cellphone-use-by-drivers-surged-amid-curbs/articleshow/80373823.cms||Ashish Chauhan
January 21, 2021||Kolkata||Cops shelter West Bengal woman at old-age home||KOLKATA: A 70-year-old woman, living alone at Keorapukur under Regent Park police station, has been moved to an old age home by cops after she was allegedly threatened by an unidentified youth on Monday night. Cops said the woman, who is financially not so sound, owns a 12-cottah plot. Cops have put her house under their observation. The woman’s daughter-in-law said that the accused had threatened to take a revenge against the victim. “All her three daughters are married and they find it difficult to look after her. The woman claimed that on Monday night, a youth had climbed up the wall of her house and attempted a robbery. Though the woman raised an alarm, the accused asked for money and hit her before he escaped. Everyone in the area is aware of her financial condition. We think someone is trying to ensure that she sells off the property. Earlier on two occasions, she was allegedly threatened and scared by somebody posing as ghosts,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-shelter-woman-at-old-age-home/articleshow/80373758.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Rs 63,000 crore pending, MSEDCL to cut power to defaulters||MUMBAI: The MSEDCL on Wednesday announced its bill arrears had mounted to Rs 63,740 crore and officials will now disconnect power supply of consumers who fail to clear pending electricity dues, especially for the Lockdown months. Citizens had protested and many had not paid their electricity bills after receiving hefty bills between April and June, 2020. Some got bills as high as Rs 40,000 to Rs 60,000. “We had given a lot of options to consumers -- paying in instalments, waiver of the penalty for delayed payment and also rebate for one-time payment of bills. As per directions of power minister Nitin Raut, we did not disconnect a single connection till December 31. But now it’s time to be stringent and demand pending dues,” said an official. Of the total arrears which need to be recovered, the agricultural consumers have to pay Rs 45,498 crore, an official said. For the Low tension (LT) wires residential consumers the pending bills have gone up to Rs 8,485 crore. For the high tension (HT) consumers, the arrears escalated to Rs 2,435 crore and the remaining bill dues were to be paid by other categories of consumers, sources said. Said a senior official, “MSEDCL had taken a decision not to disconnect any supply since March 2020 during Lockdown months till June. Subsequently, the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission issued directives that the power firm should not disconnect supply unless the consumers were given a proper hearing on their grievances about high bills.” The MSEDCL made efforts to redress grievances through webinars, camps and also on Helplines. “There were two dedicated numbers announced by the minister as well to assist citizens who had grievances,” an official said. Following this, citizens hoped to get relief in the electricity bills from the state government during Diwali, but this did not happen. Raut then directed MSEDCL not to disconnect any supply till December 31. State govt will decide on waiving off bills: MinisterEnergy minister Nitin Raut said the state government will decide regarding the issue of giving a waiver on the electricity bills. Raut was speaking after former MP Raju Shetti said that his party will protest if electricity connections of people are disconnected. He also said that people have lost their jobs during the lockdown period and not facing financial issues and the state should help them with the waiver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/with-rs-63740-power-bill-arrears-now-face-disconnection-if-you-dont-pay-msedcl/articleshow/80375208.cms||Somit Sen
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Foundation stone laid for infra projects||HYDERABAD: Foundation stone for a crematorium, sports complex and nala widening works was laid on Wednesday. The foundation stone was laid by animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav and labour minister Malla Reddy. Congress MP from Malkajgiri, Revenath Reddy also participated in the ceremony. Initially, the foundation stone had to be laid by MAUD minister KT Rama Rao, however the minister did not attend the ceremony. AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi also laid the foundation stone for construction of a graveyard in Jiyaguda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/foundation-stone-laid-for-infra-projects/articleshow/80373790.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Goa||Goa: Hospitals get list of vax beneficiaries in advance||PANAJI: The list of beneficiaries, who will receive the second dose of the vaccine on Friday and Saturday, have already been shared with most hospitals. Beneficiaries at most centres have also received smses informing them of the first dose of vaccination. This is an improvement from the first session on January 16, when beneficiaries hadn’t received smses and hospitals struggled to get in touch with them after they received the list of beneficiaries late Friday night. The list generated late with names and phone numbers but no designations or departments made it a challenge for some hospitals to get in touch with their staff. Some beneficiaries were either out of station, on duty or couldn’t reschedule other commitments at the last moment. The state is presently permitting only seven hospitals, both government and private, at a time to administer the first dose of the vaccine to avoid any load on the server. The hospitals will be administering the vaccine to their healthcare workers on Friday and Saturday. During the last session, there were few delays caused after the Prime Minister’s address when the entire country began feeding in data into the Co-WIN application. If those on the beneficiary list refuse to take the vaccine or are rejected by the hospital due to contraindications, others on the master beneficiary list will be given an opportunity. Only after the 18,000-odd healthcare workers who registered for the vaccine are given an opportunity to be vaccinated in the first phase will the government move on to the second phase where frontline workers, including revenue staff and police, are vaccinated. The seven hospitals have been given the opportunity to have two teams vaccinating 200 beneficiaries simultaneously, but have decided to take it slow as they also have to make provisions for those who may experience adverse effects following immunisation (AEFIs).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hospitals-get-list-of-vax-beneficiariesin-advance/articleshow/80375242.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Nagpur||Lack of road, power hampering work at Patanjali site in Mihan: Acharya Balkrishna||Nagpur: As work on Patanjali Ayurved’s ambitious food park at Mihan remains at a standstill, the company’s managing director Acharya Balkrishna says even the government is to be blamed for the delay Balkrishna told TOI that work on the plant is expected to begin soon as the funds have been arranged. Local authorities, however, need to fulfil their responsibility and build a road connecting the site. There is no regular power connection too, he said “A road that is supposed to connect the food park site to the highway has not been built yet. This was part of the arrangement when the company had announced its plans for Nagpur. The matter was taken up with the concerned authorities time and again but it was of no help,” Balkrishna told TOI. One road under construction will connect Mihan from Sumthana village towards Hingna side. This road comes towards the Patanjali site too. There is another which connects the Patanjali area with Hingna through a different route but that needs repairs and trucks cannot ply on it, said sources in Maharashtra Airport Development Company (MADC) — the agency developing the Mihan project. MADC officials said that the road from Sumthana is being built from Hingna by the Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT).However, it is part of the package for the project affected persons. The other road needs repairs which are being carried out by the NIT too, said an MADC official. Patanjali Ayurved has acquired 230 acres of land in the non-special economic zone (SEZ), part of the Mihan project to set up what is dubbed to be the world’s biggest food processing industry complex. It was claimed that the operation would begin in six months when the stone laying function was held in August 2016. Now as work has been held up, Balkrishan says at present, the only access to the plant is through the SEZ area. Since the food park is in the non-SEZ part, a separate road will be needed. This is because non-SEZ units cannot take out finished goods from the SEZ area and also, don’t have access inside in general. “We are managing now because the unit has not started yet,” he said. A source from NIT said the road from Sumthana is a 2.5km stretch. The MADC has not made available a 600-metre patch yet. The land is yet to be acquired from the locals. Work continues on the rest of the area but the 600 metres will be needed to finally link the road with Mihan. MADC officials, who stressed that the Sumthana road is not related to the Patanjali project, said there is resistance from around 4 locals over giving up land. If negotiations fail, the 600 metres of land will be mandatorily acquired under the land acquisition act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lack-of-road-power-hampering-work-at-patanjali-site-in-mihan-acharya-balkrishna/articleshow/80373778.cms||Shishir Arya
January 21, 2021||Pune||BJMC to test nCoV samples from Cantt||Pune: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB), which was struggling for last 10 days to get Covid-19 samples tested, has received consent from the BJ Medical College (BJMC) for testing of samples. The PCB health authorities were forced to fall back on the rapid antigen test as neither the National Institute of Virology (NIV) nor the BJMC were accepting their samples for the RT-PCR test. “The NIV had refused to take the PCB samples, citing workload,” said the PCB’s resident medical officer Dr VD Gaikwad. Amit Kumar, the PCB’s chief executive officer, said, “We decided to submit a report to the district administration to prevent such a situation in future. We have to carry out aggressive testing to reduce the tally to nil.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bjmc-to-test-ncov-samples-from-cantt/articleshow/80375267.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 21, 2021||Pune||Pune: Man kidnaps woman from workplace in Chinchwad; under arrest||PUNE: A 25-year-old gun-wielding man barged into an interior designer’s office at Chinchwad around 11am on Tuesday and forced a woman employee to accompany him on his bike after threatening her stunned colleagues. The police reacted swiftly to trace and rescue the woman (25) and arrest the man from Dehu Road within five hours of the incident. “We are yet to recover the firearm from the arrested suspect,” sub-inspector Shambhu Ranaware of the Chinchwad police station told TOI. On Wednesday, the police produced the suspect (name withheld) before a magisterial court, which ordered his remand to police custody till Thursday. Ranaware said, “The arrested man belongs to the family of a retired civic employee and is jobless. The woman and he were in a relationship. However, the woman recently ended their relationship yet he was pursuing her for marriage.” After the woman’s office colleagues reported the matter to her father, he rushed to the Chinchwad police station to lodge a complaint. The police immediately began tracing the man on the basis of his cell phone tower movement and located them in Dehu Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-kidnaps-woman-from-workplace-under-arrest/articleshow/80375250.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand’s biggest flyover opened for traffic||DEHRADUN: Following trial runs and other load testing formalities, the 2-km-long Haripur Kalan flyover — which is the biggest in the state — was opened for vehicles on Wednesday. Sources said that the flyover would be officially dedicated to the people in the next few days. The flyover starts from Saptrishi Gate entrance point of Dehradun, passes through Haripur Kalan, Sukhi river and Rajaji Tiger Reserve entrance gate, and ends at Teen Mori Pulia. For people commuting on the Dehradun-Haridwar-Rishikesh route, long traffic holdovers at Doiwala were a pressing concern. The opening of the new flyover is expected to considerably ease the bottlenecks on the stretch. Aaraghar resident Priyanka Negi, who drives frequently between Dehradun and Haridwar, told TOI, “As people going towards Jolly Grant Airport, Haridwar, and Rishikesh use the same route, long traffic holdovers were often witnessed near Doiwala. The stretch up to Rishikesh-Dehradun-Haridwar tri-section often witnessed long snarls. The flyover will cut down the travel time from almost an hour to just a few minutes.” In a similar vein, retired teacher Sudhakar Benjawal, who resides in Mothrowala, hailed the opening of the flyover for vehicular movements. “The opening of the flyover is a major respite for both tourists and the locals. Whether one is going towards hill districts or towards Uttar Pradesh, the flyover will be of immense help,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhands-biggest-flyover-opened-for-traffic/articleshow/80370928.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 21, 2021||Surat||Gujarat: Woman killed for Rs 63 lakh life insurance money||SURAT: Crime branch sleuths on Wednesday cracked the mysterious death of 21-year-old woman and found that she was killed by her husband Anuj alias Monu with help of another person. Anuj tried fabricate a story that his wife Shalini died in a road accident and the intention was to claim Rs 63 lakh insurance money. Anuj and his aide Mohammad Naeem alias Pappu Usman Ismail, 46, were for the murder of Shalini. They first strangled her with hand. After she fell unconscious, they kept her body on the service road near Raghuvir Celeum and crushed her head under a truck’s rear wheel at around 5.30 am on January 8. They hired a truck from Pal area claiming that they need it to supply sand and used it to kill Shalini. Later in the day, Anuj lodged a complaint of accidental death and claimed that he did not know which vehicle knocked down Shalini since he was walking a few steps ahead. He told police that he just found her body lying on road and she was dead. Anuj runs a transport business while his father Sohansinh runs security service agency. In the past, Ismail had worked as a security guard in Sohansinh’s agency. After arrest, Anuj told police that a year ago he was thrashed by Shalini’s father Dhaniram Yadav and other relatives in their native village and they had threatened him with a gun. This worsened the already soured relations between the couple, said police. Dhaniram, a resident of Jafarpur village in Uttar Pradesh, had demanded a thorough investigation in an application submitted to city police commissioner Ajay Tomar on Monday. He alleged that his daughter was killed by Anuj, his father Sohansinh, sister Puja alias Niru, and other relatives Gopal Yadav, Gangaram Yadav. In his application, Dhaniram alleged that Shalini was being harassed for dowry since the marriage in 2017. Dhaniram also alleged in his application that Anuj and his family purchased life insurance policy of Shalini of Rs 63 lakh recently and they killed her to claim the money. “Not only marital dispute but insurance money is one of the reasons. Further investigation will reveal more details,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/woman-killed-for-rs-63l-life-insurance-money/articleshow/80370962.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Kolkata||Excise dept to get 24x7 control room||Kolkata: Just like Lalbazar, the state excise department will have a 24x7 control room soon. West Bengal would be the third non prohibition state in the country to have such a control room. The control room would entertain all excise-related complaints through a toll-free number. Subrata Biswas, the special excise commissioner (enforcement) said the control room would receive complain regarding unauthorized manufacturing, transportation, sale of liquor. This would also entertain complaints like unauthorized consumption in bars, which do not have licenses for late-night alcohol consumption. Incidentally, two non-prohibition states Maharastra and Kerala, already have such control rooms. Prohibition states like Bihar, too, has started a control room off-late. Incidentally, apart from five states and union territories like Gujarat, Nagaland, Mizoram, Bihar and Lakshadip, rest are non-prohibition states. Biswas pointed out the control room would direct the complaint to respective departments. “It will be manned round the clock and the control room would be at the directorate building in Bowbazar,” Biswas added. According to him, ten excise officials will man the control room in three shifts. “It is 24 hour control room so three people will be present at a time,” he added. A leading retailer of IMFL feels that this would help in reducing illegal trade of alcoholic beverages. Incidentally, ‘e-Abgari’ project of excise directorate, under the finance department, has been declared as winner of the Digital India AWARD-2020 for exemplary and innovative initiatives in the realm of Digital Governance in November this year. CM Mamata Banerjee had also appreciated the model in a tweet earlier by saying: “With an extensive IT-driven process re-engineering, e-Abgari has completely transformed the activities of excise directorate. Further, this initiative has ensured efficiency, transparency, while safeguarding health and the government revenue at the same time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/excise-dept-to-get-24x7-control-room/articleshow/80373769.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Bareilly||Skeletal remains of missing woman found, husband & father-in-law held for murder||Bareilly: Sambhal police on Wednesday recovered skeletal remains of a 22-year-old woman, who had gone missing on January 11, near Sot river in Barai village under kotwali jurisdiction in Sambhal district. The woman’s family had lodged a complaint with police against her in-laws, accusing them of assaulting and abducting her for money. Police said a probe was launched after registering an FIR and the victim's husband and father-in-law were arrested. They later confessed to having killed the woman, identified as Laxmi (22), resident of Shiv Dham Colony in Chandausi, and dumped her body on the riverbank in Barai village, said police. Chandausi circle officer Ashok Singh said, “In her complaint, the victim’s mother had stated that her daughter was assaulted and later abducted by her in-laws. She alleged that her husband and his family members used to assault for Rs 1.5 lakh.” “During interrogation, the victim’s husband Vaibhav and her father-in-law Sanjiv confessed to having killed the woman and dumped her body at a deserted location,” said the CO. The CO added, “The victim’s family members, who were called to the riverbank, identified the woman as Laxmi. An FIR was registered under section 402 (punishment for murder) of the IPC and the accused were arrested.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/skeletal-remains-of-missing-woman-found-husband-father-in-law-held-for-murder/articleshow/80370923.cms||Maria Khan
January 21, 2021||Goa||NCP chief pitches for united front to take on BJP in 2022 elections||Panaji: The Nationalist Congress Party would form a common front along with the Congress and other secular parties to take on the BJP in the 2022 state assembly elections in Goa, said NCP chief Sharad Pawar here on Wednesday. Pawar said that a united front of like minded parties can “provide a viable alternative to BJP and stable government” in Goa. “In Goa, we haven’t taken any final decision, but within our party, there is a definitive thinking that for the coming assembly elections we should contest as NCP, Congress, and other like minded parties,” said Pawar, who is on a two-day visit to Goa as part of a joint parliamentary committee for defence. Pawar met local NCP office bearers, including the party’s state president Jose Philip D’Souza and lone MLA, Churchill Alemao. The NCP chief said that the party’s Rajya Sabha MP Praful Patel has been authorised to hold dialogues with other political parties to form a front for the coming elections. “Our party in-charge Praful Patel who is in charge of Goa is in close dialogue and ultimately the state unit will give direction, and based on that we will definitely discuss with other like-minded parties,” said Pawar. “The discussion about the alliance and seat-sharing amongst the partners will happen at the national level.” The term of the current Goa Legislative Assembly will come to an end in February-March 2022 and the state is expected to go to polls by mid-February. Pawar said that the party has no objection to the induction of MLAs and former legislators of other parties if the local NCP unit has no objection. The veteran politician said that the NCP will support the people against projects that are detrimental to the state, particularly to the socio-cultural fabric of Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ncp-chief-pitches-for-united-front-to-take-on-bjp-in-2022-elections/articleshow/80375257.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan high court notice to Centre over relief to farmers||JODHPUR: Rajasthan High Court on Wednesday issued notices to the Union government and a company belonging to Adani Transmission Limited seeking reply that why the stay was not invoked on installation of transmission lines until a suitable compensation was not given to the petitioner, a farmer. A farmer from Dhandhu village in Phalodi sub-division of Jodhpur Nathuram Jhad moved a petition saying that Fatehgarh Bhadla Transmission Limited (FBTL), a company associated with Adani Transmission, tasked to install transmission line from its solar power plant, has been drawing power line over his pomegranate orchard without seeking his permission and providing compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-notice-to-centre-over-relief-to-farmers/articleshow/80375295.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Goa||Expert panel to review bird flu scene: CM||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said that an expert committee of the directorate of animal husbandry and veterinary services will review the bird flu situation in the state and will submit a report to the government to decide on future course of action. Sawant said the state government has banned the import of chicken from neighbouring states in the interest of the people. “Even if the Centre has asked for free flow of chicken, we are concerned about people’s health,” he said, adding, “If we continue to take care of our health, there will be no problem.” The North and South Goa district magistrates have prohibited the transportation and entry of birds and eggs from Maharashtra and Karnataka either directly or indirectly. The orders by district magistrates states that any person contravening the order shall be punishable under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/expert-panel-to-review-bird-flu-scene-cm/articleshow/80375277.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Canine birth control, vaccination intensified||HYDERABAD: To control the stray dog population in the city, the GHMC has intensified the ward-wise Animal Birth Control and Anti Rabies Vaccinations (ABC/ARV) programme in the city. The civic body has also requested people to contact officials on the GHMC landline number 040-2111-1111 or logging into the MYGHMC app in case they want to report issues pertaining to strays. As per the programme, all canines in the city will be sterilised, vaccinated and returned to the area they were picked up from. Apart from the 14 existing vehicles pressed into service to catch dogs, an additional 16 vehicles have been hired, taking the fleet strength to 30. There are 30 circles in GHMC and each circle has been assigned one vehicle each. In general, each vehicle catches 10 dogs per day, according to officials. Apart from the ACB/ARV programme, de-worming medicines are also given to strays, as per GHMC records. The GHMC has roped in five NGOs recognised by Animal Welfare Board of India to execute the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/canine-birth-control-vaccination-intensified/articleshow/80373837.cms||Nabinder Bommala
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Survey to put leash on stray population||HYDERABAD: After more than a decade, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is conducting a survey to take care of all the stray dogs and address the dog population in the city. The survey includes assessing the number of strays, Animal Birth Control and Anti Rabies Vaccination (ABC/ARV) programme and adoption camps. There are over 4.61 lakh stray dogs in the city. The exclusive survey is being conducted after 13 years. When the GHMC was formed in 2008, a survey was done and the stray dog population stood at 7.5 lakh. Civic officials attributed the dip in population to ABC/ARV programmes. To identify the number of strays, the Blue Cross of India, an NGO, has pressed into service around five to six people in each of the 150 wards in the GHMC limits. As per GHMC records, the NGO completed the survey in 50 days. Based on the stray dog population, the ABC/ARV programme is being taken up and the project aims at achieving 100 % sterilisation of stray dogs. As per the project, the five NGOs recognised by the Animal Welfare Board of India must visit all wards and check if the dogs have undergone sterilisation . A ‘V’ mark on the ear indicates that the dog has been sterilised. In case there is no ‘V’ mark, the NGO, which also has a veterinary doctor, shifts the canine to the nearest GHMC animal care centre for surgery. “While the ABC/ARV programme is underway, current pictures of the dog should be uploaded on an app exclusively designed to monitor the process. If the dog is left 100 meters away from the pick up point, then the app does not accept the entry,” said GHMC chief veterinary officer Dr Abdul Wakil. The GHMC is paying the NGOs Rs 1,500 per dog for the ABC/ARV programme, as per the details uploaded on the app. The civic body has also decided to conduct adoption camps to give a new lease of life to pets. As per the project, the details of the pet’s adopter will be enrolled before they are adopted in camps and free treatment will be given to the dogs by GHMC in case of health issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/survey-to-put-leash-on-stray-population/articleshow/80373832.cms||Nabinder Bommala
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||‘Release P Varavara Rao on bail, seek report in 3 months’||MUMBAI: Seeking the release of Elgar Parishad case accused, Telugu scholar-poet P Varavara Rao, on medical bail, his counsel on Wednesday said that the Bombay high court may after granting him relief seek a report after three months to ensure all conditions are complied. Senior counsel Anand Grover, appearing for the wife of 81-year-old Rao, said that one way to ensure relief on humanitarian grounds as well would be to grant bail and take a review after three months. Rao,who is accused of being an alleged Maoist and has been chargesheeted for serious offences under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), has been in custody since his arrest in 2018. Senior counsel Indira Jaising had said that Rao, who was diagnosed with Covid-19 in July, was risking multiple organ failure. An HC order had sent him to Nanavati Hospital in November 2020, for “further medical investigations and treatment”. n January 12, the hospital said that Rao was fit to be discharged. Senior counsel Indira Jaising has now begun her submissions on the contention that Rao’s human and basic rights were violated at Taloja jail, and how that is also an important aspect to consider for his bail on medical grounds. The hearing will continue on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/release-rao-on-bail-seek-report-in-3-mths/articleshow/80375292.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Bareilly||To win bet, 11-year-old climbs pole, electrocuted in UP||BAREILLY: An 11-year-old girl who had climbed a pole to win a bet with friends came in contact with live wires and was electrocuted to death in Budaun’s Baderia village on Wednesday. According to police, the victim Kajal, daughter of Room Singh, was playing with friends when one of them challenged her to climb a pole. Police said that she accepted the challenge and reached the top but accidentally touched overhead wires of 33kV. They added that she had died by the time her friends raised an alarm and locals rushed to help. On information, police reached the spot and brought the body down with the help of locals. Talking to TOI, her father said that Kajal was very energetic and used to climb trees quite easily. Sahaswan station house officer Pankaj Lavania said, “The incident happened while Kajal was playing with her friends. All the children were younger than her and were not aware about the danger of climbing an electric pole. Her father refused to lodge any complaint as it was no one’s fault. We have recorded the statement of the family members and eyewitnesses to confirm accidental death.” (Pics credit: Arvind Singh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/to-win-bet-11-year-old-climbs-pole-electrocuted/articleshow/80370950.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Two men end lives in their Kandivli homes||MUMBAI: Two men from Kandivli ended their lives in separate incidents on Tuesday. While Anil Date (26), a bachelor, hanged himself at his Morarji Mill Mhada Colony residence, Vinay Pol (34) was found hanging at his home in Singh Estate. Police said Date had lost his job at a medical firm during the lockdown and managed to find a new one at a dairy, but was unhappy with the pay. Though no suicide note was found. Pol, who worked in a private firm, is related to a policeman. He left behind a note saying he had “no trouble either at home or at his workplace”. His pregnant wife was at her hometown for delivery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-men-end-lives-in-their-kandivli-homes/articleshow/80376133.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Repayment of borrowings not a worry for Telangana||HYDERABAD: The repayment of securities (market borrowing) is not a major concern for the state government as it gets into the final stage of budget preparation. Though the central government allowed additional and conditional borrowing, the repayment schedule is not at all a burden for the state. According to the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) state finance report, 56% of outstanding liabilities have to be paid after seven years, another 18.5% is to be paid only after five years. The rest of the outstanding liabilities need not be paid before five years. Meanwhile, 13.4% should be paid in three to five years. The TRS government has adopted the policy of taking loans with a longer repayment schedule of about eight to 20 years and the interest rate for such loans is low. Only three per cent of the outstanding loan burden will be carried to the next financial year. This year about Rs 50,000 crore has been borrowed by the state. An official of the state finance department said that the loan burden was never an issue for Telangana. “Our idea is to ensure that more funds are pumped into the market as the economy will bounce back. The Covid-19 situation is only a temporary setback,” the officer said. Experts say that this is good for the state economy. “In this scenario, the state government need not worry about repayment of loans. This reduces the burden on the exchequer. The government can use the funds to fight the pandemic situation,” said K Narsimha Murty, banking expert and independent director, board of National Stock Exchange. “On the flip side, the next government will have to bear the burden due to the poll promises made by their predecessors,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/repayment-of-borrowings-not-a-worry-for-t/articleshow/80373854.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Man dies after truck catches fire in Nizamabad||HYDERABAD: An unidentified man died after a truck caught fire in Nizamabad town on Tuesday night. Locals alerted the Nizamabad VI Town police about the incident at around 11.30 pm on Tuesday. Police found the charred body of an unidentified man in the cabin. “The truck belongs to one Mujahid. We suspect that the victim was a thief or a man working for Mujahid. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. Mujahid has gone to Sangareddy and we may get more information after he returns,” Nizamabad VI Town SI Gourender Goud said. A case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-dies-after-truck-catches-fire-in-nzb/articleshow/80373859.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Goa||Cabinet nod for more civic wards||Panaji: The cabinet approved the Goa Municipal (Amendment) Bill, 2021, to create nine wards in Bicholim, Curchorem, Canacona, Quepem and Cuncolim municipal areas ahead of elections to these urban local bodies scheduled in April. CM Pramod Sawant said the cabinet has approved the governor speech to be read on the first day of assembly. He said that the cabinet approved the Goa (Mopa Airport Development Authority) (First Amendment) Rules, 2020, on Wednesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabinet-nod-for-more-civic-wards/articleshow/80375323.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||Hubby held for murder of Sawai Madhopur woman||KOTA: Solving the two-month-old murder mystery of a 24-year-old woman from Sawaimadhopur, Kota rural police on Tuesday arrested the victim’s husband and produced him before a court on Wednesday that remanded him in 3-day police custody. The body of Mosmi Meena, a native of Kushtla village in Sawaimadhopur district, was recovered on November 17, 2020, from under Gaita-Makhija bridge over Chambal River under Itawa police station. The body was covered with a bedsheet and packed in a bag. Unearthing the murder mystery, Itawa police on Tuesday arrested the victim’s husband Naresh Meena, 26, a resident of Borif village under Sawaimadhopur Sadar police limits. The accused, suspecting that his wife Mosmi had an affair, would often engage into a scuffle with her and eventually a day after Diwali on November 15, 2020, he strangulated her to death at his house in Borif village, Itawa SHO Bajrang Lal said. In order to cover up the crime, the accused packed the body in a bag, loaded it on his motorbike and dropped it around 100km from his village in Chambal River on the intervening night of November 15-16, he added. The parents of the deceased woman, on not finding their daughter with her husband, lodged a missing report a few weeks later in Sawaimadhopur, he added. On January 5, Naresh lodged a missing complaint with Sawaimadhopur police accusing Mosmi’s maternal uncle of having abducted her, the SHO said. When police inquired him on the reason of delay in lodging the report, Naresh could not reply satisfactorily and when strictly interrogation by police, he admitted to have murdered his wife due to suspicion of relationship with someone else, he added. Investigation revealed that Naresh was Mosmi’s second husband. Her first marriage took place in 2010 and had a baby next year, but later she had an affair with Naresh Meena and left her first husband to marry to Naresh in 2014 and had another child, the SHO said. The accused left his two children with his parents in Borif when he murdered his wife and had been making various excuses at the queries of his children on their mother, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hubby-held-for-murder-of-sawai-madhopur-woman/articleshow/80375299.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Goa||‘Rollout of new MV Act after talks with stakeholders’||Panaji: A day after the Union minister for road transport and highways, Nitin Gadkari made it clear that it is compulsory for the state to implement the Motor Vehicle (Amendment) Act, which proposes huge penalties for traffic violations, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said the act would be implemented after discussions with the stakeholders. Transport minister Mauvin Godinho on Tuesday said that he will bring the proposal again before the cabinet on Wednesday seeking implementation of the act. “We have not discussed anything to implement the MV act at the cabinet as there was no proposal before it,” Sawant said. Ports minister Michael Lobo had said that they will oppose the implementation for at least a year as most roads in the state are in a bad condition. The Calangute MLA also said that implementation of the act would increase corruption. The state cannot implement the penalty imposed by the central government. On January 6, the cabinet deferred the implementation after some ministers opposed it saying it will burden the common man during the pandemic. During the discussion stage, when the matter came up before Sawant, he asked the transport department to place the proposal before the cabinet. The amended law came into force across the country on September 1, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rollout-of-new-mv-act-after-talks-with-stakeholders/articleshow/80375306.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Pune||Gram panchayat member, 4 aides held; firearm, sharp weapons recovered||Pune: The Uttamnagar police on Tuesday arrested a newly elected member of Mandvi Budruk gram panchayat, located near Khadakwasla dam, and his four aides for possessing firearm and sharp weapons and creating a reign of terror in the village soon after the declaration of poll results. A search is on for their eight accomplices. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gram-panchayat-member-4-aides-held-firearm-sharp-weapons-recovered/articleshow/80375330.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Vijayawada||Darsi put on fast track to development||DARSI: The Darsi constituency, a backward region in Prakasam district, has seen unprecedented development in the last two years. Works on double lane Darsi-Kurichedu road is nearing completion. The construction of internal roads connecting all five mandals in the constituency is taken up with a cost of Rs 130 crore. Village-to-village connecting roads have been taken up with a cost of Rs 47 crore while side drains were taken up with Rs 20 crore in all villages. According to official sources, Darsi is the only assembly constituency in the state where all planned Rythu Bharosa Kendras, village secretariats, YSR Village clinics have been completed. The special teams deputed by the local legislator have monitored the progress of the works. “We have given permissions for the construction of several new initiatives of the government including RBKs, village clinics, village secretariats and renovation of the schools under Naadu-Nedu. Progress in Darsi is way ahead of other segments in the district,” said district collector Pola Bhaskar. The construction of Darsi-Kurichedu double-lane road is expected to play a big role in development of the constituency. Maddisetty Venugopal got the work worth Rs 25 crore sanctioned immediately after getting elected as legislator. Similarly, works on upgrading the local community health centre to increase the bed strength from 30 to 50 are nearing completion. “Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is very positive in clearing the requests about the development works as he is fully aware of the fact that the area was neglected in the past,” Venugopal told TOI. He said the CM granted funds for construction of a new APSRTC bus station, a degree college, and Mogiligundala reservoir at Sivarampuram village of Tallur mandal. “We are also getting six lift irrigation schemes at a cost of Rs 83 lakh to bring additional ayucut in the upland region in to cultivation,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/darsi-put-on-fast-track-to-development/articleshow/80373144.cms||Samdani MN
January 21, 2021||Goa||Goa: Second batch of 18,000 vaccines arrives||PANAJI: On Wednesday, Goa health services received the second batch of Covishield vaccines, thereby facilitating the inoculation of around 18,000 healthcare workers registered on the Co-WIN portal till date. In the first batch, the state received 23,500 doses last week, while 18,000 this week A health officer said that by February 13, all health care workers will be covered with the first dose. More than 400 health care workers who received the first dose on Saturday, the day vaccination drive was launched across the country, are slated to receive the second and the last dose on February 13. Goa will resume Covid vaccination on Friday and Saturday involving more centres. In the following weeks, vaccination may be done on a daily basis. “On Friday and Saturday, we will have vaccination at seven sites with each giving jabs to 100 beneficiaries. Each centre will conduct two sessions,” the health official said. Health services have estimated 10% of vaccine wastage, the officer said, adding, “so far, it has been negligible.” Manipal hospital, which was one of the seven sites for the launch, is not listed for vaccination either on Friday or Saturday. Instead, three other private hospitals, Vision in north Goa and Grace and Victor hospital in Margao are slated to immunize their health care workers. Other centres that have been identified to have vaccination in the next round are the community health centres at Pernem, Curchorem, Canacona and Valpoi, apart from the primary health centres in Bicholim, Ponda and Sakhali and the urban health centres at Panaji, Vasco and Mapusa. However, he said they are still undecided about the centres to be involved once the vaccination is done on every day basis. In the second phase, frontline health workers will be inoculated. Though registration has started, the complete data is yet to be received, he said. Their vaccination could be started parallel to healthcare workers, but the government will have to take a decision on it, he said. Meanwhile, it was observed that within 24 hours of vaccination, some of the beneficiaries complained of pain and tenderness at the spot of injection besides body ache, myalgia, weakness and fever. Few beneficiaries also reported vomiting, loose motion and pain in the abdomen. The directorate of health services in a press statement said that such symptoms are expected and it is an indication that the vaccine is working.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/second-batch-of-18k-vaccines-arrives/articleshow/80375331.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Goa||Active tally up at 864||Panaji: Goa reported 87 new cases of Covid-19 and 84 recoveries, pushing the count of active cases to 864 on Wednesday. Also, no Covid-related casualties were reported for the fourth day in a row. With 1,802 swab tests conducted during the day, the state’s positivity rate was pegged at 5% and recovery rate at 97%. Till date, Goa has conducted 2,96,924 swab tests. There were 25 hospital admissions and 58 patients were home isolated. The case tally of Panaji urban health centre rose to 86 and that of Porvorim to 63. Aldona and Mapusa centres also witnessed a marginal rise in cases. Margao urban health centre, though did not see a rise in its numbers, its tally is the highest with 100 cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/active-tally-up-at-864/articleshow/80375329.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 21, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP: Nearly 26,000 given vaccine, second highest in country||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state health department administered Covid-19 vaccine to 25,734 people on Wednesday, making it the second highest in the country after Karnataka (36,211). As per official data released by the AP health department, there was one incident of adverse effect following the immunisation in East Godavari district. In all, about 2,700 healthcare workers got vaccinated in Prakasam district, followed by Anantapur (2,282), Krishna (2,181) and Guntur (2,052). The vaccine was given in 596 sessions, including the 12 session planned for Covaxin. As many as 608 people received Covaxin doses in Krishna district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/nearly-26k-given-vaccine-second-highest-in-country/articleshow/80373121.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports zero Covid-19 deaths for third time in three weeks||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 173 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,86,418. For the third time in the last three weeks, after January 1 and January 16, the state recorded zero deaths. As many as 196 patients were discharged from various treating facilities. There are currently 1,637 active cases with 8,77,639 cumulative recoveries and 7,142 fatalities. Chittoor reported 46 new infections, followed by Visakhapatnam (27), Krishna (19), Guntur (19), East Godavari (12) and Kadapa (11). The remaining seven districts posted single-digit case numbers. The active cases are less than 100 in five districts. The state health department conducted 46,852 Covid-19 tests to detect the 173 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.4%. The state has so far conducted about 1.27 crore Covid-19 tests with an overall positivity rate of 7%. From the peak of 17% in August, the positivity rate has reduced to 0.5% range in the last two weeks. With the ever-declining case numbers, only three per cent of the total beds are currently occupied by patients at the 70 Covid-19 hospitals. At one point, nearly 260 hospitals had served Covid-19 patients in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-reports-zero-covid-19-deaths-for-third-time-in-3-wks/articleshow/80373100.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Visakhapatnam||SIMS scam: Property to go under hammer in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: The crime investigation department (CID) will conduct an auction of property of Secured Investment Making Service (SIMS) on February 17. The SIMS scam in 2013 duped over 50,000 investors, who had been promised hefty returns, of several thousands of crores. Cases had been registered by Town Police and Gajuwaka Police. As per orders of the metropolitan sessions judge of Visakhapatnam on May 6, 2019, an immovable property — a 1,400 square feet flat in Sai Balaji Residency, B Block in Kranti Nagar of Ward Number 1 in Vuda-approved layout in survey number 165 of Chinamushidiwada — would be auctioned. CID additional director general of police asked the aspirants to present at Police Kalyanamandapam at 10 am on February 17. Applications would be sold from February 2 to February 16 in the office of CID, regional office, Pineapple Colony, Arilova. Those interested can obtain more details on the auction from https://appolice.gov.in or contact investigation officer J Srinivasa Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/sims-scam-property-to-go-under-hammer/articleshow/80373129.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Vadodara||14 Bicchu gang members arrested under GujCTOC||Vadodara: The city police arrested 14 members of the notorious Bicchu gang and booked them under the Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime Act (GujCTOC). This is the first case under GujCTOC in Vadodara city. Crime branch sleuths said that the Bichhu Gang had been spreading terror among the citizens, especially the traders community since many years. “Recently members of this gang committed two loots in the city. It was very audacious of them and scary for the citizens. When the accused were arrested, I asked my team to dig out all the details of this gang,” said Shamsher Singh, city police commissioner. “All the gang members have multiple criminal cases against them and they have been arrested several times. The Bicchu gang is involved in organized crime and hence we booked them under the GujCTOC,” Singh told TOI. The 14 notorious criminals arrested by the cops have been identified as Tausif Sheikh, Irshad Ali Saiyad, Ishad Dudhwala, Sultan Sheikh, Sajid Sheikh, Moin Saiyad, Nadeem Sindhi, Hanif Pathan, Ashraf Khan Pathan, Tausif Malek, Ramzan Sindhi, Irshad Sheikh and Hanif Sheikh. Atik Malek is already in jail in a loot case and will be in custody of the crime branch soon. Aslam Sheikh alias Bodiyo, who is leader of this gang, has 62 offences registered against him. This gang has been booked in hundreds of cases including that of murder, extortion, rioting, threat, loot and property grabbing. “Aslam will also be arrested under GCTOC along with the other gang members,” Singh added. DCP (crime), Jaydeepsinh Jadeja said, “There are a total of 26 members in this gang and 14 of them are in our custody.” The police have also decided to confiscate properties of these criminals under section 18 of GCTOC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/14-bicchu-gang-members-arrested-under-gujctoc/articleshow/80371754.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh energy demand may rise by 5,000 MU in new fiscal||VISAKHAPATNAM: The three discoms in the state estimate that 65,947 million units (MU) of power will be required for distribution among 1.79 crore consumers in 13 districts for the 2021-22 fiscal. This is 5,498 million units of additional power compared to the existing 60,449 million units supplied by discoms in the present fiscal, which will end on March 31. The estimate was put forth by Visakhapatnam-based Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited (EPDLCL), Tirupati-based Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (SPDCL) and Vijayawada-based Central Power Distribution Company Limited (CPDCL) in a report on annual aggregate revenue requirement for the 2021-22 fiscal. The report was submitted to AP Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC), which is currently reviewing the discoms’ proposals in a phased manner and conducting public hearings to elicit opinions from differ power consumers. The discoms also estimated that Rs 43,799 crores will be required for distributing 65,947 million units of power. “Discoms spend nearly Rs 6 on purchasing one unit of power. We incur nearly Rs 10,000 crores of revenue deficit,” said a source at EPDCL. SPDCL director (technical and HR), T Vanaja, said, “We made the proposals to APERC, which will guide the government. Dicoms have to follow whatever decisions taken by the commission and government.” Nearly 80% of consumers fall under domestic category, while consumers in the agriculture sector comprise around 10%. An official from CPEPDCL at Vijayawada said the commission’s public hearing would be completed by January 20. The commission’s executive committee is scrutinising each point raised by the discoms and will take its final decision and submit a report to the government. The government is also awaiting the report as it is supposed to pay subsidies to the discoms for supplying subsidised power to certain consumers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-energy-demand-may-rise-by-5k-mu-in-new-fiscal/articleshow/80373067.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 21, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam cops recover 530gm gold stolen before wedding||VISAKHAPATNAM: Almost a month after a major burglary hours before a wedding ceremony at a private resort in Rushikonda, Vizag city police arrested 29-year-old Pokathota Gangadhar and recovered over 530 grams of gold jewellery worth over Rs 30 lakh. The incident took place on December 24 at a well-known resort near Rushikonda Beach in the wee hours when the family and relatives of the bride were asleep. The burglar decamped with the gold ornaments of the bride. City police chief Manish Kumar Sinha said they solved the case using technical evidence and appreciated the efforts of his team. The accused Gangadhar is a native of Vijayawada. A few years ago, he came to Vizag city where he waited tables at a restaurant. He took to crime hoping to make easy money and is involved in 18 property offences across the state. He has been arrested in the past. On December 8, 2020, Gangadhar was released from prison. When he came to know about the wedding ceremony at the resort, he scaled the wall of the building on December 24, entered the room where the gold ornaments were kept and stole the jewellery before scaling down the wall again. Later, he took a cab and fled from the spot.  Relatives of the bride found the gold jewellery missing only a few hours before the wedding. ACP D Sravan Kumar said the investigation took time as initially the police could not collect any clues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cops-recover-530gm-gold-stolen-before-wedding/articleshow/80373184.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Vaccination on right track, will start inoculating other frontline workers from Jan 25’||The number of Covid-19 cases continue to be reported from Ludhiana district even as vaccination has begun. Health department faces a dual challenge — it has to bring down the cases further and carry out vaccination despite not much enthusiasm among healthcare workers. TOI’s Shariq Majeed spoke to civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar about it. Edited excerpts. How is the vaccination process going on in the district? As of now vaccination it is better than what we expected. Things have been streamlined and we achieve our targets. Some health care workers and other frontline workers, including safai workers and police, are apprehensive about the vaccination. What do you have to say on that? Healthcare workers have started getting vaccinated now. When turn of other frontline workers like police personnel comes, things would become further better and they too will get themselves vaccinated. It is for their good and there is no loss. In how many days, you expect to complete the vaccination of the healthcare workers? We have 30,000 healthcare workers who are to be vaccinated and it will take us at least a week to complete the process. As of now, we have 112 teams for vaccination but we are using only a few teams for the purpose. We expect to increase the teams soon. Private hospitals, whose staff is more than 100, are asking us to allow them to increase vaccination sites, but it will be done only after we get new guidelines from top. Why fewer numbers of sites have been allowed? We have to follow the guidelines from the higher authorities. There are problems related to Cowin portal, which does not work sometimes. We have to manually enter the data so it takes time. Did you face problems in streamlining the vaccination process? Whenever we start something new, some hitches iks tpo be expected, but slowly things will get better. Things are better today as compared with yesterday and so things will improve further. We did face teething problems. People do have slight fear of getting vaccinated but it will subside. Why such fear about probable side effects of the process? When MR (Measles Rubella) vaccine came, in the beginning there were protests and resistance against it. Slowly things changed for better. Asha workers have been saying they won’t get vaccinated. What do you have to say on that? No Asha worker has come to us and said ‘I won’t get vaccinated’. They will get vaccinated and there will certainly be people coming for vaccination. When are you going to start the vaccination of frontline workers? Their data has started to come and it has to come by January 25 after which their vaccination will start. Will their vaccination start between first shot of first phase and second shot or after the healthcare workers get second shot? There is lot of chances that they (frontline workers) will get first shot ahead of second shot of HCWs. At least a few of them ight be vaccinated before the second shot to HCWs, as the number of former is much higher. Though we haven’t got the data of frontline workers, but their number may be around 70,000 to 80,000. After them, above-50 years people will be vaccinated in the third phase and in the fourth phase below 50 years old persons with co-morbidities will be vaccinated. There is demand from other sectors, including industry, for vaccination of their workers? As of now we have got guidelines for four categories and we are vaccinating them. Whatever guidelines we will get, we will do accordingly. What about the present Covid-19 scenario in the district? Earlier, there would be 200-300 cases in Ludhiana but now the daily cases are coming between 30-40. Even mortality rate has decreased to certain extent but even now case fatality rate (CFR) is above 3%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vaccination-on-right-track-will-start-inoculating-other-frontline-workers-from-jan-25/articleshow/80373899.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 21, 2021||Goa||A Retrograde Step||After having kept the traffic sentinel on hold for nearly seven months, chief minister Pramod Sawant by scrapping the scheme, has joined a section of people who don’t want to follow the traffic rules. What is disgusting and reprehensible is that the law-makers have turned into law breakers by instigating people to go against a scheme that has brought sanity to the traffic rules on Goa’s roads and brought down accidents. Sawant’s lame excuses that “some people started it as a business”, there is “little marginal utility” in continuing it, and it involves substantial financial outlay smacks of encouraging lawlessness. It is an irony that when Goa police did not conduct any checks on drunken driving on New Year’s Eve, the CM reckons traffic police and CCTV cameras would bring in discipline. After the sentinel scheme was introduced, over a lakh of traffic violations were reported and over Rs 45 lakh collected as fines. But instead of appreciating and encouraging a scheme that has ensured people wear helmets and seat belts when driving and follow traffic rules, the government has decided to scrap it. If they really are concerned about withdrawal of the scheme, they should simply ensure people follow the traffic rules so that the sentinel scheme becomes irrelevant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/a-retrograde-step/articleshow/80375355.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Dehradun||Haridwar seers seek action on ‘Tandav’ for ‘cinema jihad’||HARIDWAR: The seer community in Haridwar has demanded “strict action” against makers of web series ‘Tandav’ and rejected the apology offered by them for having hurt religious sentiments. The seers said they saw an “organised effort” by filmmakers to malign the Hindu community and termed the trend “cinema jihad”. They added that they will put pressure on the government to “strictly regulate such attempts.” Mahant Narendra Giri, president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP), the apex body of seers representing the 13 akhadas of the country, said that law should be made to regulate content on online platforms. “Filmmakers have no right to hurt the sentiments of a community. Law enforcement agencies should examine such content but unfortunately they, too, have been lax. We have asked the government to take action in the matter and make a law to censor content on online platforms,” Giri said. Mahant Vinod Giri of the Juna Akhada of Naga sanyasis said, “We will not tolerate ‘cinema jihad’ and do not accept the so-called apology from ‘Tandav’ makers.” Added Mahant Jasvinder Singh of the Nirmal Akhada: "Nothing less than (ban) that will satisfy us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-seers-seek-action-against-tandav-for-waging-cinema-jihad/articleshow/80371004.cms||MS Nawaz
January 21, 2021||Dehradun||It’s wait & watch for many people wanting to come for Kumbh||Dehradun: As Haridwar gears up for a muted Kumbh (to be held for only two months instead of the usual four), tour operators who specialise in ‘Kumbh packages’, say advance bookings, which usually start a year in advance for the mega festival, have been close to nil this time. Rajesh Singh of ‘The Kumbh Mela India’ agency, told TOI, “For the last Kumbh held at Prayagraj in 2019, our agency alone made almost 10,000 bookings – 2,000 of them were foreigners. The last time the Maha Kumbh was held at Haridwar in 2010, we had received more than 2,000 bookings. This year though, we have made barely 15-20 bookings.” Alpesh Kumar of ‘India Easy Trip’, another agency, added, “Our main income during the Kumbh comes from foreign tourists and NRIs but we have completely lost out on that market this time due to Covid.” The operators also said that people from the southern states, West Bengal and Gujarat, which usually form a sizeable chunk of Kumbh attendees, would be missing this time. “Not all pilgrims from these states who attend Kumbh can afford flights and they don’t want to board trains right now,” Kumar said. Apart from the obvious threat of contracting the coronavirus, lack of clarity around the state’s guidelines for Kumbh is keeping tourists away, tour operators said. “Interest in Kumbh packages might start after the government finalises the guidelines,” said Babli Harmohan, another travel agent. The official notification for the festival is expected towards end-February and the first shahi snan (royal bath) featuring the 13 akhadas (sects of seers) — a big crowd puller — will be held on Mahashivaratri on March 11 whereas the last one would be on Chaitra Poornima on April 27. Bikash Chakraborty, 63, a retired revenue official from Assam, said that because of his age, his family wasn’t ready for him to take part in a large congregation amidst a pandemic. “Every Kumbh is an immersive spiritual experience and I have attended the event at three of the four places where the festival is held — Prayagraj, Nasik and Ujjain — with my entire family. We start planning six months in advance. I’m keeping an eye out on Uttarakhand government’s notifications. As soon as there is some clarity, we will plan a trip,” Chakraborty said. The Ardh Kumbh at Prayagraj in 2019 had seen around 12 crore visitors — close to a ninth of India’s population that year. During the last Kumbh at Haridwar, around 70 lakh people had turned up. This time though, estimates are that around 50 lakh pilgrims may come although the actual numbers may vary greatly depending on the Covid situation at the time when the mela is underway. Nitai Sengupta, CEO of Kolkata-based travel agency ‘Kundu Special’, said, “Religious tourism in Uttarakhand, especially Char Dham Yatra, is very popular with tourists in West Bengal. The last time Maha Kumbh was held at Haridwar in 2010, we made around 200 bookings well in advance. This year, there is hardly any clarity on the guidelines and we haven’t received many queries yet.” Tourists who live close to Haridwar and don’t need to make plans in advance, said they planned to visit once the celebrations start in earnest with the first shahi snan scheduled on March 11. “It’s a short drive from Delhi to Haridwar. We will simply drive down to Haridwar on the day of shahi snan,”said RC Shukla from Delhi. Ramesh Chandra Jahangir, a septuagenarian businessman from Dosra, Rajasthan, said, “I have attended Kumbh Melas for the past 30 years now and will not miss this one either. We plan to go to Haridwar by train in April.” However, authorities are optimistic that footfall at the festival will be good. Sanjay Gunjayal, senior IPS officer who is in-charge of security arrangements for the Kumbh, said, “We don’t have an estimate yet, but our control room is receiving around 100 queries per day of people who want to visit.” In a similar vein, Haridwar district tourism officer Seema Nautiyal said, “Of course we do not expect an event of the scale of pre-Covid times. The pandemic has had an irreparable effect on tourism but we expect Kumbh to be a revival of sorts.” She added that around 7 lakh people turning up at the Makar Sankranti snan on January 14 was a good sign. “The Makar Sankranti snan was planned as a ‘dry run’ for Kumbh. We expect around 10 to 11 lakh people at every snan. Crowd management will be done according to Covid guidelines mandated by the state,” Nautiyal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/its-wait-watch-for-many-people-wanting-to-come-for-kumbh/articleshow/80370989.cms||Megha Adhikari
January 21, 2021||India||Centre questions power of TN governor to pardon Rajiv case convict||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Wednesday raised a question on Tamil Nadu governor’s power to grant remission to AG Perarivalan, one of the convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assasination case, under Article 161 of the Constitution. As a SC bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao said that the case pertaining to remission of sentence of Perarivalan, who is undergoing life imprisonment, is extraordinary due to inordinate delay on the part of the governor to decide on his plea, additional solicitor general K M Nataraj said the convict’s pardon plea should be sent to the President instead of the governor. Senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan, appearing for Perarivalan, strongly opposed the ASG’s plea and said it is for the convict to take a call. The hearing remained inconclusive and will resume on Thursday. Perarivalan was awarded the death penalty in 1991 for his involvement in the conspiracy to assassinate former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-questions-power-of-tn-governor-to-pardon-rajiv-case-convict/articleshow/80376813.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Pune||PIFF plans virtual and offline events||Pune: The Pune International Film Festival (PIFF) will be held from March 4-11 in two formats — online and at theatres. Addressing a news conference here on Wednesday, festival director Jabbar Patel said, “Deputy CM Ajit Pawar announced a grant of Rs4 crore in the last budget session but, considering the pandemic situation, we decided to hold the event on a moderate scale and requested the government to allot Rs2.5 crore for the festival this year.” The event will be dedicated to the Covid-19 warriors. “During the pandemic, people’s viewing habits have changed, leaning towards the OTT platform. We wanted to celebrate cinema the way it was meant to be, therefore we decided to have the festival, in offline and online mode. We want more people to watch films in theatres, but the government has currently allowed only 50% occupancy. We will take all safety precautions and encourage our delegates to do the same. Those unable to be at theatres can participate in the festival online,” said Samar Nakhate, creative director of PIFF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/piff-plans-virtual-and-offline-events/articleshow/80375333.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Goa||Kelekar’s last rites held in Margao||Margao: The mortal remains of freedom fighter and Konkani activist, Gurunath Kelekar, were consigned to flames at the Hindu crematorium at Margao, on Wednesday. His son, Samir, lit the funeral pyre. Kelekar breathed his last in the wee hours of Tuesday at Panaji, where he was currently staying. He was 91. A number of dignitaries and people from all walks of life, including leader of opposition Digambar Kamat, Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai, NRI commissioner Narendra Sawaikar, chairman of Margao Ravindra Bhavan Damodar Naik, president of Goa Konkani Akademi Arun Sakhardande, president of Marg Trust Prashant Naik and president of Konkani Bhasha Mandal Anwesha Singbal, were present at the funeral rites. Earlier in the day, the body was brought to his Malbhat residence where people paid their last respects. The funeral cortege that left from Malbhat for the final journey, stopped near the Lohia maidan where Kelekar’s son paid floral tributes to Fransisco Luis Gomes and Ram Manohar Lohia. Kelekar had played a major role in having the images of the two leaders installed at those places. “Borem Goem” (Good Goa), a greeting coined by Kelekar, was prominently emblazoned across his portrait placed on the vehicle carrying his mortal remains. During his lifetime, Kelekar had held the view that “Borem Goem” along with “Dev Borem Korum” should be the signature official greetings of Goa - phrases that embody the ethos of Goan culture and reflect the Konkani identity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kelekars-last-rites-held-in-margao/articleshow/80375334.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||ED arrests Mantena chief in Rs 3,000 crore e-tender scam of Madhya Pradesh||HYDERABAD: The Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday arrested founder and chairman of Mantena Constructions Private Ltd, Srinivas Raju Mantena, and his Bhopal-based associate Aditya Tripathi of Arni Infra on the charges of money laundering in the Rs 3,000 crore e-tendering scam in Madhya Pradesh. The two accused were produced before the ED’s PMLA court in Hyderabad and remanded to judicial custody till February 3. Arni Infra was created as a front company of Mantena for cash transactions in order to pay bribes, the ED alleged. Tripathi is a resident of Bhopal. The ED said: “The accused had colluded with senior government officials and IT service providers of Madhya Pradesh State Electronics Development Corporation (MPSEDC) to tamper e-tenders and to illegally obtain large contracts for various firms.” A majority of the infrastructure companies are based in Hyderabad. The ED said statements of various stakeholders have been recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) after Mantena group had seen a big spurt in bids in the last few years either directly or in association with other Hyderabad-based companies. “Investigation conducted so far has revealed that Srinivas Raju has played a crucial role in the entire scam. With the assistance of Tripathi, he set up a front entity, Arni Infra, in Bhopal and used it to route funds for hawala activities. Both Srinivas Raju and Tripathi have admitted that Mantena Constructions has given sub-contracts of earthworks worth around Rs 93 crore to Tripathi,” said the ED. Investigation under the PMLA further revealed that Arni Infra is only a front entity set up by Tripathi at the instance of Srinivas Raju to book fictitious work orders, generate cash and pay bribes for tampering the e-tenders and also for bribing senior government functionaries. “The office of Arni Infra is located in a new large building. But, it is mostly empty and none of the employees is aware of any real ground-level works. They are serving on paltry salaries,” sources said. ED seluths conducted searches in Hyderabad, Bhopal and Bengaluru recently in more than 20 locations at the residence and office premises connected with Mantena Constructions, Max Infra, GVPR Engineers, Arni Infra, Osmo Solutions and Antares, sources said. They seized incriminating documents and digital devices also. 2 Hyd firms main beneficiaries of scam Hyderabad: The ED initiated an investigation under the PMLA based on an FIR lodged by the economic offences wing (EOW) of Bhopal police in April 2009. In the FIR, Hyderabad-based Max Mantena Micro JV and GVPR Engineers Limited were named as main beneficiaries of the alleged scam. The MP e-procurement portal was managed by MPSEDC, Bengaluru-based Antares Systems Limited and Tata Consultancy Services. They were given a contract for five years for maintenance and operation of the portal. Explaining the modus operandi of the accused, the EOW said Osmo IT Solutions Private Ltd, run by Vinay Choudhary and Varun Chaturvedi, misused the login credentials provided by Antares. Osmo Solutions illegally accessed and tampered the e-tenders and changed the bid values of certain companies to make them the lowest tender or lowest bid (L1). ED said that in return they had taken illegal gratification from the bidding companies. “Max Mantena JV had illegally won a tender (No. 10030) worth Rs 1,030 crore in this fashion. There were a large number of other tenders which were also under scrutiny and suspected to have been won by using the same modus operandi,” the ED said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ed-arrests-mantena-chief-in-rs-3000-cr-e-tender-scam-of-mp/articleshow/80373907.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 21, 2021||Pune||Pune: Man held for black magic, extortion||PUNE: The police on Tuesday night arrested a 59-year-old man and booked his accomplice on the charge of extorting Rs3.8 lakh since November 25 from an IT professional for purchasing six pigeons ‘to remove a black magic spell cast on his brother for curing his prolonged illness’. The court on Wednesday remanded Kutubuddin Nazmi from Meethanagar in police custody until January 22. IT professional Abizer Fatepurwala (36), from Salunke Vihar road in Kondhwa, had initially filed a complaint application against Nazmi and his aide on December 9. He later took up the matter with Nandini Jadhav, an office bearer of the Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti, following which the police acted on his complaint application and lodged an FIR under the Indian Penal Code and Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other inhuman Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-held-for-black-magic-extortion/articleshow/80375328.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Set up vax testing lab in Hyderabad: KT Rama Rao to Centre||HYDERABAD: Industries minister KT Rama Rao on Wednesday urged Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to set up a vaccine testing and certification laboratory in Hyderabad on the lines of the central drug laboratory (CDL) in Kasauli. He also asked for a central government medical store depot (GMSD) in Hyderabad with data monitoring and tracking system which would help vaccine manufacturing efforts. Such depots are functioning in Karnal, Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata. He wrote a letter to Vardhan on the necessity of setting up a vaccination testing centre. KTR said Hyderabad is known as “vaccine capital of the world,” manufacturing over six billion doses each year. He reminded that the vaccines manufactured in Hyderabad are being sent to CDL for testing and certification. The minister said the ICMR had decided to set up the country’s largest national animal resource facility for biomedical research in Genome Valley. “The state government has provided the required land for the project free,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/set-up-vax-testing-lab-in-hyd-ktr-to-centre/articleshow/80373919.cms||Koride Mahesh
January 21, 2021||Chandigarh||Old Chand cinema bridge closed for four-wheelers as repair work to begin soon||Ludhiana: Almost after a decade, the old Chand cinema bridge on Buddha Nullah finally will get a lease of life, as the civic authorities have increased the pace of getting it fixed. The bridge is now left open only for two-wheelers while rest of the vehicles will have to take a turn towards another bridge at Buddha Nullah to reach their destinations. The civic officials claimed that they have now asked the Guru Nanak Dev Engineering college experts to provide the design and estimate within a week so that they could move ahead with tendering process. The bridge that was declared unsafe in 2011 was waiting for new construction for a long time and authorities, due to shortage of funds, were delaying the project. Roughly, the officials are expecting it to cost somewhere around Rs 9 crore to Rs 10 crore. This bridge was closed for heavy traffic in 2018 and even after almost two years, the authorities are still stuck at estimates. The bridge is more than 100 years old and bricks sometimes even fall of it. Recently, chief minister Amarinder Singh and officials conducted a virtual meeting regarding upcoming projects in all the constituencies of the district. Congress MLA from north constituency Rakesh Pandey has already asked the CM to allocate special funds for the bridge in case the civic body is unable to construct it from its funds. However, sources said now even mayor Balkar Sandhu has asked the officials to go ahead with designing part and the civic body is planning to complete the project from its own funds. Superintending engineer of bridges and road department, Tirath Bansal said, “We have asked experts to submit the design and final estimate for this bridge and we will move ahead with further formalities. Earlier, this bridge was constructed with old arch technique, but now it will be replaced with new concrete bridge.” Congress MLA Pandey said, “I have taken up the matter of this bridge several times even with CM because it is important to dismantle the existing one with a new bridge. This issue was taken up again with CM on Tuesday in virtual meeting so hopefully good results are expected.” Meanwhile, from Wednesday onwards the bridge was closed for the movement of cars and only two-wheelers can use it. For the heavy vehicles or cars, another bridge on Buddha Nullah is available. The step has been taken for avoiding any untoward incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/old-chand-cinema-bridge-closed-for-four-wheelers-as-repair-work-to-begin-soon/articleshow/80373908.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Dehradun||Thousands of farmers from U’khand’s Terai region to join R-Day tractor parade in Delhi||Nainital: Farmers from Uttarakhand’s Terai region are preparing to assemble in thousands for the Republic Day tractor parade in Delhi. Speaking to TOI on Wednesday, farmer leaders from Udham Singh Nagar district said that they have already held several meetings and chalked out details to mobilise farmers for their march towards Delhi. “We have decided to leave for Delhi on Saturday. We have also been in touch with farmers from Uttar Pradesh and have decided to meet them in Rampur,” said Navtejpal Singh, a farmer leader from Sitarganj. Singh added that he estimated that at least three to four thousand people from US Nagar will join the January 26 parade and a similar turnout is expected from the adjoining areas of Uttar Pradesh as well. “We have informed farmers that those who own tractors can come in tractors. Many of us will also travel in cars and two-wheelers. We expect our strength to be over 8,000 when the farmers from UP join us,” Singh said. When asked about the government’s stand against any protest in Delhi, some of the farmers also said that they will wait for the decision of the protesting unions as well as direction from the Supreme Court (SC) and then decide on their course of action. “The SC is dealing with the matter and talks are on between farmers and the government. We will travel to Delhi and will do whatever the unions decide,” said Suresh Papneja, a farmer from Kichha in Udham Singh Nagar district. Papneja added that if the Uttarakhand police does not allow them to travel to the national capital, they will carry out demonstrations along the borders. “When we were travelling to Delhi in December, police had stopped us at the UP border. Even then, we sat in protest. So, if the police try to stop us again, we will carry out our demonstration on the border itself,” Papneja said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/thousands-of-farmers-from-ukhands-terai-region-to-join-r-day-tractor-parade-in-delhi/articleshow/80371012.cms||Prashant Jha
January 21, 2021||Bareilly||UP foresters scramble to rescue of DTR’s tiger with snare around neck||Bareilly: The operation to rescue a tiger with a nylon snare stuck around its neck in Kishanpur range of Dudhwa tiger reserve (DTR) has been stepped up following TOI’s report on the risk to its life due to the deep wound. Now, multiple teams have been deployed for rescue operation. Fifty camera traps have been installed and the number of elephants increased to four. The six-year-old tiger, named ‘Thunder’ by tourists, was wounded in mid-December when it got caught in the trap set for a wild boar. It managed to break free of the trap but the nylon snare stuck to its neck. Foresters said the tiger rarely moves during the day and they cannot tranquilize it at night. Following TOI’s report about the tiger, a campaign has been launched on social media to save it. Last year, a tigress with similar injuries had succumbed in the adjacent Mailani range of DTR. Siddharth Singh, a wildlife expert, told TOI, “We have photographed Thunder many times over the past three years. It is a very healthy tiger. We all are praying for its survival and hope that officials will soon rescue it.” PK Mishra, principal chief conservator of forests, (wildlife), said, “I have given permission to tranquilize the tiger. I have pressed additional manpower, installed more motion sensor camera traps especially near the water holes. Additional team of veterinary doctors have been sent for the rescue. Senior IFS officer, Sujoy Banerjee, is camping in the area and supervising the operation.”Giving details about the operation, Manoj Sonkar deputy director, DTR (core), said, “Movement of the tiger during daytime is very limited. We are constantly getting its camera trap images. It has killed another prey, a cheetal, which means that it is healthy. We have installed a cage and deployed four elephants to push the tiger towards it so that it can be tranquilized and treated as a delay may cause the tiger’s life.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-foresters-scramble-to-rescue-of-dtrs-tiger-with-snare-around-neck/articleshow/80371015.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 21, 2021||Chandigarh||Garment industrialists demand anti-dumping duty on VSF, stable cotton rates||Ludhiana: Irate over rising rates of yarn, which is hiking the cost of production, garment manufacturers are now demanding anti-dumping duty on the viscose staple fibre (VSF) and stabilised rates of cotton. According to them, the constant fluctuation in the rates of both yarns and cotton are killing the garment industry and immediate steps need to be taken by the central government. According to Harish Dua, executive council member of Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) , “Cost of production of garments has witnessed huge surge recently only due to ever increasing rates of yarn. Recently, our costs have gone up by 10-15% on account of various factors, but the biggest one being rise in the rates of raw material like yarn. This has become a huge headache for our industry and the need of the hour is the removal of anti-dumping duty on VSF. Owing to the growing demand for VSF and its blended textiles and clothing market opportunities, the demand for it has increased steeply not only in India, but also across the globe. As the imported yarn price was cheaper due to high anti-dumping duty prevailing on the domestic VSF, the weaving and knitting sectors have been importing large volumes of VSF spun yarn. The import of VSF spun yarn has increased from 2 million kilos during 2016-17 to 56 million kilos during 2019-20. In the post-Covid market scenario, VSF price has increased from $1.15 to $ 1.50 per kilo during the last few months.” According to Narinder Mittal, general secretary of Ludhiana Business Forums, “In addition to curbing the hike in the rates of yarn, another issue that needs to be addressed immediately is controlling the volatility in the cotton market, which is giving us sleepless nights. There has been steep increase in cotton price within a short span of time, which are in excess of Rs 5,000 per candy. This is a huge spurt. If the cotton rates are not stabilised, the cost of production of spinning mills will keep on rising and, as a result, the raw material purchased by us from them will cost more and our cost of production too will rise. Under the present circumstances, when there is a crisis due to coronavirus, we cannot take the risk of increasing rates of our end products. As a result, we will have to bear the increase and in case we do otherwise and increase our rates, our sales will drop. Therefore, it is our request to the government to immediately do something to control the rates of cotton in the country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/garment-industrialists-demand-anti-dumping-duty-on-vsf-stable-cotton-rates/articleshow/80373937.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 21, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Danapur court clerk shot dead||PATNA: Unidentified bike-borne criminals shot dead Danapur court clerk near village Tilwa under Janipur police station area in western Patna on Wednesday morning. Police said the deceased, Baleshwar Pathak (59), was on way to Danapur sub-divisional court where he worked. He belonged to Narayanpur under Naubatpur police station area. Janipur police station SHO Rajeev Ranjan Singh said that the incident took place at around 9am. “He was rushed to primary health centre at Naubatpur but died after some time,” he said, adding that the spot is around 12km away from his village. Quoting villagers, Singh said at least four persons on two bikes killed Pathak. Singh said prima facie it surfaced that Pathak had a land dispute with some people in Narayanpur and his murder might be a fallout of that. “However, family members were yet to submit a written application citing exact reason of the murder,” he said. No one had been arrested yet. Naubatpur police station SHO Samrat Deepak Kumar said the criminals might have followed Pathak soon after he left home. “Two bullet wounds were visible in Pathak’s abdominal area. No empty cartridges were recovered from the spot,” he said. SHO Kumar said Pathak had never approached the police about any land dispute. The body was sent to AIIMS-Patna for postmortem and further investigation was going on, said Phulwarisharif additional SP Maneesh Kumar Sinha, who had reached the spot after the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/danapur-court-clerk-shot-dead/articleshow/80373938.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 21, 2021||Surat||Police arrest four including drivers of truck, tractor||Surat: Four persons were arrested on Wednesday in connection with the accident at Kim crossroad that killed 15 migrant from Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday early morning. The migrants, including a one-year-old girl, were run over by a dumper truck while they were asleep on a roadside pavement. Along with truck driver Punnalal Kevat (26) police arrested Manish Rokad (26), the truck owner; Ramesh Padvi (30), the tractor driver; and Kotesing Vasava (35) the tractor owner. The accused have been booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder, attempt to commit culpable homicide not amounting to murder and rash driving along with sections of Motor Vehicle Act. Kevat was arrested after he was discharged from SMIMER hospital. He suffered minor injuries in the accident. Rokad was also booked for negligence in purchasing insurance of Kevat and the truck. The tractor driver and owner were booked for negligently loading sugar cane in the carrier because of which the truck driver’s vision got obstructed and he lost control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/police-arrest-four-including-drivers-of-truck-tractor/articleshow/80371028.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Dehradun||Centre approves new route from Badrinath to Kedarnath; to cut travel time by 3 hours||Dehradun: The Union government has approved a new road, to be constructed at a cost of Rs 248 crore, that will connect the Char Dham shrine towns of Badrinath and Kedarnath. The project will save close to 3 hours of travel time for pilgrims who undertake the yatra. After completion of the road, pilgrims will be able to go directly from Badrinath to Kedarnath and avoid going via Rudraprayag, which takes more time. The project is likely to be completed in about two-and-a-half years. It usually takes over seven hours from Badrinath to reach Sonprayag near Kedarnath (the point till where there is a motorable road). Hari Om Sharma, engineer-in- chief of the Public Works Department (PWD) in Dehradun, told TOI: “We had a meeting with officials of the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) on Monday and the project has been approved. The government order and official confirmation will follow in the next few days.” Sharma added, “Under the project, there will be a 2-km long bridge on Alaknanda river and a 900-metre long tunnel before Rudraprayag. It is these that will essentially cut short the travel time.” Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat while welcoming the move, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has a "special liking for Uttarakhand and Char Dham shrines". He added that efforts were underway to connect the Char Dham towns with rail services also. Sources said the 900-metre two-lane tunnel will have a capacity of 10,000 cars per day. The Uttarakhand government had already given its consent for the project and sent a report in this regard to the Centre in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/centre-approves-new-route-from-badrinath-to-kedarnath-to-cut-travel-time-by-3-hours/articleshow/80371023.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 21, 2021||Chandigarh||Sutlej and Lodhi club to jointly organise cricket tournament||Ludhiana: City’s elite clubs Sutlej and Lodhi have joined hands to organise a joint cricket tournament “Champions Cricket League”. In this four-day tournament, four teams from each club are contesting against each other and have been classified into two groups. The matches which will be of 10 overs each side will be played in both the clubs — on January 21-22, matches will be held at Lodhi Club while the matches to be played on January 23-24, will be held at ground of Sutlej Club. The event is the brainchild of the general secretaries of both the clubs, Sanjeev Dhanda (Sutlej Club) and Nitin Mahajan (Lodhi Club). Deputy commissioner Ludhiana, Varinder Sharma for giving go ahead to this tournament, Dhanda said entire management of Lodhi Club played crucial role in making this happen. “Office bearers and members of both clubs are eagerly awaiting the start of this first of its kind tournament, which is aimed at promoting friendship and sportsman spirit. All the preparations for the tournament have been completed. The tournament will be inaugurated by our president. All the safety measures in wake of coronavirus are being observed and there will be a special team, which will supervise and ensure strict compliance of the measures,” said Dhanda. Dhanda also added, “On the first day four matches will be played between different teams, first match will start at 2pm and last match of the day will start at 6.30pm. Same schedule will be followed every day except on day four, when we will have two semifinals, and final, the first match on that day will start at 2.30pm while second semifinal will start at 4.30pm and final will be played at 7pm. The teams of Sutlej club include Hindustan Royals, Sutlej Super Stars, Onn Tiger, Team Dabbang Northflex while teams of Lodhi Club are Titans, Ludhiana Tigers, Stars Leads United, JD-11. All the eight teams have been classified into two groups , Group A and Group B and will contest against each other regardless of the club they originally belong too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sutlej-and-lodhi-club-to-jointly-organise-cricket-tournament/articleshow/80373970.cms||Mohit Behl
January 21, 2021||Ludhiana||Punjab: 45-year-old booked under unnatural offences for molesting minor boy||LUDHIANA: In yet another case of crime against minor, Khanna police on Tuesday evening arrested middle-aged person for attempting to do unnatural offence with a nine-year-old boy living in the area. The accused is 45-years-old and works at a milk factory in Mandi Gobindgarh area, but lives at Khanna. Father of the nine-year-old victim told police that on Monday at around 12pm, his son had gone to the shop of brother-in-law of the accused to buy eatables. He added that at that time the accused was alone at the shop. The complainant told the police officials that the accused then sat his son on his lap and started doing indecent acts with him. He added that the boy raised an alarm following which the accused left him and ran away from the shop. Victim’s father said his son told him what had happened when he retuned home. Khanna city two police station officials reached the spot and started a probe into the matter. Police later booked the accused under sections 377 (unnatural offences), 511 (attempt to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment) of IPC and section of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Station house officer, sub-inspector Labh Singh said the accused was arrested from Khanna bus stand on Tuesday evening while he was trying to run away. He added that the accused was produced before a local court that sent him to judicial custody. Police officials said the accused does night shifts at a milk factory in Mandi Gobindgarh. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect his privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/45-year-old-booked-under-unnatural-offences-for-molesting-minor-boy/articleshow/80373940.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Wait for SC decision on LRS & BRS: Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Wednesday directed the state not to take any coercive steps against people under the norms of layout regularisation scheme (LRS) and building regularisation scheme (BRS) till the Supreme Court decides the legal validity of these schemes. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this interim direction while hearing a batch of public interest litigations (PILs) that challenged the decision of the state to bring in these schemes, etc. Some of them were questioning the restrictions imposed by the state on the registration of plots, flats, and buildings. On being informed by some petitioners that the Supreme Court is seized of the matter, the bench sought to know details of the case being heard by the apex court. Advocate general BS Prasad informed the bench that a writ petition challenging the GOs issued by Telangana for implementing the LRS and BRS schemes was filed before the Supreme Court. The GO Ms No. 131 and GO Ms No. 152 were challenged. As Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu too had brought in similar schemes, the petitioner before the SC made Telangana, AP and Tamil Nadu too respondents, the AG explained. However, the SC judges felt that this problem was there all over the country and hence wanted all states to be there on board and asked the petitioner to make all the remaining states and Union territories too as parties. According to K Sravan Kumar, the counsel for the petitioner at Supreme Court, as many as 25 lakh applications were received by Telangana alone. So many people were seeking regularisation of their buildings, plots, and layouts. This shows the extent of the problem and the need for the apex court to intervene, he said. “Leave alone orderly growth of cities, if we do not prevent it now, there will be chaos everywhere,” he said. “And this will also give rise to a thinking even among the law-abiding citizens that there is no point in following the law. They too will show an inclination to buy unauthorised plots and flats in anticipation of future regularisation schemes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wait-for-sc-decision-on-lrs-brs-hc/articleshow/80373999.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government departments can open salary accounts with private banks||MUMBAI: State government departments will be allowed to open salary accounts for government employees in private banks. The decision came more than a year after a political storm over transfer of salary accounts of police personnel to Axis Bank, where the wife of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis worked as vice-president and head of western region. National Congress Party minister and spokesperson Nawab Malik had objected at the time to the transfer of accounts from State Bank of India, a nationalised bank, to the private bank. In July last year, when its contract ended, Mumbai Police shifted accounts to HDFC Bank. Thane Municipal Corporation followed suit. “I had raised the issue of a bank being favoured as the then first lady of the state was associated with it. Today, the cabinet decided that it would be for all private banks,” said Malik. The cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal allowing departments to enter into contracts with an approved private bank to open salary accounts, and avail of direct benefit transfer facility, for which banks cannot charge a fee. Besides salary and Dearness Allowance, no deposits will be allowed to be kept with the private banks. Pensioners can open pension accounts in approved private banks too. The banks will have to submit proposals to the government by February 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-govt-depts-can-open-salary-accounts-with-pvt-banks/articleshow/80376177.cms||Clara Lewis
January 21, 2021||Chennai||Sasikala admitted to hospital in B’luru with fever, breathlessness||Expelled AIADMK leader V K Sasikala, who is about to complete her four-year jail term in the disproportionate assets case, was shifted to a hospital in Bengaluru after she suffered fever and breathlessness on Wednesday. Parappana Agrahara prison officials shifted Sasikala to Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College Hospital around 5.30pm. "Sasikala, 63, with comorbidities of hypertension, diabetes and hypothyroidism has been admitted with cough and fever," Dr Manoj Kumar HV, dean and director, Bowring hospital, said late at night. Sasikala, who is slated to be released from jail on January 27, was put in an isolation ward after she had fever and breathlessness. A Rapid Antigen Test of her throat swab sample tested negative for Covid-19. However, the results of her RT-PCR tests are awaited. “She’s being treated with high flow nasal oxygen. Necessary investigations are being done and results are awaited,” said hospital medical superintendent Dr Vijayalakshmi GN. When Sasikala was brought to the hospital, her oxygen saturation level was 80%, as against the normal of 95% and above. “With oxygen support, she is maintaining oxygen saturation level of 97 %,” the superintendent told TOI. Prison officials have already officially communicated the date of Sasikala’s release to her advocates. However, there is no clarity on when her fellow convicts in the case — sister-in-law J Ilavarasi and nephew V N Sudhakaran — will be released. All three were imposed Rs 10 crore each as fine, besides four-year jail term. Failure to pay fine entails another year in the prison. Sudhakaran’s jail term ended on January 14. “We wonder why he hasn’t paid the fine as he has been fighting a legal battle for early release,” an official said. A special court in Bengaluru had deducted 89 days of imprisonment of Sudhakaran, permitting him to walk out any time after paying Rs 10 crore. Ilavarasi, slated to be released in February, too has not paid the fine. “Sasikala’s release formalities will begin on January 26. An official communication will be made to Sasikala, asking her to get ready to walk out on January 27. That morning, she has to sign a few documents, including the prison register she had signed on February 14, 2017,” prison officials said. Asked if she had deposited any property or gold, prison officials said, “There was no gold ornament on her when she walked into prison. She didn’t have any cash either.” While the charges against the prime accused, J Jayalalithaa, lapsed due to her death before the Supreme Court judgment on February 14, 2017, the three other convicts walked into central prison the next day. Sasikala paid the fine in November 2020 and sought an early release. In her application to the home department, she sought remission, enabling an early release. The papers are with the home department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sasikala-admitted-to-hospital-in-bluru-with-fever-breathlessness/articleshow/80374024.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 21, 2021||Goa||Activists seek to meet SC team on Mollem projects||Margao: The various organisations, which have come together to oppose the three contentious Center-sponsored infrastructure projects, have demanded that the Supreme Court-appointed Central Empowered Committee (CEC), that is down in Goa, evaluates the proposed projects, “taking into consideration scientific evidence, ground realities, and people’s concerns and objections against these projects.” Addressing reporters, group leader Capt Viriato Fernandes said that they have collectively sought an appointment with the CEC. He alleged that “there have been major deviations from standard procedures and laid down rules and regulations by the powers that be with active connivance and compromise by agencies, like the conservator of forests, officials from the ministry of environment, the state electricity department, Pollution Control Board, and others, obviously under pressure from crony capitalists.” He said the destruction of the forests would destroy “Goa’s last surviving industry of tourism that is based upon its natural beauty”. A resident of Sada, Vasco, Vikas Bhagat, emphasised that besides destroying the environment, the double-trackingwill also affect the health of citizens with serious ailments triggered by the imminent large-scale pollution due to coal dust flying from trains and trucks during transportation. The activists said they would be presenting the CEC with a memorandum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/activists-seek-to-meet-sc-team-on-mollem-projects/articleshow/80375425.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to take back Section 188 cases during lockdown: Anil Deshmukh||MUMBAI: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday said Maha Vikas Aghadi government will take back cases filed against people under section 188 of Indian Penal Code (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) for disobeying orders issued during lockdown. He said that due process will be followed while cases are taken back. Senior officials said during lockdown in the state over a lakh cases were filed for violation of section 188 against people caught by police on streets. Deshmukh was speaking after meeting a delegation of NCP office-bearers who said many people were caught on streets during lockdown and are now being sent notices under section 188, and cases will be filed against them. The delegation demanded that most cases were of people out on streets for genuine reasons and the home department should take a humanitarian view and take back the cases. Deshmukh said the department will review cases and will ensure that citizens are not troubled. NCP state spokesperson Mahesh Tapase, Pradeep Deshmukh and Vinod Pawar had met Deshmukh on Wednesday. Pradeep said police had written down names of those caught on streets and now they are being sent notices under section 188. “Most people were out due to some genuine reason. Many fear legal action,” said Pradeep. He said there were over 28,000 such cases in Pune city itself, and it would be in lakhs in the state. “We urged the minister to look into the issue with a humanitarian view. He promised to take a decision after consulting the home secretary,” said Pradeep. Jarhad is CM secy at MantralayaChief minister Uddhav Thackeray appointed A L Jarhad as his secretary at Mantralaya. Jarhad, a 1997 batch IAS officer, worked as a additional municipal commissioner earlier and was in touch with Thackeray as Sena has been ruling in BMC for two decades. He also posted IAS officer R S Jagtap as collector of Beed district. Jagtap was joint commissioner, sales tax, Aurangabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-to-take-back-sec-188-cases-during-lockdown-min/articleshow/80373945.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Coimbatore||Women outnumber men in final electoral rolls||Coimbatore: According to the final electoral roll released by collector K Rajamani on Wednesday, the district has 30.62 lakh voters.Women voters clearly outnumbered men in the district. While there are 15.09 lakh male voters, there are 15.52 lakh female voters and 414 in the other category in the 10 assembly constituencies.Kavundampalayam continues to be the assembly constituency with the highest number of voters and Valparai has the lowest number of voters. As many as 1.63 lakh application forms to add and delete names in the voters list were obtained at the special camps organized at polling stations. After verifying the applications, as many as 37,667 people were added and 35,551 voters were removed from the list.In Tirupur, collector K Vijayakarthikeyan released the final electoral roll, which has 23.52 lakh eligible voters in the eight assembly constituencies. Palladam remains the assembly constituency with the highest number of voters and Madathukulam has the lowest number of voters. As many as 70,715 entries were added and 21,772 entries were deleted from the roll.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/women-outnumber-men-in-final-electoral-rolls/articleshow/80374058.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Coimbatore||SI murder: NIA raids city home||Coimbatore: National Investigation Agency (NIA) sleuths on Wednesday searched the house of 39-year-old Shihabudeen, an accused in the murder of special sub-inspector Wilson, at Podanur.Three NIA officers carried out the search operation for five hours from 10am and seized some documents, a source said.NIA had arrested Shihabudeen on January 6 from the Chennai International Airport, while he was returning form Qatar, for his involvement in the murder that took place in Kanyakumari on January 8, 2020. Investigation revealed that Shihabudeen had arranged the firearm and ammunition used by Shameem and Thowfik to kill Wilson, the source added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/si-murder-nia-raids-city-home/articleshow/80374061.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Disturbed Areas: Changes stayed||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday stayed the state government from issuing notification implementing the amendments in the controversial Disturbed Areas Act, particularly about notifying the localities as communally disturbed. The HC sought explanation from the government and the advocate general after Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind claiming that the October 2020 amendment “is an affront to the constitutional value and right of equality, and the constitutional morality that envisions a plural, multicultural and diverse society in India”. The law primarily aims at protecting members of one community from forced or coerced sale of properties in the communally disturbed areas to members of another community, and hence mandates prior permission from the government authority for any sale. Upon inquiry by the court, the government pleader said that the legislation is pending before the governor for his assent. The court ordered the government not to issue any notification in this regard till February 3, when it has sought reply from the government on the issue. Arguing for the Jamiat, senior counsel Mihir Joshi submitted that the amendments seek to permanently declare an area as communally disturbed area merely on apprehension on part of the government. Till date, the area is declared as disturbed area temporarily after incidents of disturbances are witnessed. Advocate Joshi pointed out certain provisions and definition by which the government seeks to declare areas as disturbed areas merely on apprehension that demography of an area may change. Pointing out provisions in the amendment, he submitted that the law now seeks to institutionalize segregation of communities. The government wants to compartmentalize the society on basis of race and religion. It aims at absolutely ghettoizing the city on basis of common religious identity and religious places. He read out the definition of ‘proper clustering’. The senior lawyer further submitted that the law formalizes one race, one community at one place concept. The law strikes down any possibility of pluralistic democracy. He also raised objection to the law providing for a third party to raise objection to a property sale/purchase. The petitioner sought stay on Section 3(1)(2) and (3) of the amended Act, which empowers the authorities to permanently declare any area as communally disturbed merely on apprehension that the demography could be changed if people of a particular community would buy properties from other community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/disturbed-areas-changes-stayed/articleshow/80374083.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Coimbatore||475kg banned tobacco products seized||Coimbatore: The city police arrested two people from Lorrypet near Ukkadam on Wednesday for possession of 475kg banned tobacco products. A special police team led by deputy commissioner Stalin had raided a transport office at Lorrypet after receiving a tip-off about transportation of the contraband from Karnataka. “We arrested Abbas and Jainullah Abudeen of Ukkadam. Preliminary inquiry revealed that the accused were planning to transport the products to Kerala,” Stalin said.The duo was booked under the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 2003 and remanded in judicial custody. A month ago, the Coimbatore district police had seized 300kg of banned tobacco products from Karumathampatti and arrested Jithendra Kumar of Rajasthan and Dharvesh of Mettupalayam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/475kg-banned-tobacco-products-seized/articleshow/80374067.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC frees interfaith couple from police custody||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court ordered Palanpur police and a court there to immediately set free an interfaith couple on bail, after they were detained for 10 days for alleged violation of the anti-conversion law, bigamy, forgery and criminal conspiracy. In this case, the man renounced Islam, converted to Hinduism, changed his name from Nisarkhan to Nishant and solemnized the marriage according to Hindu rituals. The high court ordered the range inspector general to conduct an inquiry into the illegal detention of the couple in the police station with the observation that the cops showed “undue fervour” in this case. The bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice Sangeeta Vishen expressed shock at the facts of the case after Riyazkhan Ghasura filed a habeas corpus petition to free his brother, Nisarkhan Ghasura, who is an official posted at the Surat RTO, and his newly-wedded wife, Shweta. He alleged that they were detained by Palanpur police on January 9 and were detained illegally by the police till an FIR was lodged against them on January 15. Ghasura was then sent to four-day police remand. The HC quashed the remand order and directed the court to immediately grant him bail. The HC also ordered the court to grant bail to Shweta. Ghasura expressed his wish to go to Surat to resume work and the high court ordered the police to grant the couple protection to Surat. The Surat police commissioner has also been ordered to provide protection to the couple for one month at least. Banaskantha police have been ordered to provide protection to the couple whenever they return to their native place. Ghasura and Shweta eloped on January 6 and Shweta’s father lodged an FIR at Palanpur East police station. He alleged that Ghasura was married but hid his previous marriage and projected himself as a bachelor. He also alleged that Ghasura’s conversion was in violation of the Gujarat Freedom of Religion Act, which mandates that a citizen obtain prior permission from the authorities for conversion. The woman’s father also alleged that the marriage registration in adjoining Sirohi district of Rajasthan was fraudulent. He claimed that the priest, Jitendrakumar Brahman, was not present when the marriage was solemnized. Because of his allegations, police also booked the marriage registrar from Rajasthan, Lalsinh Chaudhary, along with two others who stood witness to the marriage. Nine days into his detention and three days after the FIR, police produced Ghasura before the court and sought 14-day custodial interrogation. The court granted four days’ remand, which the HC has quashed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-frees-interfaith-couple-from-police-custody/articleshow/80374064.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Bhopal||MP: Another cabinet expansion likely after civic body polls||BHOPAL: The fourth cabinet expansion of the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government is likely to take place after the civic body polls, which are expected around the month of March. There are 30 ministers in the state cabinet and four more can be accommodated. The list of senior party MLAs waiting to be ministers is long in BJP and the ruling party may accommodate a few of them on the posts of mayors of municipal corporations, thereby cutting down the number of MLAs waiting to be ministers. Some BJP leaders have earlier expressed their displeasure over not getting ministerial berth. They have also been demanding proper representation of Vindhya and Mahakaushal regions in the cabinet. Senior BJP MLAs Kedarnath Shukla and Girish Gautam expressed their dissatisfaction after the last cabinet expansion along with Ajay Vishnoi. BJP MLA Akash Vijayvargiya has supported the candidature of Ramesh Mendola, who is a strong contender of a ministerial berth, for the post of Indore mayor. BJP leaders said there is a long list of former ministers and senior MLAs for the four posts of ministers and a decision would be taken in the coming months. The first cabinet expansion of the present government took place on April 21 last year. Five ministers took oath in the expansion that was held a month after Chouhan was sworn in as chief minister for the fourth time on March 23. The second cabinet expansion took place on July 2. In total 28 ministers, including a dozen loyalists of Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, were inducted in the cabinet. The third cabinet expansion was held on January 3 when Tulsi Silawat and Govind Rajput were reinducted in the cabinet. Three former ministers Imarti Devi, Aidal Singh Kanshana, Giriraj Dandotia lost the November 3 assembly bypolls, taking the total number of vacant ministerial berths to four.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/another-cabinet-expansion-likely-after-civic-body-polls/articleshow/80374075.cms||Ankur Sirothia
January 21, 2021||Rajkot||Horror-struck by lions sight, farmer refuses to get down from water tank in Gujarat village||RAJKOT: Villagers in Amreli seldom fear lions venturing in their narrow lanes and preying on cattle. They click photos and videos as the felines relish their kill for hours at kissing distance from houses. But this 38-year-old farmer in Abhrampara village, some 50 km from Amreli town, got so traumatized by the site of two lions that he climbed up the tank that stores water for the village. On Wednesday early morning, the farmer, Janak Padsara, was returning home after watering his field. Hesuddenly heard some noise in the dark on the village outskirts and flashed his torch light. On seeing the gleaming eyes of two lions staring at him, Padsara was so horror-stricken that he froze. Disoriented due to fear, Padsara ran to the panchayat water tank and parked himself there, shivering with scare. Padsara was so shocked that he could not even speak for nearly 45 minutes. After gathering himself he called some people for help. It took nearly two hours for the villagers to make him feel comfortable and convince him to get down from the 10 foot high tank. Haresh Mesuriya, a villager said, “I got a call from a friend that Padsara had climbed up the tank and needed help. When we went, the lions had they already left, but he just refused to come down. He was unable to come down on his own though he had climbed up. Initially, he even refused our help. It took much coaxing and convincing to bring him down. There are nearly 110 lions in Amreli district and most of them are in the revenue (non-protected) area. Even after getting down, Padsara was shivering due to fear and sweating profusely. He was taken home and asked to take rest. Watch Rajkot: Horror-struck farmer climbs up 10-feet-tall water tank after sighting two lions||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/horror-struck-by-lions-sight-farmer-refuses-to-get-down-from-water-tank/articleshow/80371091.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Chennai||For this theatre troupe, giving dignity to dead part of creative process||CHENNAI: It usually takes days to release unclaimed bodies from morgues, and most of them begin to start decomposing. But M Bagrudeen (fondly called Bagu) and his friends of Chennai-based theatre troupe Thinai Nila Vaasigal believe everyone deserves dignity, at least, in death. The group has cremated more than 600 unclaimed bodies since 2016. An artist should know what’s happening in society, only then he can act, says Bagrudeen, director of the troupe, which stands out with its mandate that each artist must do some social work. "Nobody is an orphan. We adopt bodies; we don’t follow any religious rituals, but cremate the body with all the respect it deserves," said Bagrudeen. The pandemic couldn’t stop them. They cremated more than 100 unclaimed bodies since the lockdown. As an artist, Bagrudeen trained under veteran dramatist and playwright Murugabhoopathi of the Manalmagudi troupe in Kovilpatti. In 2015, he came to Chennai where he got influenced by Anandi Ammal, an activist, who had been rehabilitating alcoholics and cremating unclaimed bodies in and around the city. "When I launched Thinai Nila Vaasigal, I thought of incorporating social work as part of the acting curriculum. Today, we not only cremate unclaimed bodies, but also conduct classes for the children of daily wage workers. Each artist in the troupe has been given an assignment related to social service," he said. The troupe members use their experience of working with people from various strata of society in their narratives. A deeper understanding of the despair and exploitation of the marginalised is what keeps Bagrudeen grounded. "A couple of months ago, we got a body of an elderly woman who died on the platform. It was decomposed and stinking, but we gave her a decent burial with flowers," he said, while talking about the challenges in their work. Even though the artists have been involved in various kinds of social works, the troupe doesn’t have a permanent place for rehearsal. "We do our rehearsal on corporation grounds and parks. Our idea is to bring art closer to humanity," said Bagrudeen, whose feature film, based on the last days of Nobel Prize-winning poet Pablo Neruda, had a preview recently. The death of Pablo Neruda was always shrouded in mystery. Titled ‘Pablo Neruda’, the film conducts an inquiry into the death of the poet. "I made this movie because it is the same kind of fascist suppression that writers in our country are undergoing today," said the 27-year-old. Email your feedback with name and address to southpole.toi@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/for-this-theatre-troupe-giving-dignity-to-dead-part-of-creative-process/articleshow/80374071.cms||M T Saju
January 21, 2021||Goa||Pandemic brings Iffi expenses down by 50%||Panaji: The pandemic led to a lesser number of registrations for the 51st edition of Iffi compared to the previous years, but it turned out to be a blessing in disguise for the entertainment society of Goa (ESG). With the festival going partly virtual this year, and with several peripheral activities suspended in a bid to ensure social distancing, ESG has managed to cut costs by at least 50%. Among the cancelled events are the NFDC Film Bazaar held at the Goa Marriott resort and spa, the lavish parties like the chief minister’s dinner, the ESG vice-chairman’s dinner, country-focus dinner and stalls for each participating country. Also, activities for non-delegates like the Bioscope, art park for children, open air screenings etc. were also not organised. “The cost has reduced more than 50%, which was required in a time of such crisis. Last year, Goa’s budget went up to Rs 19 crore, but this year it would be running between Rs 10-12 crore,” ESG vice-chairman, Subhash Phaldesai said. The festival sees a larger crowd for the peripheral activities compared to film-watching. This year, the focus has been on accommodations being sanitised frequently and more taxis and manpower hired to ferry guests to ensure social distancing between them. “When one guest leaves the hotel, one day’s gap is left before the next guest arrives. Earlier, three to four people would travel in one taxi. Now, we must exclusively give one car which cannot be reused until it goes for sanitization. The cost of hospitality has not reduced because there are guidelines we have to follow to hold the festival,” Phaldesai said. Despite additional costs like sanitisation, ESG has still managed to cut down to nearly 50% costs, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pandemic-brings-iffi-expenses-down-by-50/articleshow/80375474.cms||Nida Sayed
January 21, 2021||Bhopal||<300 new Covid cases in state after 6 mnths, active cases at 5K||Bhopal: It was after more than six and a half months that less than 300 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the state in a single day on Wednesday. Only 280 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the state on Wednesday taking the count of total positive cases in the state to 252466. Earlier it was on July 3, that 191 new cases were reported in the state, thereafter more than 300 new cases were reported everyday. Apart from the fresh cases 7 deaths were reported in the state as per the state health bulletin released by directorate of health services. With these new casualties, death toll due to covid-19 in the state reached 3770. On the brighter side, 997 people recovered from the disease taking the tally so far to 243688. Positivity rate for Wednesday stood at 1.2%. As on January 20 , there were 5008 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lt300-new-covid-cases-in-state-after-6-mnths-active-cases-at-5k/articleshow/80374088.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Govt, opposition lock horns over CAG report on KIIFB||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Ruling and opposition benches locked horns once again in the assembly on Wednesday over CAG observations on the Constitutional validity and functioning of KIIFB. Congress MLA VD Satheesan, who is also the chairman of public accounts committee, said UDF backed all CAG observations, which were raised by UDF members in the assembly time and again. “We are not against KIIFB, so is CAG. The objections raised are about KIIFB’s right to source foreign funds. I challenge FM to prove his claims that CAG didn’t share the minutes of the exit meeting on KIIFB. The minutes were sent to the government from CAG’s office; government received it. By saying that government didn’t receive it, the minister misled the governor and the House,” Satheesan said during the discussion on an adjournment motion he moved. Breaking the practice of denying permission for adjournment motions after hearing versions on the notice, speaker P Sreeramakrishnan allowed a 90-minute debate as government expressed willingness to debate the topic by suspending House proceedings. T M Thomas Isaac said UDF should clarify whether it supports CAG observations. “Can opposition leaders declare that they don’t want KIIFB projects? CAG encroached on the right of this House with undue haste and drew a conclusion that KIIFB is unconstitutional. It not only objected to the issuance of masala bonds, but also questioned KIIFB’s right to mobilize resources even within state. If you still say that you support CAG findings, it makes matters easy for us. We will tell the public,” he said, hinting at LDF’s plans to raise CAG observations as a major plank for assembly polls. Isaac repeated his argument that KIIFB is a body corporate, which according to existing rules and regulations, has every right to mobilize funds from within and outside the country. “KIIFB being a body corporate, its fund mobilization will not reflect in the government’s fiscal deficit. Moreover, it is control leverage or growing annuity model. It has developed an asset liability management software, which will regulate the volume of resource mobilisation in tune with its repaying capacity. It can never become a liability on Kerala,” Isaac added. CPM leaders James Mathew and M Swaraj, who spearheaded the counter attack, said Satheesan and other opposition leaders were aware of the impropriety of CAG report, but were forced to support it and oppose KIIFB for political reasons. Swaraj said the auditor should do the audit and go. “CAG has no right to interpret Constitution. There are courts to do that job,” he said.  Dissatisfied by Isaac’s reply, opposition staged a walkout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-opposition-lock-horns-over-cag-report-on-kiifb/articleshow/80372664.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Chennai||Chennai Metro floats tender for tough tunnelling||CHENNAI: Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) has invited firms to bid for construction of twin tunnels and five underground stations between Kolathur and Nathamuni, one of the toughest and challenging stretches in phase-2 due to the rocky soil conditions. The stretch of around 5.8km is the only underground section in corridor-5 from Madhavaram to Sholinganallur. This is the 11th tender floated for the construction of 118.9km phase-2. Construction for the phase is expected to begin by mid-2021 with CMRL likely to start building the elevated line between Porur and Poonamallee bypass. The phase is expected to be ready by 2026. The firm that bags the contract will have to build twin tunnels for the upline and downline and connect them with five underground stations across at least two major localities Kolathur and Villivakkam. The stations will come up at Kolathur, Srinivasa Nagar, Villivakkam suburban station, Villivakkam bus-terminus and Nathamuni. The contractor will build entry-exit points of the stations, ventilation shafts, architectural finishes and more. The deadline for the work is around four years. CMRL identified the line from Kolathur to Nathamuni as one of the two toughest stretches in phase-2 due to its soil conditions which are primarily hard rocks like black granite or a mix of quartz or charnockite. The condition could pose an engineering challenge as the tunnel boring machines will have to be operated at an appropriate speed - even as slow as below 8m a day - to keep vibrations it may cause to a minimum because it may otherwise affect the buildings above. Tunnels in this stretch will be at a depth of 15m to 21m. Before the tunnelling begins, station boxes or diaphragm walls of the stations must be built where soil would be cut as deep as the tunnel. In phase-1, rock soil conditions slowed down the project. While a contractor abandoned work on the Anna Salai stretch claiming they hit rocky soil which they did not anticipate, it took nearly six months for engineers to drill a 500m rocky stretch near Central station. This also required engineers to frequently replace the cutters or blades. CMRL has devised a few strategies for faster construction of phase-2 including launching and retrieving TBMs between two consecutive stations, instead of tunnelling long stretches, to prevent delay in one stretch affecting other lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/metro-floats-tender-for-tough-tunnelling/articleshow/80372629.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Rs 1,000 crore from non-agri asset registrations||HYDERABAD: The state government has earned nearly an income of Rs 1,000 crore from registration of non-agriculture land properties under the old method. In this month alone (since January 1), the state earned Rs 565 crore. A total of 86,764 documents were registered this month. In the entire financial year, 6,13,352 documents have been registered. This takes the income of the state to Rs 2,855 crore in this financial year. On December 21, the state switched over to non-slot based registration system after a lot of furore and the high court’s intervention. Though the government said the purpose of the slot-based registration system was to bring transparency, the move attracted a lot of criticism from various quarters. During regular days before the registrations were kept on hold, the stamps and registration department was earning Rs 500 crore to Rs 600 crore. In the budget estimates, the state government had pegged an income of Rs 10,000 crore from registration of properties. Authorities are hopeful of achieving the target by the end of the financial year. The registrations saw a jump after the government tweaked some rules, especially for small owners of plots and flats for second selling. “The changes that have taken place after the first few days of new system of registrations have helped the people wanting to sell their properties,” Srinivas, Telangana Builders’ Forum vice-president, said. Interestingly, the stamps and registration income of the state grew from Rs 2,745 crore in 2014-15 to Rs 7,061 crore in 2019-20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-1k-cr-from-non-agri-asset-registrations/articleshow/80374108.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 21, 2021||Surat||Engineering student gets diaper-free life after 18 years!||SURAT: For the first time in 18 years, Pratik, a civil engineering student, experienced an undisturbed sleep on Monday as he did not require a diaper. Pratik (name changed) had to frequent the washroom several times as he was born with meningomyelocele (spina bifida), a defect that occurs when the spine and the spinal cord do not form properly. “We performed a pioneering bladder surgery to treat the neurogenic bladder. The surgery has given him a diaper-free life after 18 years. In fact, on the first night of the surgery, he slept for nine hours at stretch without having to wake up for urination,” said Surat-based urologist Dr Subhodh Kamble. "One can imagine the psychological and emotional state of the young boy having to wear a diaper each day of life since the birth. He had undergo corrective surgeries when he was three months old and later when he turned eight. But he had developed neurogenic bladder, a condition in people who lack control over bladder due to a brain, spinal cord or nerve problem” said Kamble. Pratik had to urinate 25 times during day time and 10 times during night. “He was suffering with severe urgency of urination with urge incontinence (urine leakage),” Kamble said. A baby born with spina bifida needs to have the exposed part of the spinal cord repaired to prevent further injury and infection. Nearly 60 % young adults with spina bifida and surgery that is carried out for its correction suffer from urine leak and severe urine problems – a condition known as neurogenic bladder. “Our muscles and nerves have to work together for the bladder to hold urine until we are ready to empty it. In the neurogenic bladder, nerves carrying messages to and from the bladder, the spinal cord and brain do not work the way they should. In some cases, the bladder may become overactive and leak before reaching the toilet,” the urologist said. Since the surgery was carried out through a telescope, it has not resulted in any cuts on the body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/engineering-student-gets-diaper-free-life-after-18-years/articleshow/80371219.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Dehradun||After historic win, celebrations near Rishabh Pant’s home in Roorkee||ROORKEE: Shortly after the unbeaten knock by Roorkee-lad Rishabh Pant in Australia helped India nail down a historic run-chase and retain the coveted Border-Gavaskar Trophy, cricket lovers from all over the town thronged to his house in the Ashok Nagar locality to congratulate his family members. However, Pant’s mother, Saroj, could not join the celebrations as she was under quarantine. She had come to Roorkee from another city a few days ago. His sister Sakshi lives abroad while his father Rajendra Pant had passed away in 2017. Nonetheless, the neighbours of the swashbuckling wicketkeeper-batsman distributed sweets amongst each other to celebrate Pant’s contribution to India’s victory. “He has made Roorkee proud with his stellar performance. We hope to see more such match-winning innings from him in the future,” said Satish Negi, a neighbour of Pant. Notably, Pant was adjudged as the ‘Player of the Match’ for amassing 89 runs off 138 balls in the fourth and final test match of the series on Tuesday. “Rishabh’s father Rajendra was my batchmate at the BSM Degree College in 1982. Rajendra was also a cricketer and had played for the college team as a wicketkeeper. Today, his son has become the star player of the country. It definitely makes us all proud,” said Sanjay Rathi, physical education teacher at the Army Public School (Saint Gabriel’s Academy), Roorkee. Rishabh also studied in this school till Class IX. In a similar vein, Dipak Mehndiratta, who runs MS Dhoni Cricket Academy in Roorkee, said, “Each and every student of our cricket academy celebrated Rishabh’s success on Tuesday. They all consider him to be their role model.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-historic-win-celebrations-near-rishabh-pants-home-in-roorkee/articleshow/80371190.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Delhi||Going down the drain to save Yamuna||NEW DELHI: With pollution in the Yamuna being a huge cause for concern, which is not only a bane for aquatic life but also hampering water supply in the city, Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) is trying to focus not only on cleanliness in the waterbody, but also on smaller drains that eventually spew contaminated water into the river. While DPCC uploads data of pollution in the Yamuna every month on its website, it also analyses monthly information about 24 major drains thereby allowing officials to make improvement plans and identify which drains are polluting the most through effluents and sewage. The endeavour by DPCC gains importance as the Centre had recently told Supreme Court that Delhi was the most habitual offender as far as the cause of pollution in the Yamuna was concerned. The submission apparently relied on Central Pollution Control Board data that said that though the city generated 3,330 million litres of sewage every day, almost the entire quantity drained into the river untreated. Though various plans have been put in place over the past two decades to clean the river, experts and reports over the years have stressed that improvement is difficult, unless sewage from unauthorised colonies and each drain is connected to a sewage treatment plant (STP). A DPCC official said that alongside Yamuna’s pollution data, reports on drain analysis were also submitted every two months to the Delhi chief secretary and Delhi Jal Board (DJB) to use them as parameters for improvement. As each drain gets trapped, the improvement in water quality is reflected through parameters such as PH value, biological oxygen demand (BOD), chemical oxygen demand (COD) and total soluble solids (TSS). “The data is being used to identify drains polluting the most. Each parameter is also assessed over time to identify if there have been changes in water quality and how significant these improvements have been. As directed, we have been analysing adequate data so that agencies can act on it,” said the DPCC official. The information also helps DPCC identify where sewage may be possibly entering into the system. For instance, BOD, which is required for sustaining aquatic life in a waterbody, was 1.2 mg/l at the Dhansa regulator. The standard for BOD in drains is 30 mg/l and below. As the drain moves further to Ghumanhera bridge, BOD concentration rises to 10 mg/l, By the time it reaches L-1 drain 3.5km downstream of Jhatikra, BOD concentration is 36 mg/l, a DPCC sample analysis report of August 5, 2020 shows. The latest drain analysis report released on December 30, 2020 showed Indrapuri drain to be the most polluted, contributing BOD of 190 mg/l and a TSS reading of 360 mg/l. The standard for TSS in drains is 100 mg/l. Sahibabad drain, meanwhile, had a BOD of 170 mg/l and a TSS concentration of 324 mg/l. Among the least polluting were the sweeper colony drain, with BOD of 40 mg/l, and Najafgarh drain, which had a BOD of 50 mg/l. Both drains recorded TSS below 100 mg/l.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/going-down-the-drain-to-save-yamuna/articleshow/80375532.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Jilted lover convicted for murder||HYDERABAD: A local court in Nampally convicted a jilted lover, who killed a minor girl in 2018 under Osmania University police station limits. The convict, who was then an 18-year-old Intermediate student, killed the 17-year-old girl by slitting her throat using a blade. Following this murder in 2018, student organisations staged protests and demanded justice for the victim. On the day of murder, the accused called the victim to meet him near railway quarters. The victim was taken into an isolated location. He argued with the girl and later slit her throat using the blade. He was annoyed that she was distancing herself from him. Based on the evidence gathered by the police, the court after conducting trial, convicted the accused and awarded life imprisonment. Both the victim and the accused were friends at one point of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jilted-lover-convicted-for-murder/articleshow/80374147.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Chennai||Separated during the lockdown, Odisha boy reunited with family||CHENNAI: The lockdown gave those truly blessed more time with their families. But many others, especially people from other states, struggled to reach the safety of their homes. And in the case of Lokshan Nayak that comfort has come after months of struggle. The 17-year-old from Odisha with learning difficulties had been wandering around Tamil Nadu for months before he was reunited with his brother on Monday. The C3 Manimangalam police in Padappai found Lokshan on the streets on January 7. “He was brought before the Chengalpet Child Welfare Committee (CWC) and then referred to us,” says Iyyappan Subramaniyan, founder, Sri Arunodayam Charitable Trust, Kolathur. “As he could speak only Odiya, we got a volunteer who knew the language to speak to him.” Since Lokshan only knew the name of his village in Odisha – Badagochha – Iyyappan’s team got in touch with the police station there. “When we got the call from the NGO in Chennai, we immediately made enquiries and were able to trace his family,” says Kumar Pradhan, inspector in-charge, Sorada police station. “His father had died and mother is ill but we were able to contact his brother Ranjan Nayak, who was happy that his brother was alive and well.” Ranjan, 21, had almost given up hope of reuniting with his brother. “We both came to the south in search of work. I was working in Ernakulam, Kerala, for a road contractor, and my brother in a canteen in Coimbatore. When the pandemic broke out, and migrants began heading back to their hometowns, I was able to get on board a bus and go back to Odisha. Though I tried contacting my brother I couldn’t.” “We spoke to all the officials and Lokshan’s family members before handing him over to his brother,” says N Ramachandran, chairman of Chengalpet CWC. The brothers, who were reunited in the presence of the CWC officials, left for their village on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/separated-during-the-lockdown-odisha-boy-reunited-with-family/articleshow/80372685.cms||Priya Menon
January 21, 2021||Goa||HC sets aside conviction of teacher in 2011 assault case||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa has set aside the conviction of art teacher Kanhaiya Naik, who was sentenced by the children’s court to four years in jail for assaulting a 15-year-old girlwith the intent of outraging her modesty. The children’s court had held him guilty following a chargesheet filed by the Panaji police. The prosecution had stated that on December 29, 2011, the Ribandar-based accused had “wrongfully confined” the teen in his flat and had sexually abused her. It was alleged that the accused had destroyed evidence, including clothes and data in a camera and laptop, with the intention of evading punishment. The girl ended her life on July 27, 2012. “It has come on evidence that the spot of the incident was not shown by the victim. It is also not established that anybody had seen the accused taking the victim to his flat. The expectation from the accused that he should explain what had happened in the flat is unreasonable when his stand itself is that he had not taken the victim to his flat. What had happened in the flat cannot be expected to be explained by the accused,” Justice M S Jawalkar observed. “In the present matter, the prosecution has failed to establish beyond reasonable doubt that the child was in the custody of accused on December 29, 2011 and he is the only author of crime of which he is charged,” the court said.The children’s court judgment in 2017 had stated, “The accused, who is in the noble profession of teaching, has breached the trust of parents in him. The accused, by means of his acts, has taken advantage of his position as the teacher of the victim girl who was a minor from a poor and uneducated family.” The trial court had sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment (RI) for four years for an offence that was deemed punishable under section 354 of the IPC and to pay a fine of Rs 50,000.  The teacher was also directed to undergo RI for three years for an offence punishable under section 8(2) of the Children’s Act and to pay a fine of Rs 1 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-sets-aside-conviction-of-teacher-in-2011-assault-case/articleshow/80375571.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai CP gets top criminals to sign bonds for good behaviour up to Rs 50 lakh||MUMBAI: City police chief Param Bir Singh has embarked on an ambitious plan to rein in hardened criminals and habitual offenders. Accordingly, senior inspectors of every police station have prepared a list of “Top 25” criminals in their respective jurisdiction and made them sign a bond of good behaviour. The bond has existed, but it’s the first time Top 25 criminals are being targeted. However, the bond amount was only up to Rs 5,000 earlier. JCP (law and order) Vishwas Nangre Patil said, “As the bond amount was meagre, we have enhanced it and it now ranges from Rs 25,000 to Rs 50 lakh, depending on the annual income of the criminals.” Calling it the “biggest-ever exercise”, the top cop also said the results will be visible soon. Singh said, “We have involved the entire police force for this purpose. Our aim is to make Mumbai a crime-free capital.” We want to make city crime-free, says top copJCP Nangre Patil said the exercise had been completed in record time and lists of 3,043 criminals from 94 police stations had been prepared with their entire history. “Now, we have the data as well as specific information on their last crime and whether they were convicted or acquitted.” He added, “We checked the annual income of these criminals as well as their income-tax returns and felt if the bond amount is high, they will rethink about committing a crime again. In one case in the Mahim police station jurisdiction, the bond amount of Rs 15 lakh was forfeited after the criminal breached bond conditions.” He said a special drive was launched for the purpose under Section 110 of the CrPC. He said bonds are taken under sections 110, 109, 108 and 107 of the CrPC. The assistant commissioner of police of a division, who is also the executive magistrate, has powers to get the bond signed by a criminal. Under Section 110, a criminal has to give an assurance for good behaviour. This assurance is taken from habitual offenders, robbers, house-breakers, forgers, criminals dealing in stolen properties, those harbouring thieves, kidnappers, those involved in extortion, cheating or mischief, drugs and foreign exchange violation. “The bond is executed with sureties for good behaviour for such a period which will not exceed three years or as the ACP deems it fit,’’ a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mum-cp-gets-top-criminals-to-sign-bonds-for-good-behaviour-up-to-rs-50-lakh/articleshow/80376291.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
January 21, 2021||Delhi||New dashboard to monitor bad-air fight||NEW DELHI: A new dashboard to track the progress made under National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) was launched on Wednesday. The dashboard, set up jointly by CarbonCopy and Respirer Living Sciences, was launched as part of a webinar organised by Initiative Climate Trends, which took stock of the progress made so far to combat air pollution across the country. NCAP addresses air pollution in 122 non-attainment cities, which do not meet the annual national standards for PM 2.5 concentration. Experts during the webinar said that “the Union budget is a good opportunity to allocate adequate funds to combat air pollution.” The new dashboard, which can be accessed at https://ncap.carboncopy.info/caaqms/, will not only list daily data, but also allow users to draw comparisons between seasonal, monthly and annual averages and even examine hyper local monitoring by zooming into specific cities and neighbourhoods to identify polluted pockets. In addition to PM 2.5 and PM 10 data, readings for nitrogen dioxide, ozone and carbon monoxide will also be available on the new website. The clean air programme was launched in 2019. “It is a 5-year plan with a target to reduce 20-30% PM2.5 and 10 by 2024. The measures being taken now are aimed at increasing accountability,” said Prof SN Tripathi, HoD, Civil Engineering at IIT Kanpur and nodal officer of National Knowledge Network that has been set up as an advisory board to guide central-and state-level pollution control boards in implementing NCAP. India’s air pollution problem has been complex due to a range of polluting sources at play. Even during the lockdown in 2020, studies showed that out of eight major polluting sources, only four were shut down—vehicles, industrial activity, brick kilns and construction activity. Power plants were operational at reduced capacity, while household cooking, open burning and diesel generators all added up to ensure that even in the best case scenario, India’s background pollution levels ranged from 20-30 micrograms per cubic metre. According to WHO, the clean air level is 10 micrograms per cubic metre. Dr Santosh Harish, a Fellow at Centre for Policy Research, said, “The budget is an opportunity for India to show commitment towards its fight against pollution. We would like to have support to the Finance Commission grants for air quality improvement, increased budgets under NCAP, clarity on funding of commission for air quality management and further investments in clean household fuels.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-dashboard-to-monitor-bad-air-fight/articleshow/80375600.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
January 21, 2021||Delhi||Member of Bawania gang arrested for murder bid, robbery||NEW DELHI: A 28-year-old carjacker-cum-robber, an active member of the Neeraj Bawania gang, has been arrested. With this arrest, police claimed to have solved a case of attempt to murder and a robbery case. The accused has been identified as Manjeet alias Mangal, a resident of Bahadurgarh in Haryana who has been involved in at least half a dozen criminal cases, said police. A countrymade pistol and a Swift Dzire car, which was stolen recently, have been seized from him. On Monday, the cops received a message about the theft of the car from Bawana. A hunt was launched and, around 2pm on Tuesday, a policeman spotted a similar car behind Smriti Van in Narela. It was found to be the one stolen from Bawana. Additional deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Ghanshyam Bansal said that as soon as a police team approached the car and tried to open one of its doors, the driver tried to speed off. “Police started chasing the car. The driver stopped the vehicle after a short chase at a road behind Febris Hospital and got off to run away,” the officer said. As the cops continued to chase him, the man pulled out a pistol and opened fire at the police team, said Bansal. “On this, our team also opened fire in the air and then fired one shot targeting the suspect’s foot. He soon surrendered and was overpowered,” the additional DCP said. The man revealed his identity as Manjeet alias Mangal, an active member of the Neeraj Bawania Gang. Manjeet also confessed that he and his associates had stolen the car from Bawana, claimed Bansal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/member-of-bawania-gang-arrested-for-murder-bid-robbery/articleshow/80374173.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Chennai||‘VCK has choice, but no pressure to contest under DMK symbol’||irming up of alliances in the run-up to an election is usually vexatious for parties. It is doubly so for Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi Thol Thirumavalavan. With animosity running deep between him and the PMK, it is normally a nail-biting wait to see if his arch-rival would figure in the alliance he is a part of. This time, too, it’s no different for the leader of the dalit party who has chosen the DMK’s side.Amid speculation that the PMK may open up back-channel negotiations with the DMK, the VCK president, in an interview with Jaya Menon, said, "There is no chance of us being in the same alliance as the PMK." On contesting on the DMK’s ‘rising sun’ symbol, he said there is no pressure from the alliance leader; it’s a choice as sometimes taking a new symbol to voters just days ahead of an election would be difficult. Excerpts:Q: How many seats do you hope to get in the DMK-led alliance?That will be decided after negotiations. Seat-sharing will be done to ensure that the alliance’s victory is ensured. It’s not just the number of seats; we have to ensure that the social and ideological basis of the alliance is protected. The priority is to resist Hindutva forces. Q: Is there pressure to contest on the DMK’s ‘rising sun’ symbol?We don’t see it as pressure. Contesting on an independent symbol and taking it to the people will be difficult when we are likely to get the symbol only 10 to 14 days ahead of the election. Kamal Haasan got the ‘torch’ symbol saying he would be contesting 234 constituencies. But we are part of an alliance and for unrecognised parties they release the symbols at the eleventh hour. It is only a suggestion from them (the DMK) to take their symbol as it would be an advantage.In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, DMK allotted two seats for us. I was pitted against an AIADMK candidate in Chidambaram and my other candidate (D Ravikumar) in Villupuram was facing a PMK candidate. I chose an independent symbol. But in Villupuram, we contested on the DMK symbol as the PMK’s caste campaign was intense and malicious. This election too, there is such a suggestion. We will consider it, but we would not lose our individuality. Q: You have always had to wait by until the DMK decided on the PMK …Whichever party leads an alliance has to consider the winning chances. There is a logic to (the DMK) considering the PMK. The VCK cannot get emotional about it. We don’t think it is unfair. That is politics. We have clarity on that. Q: Are you aware of DMK leader S Duraimurugan opening channels of communication with the PMK this time too?Even if they have done that and keep us as a last option, we are not bothered. We have the freedom to make a choice, to protect our individuality and dignity. Q: In 2011, you attempted an unusual alliance with the PMK, the People’s Democratic Alliance. Today, would you consider such a move?There is no chance of us being in the same alliance as the PMK. There are no second thoughts about that.Q: Is caste politics adding to divisiveness in TN?Yes, it is. We are against caste politics. We are trying to identify such parties and among them are the PMK and the BJP. They are dangerous forces. The BJP’s strategy is to break the unity of the other backward classes and dalits.Q: What do you think is the implication of the PMK’s demand for internal reservation for vanniyars?They are trying to consolidate the vanniyar vote bank and appease their community. It’s a pressure tactic to get more seats from the AIADMK, a political drama they enact every election. It is an impractical demand and blackmail politics. We are not opposed to the vanniyar community or its demand. We are only exposing the PMK leadership’s duplicity.Q: The war cry for Eelam, one of your favourite themes, has gone silent …It is true that the issue has gone quiet. Yet it is still part of our agenda.Q: How successful have you been in consolidating dalit votes in TN since you launched your party in 1982?We are an inevitable force. We may not have contested on our own, but we have consolidated the dalit votes and supportive sections, including the minorities and tribals. In the 2009 Lok Sabha election, we were part of the DMK-led alliance. The only other constituent was the Congress. All other parties were on the AIADMK side. There was a huge backlash against the DMK-Congress (UPA government) on the Sri Lanka issue. But despite that we had a resounding victory and the VCK’s contribution was significant. In 1999, when we were part of the G K Moopanar-led third front for the Lok Sabha election, in Chidambaram constituency, I polled 2.25 lakh votes. In the 2001 assembly election, the VCK was with the DMK and it won five of the nine constituencies in Cuddalore district. Kalaignar (M Karunanidhi) thanked us and said they won because of our support.In 2004, we contested as part of a coalition of small parties besides the Puthiya Thamizhagam. Only the VCK got 2.56 lakh votes in Chidambaram. In the 2011 assembly election, both the PMK and the VCK were on the DMK’s side, but we did not fare well. It was because of the anti-2G wave and that people did not accept the PMK being part of our alliance. But PMK leader S Ramadoss told me then that they won three seats because there was transfer of dalit votes. This is how we consolidated the dalit vote bank.Q: How do you see the future of your party?Besides electoral politics, we are focusing on social issues such as discrimination against women and casteism. Culturally and socially, we are fighting Hindutva forces. We will build our party on ideological lines and strengthen it further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/vck-has-choice-but-no-pressure-to-contest-under-dmk-symbol/articleshow/80374157.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Kochi||Vaccination drive in Kerala: Vaccine for the public only after Onam||KOCHI: With the nationwide vaccination drive amongst healthcare workers (HCWs) providing a glimmer of hope that the free rein of the coronavirus may finally come to a halt in India, now there is curiosity in the minds of the common man about when they will be vaccinated. However, from what health experts say – at the present pace of the vaccination drive – it will be only post-Onam that the vaccination drive for the general public will start in the state. And to cover 60% of the population, it may take a year or two, depending on the doses that reach the state. “Provided everything goes well, then the common man will start getting vaccinated after August and the vaccination drive may go beyond 2021. However, a lot will depend on how fast and in how much capacity the vaccines are made available to the state,” said public health expert Dr S S Lal, who has worked with the World Health Organization earlier. “Given that the state has set aside only four days a week for vaccination, Kerala has to deliver at least 1 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines per day to cover 60% of the population in two years. For it to vaccinate at least 60% population in one year, the daily doses should reach 2 lakh,” said health economist Rijo M John. The state has so far received 7.94 lakh doses of the vaccine from the Central government. The vaccination drive amongst the HCWs is expected to get over by mid-February. Meanwhile, the state government has started registration of the frontline workers (FLWs) who are engaged in Covid-19 containment, surveillance and associated activities. After FLWs, the population above 50 years of age and those below 50 with co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, cancer, lung diseases, etc. would be vaccinated and then the general public. At the present vaccination rate, it will take 154 months to cover 20% of the state’s population and vaccinate with two doses, 461 months of cover 60% and 691 months to cover 90% of the population. However, sources said that by March end there will be more vaccines available in the country, ensuring increased production and delivery. “When there is availability, based on priority everyone will get it. It is difficult to give a particular date or month. It will depend on the doses made available to us by the government of India,” said Dr Rathan U Kelkar, state mission director, National Health Mission. Incidentally, though the Kerala government has been exploring “various collaboration possibilities for vaccine production”, it may not immediately happen. The chief minister had promised people in the state that the vaccine will be given free of cost here. “No vaccine is registered yet and therefore not available for purchase at the moment,” said Dr Jacob John T, who is heading the state committee to explore the possibility of having a vaccine development unit in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/vaccine-for-the-public-only-after-onam/articleshow/80372707.cms||Preetu Nair
January 21, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Green nod to tower above Bhikaji Cama Metro Station||NEW DELHI: A joint committee, comprising experts from Central Pollution Control Board, IIT-Delhi and Delhi Pollution Control Committee, has found that the proposed project for constructing a commercial tower with four floors at Bhikaji Cama Place by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation “seems reasonable and viable on environmental accounts.” The panel had conducted an environment impact assessment (EIA) and carrying capacity studies. National Green Tribunal in August last year had said that EIA and carrying capacity studies should be conducted before the construction begins above Bhikaji Cama Place Metro Station. The proposed project is a commercial tower having four floors above ground floor with a total built-up area to the tune of 18,436 square metres. The joint committee, which recently submitted its report on the project to NGT, said as the proposed project is a commercial complex only having visitors or employees, it is not expected to result in an increase in the population of the area. The report (a copy is with TOI) said the impact of air pollution generated at the project site on the nearby residential colonies and on the traffic pattern of the area would be marginal. The committee in its report observed that figures on water demand would exert marginal increase on the existing water supply system of the area. A plea filed in the green tribunal had opposed the project and alleged that “the proposed construction of a commercial complex above the underground Bhikaji Cama Place Metro Station by the DMRC was designated as district park/green belt as per the Delhi Master Plan, 2021. In 2012, some open land (district park) was transferred to the DMRC, which was to be redeveloped after completion of the construction work. Construction work has been completed but instead of redeveloping the park, the DMRC has proposed to develop it as commercial complex against the environment norms and public trust doctrine requiring the park to be maintained as such.” However, DMRC had responded saying that the land allotted was subject to land-use change for which an application had been moved to Delhi Development Authority. The report said the approval from DDA for land use change was yet to be received. The report shows that clearances and NOCs from other agencies for layout plan, sewerage, water supply, etc, are awaited. In its report, the committee recommended that the project proponent must ensure that all necessary permission or approvals are obtained and valid. “An undertaking may be submitted that no groundwater will be extracted during the construction phase. Before dewatering (if needed) during construction, NOC may also be obtained from the District Advisory Committee on Ground Water. During construction and occupancy phase of the project, all environmental norms and proposed mitigation measures should be strictly adhered to by the project proponent,” recommended the committee. The committee said in the report that the recommendations would be withdrawn or cancelled automatically in case size of the project was enhanced or proposed mitigation measures were not implemented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/green-nod-to-tower-above-bhikaji-cama-metro-station/articleshow/80375893.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
January 21, 2021||Kochi||Second consignment of vaccine for Kerala arrives||KOCHI: The second consignment of Covid-19 vaccine for Ernakulam and Kozhikode regions reached Kochi by air on Wednesday. There were 12 boxes of vaccine to Ernakulam and nine boxes to Kozhikode. While Ernakulam received 1.47 lakh doses of the Covishield vaccine, Kozhikode received 1.04 lakh doses. Besides, one box of vaccine to Lakshadweep region too reached the Cochin International Airport Ltd in the GoAir flight from Mumbai around 11am. Officials of health department were waiting with refrigerated trucks to transport the vaccine to Ernakulam and Kozhikode. It took less than 15 minutes for the trucks to leave the airport after receiving the vaccines. The box to Lakshadweep was transferred to Pawan Hans helicopter directly from the flight’s belly and it departed immediately. The vaccines to Kozhikode were sent in refrigerated truck with police escort. The vaccines to Ernakulam were shifted to the regional vaccine storage facility at Ernakulam General Hospital with police escort. Of the additionally sanctioned vaccine, Ernakulam will get 59,000 doses. Out of this, 56,910 doses will be used to inoculate officials working in state health sector while 1,070 doses will be given to officials of the central health department. The figures for other districts in Ernakulam region are: Idukki (7,500), Kottayam (24,000), Palakkad (25,500), Thrissur (31,000). In Kozhikode region, Kannur will receive 26,500 doses, followed by Kasaragod (5,500), Kozhikode (33,000), Malappuram (25,000), and Wayanad (14,000). The vaccine boxes for Thiruvananthapuram region, for districts Kollam (21,000), Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha (19,000 each) and Thiruvananthapuram (50,500), reached Thiruvananthapuram airport on Wednesday evening. The vaccines to each district will be shifted to respective vaccination centres in the coming days. On Wednesday a total of 3,60,500 doses of vaccines was received by Kerala from the Centre. With this the total doses of vaccine received by the state has become 7,94,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/second-consignment-of-vaccine-for-state-arrives/articleshow/80372740.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra allows on-the-spot vaccination of registered beneficiaries||PUNE: A healthcare worker whose name is already in the CoWIN database will now be eligible for on-the-spot vaccination even if it's not his or her turn that day. The decision to open up the vaccination drives was made by the state after the Union government allowed site administrators to inoculate unscheduled beneficiaries. "For this to happen, a healthcare worker's name should already be registered in the CoWIN app. On-the-spot vaccination of registered healthcare workers is allowed, but not on-the-spot registration," said state immunization officer Dileep Patil. Maharashtra has approximately 12 lakh healthcare workers (HCWs) — seven lakh in the private sector and five lack in the public sector. From this number, details of 7,85,927 healthcare workers are currently in the CoWIN app. These are HCWs who submitted Aadhar/Pan card details voluntarily as nowhere in the country is a Covid vaccine compulsory. "Registration is a pre-requisite. A non-registered healthcare worker is not permitted on-the-spot vaccination," Patil added. The move is expected to increase the pace of vaccinations in the state. There have been several instances of beneficiaries not turning up at sites. Their slots will now be filled by others in queue. "The head of the designated hospital-cum-vaccination site can now pick beneficiaries who are either working with them or are in the vicinity at the time of the drive," Patil said. Also, healthcare workers working at public/private hospitals had submitted their details to their bosses, who in turn had given the data to their respective civic bodies. "So since the facilities have their own lists, site administrators can call up their employees for vaccination if their names are already registered in the CoWIN app," Patil said. Sanjay Patil, former vice president of the Indian Medical Association's state chapter, said, "This is a pragmatic approach as there are many healthcare workers who are waiting for their turn. This will boost the vaccination in the state."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maharashtra-allows-on-the-spot-vaccination-of-registered-beneficiaries/articleshow/80375569.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 21, 2021||Chennai||‘Form panel to study depletion of groundwater in four weeks’||Chennai: The Madras high court on Wednesday directed the state government to constitute an expert committee to study the reasons for depletion of groundwater and suggest measures to recharge it. The first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Santhilkumar Ramamoorthy issued the interim directions on a public interest writ petition to stop indiscriminate extraction of groundwater in Tamil Nadu. Noting that the courts may not be the appropriate forum to take a call on such matters, given their lack of expertise, the bench said: “Because of lack of expertise in this area, we may do more harm. Let us not make any pretences, we know nothing.” In view of the suggestion, advocate general Vijay Narayan on Wednesday informed the court that the state is considering appointing an expert panel which in turn will constitute a committee comprising experts from Anna University and IIT-M. Recording the same, the bench directed the government to constitute the committee in four weeks. On January 4, when the plea came up for admission, the court highlighted the need for some scientific study on the issue with experts roped in. The court further observed that these are long-term concerns which would extend beyond the five-year term of a ruling regime. “The matter is of some importance as it pertains to groundwater and recharging of groundwater,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/form-panel-to-study-depletion-of-groundwater-in-four-weeks/articleshow/80372726.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 21, 2021||Nagpur||Partially blind teen moves HC as MBBS admission quashed||Nagpur: A partially blind boy has approached the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court challenging the State Common Entrance Test (CET) Cell’s decision to cancel his MBBS admission in Lokmanya Tilak Medical College in Mumbai. While issuing notices to the respondents, a division bench comprising Justice Nitin Jamdar and Justice Anil Kilor on Wednesday granted interim relief to the petitioner by directing CET Cell not to fill up the seat till the petition’s pendency. After clearing National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET), Anwar Ahmed was granted admission in the Mumbai college by CET Cell on November 16. He had already submitted all relevant documents, including disability certificate, with the authorities. On January 12, the CET Cell issued a show cause notice to the petitioner through e-mail asking him to remain personally present in its Mumbai office or submit reply via e-mail on why his admission shouldn’t be cancelled for non-submission of disability certificate from a designated centre as specified in NEET (UG)-2020 information bulletin. The petitioner noticed the CET Cell communication only the next day (January 13) and sought legal advise from his counsel Mohammed Ateeque. He also contacted the cell office and informed authorities there that he would submit the reply via e-mail by the evening. Even after submission of his reply on January 13, his admission was cancelled on the pretext that he neither appeared before the cell authorities nor filed reply to the show cause notice. Subsequently, the teenager knocked the judiciary’s doors stating that the communication on cancellation of his admission is discriminatory and arbitrary. He contended that despite informing CET Cell that he would submit his reply by January 13 evening and completing the formalities, cancellation of his admission is gross violation of Article 256 of the Constitution of India. According to him, he was suffering from the benchmark disability, specified in the provisions of Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. Therefore, his disability certificate for low vision issued by Akola Government Medical College and Hospital on May 12, 2017, is valid. This certificate remains permanent and valid for all purposes as per the Act, he said. Praying for quashing CET Cell’s decision to cancel his admission, Anwar stated he is ready to appear before any of the designated disability centres mentioned in the NEET bulletin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/partially-blind-teen-moves-hc-as-mbbs-admission-quashed/articleshow/80376467.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 21, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Rs 10-lakh development incentive to RWAs for segregating waste||NEW DELHI: To motivate residents segregate household waste, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has proposed to spend up to Rs 10 lakh for development work in areas where residents welfare associations (RWAs) are doing 100% segregation as per the solid waste management norms. The standing committee chairman, Rajdutt Gahlot, has proposed allocation of Rs 5 crore in the 2021-22 budget for the project. “Though it needs the House’s nod before implementation, such projects are important to motivate people and automatically help in improving our Swachhta ranking,” he said. To identify such RWAs, SDMC plans to collect daily reports from the concessionaire picking door-to-door waste, Gahlot added. TimesViewSegregating household waste is eco-friendly behavior because it helps in recycling. Allocating money to RWAs already engaged in this practice will further encourage them and perhaps nudge those who aren’t already doing it to adopt the practice. Municipal bodies should spend more money in promoting such positive endeavours.“The proposal includes incentivising RWAs in residential areas, group housing societies and even DDA pockets. We will do only those tasks demanded by an RWA and no fund or cash will be transferred,” he said. SDMC has also been felicitating RWAs doing good segregation work under the Swachh Survekshan campaign. Last year, SDMC had ranked 31 out of 47 cities. “Felicitating RWAs through competitions is part of the campaign and persuades others to contribute in keeping their area neat and clean,” said an official. For example, the RWA of Sector 7 Dwarka has got a small cash prize for arranging segregation of even biomedical waste generated at households. The environment management services department said the segregation was made compulsory two years ago but the compliance had been comparatively low. “We have selected 58 wards to ensure 100% segregation and processing of waste. So far, 60-70% people are contributing to the cause,’ said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rs-10-lakh-development-incentive-to-rwas-for-segregating-waste/articleshow/80374192.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: TSWC MD, GM caught accepting bribe||HYDERABAD: ACB sleuths arrested two top officials of Telangana State Warehousing Corporation (TSWC) for demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 75,000 from the complainant to process some of his retirement benefits including general provident fund (GPF) and gratuity. The accused are V Bhaskara Chary, managing director of TSWC and M Sudhakar Reddy, superintending engineer & general manager of TSWC for demanding and accepting Rs 75,000 bribe from the complainant, B Sundar Lal, 61, a retired warehouse manager, Grade-I. The accused demanded the bribe to release Sundar Lal’s retirement benefits, which included GPF, GIS and gratuity. According to ACB officials, the accused initially demanded Rs 1 lakh bribe from the complainant but later agreed to accept Rs 75,000. On Wednesday, Sundar Lal gave the bribe amount to Sudhakar Reddy at the latter’s office in Nampally and the ACB team caught him red handed. The bribe amount was seized from Reddy’s possession. As per ACB’s official statement, Reddy demanded and accepted the bribe on the instructions of Bhaskara Chary, who is also holding full additional charge of the MD Hyderabad Agriculture Co-operative Association and MD Telangana State Markfed posts. According to ACB sources, the complainant himself was trapped by ACB in 2013 in a bribery case and was subsequently reinstated in 2015. As the departmental action recommended against him by the government is still pending, the complainant did not get his retirement benefits yet. ACB arrested both the accused and started searches at their houses in LB Nagar and Chaitanyapuri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tswc-md-gm-caught-accepting-bribe/articleshow/80374198.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Kolkata||The real millionaire: West Bengal man gives Rs 1 crore plot for fire station||SABONG (WEST MIDNAPORE): Moloy Das, the owner of a steel fabrication unit and a resident of Dandurda village in Sabong, has donated a 0.4-acre plot worth Rs 1 crore, to set up a fire station in Bonai — an adjacent village — to meet a long-standing demand of the locals. Earlier, Rajya Sabha MP Manas Bhuniya and MLA Gita Rani Bhuniya had proposed to build the fire station for the rural belt. After hearing about the proposal, Das felt a sense of duty to donate his land for the betterment of the region. “In September 2, the land was handed over to the district administration. And on Wednesday, CM Mamata Banerjee laid the foundation stone for the fire station from the administrative meeting in Purulia,” said Gita Rani Bhuniya. “At 63, I have managed to earn a decent living through running a business. Among my three daughters, the youngest one is studying in a college. After the Bhuniyas proposed to set up a fire station, I discussed the need of the villagers with my family members. We all agreed that setting up a fire station would allow us to thwart major incidents, save property and lives. Hence, we decided to donate the plot. Thereafter, I contacted the local administration, expressing our desire to give up the land,” said Das. He added, “I was inspired by my grandfather, who had made similar donations. He had gifted plots on which a high school and post office were built. Earlier, I had donated another plot for setting up a primary school to cater to the children of my village.” Das plans to donate another plot and contribute towards building a hospital that will serve the villagers and meet the health crisis. “I have no political affiliation. However, I have always believed in serving my countrymen in every little way,” he said. The fire station will serve six blocks. The state government has allotted Rs 3.5 crore to build the fire station. Manas Bhuniya said: “I am elated that Das has voluntarily offered his plot. The fire station will help a large number of villagers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/the-real-millionaire-man-gives-rs-1cr-plot-for-fire-stn/articleshow/80372742.cms||Sujoy Khanra
January 21, 2021||Nagpur||State plays safe on Centre’s ‘70 deg C for 3 secs formula’||Nagpur: A communication to the state’s animal husbandry department from the Centre mentions that heating poultry meat or eggs for just three seconds at 70 degrees Celsius is enough to kill the avian flu virus. This has gone to the departments in other states too, said sources. Even as it was also meant to be spread as general awareness, officials want to be on safer side so that the three second theory is not misunderstood by taking it literally. The communication based on scientific evidence was sent to the state’s animal husbandry department over a couple of days ago. Sources say this was to stress that the virus is so fragile that it could be easily killed by heating the meat or eggs at 70 degrees for three seconds. Since the scare began, the department has been issuing daily reports on birds’ deaths and results from the National Institute of High Security Diseases (NISHAD), at Bhopal. The release also regularly mentions that it is perfectly safe to eat cooked meat or eggs boiled at 70 degrees Celsius. The Monday’s release which also had these lines also mentioned that avian flu virus gets inactivated at a temperature of 70 degrees in three seconds. “However, this must be taken in the right sense. It means that the virus should come into contact with heat for three seconds. Suppose the virus is in the inner core of the egg then heat must reach till there. This applies for meat also,” said an official. Considering this on Tuesday the release simply mentioned that properly cooked chicken and boiled eggs are safe for human consumption. The release also appeals people to not consume half cooked meat or eggs. This will ensure that the consumers to do not remain rest assured and properly heat the food, a source said. The scare has taken a major toll on the industry. The rates of live birds have come down to Rs40 a kg. Farmers say it needs to be at least Rs80 to meet the expenses. After samples from farms near Butibori and Gadchiroli tested positive, more poultry deaths were reported on Wednesday. The two were the first cases of avian flu reported in the region. The birds and eggs of the farms have been culled. At the same time samples from the farm in Lingta village in Yavatmal where over 900 birds have died, tested negative, said officials in the department. “Samples of other farms in the region too have tested negative,” said a senior official. Reports of the samples taken from another farm in Yavatmal where 3,700 birds have died are awaited. On Wednesday, Amravati reported 50 poultry deaths apart from 96 and 102 in Nagpur and Wardha districts respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-plays-safe-on-centres-70-deg-c-for-3-secs-formula/articleshow/80376473.cms||Shishir Arya
January 21, 2021||Kolkata||New alignment proposed for flyover to New Town||Kolkata: The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) has suggested slight modifications in the alignment of the proposed EM Bypass-New Town flyover so that its alignment can move parallel to that of the Metro in Salt Lake. Officials said that in the previously proposed alignment, the flyover was supposed to go over the Central Road median after turning right from Nicco Park. As per the proposal, instead of moving over the median the alignment has now been proposed to move over the pavement on the west. Officials said this would help the flyover to have a wider carriageway which will help motorists to take the turn while moving on the flyover with more road space at the Nicco Park crossing. KMDA engineers are in touch with RVNL authorities to finalize the proposed flyover alignment, officials said, as the Metro alignment is coming up over Salt Lake Bypass and the proposed flyover will be moving parallel to the Metro alignment. According to plans, the flyover that will be about 6km long, will take off near the Metropolitan crossing and will move over Chingrighata, Salt Lake Bypass and Sector V, bypassing the Nalban wetlands before finally ending at New Town. A provision has been made for entry and exit ramps on the flyover in Sector V. The project cost has been pegged at over Rs 600 crore. KMDA had earlier submitted a detailed project report of the proposed flyover to the state Public Works Department (PWD) for technical scrutiny and to finalize the technical modalities.KMDA officials said that it was necessary for the EM Bypass-New Town flyover to be completed at the earliest as the existing Chingrighata flyover, which is in poor condition, needs to be demolished.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-alignment-proposed-for-flyover-to-new-town/articleshow/80372746.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 21, 2021||Kolkata||Cov protocol marks Sikh Guru birth anniv||Kolkata: The gurdwaras in the city arranged for special prayers and langars on Wednesday to celebrate the 354th birth anniversary of the 10th Sikh Guru, Guru Govind Singh. While the readings from the Granth Sahib filled the air the whole day, pages from Sikh history were referred to and his contributions and sacrifices were remembered. Behala Gurdwara, Sant Kutiya, Jagat Sudhar Gurdwara, Dunlop Gurdwara and Garcha Gurdwara saw a large number of members from the community and also those from the Hindu Punjabi and Sindhi communities turn up for prayers and offerings. All the gurdwaras had been sanitized and social distancing was maintained through time slots as masked devotees came in disciplined queues to pray for peace. Since only a few devotees could be at the spot to participate this year, live streaming was organized from the gurdwaras.“We sang kirtans alongside sessions of Gurmat Vichaar and recitations from Guru Granth Sahib. True to the spirit of sewa that drives us not only on Guru Purab but every day of our lives, we arranged for langar (community kitchen) to feed all,” said Satnam Ahluwalia, general secretary of Behala Gurdwara.“For the elderly, it was not safe to step out like every year and this virtual participation brought smiles on their faces as they chanted along from home, while watching the event on their screens,” said Dasmeshbir Singh Sondhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-protocol-marks-sikh-guru-birth-anniv/articleshow/80372753.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 21, 2021||Pune||‘Covid endemic if positivity rate in Maharashtra stays at 5.5% till February-end’||PUNE: The weekly test positivity rate for Covid-19 in the state, if it continues to hold at the current 5.5% till February-end, will cause the pandemic to enter the endemic stage, a top public health official has said. State surveillance expert Dr Pradeep Awate said the decreasing weekly positivity rate in the state was a "good sign". He said if current levels hold, Covid-19 will join a list of other diseases that occur sporadically in the population, at a much lower rate of occurrence than what it's at now. The weekly positivity rate in the state for the past two weeks of January has been less than 6%. Dr Awate said, “The first and second weeks of January registered a test positivity rate of 5.3%. It's a good sign for the state. In December too, the level was below 10%. According to this week's chart, nearly 12 state districts have had a positivity rate below 5% - Kolhapur had the lowest at 1.2%." But he added precautions and interventions such as masks, distancing and vaccines can improve the situation even more. “If the number of new cases continues to drop and if positivity rate slips below the 5% mark, we should be entering an endemic situation. But for that to happen, we should keep our guard up and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour," Dr Awate said. On Wednesday, the state registered 3,015 new cases with 95% recovery. There were 46,769 active cases and the fatality rate of Covid was at 2.5%. Dr Awate said most districts were seeing a drop in critical numbers. Hingoli, for example, had only 112 patients undergoing treatment - the lowest active count in the state. Dr Subhash Salunke, the state technical expert on Covid-19, said a combination of vaccines and precautions will generate a certain level of herd immunity in the population. “Viral infections, particularly in the form of outbreaks, have high and low points. Right now we are at a low point. But that doesn't mean it will stay low. Social distancing and vaccinations must continue," he said. He also warned that outbreaks among the large number of still vulnerable people could trigger new spikes. "So we need to stay cautious and ensure vaccinations continue. The country still has a large vulnerable population," he said. Dr Samiran Panda, head of the ICMR's Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases Division said the transition to endemicity - a stage in which a disease is confined to certain geographies - can be achieved if prevention and vaccinations are kept up. “Covid appropriate behaviour which means distancing and masking, followed by vaccinations among the priority group, can all play important roles towards herd immunity in the population. All these put together can break transmission," Dr Panda said. He added that viruses always require a host to transmit. "A balanced symbiotic relationship develops over a period of time as viruses go from an epidemic existence to an endemic one, with less virulence potential. Respiratory viruses in particular, through this process, attain relevance as seasonal outbreak-causing organisms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-endemic-if-positivity-rate-stays-at-5-5-till-feb-end/articleshow/80375671.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man arrested for sending obscene messages||HYDERABAD: A 30-year-old cook, who works in a fast food centre, was arrested by Rachakonda police on Wednesday for allegedly sending obscene photographs and messages to a woman. According to police, C Shyam obtained the number of the woman from his sister’s contact list two months back. As the victim did not respond to his calls, Shyam started sending obscene content to her. Cyber crime police nabbed Shyam at Turkapally and sent him to judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-arrested-for-sending-obscene-messages/articleshow/80374224.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Delhi||Thieves in PPE kits loot jewellery store in southeast Delhi||NEW DELHI: A group of thieves, wearing PPE kits, sneaked into a jewellery showroom in southeast Delhi’s Kalkaji on Wednesday and allegedly fled with items worth crores of rupees. The burglars made their way into the shop from the roof early in the morning, police said. Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) R P Meena said the showroom owner was yet to tell the cops the exact worth of the stolen items. A case has been registered at Kalkaji police station, he added. According to police, the burglary came to light when the owner of the three-storey jewellery showroom at Block H in Kalkaji reached his store around 11am. After finding that the showroom had been ransacked, he immediately called police. A team of senior officers soon reached the spot and the area was cordoned off. Forensics experts were also called to collect evidence. Initial probe revealed that the thieves had entered the shop through the roof. “CCTV camera footage show only one thief inside the shop and we are yet to determine the number of his associates. Efforts are being made to identify the suspect in the footage,” said a senior officer. Police are checking the dossier of other active criminals involved in similar cases. The footage from nearby stretches are also being checked to trace the route that the suspects had taken to flee after the burglary. Multiple teams have been formed to crack the case and arrest the suspects, said DCP Meena. Watch Delhi: Thieves in PPE kits strike at jewellery store in Kalkaji||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/thieves-in-ppe-kits-loot-jewellery-store-in-southeast-delhi/articleshow/80374229.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Nagpur||Govt to take action in Bhandara hospital tragedy today: Tope||Nagpur: The state government is likely to take action against Bhandara district general hospital’s erring staff and the agency providing technical support to it on Thursday. State public health minister Rajesh Tope told TOI in an SMS reply on Wednesday that action would be taken “tomorrow”.Tope was responding to TOI’s query on submission of report and when the action would be taken in the hospital’s Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) tragedy on January 9 when 10 premature babies died in a fire.On Wednesday morning, state public health minister sprang a surprise by claiming that the report was not submitted. In a statement issued in Mumbai in the morning, Tope claimed, “The report has not been submitted to the public health department. Health commissioner wasn’t there yesterday. I feel he would hand it over to the health secretary today. The department shall deliberate over the report. After this, it will be shown to CM and deputy CM. As per their directives after they see it, whatever action has to be taken, we shall take. The report would be taken seriously,” he said. The report was also not tabled in Wednesday’s cabinet meeting despite assurances by cabinet ministers visiting the hospital soon after the tragedy. Tope separately briefed the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy CM Ajit Pawar after the meeting.On Thursday, Tope is likely to brief home minister Anil Deshmukh, sources said.Police are likely to file an FIR in the fire case which so far is being probed as an accidental case under Sec 174 of the CrPC. The police had been waiting for the expert committee to submit its report after which it was expected to get a go-ahead from the government for an FIR.Sources said once the discussion between Deshmukh and Tope is over, a decision on filing an FIR will been taken. On Wednesday, TOI had reported that the panel led by divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar has submitted the report. The panel members had completed it on Tuesday. Director of health services Dr Sadhana Tayade had personally handed over the report to health secretary Pradeep Vyas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-to-take-action-in-bhandara-hospital-tragedy-today-tope/articleshow/80374211.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 21, 2021||Nagpur||Bird flu rumours to attract FIR: Kedar||Nagpur: Minister of animal husbandry and dairy development Sunil Kedar has warned rumour-mongers against spreading misinformation and giving unscientific views on the bird flu. The minister has warned of FIRs against rumour-mongering. The advent of the bird flu also triggered a deluge of misinformation, fake news and rumours related to the avian influenza and its related issues on social media. The panic seemed to have also hit the poultry and food industry hard as masses seemed to have followed the herd mentality to shun chicken and eggs from their routine life. Though Kedar tried to salvage the situation by throwing a challenge to the masses to prove it to him that human beings too have died after suffering from avian influenza by announcing a cash prize, the damage may not have been controlled. In his latest attempt to stem the rot, Kedar has now threatened to get offences registered against persons spreading rumours. “In March 2020, we arrested two persons for spreading rumours. One was picked up from Uttar Pradesh while the other was from Andhra Pradesh,” said Kedar. “This time too we are going to register an offence against mischief-mongers,” he added. Kedar also hinted that he may take up the issue with the police chief of different units across the state. The minister also said that he will urge the poultry farm owners’ body and associations to report any attempt to spread rumours targeting them to the police and lodge an FIR. “Some unscientific persons and mischief-mongers are unnecessary creating panic in the name of bird flu,” he said. “The ministry and respective departments are taking steps to tackle the situation and minimize the damage,” said the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bird-flu-rumours-to-attract-fir-kedar/articleshow/80376485.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 21, 2021||Goa||CEC arrives for site visits at Mollem||Panaji: The central-empowered committee (CEC) constituted by the Supreme Court arrived in Goa on Wednesday and they will start site inspections of the three infrastructure projects in Mollem from Thursday. The CEC consists of its chairman P V Jayakrishnan, member secretary Amarnatha Shetty, member Mahendra Vyas and amicus curiae A D N Rao. On January 21, the CEC will conduct site visit of proposed 4 lane NH-4A falling in Goa and Karnataka and the proposed alignment of Goa Tamnar Transmission Line in Kali Tiger Reserve and forest areas falling in Karnataka. This will be followed by discussions with officials from Karnataka government and project proponents. On January 22, the team will conduct a site inspection of the proposed doubling of railway line from Tinaghat to Kulem by rail inspection car. On January 23, the team will conduct site inspection of the proposed LILO of 1 ckt Goa Tamnar Transmission Line Project and visit to Mormugao Port Trust. This will be followed by discussion with officials of Goa government and project proponents. The CEC is conducting hearings in the complaint filed in the Supreme Court by Goa Foundation against the approvals granted to the infrastructure projects by the standing committee of the National Board of Wildlife (NBWL). The CEC, it is learnt, has so far conducted two hearings on the complaint. The three projects have led to widespread protests across the state, as the they cut through the dense Mollem forest that houses the biodiversity hotspot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cec-arrives-for-site-visits-at-mollem/articleshow/80375699.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cheating case against Tollywood actor for duping businessman||HYDERABAD: A cheating case has been booked against a Tollywood actor, his father and others for allegedly duping a businessman with a promise of delivering a car for 30 per cent discount. On January 8, Banjara Hills police received a complaint stating that in 2017, he had approached few persons, who were previously shown as accused, after coming to know that they were selling cars at a cheaper price. The complainant paid the money to the car sellers, who allegedly did not provide the vehicle documents. The case was later resolved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-cheating-case-against-tollywood-actor-for-duping-businessman/articleshow/80374221.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Greens protest move to clear 842 trees for Babasaheb Ambedkar Centenary Hospital expansion||MUMBAI: A total of 842 trees will be cleared for expansion of BMC’s Babasaheb Ambedkar Centenary Hospital in Kandivali (west) following environmental clearance for the project. Of the 842 trees, 149 trees will be hacked and 693 transplanted. Taking strong objection to the proposed axing of trees, greens have asked the civic body to look for alternate plots for the hospital. Activist Zoru Bhathena has submitted his objections to the BMC’s Tree Authority. “The said plot consists of 976 trees, of which 842 are proposed to be removed. Our tree cover is the best healer and removing nearly a 1,000 trees to construct a cement structure is self-defeating to the cause of maintaining public health,” he said. BMC had first floated the plan for creation of a new super-speciality hospital in 2019. The civic body had then called for suggestions and objections from the public on the hacking of trees. Bhathena had objected then too, pointing out the tree cover on the plot had already reduced. “It is seen from Google Earth images that the tree cover on this plot was dense green in January 2018, whereas in October 2018, the tree cover has been cleared on the eastern part of the plot. It appears the tree cover has been illegally cleared. Kindly investigate the same and take action against any illegal tree removal,” Bhathena had said. BMC is planning an 11-storey super-speciality hospital on the plot. “It will be an expansion of the existing hospital. It will be a 250-300 bedded hospital with an oncology section. It is part of the plan to have super-speciality hospitals in the city’s eastern and western suburbs. We have got clearance from the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) and are now awaiting approval from the Tree Authority,” said Surendra Borale, municipal architect. Officials estimated the project cost at Rs 250 crore. Officials said as per norms, BMC will plant twice the number of trees that are hacked. “In the unlikely event that no trees have been illegally cut, the existing barren land is enough to construct a new hospital, without removing another 842 trees. It is critical for existing tree cover to be protected,” Bhathena had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/greens-protest-move-to-clear-842-trees-for-hosp-expansion/articleshow/80375649.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 21, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata Police seek agency for Tejaswini online edition||KOLKATA: Tejaswini, the pet project of Kolkata Police for empowerment of women, is set to go national. It will also see the number of participants jump from a mere 40 to 300. Kolkata Police had recently called for a special tender for event management companies and ‘like-minded organizations’ to hold such sessions. Senior officers said that rarely are event management companies appointed to conduct Kolkata Police’s programmes unless they are of the ‘highest importance’. “Kolkata Police, in view of the pandemic, will be organizing online editions of the ‘Tejaswini’ workshop for women. Women aged between 12 and 40 will undergo a five-day training on Aikido and unarmed combat, that are important for self-defence,” said an officer from welfare cell. “There will be several sessions by our senior-most officers on women’s safety, cyber-crime and domestic violence. The participants will also be guided by a professional nutritionist on healthy food practices. For all this, we are looking to appoint agencies that can conduct these training under one roof,” the officer added. The selected agency will be expected to build temporary structures, like stage and adequate sitting arrangement, install light, sound and camera system required for training on a digital platform. It will also be required to provide video production support and develop the ‘Tejaswini” website and providing hi speed uninterrupted broadband internet services for 05 (five) days for the stipulated duration of the training. Recently, Lalbazar had hosted the first online Tejaswini edition since it’s launch in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-seek-agency-for-tejaswini-online-edition/articleshow/80372761.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 21, 2021||Lucknow||‘Integration of units helped curb crime against women’||Lucknow: The integration of Women Power Line-1090 with other departments to check harassment of women and children has yielded good results in the form of quick disposal of complaints and swift action. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had launched ‘Mission Shakti’ in October 2020 and had ordered integration of Women Power Line 1090 with Mahila Samman Prakoshth and crime branch-crime investigation department (CB-CID) into women & child safety organization. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said the integration of various units working under police like Women Power Line-1090, MSP, CB-CID has proved quite effective and has helped taking action to prevent crime against women. “The CM’s decision of integration has also speeded up disposal of cases,” he said. In 2020, total 2,81,830 complaints were registered on WPL-1090, of which 1,74,933 were related to phone bullying and cyberbullying and the remaining are in process of settlement. Besides, 2,849 complaints related to stalking and 1,04,048 related to other cases have been transferred to district police, GRP, UP-112. ADG, women safety cell and WPL-1090, Neera Rawat said, “The cyber cell of 1090 has been strengthened under the Safe City project for effective redressal of complaints received on 1090 leading to better and time-bound disposal.” Now, quick help is provided to victims on getting information of stalking or molestation incident, she added. “For this purpose, we integrated 1090 with UP112 so that information or complaint received on 1090 is immediately transferred to UP112. 1090 is continuously following and SMS alert of stalking is also sent on the CUG mobile of the high officials,” Rawat said. In order to tackle cases of family dispute promptly, the online counseling service has been started by Women Power Line from October 17, in which 441 persons have been counselled by psychiatrists so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/integration-of-units-helped-curb-crime-against-women/articleshow/80375693.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 21, 2021||Rajkot||MR, labourer die in trucks’ collision||Rajkot: A medical representative (MR) and a labourer died and four others were injured in the wee hours of Wednesday as the truck they were travelling in rammed into a parked dumper truck at Bamanbor near Rajkot. The 24-year-old MR, Vishal Sevra, was on his way to his native place in Chorwad from Ahmedabad along with his mother, sister and cousin in a truck when the accident took place. The family was shifting to their native place from Ahmedabad and were moving their furniture. Sevra had taken a labourer along to unload the furniture from the truck. Around 3 am, the truck did not notice the parked dumper truck on the side of the road and collided with it. Sevra and the unidentified labourer died on the spot. The truck driver, Saamat Gadchar, suffered grievous injuries while Sevra’s family members received minor injuries and were taken to the Rajkot Civil Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mr-labourer-die-in-trucks-collision/articleshow/80371317.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM orders probe as MPSC moves Supreme Court on Maratha quota||MUMBAI: CM Thackeray on Wednesday ordered an inquiry after the Maharashtra Public Service Commission filed two applications before the Supreme Court in the Maratha quota issue. One pleads for it to be added as a party in the appeals pending in the SC, the other seeks interim orders to withdraw all benefits availed by Maratha candidates under the SEBC Act after November 2018, report Sujit Mahamulkar & Swati Deshpande. MPSC has prayed for orders to “revise final results and merit list of all recruitment processes concluded after November 30, 2018 by deleting benefits of SEBC and to permit issuance of corrigendum in pending ads”. In 2018, the state had enacted the SEBC Act. Bombay HC in 2019 upheld constitutional validity of the Act, but reduced the original 16% reservation for Marathas under it to 13% for education and 12% in public jobs. Appeals against the HC judgement are pending before the SC which, in an interim order on September 9, 2020, stayed its implementation for admissions and recruitment for 2020-21. By the time the SC passed its stay order, the MPSC recruitment process was underway. Implementing the order would have called for reshuffling the list of selected candidates. On Wednesday, Shiv Sena minister Eknath Shinde raised the issue of MPSC approaching the SC at the state cabinet meeting chaired by the CM. The entire cabinet led by Thackeray expressed strong displeasure over the style of functioning of MPSC chairman Satish Gavai. “Gawai’s decision to approach the apex court without the knowledge of the state government was blatantly wrong. The view of the cabinet was that the state should initiate steps for his removal,” a senior NCP minister said. The CM then directed an inquiry to be conducted and action taken against those responsible. Meanwhile, Maratha Kranti Morcha (MKM) convener Virendra Pawar condemned the MPSC's action. “How can the MPSC file such an application before the SC while the Maratha quota appeal is pending before the larger Constitutional bench?” he said. Vinod Patil, another MKM convener and one of the petitioners in SC, alleged the Maha Vikas Aghadi government was not serious about the Maratha quota. “Who has ordered MPSC to submit an affidavit in SC if the body is controlled by the state? The MPSC’s move proves that the government is not serious on the issue,” said Patil. A lawyer said the option for MPSC now could be to either continue with its application or file an application for its withdrawal. The five-judge bench of the SC on Wednesday adjourned the SEBC quota case till February 5 after the state government prayed for a physical hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-orders-probe-as-mpsc-moves-sc-on-maratha-quota/articleshow/80376325.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 21, 2021||Delhi||Kin of man electrocuted by live wire awarded Rs 10 lakh||NEW DELHI: Fixing liability for negligence on a private discom, Delhi High Court has awarded Rs 10 lakh as compensation to the family of a 23-year-old man, who was electrocuted when an exposed live electric wire fell on his bicycle. The court said, “the negligence of BSES Rajdhani in maintaining electric wires is writ large.” The compensation amount will be the liability of the discom and Reliance General Insurance Company Ltd, with which BSES Rajdhani was claimed to be insured, jointly and severally and it is for them to decide whose liability it is to pay the money, it ordered. “A young boy has died after coming in contact with a live electric wire that has fallen on the road. In the counter affidavit, vague and evasive denial has been made. Clearly based on the above facts and the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur (the thing speaks for itself), it is clear that respondent number 2/BSES-RPL is guilty of negligence. The death of the deceased took place due to the negligence of respondent no. 2,” Justice Jayant Nath observed. The court’s verdict came on a petition by Bihar resident Munni Devi, seeking compensation for the death of her son Mintu. The victim was enrolled for a bachelor's degree from Indira Gandhi National Open University. On the fateful day, while passing through Kalkaji on his bicycle in May 2007, he got electrocuted when a live electric wire fell down upon his bicycle. The plea claimed that this was totally attributable to the negligence of Delhi government and BSES Rajdhani Power Limited (BSES RPL). The petitioner woman said she was a housewife, suffering from acute anaemia, and her husband, a labourer, earned just about Rs 48,000 per annum. The plea said they had no other source of income and were running from pillar to post in Delhi to get justice for their son. BSES Rajdhani raised several objections to the claim of compensation, including that it had no knowledge of the incident and maintainability of the petition after 12 years. Delhi government submitted that it had no role to play in the incident as it happened in the jurisdiction of the distribution licensee BSES RPL. On the discom’s submission, the high court said, “It is a strange submission being made by the distribution company in charge of distribution of electricity in the area. It is inconceivable that a death has taken place due to electrocution from the distribution wires within the territory of respondent no. 2 on a public street and respondent no. 2 claims ignorance of such a major incident.” The judge said that “the plea of the discom cannot clearly be believed” and “this vague plea fortifies my conclusion of the negligence of respondent no.2.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kin-of-man-electrocuted-by-live-wire-awarded-rs-10l/articleshow/80374239.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: ‘Quarrying, mining, to be under direct govt control’||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Finance minister TM Thomas Isaac told the assembly that government is planning to reorganize sand and granite rock quarrying activities to bring them under its direct control. This was a major proposal for improving non-tax revenue and Isaac had mentioned it in the medium-term fiscal policy he submitted in the House along with budget documents. He didn’t say how government plans to procced with the proposal. In his reply to the points raised by members during budget discussion, Isaac rejected opposition claims that LDF government has pushed state into a debt trap. There’s nothing wrong in periodic increase in debt, he said. “State’s debt liability was Rs 40,000 lakh crore in 2006. It increased to Rs 82,000 lakh crore in 2011 and Rs 1.6 lakh crore in 2016. Now, it’s Rs 3.3 lakh crore. The borrowing limit is fixed by Centre. State cannot borrow beyond that limit. There are scientific methods to ascertain whether the liability increase is affordable or not. Statistics show that loan liability of state is sustainable,” he said. He said there was no valid reason for CAG’s surmise that the growth rate is likely to fall on account of the dip in capital investment. “Infra development works worth Rs 19,000 crore are taking place through KIIFB. This is capital expenditure. It will lead to growth of economy,” he said. Isaac repeated his budgetary promise that pay revision for government staff will be implemented with effect from Apr 1. “It’s expected that pay revision report will be available before Jan 31. Government will issue orders in advance so that model code of conduct won’t be a hindrance,” Isaac said. The minister will hold a meeting with Kollam MLA to address complaints that the district didn’t receive its due in the budget. A special package will be prepared for road development in Kollam. Isaac said pay revision for college teachers, as per UGC norms, will come into effect from Feb 1. Anomalies in pension revision is being scrutinized by a committee. Pensioners’ problems would also be solved in a timely manner, he said. Isaac announced additional projects worth Rs 498 crore, taking the revenue deficit for 2021-2022 period to Rs 1,804.69 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/quarrying-mining-to-be-under-direct-govt-control/articleshow/80372847.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Nagpur||2 new trains on upgraded Jabalpur-Gondia section||Nagpur: Seventeen days after the first train rolled out on the upgraded Jabalpur-Nainpur-Balaghat-Gondia route, the Railway Board has approved two more trains on the same route. They will prove beneficial to passengers travelling to Nagpur and Chandrapur. Proposals were made by South East Central Railway (SECR) on December 18. The two trains — Rewa-Itwari Express and Jabalpur-Chanda Fort Express — will run daily. “Though the timings have been announced, the date of the run is yet to be decided. Primary maintenance of these trains will be done at Jabalpur. Travellers from Nagpur have an option to go to Jabalpur-Rewa via Gondia, Balaghat and Nainpur and Itarsi too,” said Anurag Kumar Singh, SECR divisional commercial manager SECR. The distance to Itwari will be cut by 178km and travel time too. The distance between Jabalpur-Itwari via Itarsi comes to 542km while it comes to 364km from Jabalpur-Gondia-Itwari. From Jabalpur to Rewa it will join the regular line. Similarly, the distance between Jabalpur-Chanda Fort via Itarsi-Nagpur-Sevagram comes to 764km while it comes to 476km through Balaghat-Gondia. People travelling towards the south will save time and money too. With the new trains, the Railway Board has discontinued Jabalpur-Nainpur Express. The first train to start on this upgraded route was the weekly Gaya-Chennai-Gaya Express on January 3. SCHEDULE 1st train: Itwari departure 6.30pm Rewa arrival 8.30am Stoppages | Gondia, Nainpur, Jabalpur, and Rewa Return trip | Rewa at 5.20pm and Itwari at 7.25am 2nd train: Chanda Fort departure 2.50pm Jabalpur arrival 9.25pm Return trip | Jabalpur at 5.15am and Chanda Fort at 1.50pm||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-new-trains-on-upgraded-jabalpur-gondia-section/articleshow/80376494.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Paedophile’s wife sexually exploited minor boys, says CBI||LUCKNOW: More horrific details on sex abuse of children in Bundelkhand districts of UP were unearthed after CBI gathered evidence on the Banda paedophile suspect’s wife, Durgawati, who too sexually exploited male children in the age-group of 9-14 and ran the sex ring with impunity for a decade, while forcing her husband to film obscene acts and peddle explicit material on Dark Web. Prime accused Ram Bhawan, 40, was suspended from the post of junior engineer, irrigation department, immediately after his arrest in November last year. His wife, Durgawati, was taken into custody a month later for threatening abused kids, who were to depose in court. But lurid details Durgawati’s role in the sex scam were revealed by these children last week, while they were being examined for physical and psychological abuse by an AIIMS panel of doctors at a Chitrakoot health centre, said a source privy to the probe. Now, fresh charges of aggravated sexual assault and sections of POSCO Act will be added in the FIR against Durgawati. A CBI officer told TOI Durgawati aided, abetted and instigated commission of crime by her husband, Ram Bhawan. “She played a crucial role in luring innocent kids to their rented house in Banda,” said the officer. Reports of psychological tests conducted on Ram Bhawan by AIIMS doctors are awaited and so are his voice samples sent to Central Forensic Science Laboratory. CBI has also gathered evidence to corroborate the sale of child pornography by Bhawan on Dark Web to his clients in Belgium, Poland, Thailand, Singapore, and Vietnam. The accused engineer would bring one child at a time to his house by luring them with video games on smart phones, sweets and toffees before exploiting them. He would then hand over cash to the kids and tell them to keep mum and revisit his house. (The victims' identity has not been revealed to protect their privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/paedophiles-wife-sexually-exploited-minor-boys-cbi/articleshow/80375708.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Nagpur||3 cops injured in attack||Nagpur: Three policemen were injured after they were attacked by nine people when they had gone to stop the DJ, which was running late into the night at Ramnagar area in New Kamptee on Tuesday night. This is the second incident of police being attacked in the Kamptee area in recent times. The injured have been identified as Rajendra Taklikar, Upendra Yadav and Sudhir Kanojia. In this case, the New Kamptee police arrested three persons for obstructing government work by assembling in an illegal congregation. The police control room informed the New Kamptee police regarding loud music being played in Ramanagar area around 10.30pm. Upon receiving the information, constables Moreshwar Dupare, Rajendra Taklikar, Upendra Yadav and Sudhir Kanojia went there and stopped the music. Upset, Akash Deshpande, Badal Deshbhratar, Chandrasekhar Phule, Sunita Deshpande, Shraddha alias Pooja Deshpande, Priyanka Deshbhratar, Deepmala Wasnik, Kajal Sharma, Sanjeevani Phule and DJ player Abhinav Vahane started hurling stones at the police team. In the melee, three cops sustained minor injuries. A woman bit one of the police personnel. Additional police force from New Kamptee police reached there and rushed the injured to hospital. The cops also arrested Akash Deshpande, Badal Deshbhratar and Chandrasekhar Phule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-cops-injured-in-attack/articleshow/80376496.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Aurangabad||AMC orders action against illegal hoardings & banners||Aurangabad: Civic administrator Astik Kumar Pandey, citing violation of the order issued by Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court, has issued written directives for initiating action against all illegal hoardings and banners that have mushroomed across the city. The division bench of the high court in its order dated March 5, 2020, had ordered the civic body to crackdown against illegal hoardings in the city. Justices ZA Haque and SM Gavhane had taken cognizance of the fact that the amount spent by the municipal corporation for removal of hoardings that are illegally installed was being spent from the public money available with the civic body. Against this backdrop, the high court issued specific orders stating: “We direct that until appropriate provision is made, either by the state government or the municipal corporation for recovery of the amount required to be spent for removal of the hoardings that are illegally erected, we direct the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to recover Rs 2000 per hoarding from people who have put up the hoarding illegally or if the person cannot be identified, it be recovered from the person for whose benefit the hoarding has been installed.” Pandey, while confirming that instructions have been given to prepare a list of illegal hoardings and banners in the city, said, “On one hand when all out efforts are focussed on beautifying the city and reclaiming its rich heritage, we cannot let the city’s public space get defaced by a handful people.” AMC’s deputy commissioner Aparna Thete said that section 5 of the Maharashtra Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 1995, empowers the state government to recover the expenditure incurred for removal of defacement or for removal of any erection or fixation, from the person found guilty of the offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/amc-orders-action-against-illegal-hoardings-banners/articleshow/80370398.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Surat||985 buildings get fire safety notices||Surat: At least 985 high-rise building in the city have been issued notices over non-compliance of fire safety norms by the fire and emergency department of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC).The SMC officials have also disconnected water supply to 170 flats over lack of fire safety in their buildings. “We have asked all civic zone offices to take actions against high-rise buildings and issued notices to 985 such buildings across for non-compliance of fire safety norms,” said Basant Pareek, chief fire officer, SMC.“We have asked all residential, commercial and other buildings owners to comply with the fire safety norms or they will be sealed or their water connections will be cut off,” said a SMC official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/985-buildings-get-fire-safety-notices/articleshow/80370403.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||High court grants pre-arrest bail to Tandav makers, but now FIR in Mumbai too||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Wednesday granted three weeks’ transit anticipatory bail to Ali Abbas Zafar and Gaurav Solanki, director and writer of the web series Tandav, and Amazon content head Aparna Purohit in the FIR registered against them for hurting religious sentiments and portraying police poorly. The Uttar Pradesh police came to Mumbai to investigate the case based on an FIR registered there. Meanwhile in Mumbai too, an FIR was registered against the makers and actors of Tandav at Ghatkopar police station on Wednesday. The HC order enables the Tandav team to apply for regular pre-arrest bail before the appropriate court in UP. Senior counsel Aabad Ponda and advocate Aniket Nikam appearing for both Zafar and Purohit argued that the duo feared arrest pursuant to the FIR. Their application stated, “They are innocent and have been wrongly implicated.” They submitted that the “allegations in the FIR do not make out any offence whatsoever as stated”. They also submitted that “no allegation whatsoever has been made against the applicants in their personal capacity in the FIR”. The counsel argued that the FIR did not ascribe any role and that it was “based on surmises and conjectures”. Tandav is a political drama starring Saif Ali Khan and Dimple Kapadia. It has been in the midst of a controversy since its release last week, with certain politicians and Hindutva outfits speaking against the show for allegedly hurting religious sentiments. The scene that caused a stir appears in the first episode with two college students staging a play. One of them poses as Narada and the other as Bholenath, or Lord Shiva, dressed unconventionally in jacket and pants. Narada asks Bholenath to do something about his popularity since “Ramji’s followers are increasing by the day on social media”. When Bholenath wonders aloud if he should post a new picture, Narada recommends that he should tweet something “sensational” such as college students turning unpatriotic with chants of “azaadi, azaadi” every day. Lucknow police registered an FIR on January 17. The makers of the series said, “The FIR does not specify, identify, or describe any specific instance in the web series which may be deemed as indecent depiction of any gods and goddesses for being hurtful to religious sentiments or amount to any offences as alleged.” The petition by Zafar, Mehra and Solanki said, “The web series is a work of fiction and is a Indian Hindi language political drama showcasing coming together of different worlds under the gamut of politics. It is a dramatic take of the powerplay between people at the high level to secure their position. The web series and the characters thereof in no manner depict/portray/represent any gods and/or goddesses of any religion whatsoever.” The Mumbai FIR names Zafar, Mehra, Solanki, Purohit, Saif Ali Khan, Amit Agarwal and a few other actors and others connected with the series. The makers of the series had on Tuesday in the wake of the controversy issued an “unconstitutional apology”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-grants-pre-arrest-bail-to-tandav-makers-but-now-fir-in-mumbai-too/articleshow/80374286.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 21, 2021||Goa||Cabral: Auction route not suitable for Goa’s ore||Panaji: Inclusion of Goa’s iron ore mines in the Centre’s policy to auction all major minerals is flawed and needs a relook, said law minister Nilesh Cabral on Wednesday. Pointing to the poor response to the e-auctions conducted in the state, Cabral said that given the low quality iron ore available in Goa, auctioning of mining leases may not help in the resumption of mining. Cabralsaid that the last resort before the Goa government is to convince the Centre to declare Goa’s iron ore as a minor mineral. “Our ore is low grade. After the ore was seized about eight years earlier, the government is still trying to auction the ore. Every year, two or three times we are trying to auction, but nobody is ready to buy the ore,” said Cabral, while speaking at a webinar on the socio-economic impact of mining. In May 2020, merely 7% of the total ore lying at jetties and plots which was put up for e-auction was bought by mining companies. “The auction policy cannot be what the Centre has in mind. If you come and say auction everything... you should come and see what is the statistics and the reality at the ground level,” said Cabral. Cabral was noticeably irked with the Supreme Court’s delay in resolving a petition regarding mining leases that has been pending since 1987. He said that state government is unable to act because of the pending litigation. “I feel that the judiciary needs to buckle up,” said Cabral. “There is a matter pending since 1987 so please decide and finish it off. If we go ahead with the e-auctioning, the matter of 1987 is hampering and so the state government is unable to do anything.” Cabral said that the only “hypothetical” solution left before the state government is to convince the Centre to classify Goa’s low grade iron ore mines as minor minerals. “One thing that is left to do is to request the CM to put a Bill that the grade of ore in Goa is low grade. We will pass it in Assembly and I am sure that all the 40 MLAs will pass it and then we can send it to Parliament to decide,” said Cabral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabral-auction-route-not-suitable-for-goas-ore/articleshow/80375746.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Kamini Metalliks to take over VBC||HYDERABAD: The VBC Industries which was declared insolvent earlier will now be taken over by Kamini Metalliks company for a price of Rs 98 crore.  A bench of national company law tribunal (NCLT) comprising K Anantha Padmanabha Swamy, member (judicial), and Dr Binod Kumar Sinha, member (technical) approved the resolution plan filed by Kamini Metalliks through resolution professional TSN Raja. VBC which took Rs 268 crore from various lenders could not clear its dues. Resolution professional Raja, however, said that he will ensure that all the wage arrears of the workers from April 2018 onwards gets paid. Kamini will pay Rs 57 crore to the lenders of VBC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kamini-metalliks-to-take-over-vbc/articleshow/80374261.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Nagpur||Regular water supply in city from today||Nagpur: The city will get regular water supply from Thursday as pipeline replacement work is over, announced mayor Dayashankar Tiwari on Wednesday. Alternate day supply was being implemented from January 6 in view of the work. Vijay Zalke, chairman of water supply committee, told TOI that 54 million litres per day (MLD) was going waste due to leakages in Pench IV pipeline. The supply to the city is 630 MLD. “Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had been requesting state water resources department (WRD) to allow use of its canal for water supply to the city. We got the nod in January and plugged the leakages through the contractor who has been assigned the maintenance work,” he said. Zalke said the 54 MLD thus saved will help NMC in meeting the summer water demand of the city. “It will also help us in securing our allocation of raw water from Maharashtra Water Resources Regulatory Authority (MWRRA) and also help us in water audit,” he added. The general body meeting of NMC was held on Wednesday morning through videoconferencing. BJP corporator Dharmapal Meshram raised the issue of 1,038 works worth Rs113 crore pending since 2019-20, even though work orders had been issued. Mayor Tiwari took note of the allegation and formed a three-member committee, headed by additional municipal commissioner and comprising chief engineer and chief accounts and finance officer, to look into the issue. The mayor asked the committee to take a decision in this regard within 10 days, else the issue would again be referred to the House, which would then take appropriate decision. NMC has not been able to spend Rs136.22 crore special grant sanctioned by Devendra Fadnavis, during his tenure as chief minister. This has to be spent by March 31, 2021, else the funds will lapse. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B submitted a proposal before the House regarding works to be undertaken using this amount. The House unanimously cleared the proposal. The works to be done through this special grant are: Constructing a road in Bhandewadi, strengthening Ambazari Lake bund, paying dues of OCW, Rs60 crore for cement roads phase 2 and 3, etc. The mayor directed the standing committee to draft bylaws for granting leave to the municipal commissioner. There was difference of opinion between corporators and officials as to whether the commissioner needs standing panel’s nod for going on leave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/regular-water-supply-in-city-from-today/articleshow/80376497.cms||Ashish Roy
January 21, 2021||Rajkot||Rajkot: Theft suspect dies in lock-up, 3 cops booked for murder||RAJKOT: Three police constables of Mundra police station in Kutch district were booked for murder on Wednesday following the death of a 24-year-old theft suspect in their custody. The family members of the deceased Arjan Gadhvi alleged that Arjan was tortured by accused cops Shaktisinh Gohil, Ashok Kannad and Jaidevsinh Zala after illegally detaining him for more than a week over theft suspicion. Arjan was picked up from Pragpar Patiya on the evening of January 12 by the accused cops. Next day when Arjan’s brother Hari learnt about it he visited Mundra police station. He was told that Arjan was brought for questioning and would be released soon. But when Arjan did not return, Hari, his cousin Devraj Gadhvi and other family members went to the police station on January 16 and questioned the cops over their brother’s detention. However, Gohil told them that Arjan will be released in the evening as soon as he tells them about the stolen booty. Meanwhile, Arjan, who was present in the lock-up, told his brother and others that he was being tortured for no reason. Complainant Devraj, who is also a lawyer, stated in his complaint that Arjan’s legs were swollen due to severe beating and he was unable to stand on his feet. He further alleged that cops did not offer food or water to Arjan. Arjan was not released on January 16 either. On Tuesday evening, the family was informed by a lawyer that Arjan had died in police lock-up and his body was sent to Jamnagar for forensic postmortem. Sources said that Arjan was first taken to the government hospital in Mundra town where he was declared dead on arrival. Deputy superintendent of police V N Yadav told TOI, “The three cops have been booked for murder and illegal confinement, but they are yet to be arrested. The investigation is on and we are waiting for the postmortem report to know the exact cause of death.” When asked why was Arjan being held in the police station without any officials entry in the station diary of the cops, Yadav said that it was a matter of investigation. On Tuesday evening, members of the Gadhvi community had gathered at the Mundra police station demanding the arrest of the accused cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/theft-suspect-dies-in-lock-up-3-cops-booked-for-murder/articleshow/80371396.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Delhi||Delhi HC notice to govt, corporations and agencies on petition over seismic stability||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court has issued notice on a contempt plea filed against the AAP government, three municipal corporations, Delhi Development Authority and other civic agencies, for alleged failure to comply with the court’s orders on enhancing seismic stability of the city. The plea sought action against the authorities for what it termed their lackadaisical approach in taking steps in a time-bound manner in order to save the people of Delhi from earthquakes. A bench led by Chief Justice DN Patel sought the response of all the bodies and listed the matter for January 29 for further proceedings. A fresh application was filed in an old public interest litigation (PIL) pending since 2015. The court had earlier expressed its unhappiness with Delhi government and civic bodies over the lack of implementation of an action plan related to seismic stability of buildings and directed all the chiefs of civic bodies to file affidavits explaining what is their plan to deal with an earthquake and how it is to be implemented on an urgent basis. It had also directed them to make citizens aware of the precautions that have to be taken and the action plan of government after the plea sought directions to the respondents to act in a time-bound manner and apprise court about the steps taken and intended to be taken in case a major earthquake strikes Delhi in the near future. Meanwhile, Delhi government, in an affidavit, informed the court that all the five urban local bodies have been asked to ensure compliance of the action plan notified by the department in letter and spirit, including completing the structural safety audit, detailed survey to identify unsafe buildings, empanel the structural engineers, identify high-risk buildings for ascertaining requirement of retrofitting, classify the buildings on the basis of the year of construction, in their respective jurisdiction, in a time-bound manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-notice-to-govt-corpns-and-agencies-on-petition-over-seismic-stability/articleshow/80374289.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||‘Govt still against airport transfer’: Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in the assembly that the state government is still against the handing over of Thiruvananthapuram international airport to the Adani group. The Centre signed an agreement with Adani group on Tuesday on handing over the airport. “It is most unfortunate that Centre has taken such a decision when the appeal against the takeover filed by the state government is pending before the Supreme Court,” said the chief minister. The state government urges Centre to withdraw from this move and consider the state’s request to hand over the operational charge of the airport to the state-owned company, said the chief minister. He said that leaders like Shashi Tharoor are supporting the takeover and hence Congress has lost face in protesting against this move. Muraleedharan flays CM Meanwhile, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan flayed the chief minister for protesting against the takeover of the airport. “It is quite strange that the state government, after attending the bid process, is now objecting the takeover,” he said. Adani group had won the bidding since they quoted a higher price than that quoted by the state industrial development corporation. The bidding process was done transparently, he said. The chief minister is now alleging that Adani group has no prior experience in handling airport operations. Then why did the state government not allow Cial to bid for the project in Thiruvananthapuram, he asked. Judicial intervention With the state government now forced to sign state support agreement for facilitating the smooth transfer of airport management to Adani group, the government is learnt to have decided to request for early hearing of the pending case in the Supreme Court challenging the handover. It is learnt that state’s counsel will seek hearing in the coming week and seek a stay if the court further postpones detailed hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-still-against-airport-transfer/articleshow/80372896.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cops book FIR against agents||HYDERABAD: Police have registered an FIR against agents who were allegedly involved in cheating a woman, 26-year-old Farheen Begum, and getting her married to an Omani national who was mentally challenged. The Shalibanda police station has registered the FIR and booked a case against the agents Sayeed of Nawab Saheb Kunta and Qadeer, under IPC sections 420 (cheating) and 498A (harassment of women).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-book-fir-against-agents/articleshow/80374276.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Vax drive gets two-day break as other immunisations continue||HYDERABAD: The state government has given a two-day break for Covid-19 vaccination drive during working days to continue the immunisation programme for pregnant women and children. In the state, 13 lakh women and children receive 12 types of jabs for various diseases like polio, measles. The pregnant women and children are covered under the universal immunisation programme of the central and state governments under the National Health Mission (NHM). Nearly 20% children are vaccinated in private hospitals. “Having already tasted success in implementing the immunisation programme in a big way, the government could roll out the Covid-19 vaccine programme easily. Cold chain point for storage of the vaccines is available even at the village level,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director of public health.  The observation time for other vaccines is also 30 minutes. “The system in place for side effects management of Covid-19 vaccination is continued in administering other vaccines,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vax-drive-gets-2-day-break-as-other-immunisations-continue/articleshow/80374287.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 21, 2021||Aurangabad||Scrapping 70:30 quota helped M’wada MBBS pupils: Parents||Aurangabad: Different stakeholders, including students, parents and college authorities, have claimed that more students from Marathwada have secured admissions in reputed medical colleges across the state, especially in Mumbai and western Maharashtra, for MBBS course this year when s compared to the past due to the scrapping of the 70:30 quota in the admission process. A group students along with their parents held a formal celebration in presence of state medical education minister Amit Deshmukh. Citing the case of his college, Dileep Deshmukh, in-charge CET Cell of Latur-based Rajarshi Shahu College, said around 157 more students from his institute have secured an MBBS seat during the current academic year when compared to the past. “With one round of admission still to go, as many as 848 students have so far got admission for MBBS as compared to 691 such admissions last year. The sharp increase is solely because we could get rid of the 70:30 quota. The beneficiary students belong to different categories, including open category,” he said. The controversial system, also known as quota within quota, was scrapped by the state government in September last year. The long-standing policy, which was causing injustice to students from Marathwada, was facilitating regional reservation in keeping with the availability of seats. There was outcry from students and parents to scrap the quota, considering relatively lower number of MBBS seats in Marathwada as compared to other regions. Rajanikant Garud, vice-principal of Devgiri College, said the state government should ensure legal immunity to its decision of scrapping 70:30 quota for MBBS. “As per preliminary analysis carried out by us, majority of students securing admissions in Mumbai, Pune and other major cities are from Marathwada and Vidarbha. The scrapping of quota has ensured merit-based admission and the new policy should remain intact in the future as well,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/scrapping-7030-quota-helped-mwada-mbbs-pupils-parents/articleshow/80370410.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Nagpur||MPCB notice to Mother Dairy plant in Chanda MIDC||Chandrapur: Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) unit here has served a notice to M/s Storewell Industries that runs Mother Dairy milk chilling plant in Chandrapur MIDC for violation of air and water pollution norms. The action has been initiated following complaint lodged by district chief of Shiv Sena Sandeep Girhe. Girhe claimed that he had objected to the plant operations without MPCB nod and causing water pollution by discharging effluents without treating it. MPCB regional officer Ashok Kare said during inspection we found that the plant was functioning without the mandatory consent of the pollution control board. The inspection team also found that the unit does not have effluent treatment plant and it discharges all its effluents untreated into local nullah. The MPCB has asked M/s Storewell Industries why legal action should not be initiated against it for violating of Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act) 1974 and Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act-1981. Officials have directed the industry to submit its reply within 15 days of the receipt of the notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mpcb-notice-to-mother-dairy-plant-in-chanda-midc/articleshow/80376498.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 21, 2021||Aurangabad||Covid poses accommodation issues for newly-admitted students||Aurangabad: With hostels of selected government hospitals being occupied by officials involved in Covid-19 related duties, some of the newly-admitted students for MBBS courses from Marathwada have claimed that they are facing issues in finding accommodation. Mahesh Ugale, parent of one such student, said even finding a private rented accommodation has become challenging for students during the ongoing pandemic. “The landlords are refusing accommodation to doctors due to fear of Covid. Some of the landlords are demanding an exorbitant amount, which is difficult to pay,” he said. In a memorandum submitted to the state government, the affected students have sought intervention to avoid inconvenience. When contacted, Dr T P Lahane, director of state Directorate for Medical Education and Research (DMER) said the issue of accommodation is associated with state-run hospitals coming under the aegis of municipal corporations. “The respective local civic bodies are expected to take a call on the demand raised by students as per Covid situation in their jurisdictions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-poses-accommodation-issues-for-newly-admitted-students/articleshow/80370413.cms||Prasad Joshi
January 21, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala assembly polls: CEO to publish final voters’ list today||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As a prelude to assembly polls, the final voters list will be announced by chief electoral officer Teeka Ram Meena on Thursday. Meena said that a team from Election Commission of India is expected in state to supervise preparatory works for elections that are likely in mid-April. “CBSE exam schedule was published for May-June. Since most schools are poll centres, elections are likely to be held prior to exams in April,” he told TOI. The commission is in the process of publishing a foolproof voters’ list, unlike the previous local body polls where the names of several voters were missing from the list which was noticed at the last moment; such persons missed voting. ECI has already initiated the process of assembly elections to four states including Kerala. It has instructed all states to ensure that government officers, connected directly to the conduct of elections but have completed three years in the same district in the past four years, are transferred from their respective post. It has also been instructed to ensure that the officials connected to the conduct of elections should not be posted in home districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ceo-to-publish-final-voters-list-today/articleshow/80372918.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Aurangabad||Listed beneficiaries can get vaccine as per schedule||Aurangabad: With reports of listed beneficiaries missing out on Covid-19 vaccine by failing to reach the vaccination booths on the given time, the state health department has issued directives asking the health teams to consider vaccinating listed beneficiaries irrespective of they being slotted for the day or not. Earlier the state had decided that a listed beneficiary can avail vaccine at a specific booth on a given time and date only and there was no clarity about the people missing out on the process due to personal or professional reasons. Health authorities believe that the latest move has come as a cause of relief who have either missed out or feared of missing out on the vaccination due to personal or professional reasons. As a step in this direction, an additional tab has also been introduced in the CoWin App while instructions have been passed on to health authorities asking them to ensure that listed beneficiaries avail benefit of the same. The feature of ‘allot beneficiary’ in an ongoing session has been added in the vaccinator module and is live. The state IT teams have been briefed and a video on step-by-step process to be followed by the vaccinators has also been shared on the official WhatsApp groups of the health authorities across the state. The communication meant for the site in-charges in the state include ‘the feature has been added to facilitate maximum utilization of staff deployed at the session sites.’ Only such beneficiaries whose name exist in the database can be added to the session and a person’s name can be searched by the mobile number provided at the time of uploading his\her data in the beneficiary database. With this feature, the sessions’ management will have to be done by the site in-charge very carefully. Aurangabad division’s deputy director of health Dr Swapnil Lale said that this will ensure better coverage as well as those scheduled to be vaccinated in a session may not be denied on account of others having been vaccinated and stocks running out. “It is suggested that the site in-charges may be advised to do a careful assessment of the number of scheduled beneficiaries likely to turn up during the day (say at 3:00 pm) and number of additional unscheduled beneficiaries that may be allotted so that there is no running out of vaccines at a given site for the day,” said Latur division’s deputy director of health Dr. Eknath Male. Aurangabad With reports of listed beneficiaries missing out on covid-19 vaccine by failing to reach the vaccination booths on the given time, state health department has issued directives asking the health teams to consider vaccinating listed beneficiaries, irrespective of they being slotted for the day or not. Earlier the state had decided that a listed beneficiary can avail vaccine at a specific booth on a given time and date only and there was no clarity about the people missing out on the process due to personal or professional reasons. Health authorities believe that the latest move has come as a cause of relief, who have either missed out or feared of missing out the vaccination, due to personal or professional reasons. As a step in this direction, an additional tab has also been introduced in the CoWin App, while instructions are being passed to health authorities asking them to ensure that listed beneficiaries avail benefit of the same. “The feature of ‘Allot Beneficiary’ in an ongoing session has been added in the vaccinator module and is live” said a senior official from the state health directorate’s office. The State IT teams have been briefed and a video on step-by-step process to be followed by the vaccinators has also been shared on the official WhatsApp groups of the health authorities across the state. The communication meant for the site in-charges in the state include that ‘the feature has been added to facilitate maximum utilization of staff deployed at the session sites.’ Only such beneficiaries whose name exist in the database, can only be added to the session and a person’s name can be search by the mobile number provided at the time of uploading his\her data in the beneficiary database. With this feature, the sessions’ management will have to be done by the site in-charge very carefully. On the one hand, better coverage would be possible, but it may be ensured that those scheduled to be vaccinated in a session may not be denied on account of others having been vaccinated and stocks running out, said Aurangabad division’s deputy director of health Dr Swapnil Lale. It is suggested that the site in-charges may be advised to do a careful assessment during the day of numbers of scheduled beneficiaries likely to turn up during the day (say at 3:00 pm); and number of additional unscheduled beneficiaries that may be allotted be decided carefully, so that there is no running out of vaccines at a given site for the day,” said Latur division’s deputy director of health Dr Eknath Male.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/listed-beneficiaries-can-get-vaccine-as-per-schedule/articleshow/80371404.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 21, 2021||Goa||Film fest to pay tribute to Netaji on Jan 23||Panaji: The 51st International Film Festival of India (Iffi) will pay tribute to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on the occasion of his 125th birth anniversary on January 23, festival director Chaitanya Prasad said on Wednesday. “Asia’s oldest and India’s biggest festival, Iffi, will pay tribute to the great freedom fighter and founder of Azad Hind Fauj, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, by screening in his honour the film ‘Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose: The Forgotten Hero’ by Shyam Benegal,” Prasad said. Netaji remains one of the most beloved national heroes and an icon of India’s freedom struggle, he said. “The screening of the movie has been scheduled to honour and remember Bose’s indomitable personality and selfless service to the nation. On his 125th birth anniversary, we fondly remember Netaji’s unparalleled contribution to the country,” the Iffi director said. India’s formidable freedom fighter, who said ‘Tum mujhe khoon do, mai tumhe azadi dunga’ (Give me blood and I will give you freedom), was a man of action, said Prasad. “In the fight against the British rule, he called upon the youth of the country to come together and fight for Independence. He led the youth wing of the Indian National Congress in the late 1920s and later became the president of the party in 1938. Netaji’s legacy remains immortal and continues to inspire millions even today,” the director said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/film-fest-to-pay-tribute-to-netaji-on-jan-23/articleshow/80375796.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Aurangabad||Indian Ocean depression robs Aurangabad of winter chill||Aurangabad: At 16.9 degrees celsius, the minimum temperature in Aurangabad was roughly 5 degrees above normal for this time of the year. As per the India Meteoroidal Department (IMD), normal weather conditions are unlikely to return before at least one more week. At 31 degrees celsius, the maximum temperature in Aurangabad was also showing a departure above the normal by at least two units. Among other Marathwada cities, Parbhani and Nanded reported minimums of —- degrees celsius and —- degrees celsius, respectively, which too are above normal. Shriniwas Aundhkar, the director of city-based APJ Abdul Kalam Astrospace Science Centre, said the formation of a sustained depression over the Indian Ocean was taking away the chill from the air. “The minimum temperature is expected to drop gradually by around two units over the next week. Normalcy will be restored. The winter may return depending on the weakening of the depression,” he said. Many citizens said they were using ceiling fans and ACs despite it being the winter season. “It is hot not just during the day, but also the night. I have never experienced the disappearance of winter for such a long period in my life,” said Babasaheb Doke, a retired government employee. As per IMD data, the relative humidity in the air was around 80% during the morning hours and 43% during evening hours, which is considered an anomaly by experts during the winter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/indian-ocean-depression-robs-aurangabad-of-winter-chill/articleshow/80371475.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Trichy||Cops file murder case in Trichy college girl’s death||Trichy: The district police have registered a murder case in connection with the unexplained death of a 19-year-old BPharm student at the women’s hostel of a private college at Samayapuram on Tuesday. A resident of Poiyur in Ariyalur district, the deceased R Rajeswari was a second year BPharm student at Srinivasan college of pharmaceutical sciences and was staying in the college hostel. According to the first information report quoting the complaint of the girl’s father Ramaiyan, the principal informed him over phone that she was found lying on the ground behind the women’s hostel around 7.30 am on Tuesday. The principal told him that Rajeswari fainted and died later at the SRM hospital in Iringalur. However, the college administration told him that the girl must have fallen off the fourth floor of the hostel. The FIR of Samayapuram police said Ramaiyan raised suspicions over the death and that she might have been murdered. He mentioned having found injuries on her jaw and right leg, bruises on her back and hand when he saw her body at the hospital in Irungalur on Tuesday. Inspector Anbazhagan of Samayapuram police told TOI on Wednesday that a case of murder has been booked based on the complaint. The girl had returned from home after Pongal holidays only on Monday night.“She was one of the seven students staying in the hostel. Though the injury marks do not lead to any suspicion of murder, the viscera has been collected for examination to determine the cause of death,” Inspector Anbalagan said. The postmortem was performed at the government hospital in Srirangam on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cops-file-murder-case-in-trichy-college-girls-death/articleshow/80374319.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Nagpur||MLA intercepts 7 vehicles with illegal liquor, accused arrested||Chandrapur: In a move that could put the police department to shame, MLA Kishor Jorgewar himself caught a large consignment of illegal liquor which was being ferried in seven vehicles into the dry Chandrapur district. Sources claimed that one of the seven vehicles served as pilot car, while the other six were carrying nearly 1600 boxes of illegal liquor worth over Rs1 crore. Jorgewar, who had time and again raised his voice against illegal liquor smuggled into prohibited Chandrapur district, had a tip-off about the illegal consignment coming from Nagpur. Accordingly, he took a group of his supporters and intercepted the seven vehicles coming. When the MLA tried to stop the vehicles, they tried to flee, but later, his supporters pursued the smugglers and get hold of them. Jorgewar told that all seven vehicles and those driving them were handed over to Padoli police for further action. He claimed that it is duty of police department to curb smuggling. However, the apprehension of smugglers being shielded by cops is growing among masses. Shiv Sena district chief Sandeep Girhe too was present. Padoli police claimed that 1,589 boxes along with seven vehicles were seized. The collective booty is worth Rs1.17 crore. Seven accused have been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mla-intercepts-7-vehicles-with-illegal-liquor-accused-arrested/articleshow/80374365.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 21, 2021||Trichy||Trichy district has 23.3L voters, 3.2% more than in draft roll||Trichy: The final electoral roll for 2021 released on Wednesday ahead of the Tamil Nadu assembly election, showed an increase of 3.2% voters in Trichy district compared to the draft electoral roll published in November last year. As per the final roll released by Trichy district collector S Sivarasu, Trichy had 23,32,886 voters (11,33,020 males, 11,99,635 females and 231 transgender). This was higher by 72,447 voters than the draft roll. Thiruverumbur constituency registered the maximum number of additional voters by 3.68%, while Musiri had the minimum of 2.47% among other constituencies. Srirangam topped the list with the highest number of voters at 2, 88,990 while Lalgudi had the lowest number at 2,17,526. Going by the projected population, Trichy district should have 72.40% of electorate, but the final electoral roll presented 76.11% of voters. “The number of voters can be 5% lesser or higher than the 72.40%. Here, the difference is 3.71 % which is acceptable,” the collector told reporters. The collector also appealed to the recognised political parties and the public to come forward with the application for addition, deletion and correction that can be updated in the supplementary list to be released later. During the special summary revision, the election department received a total of 1,13,115 applications through online and in person with regard deletion, addition, correction and transposition of entry from one part of electoral roll to another part of the electoral roll. The election department accepted 1,09,339 applications and rejected 3,776. The collector also said that the number of polling booths have been increased from 2,531 to 3,432..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-district-has-23-3l-voters-3-2-more-than-in-draft-roll/articleshow/80374358.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Rajkot||Drunk cop, colleague held with liquor||Rajkot: Two police constables from Rajkot city were arrested with 36 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and 32 cans of beer, totally worth Rs 22,000, from near Jambudiya village in Morbi district on Wednesday morning. The duo was caught after the SUV in which they were transporting the liquor from Kutch overturned.Rajdeepsinh Jadeja (26) and Prithvirajsinh Jadeja, both posted at Malviyanagar police station in Rajkot were booked under the Prohibition Act. An additional charge of rash driving under the influence of alcohol was registered against Rajdeepsinh, who was driving the SUV that overturned. According to police, the accused duo was coming from Kutch with the liquor and beer in an SUV. Rajseepsinh, who was drunk and driving the SUV could not control the speeding vehicle and it overturned near overbridge at Jambudiya village on Morbi-Wankaner highway.Both the cops then blocked the road showing their police ID cards and stopped once van. They also began transferring the liquor bottles and beer cans from the SUV into the van. However, an alert citizen informed the Morbi taluka police station about the incident.A team from the Morbi taluka police station reached the spot and arrested the two constables. Rajdeepsinh was found to be in an inebriated state, said investigation officer AA Jadeja of Morbi police. He said that both the cops have been arrested and further investigation in the matter was on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/drunk-cop-colleague-held-with-liquor/articleshow/80371494.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Pune||Vaccinations surge in Maharashtra, rural areas push up numbers||PUNE/NASHIK/KOLHAPUR: Covid-19 vaccination in Maharashtra improved on Wednesday, largely due to the enthusiastic participation of beneficiaries from the rural areas. By 7pm, the state had reported vaccination of 18,166 beneficiaries, about 68% of the target set for the day. It was better than the coverage of 65% on the vaccination launch day on Saturday. “The vaccination is going on beyond 7pm at some sites and we expect the numbers to go up. A total of 51,660 beneficiaries have taken the vaccine in the state so far. Of these, 881 beneficiaries have received the Covaxin doses,” principal health secretary Pradeep Vyas said. Health authorities expect the coverage to increase gradually as word about the almost negligible side-effects of the vaccination spreads from those who have taken the jab. Moreover, counselling and outreach programmes are being held for the beneficiaries. Parts of Vidarbha and Marathwada continue to lead in the inoculation programme with Amravati district reporting 112% vaccinations on Wednesday and Hingoli district 107%. Aurangabad district reported the lowest vaccination in the state at 31%. In some parts, authorities are contacting more than a hundred beneficiaries to ensure maximum recipients are inoculated. Though Pune district reported 38% vaccination, it had inoculated the second highest number of beneficiaries in the state (1,109) after Thane district (1,774). The vaccination drive in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits slowed down further with 184 or 31% of the 600 targeted beneficiaries taking the shots on the third day of the drive on Wednesday. It was 36% and 55% on Tuesday and last Saturday. The PCMC limits registered only 27% vaccination, the lowest in the region, on Wednesday. The trend persisted in Pune district as well, with 1,355 or 47% of the 2,900 target beneficiaries taking the jabs on Wednesday as against 48% and 58% vaccinations recorded on Tuesday and last Saturday. In North Maharashtra, Nandurbar district had the highest vaccination (78%) on Wednesday, while Nashik district had its highest vaccination in the past three days at 72%. The Covid-19 vaccines are being administered at 13 sites in Nashik district, including eight locations in the urban areas. “Many health workers the from urban areas did not come for the vaccination but those from the rural areas have been coming for the past two days. They were mostly anganwadi and ASHA workers,” said Sapna Thakre, health officer of Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC). In Western Maharashtra, Satara and Solapur districts also reported a high number of vaccinations — 79% and 76% — with many of their centres showing 100% attendance of beneficiaries. In Kolhapur, private health workers are participating in large numbers in the vaccination drive across 11 centres. Kolhapur district vaccinated 71% beneficiaries on Wednesday compared to 50% the previous day. Four beneficiaries from Kolhapur city developed mild side-effects to the vaccine. “The side-effects are mostly because of anxiety in the beneficiaries. Despite the side-effects being very mild, we will be in touch with them through phone calls for the next couple of days,” said Pol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vaccinations-surge-in-state-rural-areas-push-up-numbers/articleshow/80375836.cms||Swatee Kher
January 21, 2021||Kochi||Bird flu outbreak again in Alappuzha, culling begins||ALAPPUZHA: The district is in the throes of another bird-flu scare. The viral infection was confirmed in Kuttanad, on Wednesday, where it was detected in Kainakary. This is second time that avian influenza (H5N8) has been confirmed in the district this year. According to officials, at least 500 birds, including ducks, have died in Kainakary. “The presence of the virus was confirmed after samples of the dead birds were sent to National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, for analysis,” district collector A Alexander said. The administration has constituted a ten-member rapid response team (RRT) to cull birds within a 1km radius of the affected area. Five teams have so far culled 305 ducks, 223 chickens and destroyed 42kg of feed in wards 10 and 11 of the grama panchayat. A veterinary doctor is spearheading the RRT. It has two livestock inspectors, two attenders, a revenue official, a panchayat official, two police official, and two workers as its members. A high-level meeting chaired by Alexander decided to take all necessary steps to bring the disease under control. A standard operating procedure has been issued to officials selected for culling. The carcasses of culled birds are to be burned. The collector has directed Kainakary grama panchayat authorities to provide firewood, diesel and sugar for the process. Earlier in the month, bird flu was confirmed in Nedumudi, Thakazhi, Pallippad and Karuvatta grama panchayats. This was followed by the culling of 49,958 birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bird-flu-outbreak-again-in-alappuzha-culling-begins/articleshow/80372955.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana bypoll: BJP main target of Left parties||HYDERABAD: The two main left parties, CPI and CPM, which have considerable presence in the Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency. have decided to work hard to defeat BJP in the ensuing bypoll to this segment. Neither the CPI nor the CPM have so far decided whether to field its candidates or contest jointly. The two left parties have also not taken a decision on supporting any other party candidate in the bypoll but they have clarity on one issue—that is to work towards defeating BJP. CPM state secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram said a policy decision has been taken by the party at national level to oppose and fight to defeat BJP because it is spearheading politics on communal lines. CPI state leader Chada Venkat Reddy said the Left parties would soon sit together to work out a strategy. TRS netas want KCR meet in SagarT RS party members are exerting pressure on chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to at least address a huge public meeting without fail during the campaigning in Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency, keeping in view the setback TRS suffered in bypoll held in Dubbak constituency where KCR did not campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bypoll-bjp-main-target-of-left-parties/articleshow/80374359.cms||Roushan Ali
January 21, 2021||Bhopal||MP: Discoms seek 6% power tariff hike for next fiscal year to tide over ‘losses’||BHOPAL: Brace for another power shock as discoms have sought 6% power tariff hike for the financial year 2021-22. The hike has been sought in the annual revenue requirement (ARR) petition filed before the Madhya Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (MPERC). In the petition, discoms have urged the commission to allow a 6% tariff hike in the coming financial year to bridge the estimated revenue gap of around Rs 2,500 crores, said sources. The ARR is filed by discoms before the start of a financial year. It is determined on the basis of the estimated incomes and estimated expenditures in the coming year. If this estimated income is less than the estimated expenditure, then the discoms urge the regulators to increase the prevalent power tariff so that this income and exependiture gap is bridged, added sources. “This is the ARR based on the estimated income and expenditures. It is quite minimal as the impact of Covid-19 is not included in it. It would be reflected in the true petition for the financial year 2020-21 by the end of this year. ARR is on the basis of estimates, but after the end of the financial year, actual audited accounts are available and on the basis of actual income and expenditures, true petitions are filed. If the regulator finds it appropriate and valid, it allows recovery from the consumers in the tariff of the next financial year. Thus, the real Covid-19 impact will be visible in year 2021-22,” said sources. As per norms, MPERC will now put up the ARR — filed by discoms — in the public domain and seek suggestions, objections from stakeholders. It will then hold public hearings for the purpose. After hearing all sides, the commission will take the final decision. The tariff order for the ongoing financial year was delayed due to Covid-19 and lockdown. Instead of announcing it at the start of the financial year, it was announced on December 17, 2020, after a delay of 8 months. This has also cause significant revenue loss to the discoms. If this current power tariff hike request is accepted as it is by the regulator, then it will have considerable impact on users. Take for instance, a consumer—who uses two ACs (5-star), a couple of fans, an LED TV, and five LED bulbs or consumes about 425 units of electricity in a month, had to pay Rs 3,657 per month in his electricity bills as per prevalent rates. Now, with the increased rates coming into effect, the same consumer with 425 units of energy consumer per month will have to pay around Rs 3,900 per month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/discoms-seek-6-power-tariff-hike-for-next-fiscal-year-to-tide-over-losses/articleshow/80371477.cms||Amarjeet Singh
January 21, 2021||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: Court grants bail to two men on grounds of parity||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court has granted bail to two persons in connection with a case of northeast Delhi violence in February 2020, on grounds of parity. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat allowed bail to Shanu and Zarif in a case pertaining to setting ablaze of a house at Jaffrabad. The court observed that the accused had been in judicial custody since April 8, 2020, in the present case and parity was relevant in the light of the co-accused being granted bail. It stated, “Considering the period of incarceration of the accused and in the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case, the bail application is allowed.” It directed the accused not to tamper with evidence or leave Delhi without its permission. Seeking bail, advocate Abdul Gaffar, appearing for both the accused, had submitted that the investigation was complete besides there being no apprehension that his clients would influence witnesses. Special public prosecutor Anuj Handa opposed the bail arguing they were allegedly part of the unlawful assembly that burned down the house. The cost of the loss was estimated to be somewhere between Rs 8 to 10 lakh. It was also argued that these men were involved in six other cases of riots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-delhi-riots-court-grants-bail-to-two-men-on-grounds-of-parity/articleshow/80374349.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Twitter restricts Kangana Ranaut’s account briefly for now-deleted post on series||Twitter took brief action on actor Kangana Ranaut’s account and restricted it for a few hours on Wednesday after the actor in a now-deleted tweet said that it was “time to take their heads off”, referring to the makers of the web series Tandav. Her incendiary remark was in response to the Union information and broadcasting ministry asking the makers to explain allegations of insult to Hindu gods in some scenes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/twitter-restricts-kanganas-account-briefly-for-now-deleted-post-on-series/articleshow/80374357.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Nagpur||Tree illegally felled near Telangkhedi temple||Nagpur: In yet another callous incident, a tree was illegally felled during construction of a road near Telangkhedi temple. The incident took place on Tuesday, the night when videos of the felled tree started getting viral on social media. According to green activists, the tree was felled during the construction work of a cement road which is being carried out by MahaMetro on south Telangkhedi road. Photographs received by TOI reveal how a JCB was used to uproot the tree at night. On Wednesday, TOI visited the spot with officials of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s garden department and green activists. The Karanji tree, which was planted over five years ago, was completely chopped off, and the area around its base was filled with stones. “It is unfortunate that despite having clear clarity about the norms, agencies continue to fell trees without the mandatory permission from NMC,” said green activist Shrikant Deshpande. Stating that cutting trees by using bulldozers at night is akin to theft, environment activist Jaydeep Das said, “It seems that the executing agencies have scant regard for the environment laws and also no control over their contractors who are in a haste to finish work and gather all the money. Now, it’s up to the NMC to punish such perpetrators otherwise a wrong precedent will be set.” NMC’s garden inspector Ananta Nagmote carried out a spot panchnama. “We will enquire into the matter and send a notice to MahaMetro,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tree-illegally-felled-near-telangkhedi-temple/articleshow/80376509.cms||Manka Behl
January 21, 2021||Bhopal||70K more vaccine doses reach Bhopal||Bhopal: Another consignment of 70000 doses of coronavirus vaccine was received district health authorities here on Wednesday. Earlier, on January 13, 94,000 doses were been received for eight districts of Bhopal division. Bhopal regional director health, Dr AL Maravi, confirmed vaccines doses arrived at Raja Bhoj Airport on Wednesday. Around 70,000 doses are Bhopal division. It is second consignment of corona vaccine. Doses will be supplied to all connected districts. He stressed that sufficient logistic and storage arrangement are in place. Sources said that vaccines arrived via a regular commercial flight. Overall, four lakh doses were received for MP. These doses of vaccines will be distributed to all the four major regions—Bhopal, Indore, Gwalior and Jabalpur. 70,000 vaccines will be sent to eight districts—Bhopal, Sehore, Raisen, Vidisha, Rajgarh, Harda, Betul and Hoshangabad. Earlier MP received, over five lakh doses. First dose of vaccination is expected to continue to 14 working days. It is expected to cover 2.25 lakh healthcare workers. After 28 days, the beneficiaries will be given second dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/70k-more-vaccine-doses-reach-bhopal/articleshow/80371451.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Pappu Nepali is first to be booked under MCOCA in 2021||MUMBAI: Pappu Nepali, a 33-year-old inter-state robber, has become the first accused to be booked under Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) this year. Nepali, a Virar resident whose actual name is Dalbirsingh Rawat, was most recently involved in an armed robbery at an imitation jewellery-making workshop in Malad (East). Nepali has been booked in 13 criminal cases so far, including thefts, attempted murder, assault and robbery across western suburbs, Nalasopara, Thane and Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh. He has faced chapter cases, besides externment proceedings, under the Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities (MPDA) Act in the past. On October 28, 2020, two men brandishing choppers had barged into an imitation jewellery workshop in Malad and threatened the workers in an extortion bid. The duo told the workers their employer should pay up Rs 15,000 per month. There were about two dozen workers on the premises. Some started to run, sparking chaos. Police said the armed men tried to hurt one of the employees but he escaped narrowly. The armed men continued to wave around the choppers after leaving the workshop to avoid getting nabbed outside. Police later arrested Nepali and his associates, Sanjay Pandey and Ajit Singh. Police said one Abdul bhai used to operate from the area and target businessmen for extortion but after his departure, Nepali was trying to take his place. “After studying Nepali’s criminal history and the evidence in this case, approval was granted to apply MCOCA charges,” said additional commissioner (North Region) Dilip Sawant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pappu-nepali-is-first-to-be-booked-under-mcoca-in-2021/articleshow/80372964.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Trichy||Farmers’ leaders upset over late invite for Delhi meet||Trichy: Hours before the Centre made a climbdown by agreeing to keep the three contentious farm laws in abeyance, the committee appointed by Supreme Court to negotiate with the farmers had invited select representatives from the delta districts also to attend its first meeting scheduled for Thursday in New Delhi. However, the farmers’ leaders were upset that they received the intimation letters only a day before the meeting that too in Hindi. The listed representatives were asked to participate in the meeting either in person or through online mode. If they could not attend by both modes they could send their opinion in writing, the letter added. Following the intimation received from the ministry of agriculture, the respective agriculture officers of each district had recommended three names of the representatives of farmers’ associations last week.It was on the basis of the list sent by the district joint director of agriculture that the representatives received emails as well as phone calls about the letter. “I received a call from a person in Chennai who identified himself as Melvin Roy, Tamil Nadu coordinator for the agriculture ministry. He told me to participate in the meeting scheduled for Thursday. When I opened the email, the entire content was in Hindi and I could not make out a thing,” said Swamimalai S Vimalnathan, the secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association.“The committee should ideally travel across the country and seek the views of farmers and their representatives. Moreover, the practice of sending government letters in Hindi alone is not good,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-leaders-upset-over-late-invite-for-delhi-meet/articleshow/80374391.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||BMC seeks embassy’s help to bring Chinese engineers to Mumbai||MUMBAI: BMC has sent in a second request to the embassy of India in Beijing, China, and the Central government to allow six Chinese engineers to visit India to supervise the ongoing coastal road tunnelling work in south Mumbai. The visit of the Chinese engineers was stuck due to the tensions between both countries following the clash at Galwan Valley in Ladakh last June. In December, the embassy of India in Beijing rejected the visa applications of the six engineers, despite the BMC request. A few days ago, the BMC sent a request again, this time along with an invitation letter in support of their visa applications. BMC-appointed contractor L&T has procured a tunnel-boring machine (TBM), which is the biggest in India, from China Railway Construction Heavy Industry. Last Monday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray launched the TBM at Priyadarshini Park, and in a week it completed tunnelling four metres without any hurdle. Officials stated they are going slow with the tunnelling in the initial stages, but work will gradually pick up pace. Officials stated the Chinese company’s engineers are required to provide assistance for tunnelling of the first 500 metres. The engineers were supposed to fly to India to help assemble the TBM machine which arrived in Mumbai last April, but they couldn’t travel due to the lockdown. This delayed launched of the TBM by nearly three months. L&T engineers and experts managed to assemble the TBM parts and launched it recently. The diameter of the TBM is 12.2 m (double the size of the one used for Metro tunnelling). The Chinese engineers working for Bangalore Metro and engineers from China have been providing assistance to the L&T engineers over videoconference. L&T also has a senior engineer who had worked on a similar mega project in China, and he is now managing the tunnelling work along with other senior engineers. A civic official said, “The TBM is very expensive, so the presence of engineers from the manufacturing company is needed for assistance and training in the initial stages.” The twin tunnels of the coastal road will connect Girgaum Chowpatty and Priyadarshini Park. After that the coastal road will be mostly on reclaimed land from Priyadarshini Park to Worli where it will connect the Bandra-Worli Sea Link.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-seeks-embassys-help-to-bring-chinese-engineers-to-city/articleshow/80375807.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 21, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Professors fret over syllabus as students bunk online classes||KOLKATA: An apparent lack of motivation and lockdown fatigue might be keeping college-goers from logging into online classes every day, leaving professors and principals worried over finishing syllabuses before first-semester examinations in March. On-campus classes have been suspended for almost a year now because of the pandemic, though a few universities and colleges have decided to reopen their labs for practical classes. TimesViewThe pandemic has had a severe impact on our education system and stakeholders— both students and educators — have borne its brunt. Some campuses have started reopening but a little more patience may be needed as we take more steps towards the old normal. There needs to be a balance between immediate requirements (like those of students due to appear for board and semester exams) and health concerns.But ever since the institutes have reopened after the winter break, attendance has started dropping. “I usually attend lectures but, on some days, I don’t feel motivated enough to wake up early and log in. Sometimes, the professors are inaudible and at times, they fail to notice if anyone has a query,” said a first-semester student at Syamaprasad College. An official at a central Kolkata college conceded not all professors were tech-savvy enough to solve glitches immediately and holding the attention of a big classroom through online platform and that could be a challenge. To bring students back to classes, colleges have been resorting to several steps, like calling up students and posting the procedure to join online classes on their websites. “We are posting the WhatsApp link on the website so that students don’t face any difficulty. Our teachers are trying to get in touch with students skipping multiple classes,” said Subhasis Dutta, principal, Maulana Azad College. At Umesh Chandra College, the average attendance has been 60%. “Our teachers are working hard to finish the syllabus before the exams but some students are not attending classes, which is a matter of worry,” said principal Mohammad Tofazzal Haque. Asok Mukhopadhyay of Seth Anandaram Jaipuria College has requested teachers to take regular attendance and counsel students who are skipping lectures. At Basanti Devi College, however, the attendance problem is with the general course only. “The attendance in the Honours section is good,” said Indrila Guha, principal. College students require at least 75% attendance to be allowed to sit for their semester-end exams. But institutes can’t implement the rule for the pandemic. “There are many students who are trying their best to attend classes despite poor internet connection or other problems. If they fail to fulfil the criteria, we will not be insensitive to their problems,” said Tapan Kumar Poddar, principal at Vivekananda College and president of the Calcutta University chapter of All Bengal Principals’ Council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/profs-fret-over-syllabus-as-students-bunk-online-classes/articleshow/80374354.cms||Zeeshan Javed
January 21, 2021||Kochi||Neglect: Man dies, wife in hospital||KOTTAYAM: In a shocking incident, an aged person died of starvation and lack of medical support and his wife became mentally disturbed after watching her husband’s pathetic condition helplessly in Mundakayam in the district. Podiyan, 80, died on Tuesday night while wife Ammini, 76, was admitted in medical college hospital here after social workers and police intervened. Mundakayam police have launched a probe and registered a case for unnatural death. According to police, the aged couple had two sons and they were staying with their younger son Reji. The couple were confined within a room in the house for several months, allegedly without proper food and medication. Reji and his wife Jancy were staying in the adjacent room. However, they did not attend to the basic needs of the aged couple. According to local residents, the son used to tie their pet dog to a cot in the room while they went out to prevent outsiders coming into the house and entering the room where the aged couple lived. The local residents were also scared of Reji as he was habituated to picking up fights after getting drunk. Asha workers and palliative care members, who arrived at the house after local residents informed them about the situation, reported the shocking scenes in the room to police and local body members. Though the couple were rushed to Kanjirappally general hospital, Podiyan’s life could not be saved. Ammini, who appeared to be in a mentally disturbed state, was shifted to MCH. Earlier, Ammini was a daily-wage worker who also supported her husband. The couple got isolated in the house as she could not go for work. According to Mundakayam CI, it is being investigated whether Podiyan’s death is due to the negligence of the son and daughter-in-law. A detailed autopsy report is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/neglect-man-dies-wife-in-hospital/articleshow/80372984.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana has seen four cases of UK strain||HYDERABAD: Health authorities on Wednesday confirmed the state had seen four cases of UK strain of Covid-19. Seven people who returned from the UK, tested positive on December 24. While initially one returnee tested positive, a contact tested positive within days. Two more people from the city who returned 10 days ago tested positive. “They have recovered and have been discharged from hospital,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director public health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-has-seen-4-cases-of-uk-strain/articleshow/80374382.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Corporator, official row before cops||HYDERABAD: A two-day row between Banjara Hills corporator G Vijaya Laxmi and Sheikpet tahsildar Srinivas Reddy landed before the police on Wednesday. Laxmi and her followers allegedly picked up an argument with Reddy and tried to restrain him from going out of his office on Tuesday. The incident took place after she allegedly got annoyed when Reddy abruptly hung up her call. Later Laxmi, the daughter of TRS secretary-general K Keshava Rao, lodged a complaint against Reddy in Banjara Hills police station accusing him of rude behaviour. On finding out about her complaint, Reddy lodged a counter complaint accusing her of obstructing him from going out of his office, when he was supposed to go to High Court. Assistant commissioner of police (Banjara Hills) M Sudharshan on Wednesday told TOI that both the complaints had been referred for legal opinion before any action could be taken. Reddy told the media that on Tuesday at around 12pm, Laxmi called him with regard to rejection of some income certificates. She however said she called him in connection with complaints related to the implementation of Kalyana Lakshmi and Shaadi Mubarak. “So, I asked her to refer it directly to me, so that I will get it done. But she raised her voice owing to which I disconnected the call. Later, she called me twice but I did not take her call,’’ the tahsildar said. Following this, Laxmi came to tahsildar’s office in Banjara Hills at 2pm along with her followers. “There were about 20 members who came into my cabin while I was having lunch in another room. When I came out, she asked me I though of myself. She said she is the daughter of Keshava Rao. When I was about to leave for the high court, I was again stopped at the main door of the office by them. Then I took another way and left the office,’’ Reddy alleged. Staff of Sheikhpet tahsildar said that an angry Laxmi was heard complaining that tahsildar should have told her he was going out. Instead he had chosen to hang up her call, which was unacceptable behaviour. Laxmi and her followers allegedly picked up an argument with Reddy and tried to restrain him from going out of his office on Tuesday after he hung up on her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/corporator-official-row-before-cops/articleshow/80374428.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Dehradun||19-year-old killed; another hurt after bike collides with truck||Dehradun: A 19-year-old youth was killed and another teenager sustained critical injuries after the bike they were riding on collided with a truck near Dholka tri-junction area in the Prem Nagar locality of Dehradun. The deceased has been identified as Anshul Sharma, a resident of Vikasnagar city, while the injured, identified as Sagar Thakur, has been referred to a higher centre in Dehradun for treatment. “Both the teenagers were coming towards Dehradun and the truck was going in the opposite direction when the accident took place. On receiving information, a team of police reached the spot and found the two injured boys. Both were taken to the hospital where one was pronounced dead,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/19-year-old-killed-another-hurt-after-bike-collides-with-truck/articleshow/80371523.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 21, 2021||Coimbatore||Car stolen in city recovered in Kanyakumari||Coimbatore: Police on Wednesday recovered a car, which was robbed from a native of Kerala near Madukkarai in the district on January 11, near Nithiravilai in Kanyakumari district. According to police, K Mohammad Musthafa, 34, of Paladu village in Mannarkad district, and his friend Sharjah Husen were struck in traffic congestion near Madukkarai bridge when an unidentified four-member gang waylaid them, broke the windshield of the car and took away the vehicle along with cash and a box on January 11. Musthafa had informed the police that Nassar from Mannarkad had asked them to handover the cash and box to Kumar on Oppanakara Street in the city. Police received information that the car was found abandoned near Nithiravilai in Kanyakumari and it was brought to Coimbatore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/car-stolen-in-city-recovered-in-kanyakumari/articleshow/80374395.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 21, 2021||Kolhapur||Vaccination Day 3: Walk-ins, rural push see Maharashtra turnout jump to 68%||MUMBAI: The third day of Covid-19 vaccination on Wednesday saw an impressive surge in the number of recipients in the state—68% as compared to 52% the previous day— mainly due to “walk-in” access to pre-registered healthcare workers, senior government officials-cum-doctors stepping in as ‘motivators’ to take the vaccine and an enthusiastic turnout in the rural areas. State health officials said that 18,166 recipients—about 68% of the healthcare workers scheduled for vaccination on Wednesday— had taken the shot, report Sumitra Deb Roy, Malathy Iyer & Bhavika Jain. The turnout in Mumbai, once India’s worst Covid hotspot, was 52%. The BMC had a list of 3,300 healthcare workers on Wednesday morning, but could vaccinate only 52% of them by 5pm. Amravati, Hingoli see over 100% vax turnout“Worse, a sizable number of the recipients were self-motivated walk-in recipients and not those who were mentioned in the list generated by the Co-WIN app,” complained a senior BMC official. It seems the Co-WIN-generated SMSes didn’t reach the healthcare workers at all. Apart from the Co-WIN glitches in Mumbai, health officials were happy that the state-wide turnout was higher than the first day (65%). National health commissioner N Ramaswami said the initial hesitancy would reduce as more healthcare workers take the vaccine and spread the word. “On Wednesday, we had a good number of district health officials and civic surgeons taking the vaccine to build confidence. More important, we haven’t seen any serious adverse effects,” he said. In the three days of vaccination since January 16, a total of 51,650 health workers have been vaccinated. Principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said he was optimistic that numbers would grow in the days to come. “Initial hesitancy will go away in a few days and there will be better acceptance,” he said. Two districts, Amravati and Hingoli, had over 100% turnout on Wednesday as they managed to vaccinate over 500 and 200 beneficiaries respectively. Three districts, Dhule, Wardha and Palghar, had more than 90% vaccination. Health officers from Nashik and Kolhapur said that ASHA workers were participating in large numbers compared to other health workers and that could be driving the numbers up. In Mumbai, BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare credited the significant number of walk-ins for the marginally improved performance—from 50% on Tuesday to 52% on the next day. Owing to Co-WIN glitches, only 24 booths could go live on Wednesday of the 40 across 10 centres. “Our ward offices contacted the private hospitals in the vicinity of vaccination centres and told them to walk-in. We had a good number of private doctors taking the vaccine,” she said. However, the drive cannot completely hinge on walk-ins and the system of intimating beneficiaries would remain. Dr Gomare said there were only seven cases of minor side-effects reported on Wednesday. The two healthcare workers who were hospitalised after the drive on the first day have been discharged. Meanwhile, the state health report showed that parts of Vidarbha and Marathwada led the inoculation programme, with Amravati district reporting 112% vaccinations on Wednesday and Hingoli district 107%. Aurangabad district reported the lowest vaccination in the state (31%). Though Pune district reported 38% vaccination, it had inoculated the second highest number of beneficiaries in the state (1,109) after Thane district (1,774). Rural parts of Pune reported an impressive 64% vaccination on Wednesday, while the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) had only 27% coverage. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) also had just 31% vaccinations till 7pm. Earlier on Wednesday, public health minister Rajesh Tope said the glitches in the Co-WIN app is creating confusion among beneficiaries and there is still some hesitation among the healthcare workers regarding the vaccination. “The turnout cannot be called low; Maharashtra was among the top states on the first day. The technical problems cropping up in the Co-WIN app is causing some problems. And we have also noticed that there is some hesitation about getting vaccinated among some healthcare workers,” said Tope. He said that the public health department would counsel the healthcare workers and reach out to them to allay their fears and appeal them to get vaccinated. “I will also release mass chips to all these beneficiaries. There are some ‘ifs’ and ‘buts’ in the minds of the healthcare workers and we will create awareness.” Tope also said that since the vaccination drive will be carried out every week from now on, the participation will only increase. He also said that the two vaccines—Covaxin and Covishield—are completely safe and people need not have any fear about getting inoculated. There will be no vaccine drive on Thursday. It will resume on Friday and continue till Saturday. (With inputs from the Pune bureau)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/vax-day-3-walk-ins-rural-push-see-state-turnout-jump-to-68/articleshow/80377079.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 21, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Vaccination Day 3: Walk-ins, rural push see Maharashtra turnout jump to 68%||MUMBAI: The third day of Covid-19 vaccination on Wednesday saw an impressive surge in the number of recipients in the state—68% as compared to 52% the previous day— mainly due to “walk-in” access to pre-registered healthcare workers, senior government officials-cum-doctors stepping in as ‘motivators’ to take the vaccine and an enthusiastic turnout in the rural areas. State health officials said that 18,166 recipients—about 68% of the healthcare workers scheduled for vaccination on Wednesday— had taken the shot, report Sumitra Deb Roy, Malathy Iyer & Bhavika Jain. The turnout in Mumbai, once India’s worst Covid hotspot, was 52%. The BMC had a list of 3,300 healthcare workers on Wednesday morning, but could vaccinate only 52% of them by 5pm. Amravati, Hingoli see over 100% vax turnout“Worse, a sizable number of the recipients were self-motivated walk-in recipients and not those who were mentioned in the list generated by the Co-WIN app,” complained a senior BMC official. It seems the Co-WIN-generated SMSes didn’t reach the healthcare workers at all. Apart from the Co-WIN glitches in Mumbai, health officials were happy that the state-wide turnout was higher than the first day (65%). National health commissioner N Ramaswami said the initial hesitancy would reduce as more healthcare workers take the vaccine and spread the word. “On Wednesday, we had a good number of district health officials and civic surgeons taking the vaccine to build confidence. More important, we haven’t seen any serious adverse effects,” he said. In the three days of vaccination since January 16, a total of 51,650 health workers have been vaccinated. Principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said he was optimistic that numbers would grow in the days to come. “Initial hesitancy will go away in a few days and there will be better acceptance,” he said. Two districts, Amravati and Hingoli, had over 100% turnout on Wednesday as they managed to vaccinate over 500 and 200 beneficiaries respectively. Three districts, Dhule, Wardha and Palghar, had more than 90% vaccination. Health officers from Nashik and Kolhapur said that ASHA workers were participating in large numbers compared to other health workers and that could be driving the numbers up. In Mumbai, BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare credited the significant number of walk-ins for the marginally improved performance—from 50% on Tuesday to 52% on the next day. Owing to Co-WIN glitches, only 24 booths could go live on Wednesday of the 40 across 10 centres. “Our ward offices contacted the private hospitals in the vicinity of vaccination centres and told them to walk-in. We had a good number of private doctors taking the vaccine,” she said. However, the drive cannot completely hinge on walk-ins and the system of intimating beneficiaries would remain. Dr Gomare said there were only seven cases of minor side-effects reported on Wednesday. The two healthcare workers who were hospitalised after the drive on the first day have been discharged. Meanwhile, the state health report showed that parts of Vidarbha and Marathwada led the inoculation programme, with Amravati district reporting 112% vaccinations on Wednesday and Hingoli district 107%. Aurangabad district reported the lowest vaccination in the state (31%). Though Pune district reported 38% vaccination, it had inoculated the second highest number of beneficiaries in the state (1,109) after Thane district (1,774). Rural parts of Pune reported an impressive 64% vaccination on Wednesday, while the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) had only 27% coverage. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) also had just 31% vaccinations till 7pm. Earlier on Wednesday, public health minister Rajesh Tope said the glitches in the Co-WIN app is creating confusion among beneficiaries and there is still some hesitation among the healthcare workers regarding the vaccination. “The turnout cannot be called low; Maharashtra was among the top states on the first day. The technical problems cropping up in the Co-WIN app is causing some problems. And we have also noticed that there is some hesitation about getting vaccinated among some healthcare workers,” said Tope. He said that the public health department would counsel the healthcare workers and reach out to them to allay their fears and appeal them to get vaccinated. “I will also release mass chips to all these beneficiaries. There are some ‘ifs’ and ‘buts’ in the minds of the healthcare workers and we will create awareness.” Tope also said that since the vaccination drive will be carried out every week from now on, the participation will only increase. He also said that the two vaccines—Covaxin and Covishield—are completely safe and people need not have any fear about getting inoculated. There will be no vaccine drive on Thursday. It will resume on Friday and continue till Saturday. (With inputs from the Pune bureau)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/vax-day-3-walk-ins-rural-push-see-state-turnout-jump-to-68/articleshow/80377083.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 21, 2021||Bhopal||At 67.3%, state records best turnout despite tech glitches||Bhopal: Amid technical glitches, Madhya Pradesh witnessed the maximum vaccination turnout on Wednesday, the third day since the Covid vaccination campaign started. 67.3% of the total scheduled health workers were vaccinated at 148 vaccination booths across the state on Wednesday. On January 16, which was the first day of Covid-19 vaccination, a total 64% of the scheduled health workers were vaccinated. On January 18, a total 60% of the scheduled health workers were vaccinated. On the third day it in,creased to 67.3%. This, despite technical glitches during the vaccination. “The data was transferring slowly, some old data of people who were left out on the first two days was showing up in the Co-Win portal. This led to some delay,” said an official. However, it was not yet clear whether the glitches were minor or whether they would affect the vaccination schedule. Additional chief secretary health, Mohammed Suleman, could not be contacted to comment over the issue. Of the total 14,267 health workers across the state, who were sent messages and whose vaccination was scheduled, a total 4,671 did not turn up for vaccination. In state capital Bhopal, the condition improved as only 51% of people were vaccinated on the second day and only 52% were vaccinated on the first day, but on the third day, it increased to 75.1%. In Gwalior, the situation deteriorated and only 43% of the scheduled 400 health workers could be vaccinated. The figure was 44% on the second day of vaccination and 54% on the first day. In Jabalpur, more than 68% of health workers who were called for vaccination were vaccinated on Wednesday. Indore and Sagar districts reported 100% vaccination on the third day of vaccination. In Hoshangabad also, more than 96% of the scheduled health workers were vaccinated. On the other hand, lower turnout for vaccination was reported in Shahdol district, where only 35% of the health workers who were scheduled could be vaccinated.,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/at-67-3-state-records-best-turnout-despite-tech-glitches/articleshow/80372995.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Vaccination Day 3: Walk-ins, rural push see Maharashtra turnout jump to 68%||MUMBAI: The third day of Covid-19 vaccination on Wednesday saw an impressive surge in the number of recipients in the state—68% as compared to 52% the previous day— mainly due to “walk-in” access to pre-registered healthcare workers, senior government officials-cum-doctors stepping in as ‘motivators’ to take the vaccine and an enthusiastic turnout in the rural areas. State health officials said that 18,166 recipients—about 68% of the healthcare workers scheduled for vaccination on Wednesday— had taken the shot, report Sumitra Deb Roy, Malathy Iyer & Bhavika Jain. The turnout in Mumbai, once India’s worst Covid hotspot, was 52%. The BMC had a list of 3,300 healthcare workers on Wednesday morning, but could vaccinate only 52% of them by 5pm. Amravati, Hingoli see over 100% vax turnout“Worse, a sizable number of the recipients were self-motivated walk-in recipients and not those who were mentioned in the list generated by the Co-WIN app,” complained a senior BMC official. It seems the Co-WIN-generated SMSes didn’t reach the healthcare workers at all. Apart from the Co-WIN glitches in Mumbai, health officials were happy that the state-wide turnout was higher than the first day (65%). National health commissioner N Ramaswami said the initial hesitancy would reduce as more healthcare workers take the vaccine and spread the word. “On Wednesday, we had a good number of district health officials and civic surgeons taking the vaccine to build confidence. More important, we haven’t seen any serious adverse effects,” he said. In the three days of vaccination since January 16, a total of 51,650 health workers have been vaccinated. Principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said he was optimistic that numbers would grow in the days to come. “Initial hesitancy will go away in a few days and there will be better acceptance,” he said. Two districts, Amravati and Hingoli, had over 100% turnout on Wednesday as they managed to vaccinate over 500 and 200 beneficiaries respectively. Three districts, Dhule, Wardha and Palghar, had more than 90% vaccination. Health officers from Nashik and Kolhapur said that ASHA workers were participating in large numbers compared to other health workers and that could be driving the numbers up. In Mumbai, BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare credited the significant number of walk-ins for the marginally improved performance—from 50% on Tuesday to 52% on the next day. Owing to Co-WIN glitches, only 24 booths could go live on Wednesday of the 40 across 10 centres. “Our ward offices contacted the private hospitals in the vicinity of vaccination centres and told them to walk-in. We had a good number of private doctors taking the vaccine,” she said. However, the drive cannot completely hinge on walk-ins and the system of intimating beneficiaries would remain. Dr Gomare said there were only seven cases of minor side-effects reported on Wednesday. The two healthcare workers who were hospitalised after the drive on the first day have been discharged. Meanwhile, the state health report showed that parts of Vidarbha and Marathwada led the inoculation programme, with Amravati district reporting 112% vaccinations on Wednesday and Hingoli district 107%. Aurangabad district reported the lowest vaccination in the state (31%). Though Pune district reported 38% vaccination, it had inoculated the second highest number of beneficiaries in the state (1,109) after Thane district (1,774). Rural parts of Pune reported an impressive 64% vaccination on Wednesday, while the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) had only 27% coverage. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) also had just 31% vaccinations till 7pm. Earlier on Wednesday, public health minister Rajesh Tope said the glitches in the Co-WIN app is creating confusion among beneficiaries and there is still some hesitation among the healthcare workers regarding the vaccination. “The turnout cannot be called low; Maharashtra was among the top states on the first day. The technical problems cropping up in the Co-WIN app is causing some problems. And we have also noticed that there is some hesitation about getting vaccinated among some healthcare workers,” said Tope. He said that the public health department would counsel the healthcare workers and reach out to them to allay their fears and appeal them to get vaccinated. “I will also release mass chips to all these beneficiaries. There are some ‘ifs’ and ‘buts’ in the minds of the healthcare workers and we will create awareness.” Tope also said that since the vaccination drive will be carried out every week from now on, the participation will only increase. He also said that the two vaccines—Covaxin and Covishield—are completely safe and people need not have any fear about getting inoculated. There will be no vaccine drive on Thursday. It will resume on Friday and continue till Saturday. (With inputs from the Pune bureau)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/vax-day-3-walk-ins-rural-push-see-state-turnout-jump-to-68/articleshow/80376351.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 21, 2021||Nashik||Vaccination Day 3: Walk-ins, rural push see Maharashtra turnout jump to 68%||MUMBAI: The third day of Covid-19 vaccination on Wednesday saw an impressive surge in the number of recipients in the state—68% as compared to 52% the previous day— mainly due to “walk-in” access to pre-registered healthcare workers, senior government officials-cum-doctors stepping in as ‘motivators’ to take the vaccine and an enthusiastic turnout in the rural areas. State health officials said that 18,166 recipients—about 68% of the healthcare workers scheduled for vaccination on Wednesday— had taken the shot, report Sumitra Deb Roy, Malathy Iyer & Bhavika Jain. The turnout in Mumbai, once India’s worst Covid hotspot, was 52%. The BMC had a list of 3,300 healthcare workers on Wednesday morning, but could vaccinate only 52% of them by 5pm. Amravati, Hingoli see over 100% vax turnout“Worse, a sizable number of the recipients were self-motivated walk-in recipients and not those who were mentioned in the list generated by the Co-WIN app,” complained a senior BMC official. It seems the Co-WIN-generated SMSes didn’t reach the healthcare workers at all. Apart from the Co-WIN glitches in Mumbai, health officials were happy that the state-wide turnout was higher than the first day (65%). National health commissioner N Ramaswami said the initial hesitancy would reduce as more healthcare workers take the vaccine and spread the word. “On Wednesday, we had a good number of district health officials and civic surgeons taking the vaccine to build confidence. More important, we haven’t seen any serious adverse effects,” he said. In the three days of vaccination since January 16, a total of 51,650 health workers have been vaccinated. Principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said he was optimistic that numbers would grow in the days to come. “Initial hesitancy will go away in a few days and there will be better acceptance,” he said. Two districts, Amravati and Hingoli, had over 100% turnout on Wednesday as they managed to vaccinate over 500 and 200 beneficiaries respectively. Three districts, Dhule, Wardha and Palghar, had more than 90% vaccination. Health officers from Nashik and Kolhapur said that ASHA workers were participating in large numbers compared to other health workers and that could be driving the numbers up. In Mumbai, BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare credited the significant number of walk-ins for the marginally improved performance—from 50% on Tuesday to 52% on the next day. Owing to Co-WIN glitches, only 24 booths could go live on Wednesday of the 40 across 10 centres. “Our ward offices contacted the private hospitals in the vicinity of vaccination centres and told them to walk-in. We had a good number of private doctors taking the vaccine,” she said. However, the drive cannot completely hinge on walk-ins and the system of intimating beneficiaries would remain. Dr Gomare said there were only seven cases of minor side-effects reported on Wednesday. The two healthcare workers who were hospitalised after the drive on the first day have been discharged. Meanwhile, the state health report showed that parts of Vidarbha and Marathwada led the inoculation programme, with Amravati district reporting 112% vaccinations on Wednesday and Hingoli district 107%. Aurangabad district reported the lowest vaccination in the state (31%). Though Pune district reported 38% vaccination, it had inoculated the second highest number of beneficiaries in the state (1,109) after Thane district (1,774). Rural parts of Pune reported an impressive 64% vaccination on Wednesday, while the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) had only 27% coverage. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) also had just 31% vaccinations till 7pm. Earlier on Wednesday, public health minister Rajesh Tope said the glitches in the Co-WIN app is creating confusion among beneficiaries and there is still some hesitation among the healthcare workers regarding the vaccination. “The turnout cannot be called low; Maharashtra was among the top states on the first day. The technical problems cropping up in the Co-WIN app is causing some problems. And we have also noticed that there is some hesitation about getting vaccinated among some healthcare workers,” said Tope. He said that the public health department would counsel the healthcare workers and reach out to them to allay their fears and appeal them to get vaccinated. “I will also release mass chips to all these beneficiaries. There are some ‘ifs’ and ‘buts’ in the minds of the healthcare workers and we will create awareness.” Tope also said that since the vaccination drive will be carried out every week from now on, the participation will only increase. He also said that the two vaccines—Covaxin and Covishield—are completely safe and people need not have any fear about getting inoculated. There will be no vaccine drive on Thursday. It will resume on Friday and continue till Saturday. (With inputs from the Pune bureau)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/vax-day-3-walk-ins-rural-push-see-state-turnout-jump-to-68/articleshow/80377078.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 21, 2021||Thane||Vaccination Day 3: Walk-ins, rural push see Maharashtra turnout jump to 68%||MUMBAI: The third day of Covid-19 vaccination on Wednesday saw an impressive surge in the number of recipients in the state—68% as compared to 52% the previous day— mainly due to “walk-in” access to pre-registered healthcare workers, senior government officials-cum-doctors stepping in as ‘motivators’ to take the vaccine and an enthusiastic turnout in the rural areas. State health officials said that 18,166 recipients—about 68% of the healthcare workers scheduled for vaccination on Wednesday— had taken the shot, report Sumitra Deb Roy, Malathy Iyer & Bhavika Jain. The turnout in Mumbai, once India’s worst Covid hotspot, was 52%. The BMC had a list of 3,300 healthcare workers on Wednesday morning, but could vaccinate only 52% of them by 5pm. Amravati, Hingoli see over 100% vax turnout“Worse, a sizable number of the recipients were self-motivated walk-in recipients and not those who were mentioned in the list generated by the Co-WIN app,” complained a senior BMC official. It seems the Co-WIN-generated SMSes didn’t reach the healthcare workers at all. Apart from the Co-WIN glitches in Mumbai, health officials were happy that the state-wide turnout was higher than the first day (65%). National health commissioner N Ramaswami said the initial hesitancy would reduce as more healthcare workers take the vaccine and spread the word. “On Wednesday, we had a good number of district health officials and civic surgeons taking the vaccine to build confidence. More important, we haven’t seen any serious adverse effects,” he said. In the three days of vaccination since January 16, a total of 51,650 health workers have been vaccinated. Principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said he was optimistic that numbers would grow in the days to come. “Initial hesitancy will go away in a few days and there will be better acceptance,” he said. Two districts, Amravati and Hingoli, had over 100% turnout on Wednesday as they managed to vaccinate over 500 and 200 beneficiaries respectively. Three districts, Dhule, Wardha and Palghar, had more than 90% vaccination. Health officers from Nashik and Kolhapur said that ASHA workers were participating in large numbers compared to other health workers and that could be driving the numbers up. In Mumbai, BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare credited the significant number of walk-ins for the marginally improved performance—from 50% on Tuesday to 52% on the next day. Owing to Co-WIN glitches, only 24 booths could go live on Wednesday of the 40 across 10 centres. “Our ward offices contacted the private hospitals in the vicinity of vaccination centres and told them to walk-in. We had a good number of private doctors taking the vaccine,” she said. However, the drive cannot completely hinge on walk-ins and the system of intimating beneficiaries would remain. Dr Gomare said there were only seven cases of minor side-effects reported on Wednesday. The two healthcare workers who were hospitalised after the drive on the first day have been discharged. Meanwhile, the state health report showed that parts of Vidarbha and Marathwada led the inoculation programme, with Amravati district reporting 112% vaccinations on Wednesday and Hingoli district 107%. Aurangabad district reported the lowest vaccination in the state (31%). Though Pune district reported 38% vaccination, it had inoculated the second highest number of beneficiaries in the state (1,109) after Thane district (1,774). Rural parts of Pune reported an impressive 64% vaccination on Wednesday, while the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) had only 27% coverage. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) also had just 31% vaccinations till 7pm. Earlier on Wednesday, public health minister Rajesh Tope said the glitches in the Co-WIN app is creating confusion among beneficiaries and there is still some hesitation among the healthcare workers regarding the vaccination. “The turnout cannot be called low; Maharashtra was among the top states on the first day. The technical problems cropping up in the Co-WIN app is causing some problems. And we have also noticed that there is some hesitation about getting vaccinated among some healthcare workers,” said Tope. He said that the public health department would counsel the healthcare workers and reach out to them to allay their fears and appeal them to get vaccinated. “I will also release mass chips to all these beneficiaries. There are some ‘ifs’ and ‘buts’ in the minds of the healthcare workers and we will create awareness.” Tope also said that since the vaccination drive will be carried out every week from now on, the participation will only increase. He also said that the two vaccines—Covaxin and Covishield—are completely safe and people need not have any fear about getting inoculated. There will be no vaccine drive on Thursday. It will resume on Friday and continue till Saturday. (With inputs from the Pune bureau)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/vax-day-3-walk-ins-rural-push-see-state-turnout-jump-to-68/articleshow/80377082.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Convocation of Mumbai University on February 1||MUMBAI: Mumbai University’s annual convocation ceremony will be held on February 1. Students can check for errors in the degree certificates in their names in Devanagari script. It will be available for rectifying errors from January 22 to 27. Last year, the convocation was held early.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/convocation-of-mu-on-feb-1/articleshow/80374432.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Implement PRC for govt staff: Congress||HYDERABAD: Congress on Wednesday demanded that the state government immediately announce 60% fitment to over nine lakh employees and also enhance their retirement age. In a letter to the chief minister, former minister and Congress MLA D Sridhar Babu said the TRS government should also concede to the long-pending demand of the employees to scrap the contributory pension scheme and revert to the old pension system. A copy of the letter was also mailed to the three-member high level committee led by chief secretary Somesh Kumar, appointed by the CM to look into the report submitted by the Pay Revision Commission (PRC) and hold talks with the employees’ unions and submit a report to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/implement-prc-for-govt-staff-cong/articleshow/80374411.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||SC notice to Telangana over mom’s three-year search for son||HYDERABAD: After a nearly three-year relentless effort, Nazima Begum on Wednesday received some hope after the Supreme Court issued notices to the Telangana government on the petition filed by her asking the whereabouts of her son, who was allegedly kidnapped. On September 3, 2018, Nazima Begum, a housewife and a resident of Hafez Baba Nagar area, filed a complaint with the Dabeerpura police about the missing of her only son Mohammed Akram Ali aka Furqan from a madrassa. The police registered a case under IPC section 363 (kidnapping) and took up investigation. Though the mother was persistently following up with the police to trace her son, one day the police claimed that her missing son has been found dead on a railway track at Shadnagar. A post mortem examination was conducted, later the body was buried in a graveyard. “My son was 12 years old with a height less than 4.5 ft, whereas the FSL report concluded that the bones of the body belonged to a person of 20 years, who had a height of over 5ft,” said Nazima. Nazima Begum and her husband Mohammed Asif Ali did not rely on the police version and continued to pursue the missing case of her son with the police higher-ups, but to her disappointment, all officials insisted she accept the version of the investigating officer of Dabeerpura police station. “How can I accept this? I have decided to find out where my son is,” she said. Nazima started a legal battle to trace her missing son. She, through a lawyer Khaja Aijazuddin, filed a habeas corpus in Telangana High Court, but the HC while relying on the FSL report, ordered that since the petitioner's missing son was no longer alive, the writ of Habeas Corpus petition cannot be issued by the court and disposed off the plea. The mother approached the Supreme Court seeking reinvestigation in the matter by an independent specialized agency like CBI and to trace the details of her missing son. “I requested the apex court through my petition to take into consideration the oral, documentary and scientific evidence (post mortem report) which directly raised a strong suspicion on the genuineness of the FSL report,” she added. On Wednesday, a Supreme Court bench headed by the Chief Justice SA Bobde upon hearing the argument of her lawyer, issued a notice to the state and directed it to file a counter affidavit within four weeks. “She is determined to dig out the truth and I am trying to help her get to that truth and help her find her son,” Aijazuddin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sc-notice-to-state-over-moms-3-yr-search-for-son/articleshow/80374397.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Aurangabad||Vaccination Day 3: Walk-ins, rural push see Maharashtra turnout jump to 68%||MUMBAI: The third day of Covid-19 vaccination on Wednesday saw an impressive surge in the number of recipients in the state—68% as compared to 52% the previous day— mainly due to “walk-in” access to pre-registered healthcare workers, senior government officials-cum-doctors stepping in as ‘motivators’ to take the vaccine and an enthusiastic turnout in the rural areas. State health officials said that 18,166 recipients—about 68% of the healthcare workers scheduled for vaccination on Wednesday— had taken the shot, report Sumitra Deb Roy, Malathy Iyer & Bhavika Jain. The turnout in Mumbai, once India’s worst Covid hotspot, was 52%. The BMC had a list of 3,300 healthcare workers on Wednesday morning, but could vaccinate only 52% of them by 5pm. Amravati, Hingoli see over 100% vax turnout“Worse, a sizable number of the recipients were self-motivated walk-in recipients and not those who were mentioned in the list generated by the Co-WIN app,” complained a senior BMC official. It seems the Co-WIN-generated SMSes didn’t reach the healthcare workers at all. Apart from the Co-WIN glitches in Mumbai, health officials were happy that the state-wide turnout was higher than the first day (65%). National health commissioner N Ramaswami said the initial hesitancy would reduce as more healthcare workers take the vaccine and spread the word. “On Wednesday, we had a good number of district health officials and civic surgeons taking the vaccine to build confidence. More important, we haven’t seen any serious adverse effects,” he said. In the three days of vaccination since January 16, a total of 51,650 health workers have been vaccinated. Principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said he was optimistic that numbers would grow in the days to come. “Initial hesitancy will go away in a few days and there will be better acceptance,” he said. Two districts, Amravati and Hingoli, had over 100% turnout on Wednesday as they managed to vaccinate over 500 and 200 beneficiaries respectively. Three districts, Dhule, Wardha and Palghar, had more than 90% vaccination. Health officers from Nashik and Kolhapur said that ASHA workers were participating in large numbers compared to other health workers and that could be driving the numbers up. In Mumbai, BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare credited the significant number of walk-ins for the marginally improved performance—from 50% on Tuesday to 52% on the next day. Owing to Co-WIN glitches, only 24 booths could go live on Wednesday of the 40 across 10 centres. “Our ward offices contacted the private hospitals in the vicinity of vaccination centres and told them to walk-in. We had a good number of private doctors taking the vaccine,” she said. However, the drive cannot completely hinge on walk-ins and the system of intimating beneficiaries would remain. Dr Gomare said there were only seven cases of minor side-effects reported on Wednesday. The two healthcare workers who were hospitalised after the drive on the first day have been discharged. Meanwhile, the state health report showed that parts of Vidarbha and Marathwada led the inoculation programme, with Amravati district reporting 112% vaccinations on Wednesday and Hingoli district 107%. Aurangabad district reported the lowest vaccination in the state (31%). Though Pune district reported 38% vaccination, it had inoculated the second highest number of beneficiaries in the state (1,109) after Thane district (1,774). Rural parts of Pune reported an impressive 64% vaccination on Wednesday, while the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) had only 27% coverage. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) also had just 31% vaccinations till 7pm. Earlier on Wednesday, public health minister Rajesh Tope said the glitches in the Co-WIN app is creating confusion among beneficiaries and there is still some hesitation among the healthcare workers regarding the vaccination. “The turnout cannot be called low; Maharashtra was among the top states on the first day. The technical problems cropping up in the Co-WIN app is causing some problems. And we have also noticed that there is some hesitation about getting vaccinated among some healthcare workers,” said Tope. He said that the public health department would counsel the healthcare workers and reach out to them to allay their fears and appeal them to get vaccinated. “I will also release mass chips to all these beneficiaries. There are some ‘ifs’ and ‘buts’ in the minds of the healthcare workers and we will create awareness.” Tope also said that since the vaccination drive will be carried out every week from now on, the participation will only increase. He also said that the two vaccines—Covaxin and Covishield—are completely safe and people need not have any fear about getting inoculated. There will be no vaccine drive on Thursday. It will resume on Friday and continue till Saturday. (With inputs from the Pune bureau)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/vax-day-3-walk-ins-rural-push-see-state-turnout-jump-to-68/articleshow/80377081.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 21, 2021||Nagpur||Vaccination Day 3: Walk-ins, rural push see Maharashtra turnout jump to 68%||MUMBAI: The third day of Covid-19 vaccination on Wednesday saw an impressive surge in the number of recipients in the state—68% as compared to 52% the previous day— mainly due to “walk-in” access to pre-registered healthcare workers, senior government officials-cum-doctors stepping in as ‘motivators’ to take the vaccine and an enthusiastic turnout in the rural areas. State health officials said that 18,166 recipients—about 68% of the healthcare workers scheduled for vaccination on Wednesday— had taken the shot, report Sumitra Deb Roy, Malathy Iyer & Bhavika Jain. The turnout in Mumbai, once India’s worst Covid hotspot, was 52%. The BMC had a list of 3,300 healthcare workers on Wednesday morning, but could vaccinate only 52% of them by 5pm. Amravati, Hingoli see over 100% vax turnout“Worse, a sizable number of the recipients were self-motivated walk-in recipients and not those who were mentioned in the list generated by the Co-WIN app,” complained a senior BMC official. It seems the Co-WIN-generated SMSes didn’t reach the healthcare workers at all. Apart from the Co-WIN glitches in Mumbai, health officials were happy that the state-wide turnout was higher than the first day (65%). National health commissioner N Ramaswami said the initial hesitancy would reduce as more healthcare workers take the vaccine and spread the word. “On Wednesday, we had a good number of district health officials and civic surgeons taking the vaccine to build confidence. More important, we haven’t seen any serious adverse effects,” he said. In the three days of vaccination since January 16, a total of 51,650 health workers have been vaccinated. Principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said he was optimistic that numbers would grow in the days to come. “Initial hesitancy will go away in a few days and there will be better acceptance,” he said. Two districts, Amravati and Hingoli, had over 100% turnout on Wednesday as they managed to vaccinate over 500 and 200 beneficiaries respectively. Three districts, Dhule, Wardha and Palghar, had more than 90% vaccination. Health officers from Nashik and Kolhapur said that ASHA workers were participating in large numbers compared to other health workers and that could be driving the numbers up. In Mumbai, BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare credited the significant number of walk-ins for the marginally improved performance—from 50% on Tuesday to 52% on the next day. Owing to Co-WIN glitches, only 24 booths could go live on Wednesday of the 40 across 10 centres. “Our ward offices contacted the private hospitals in the vicinity of vaccination centres and told them to walk-in. We had a good number of private doctors taking the vaccine,” she said. However, the drive cannot completely hinge on walk-ins and the system of intimating beneficiaries would remain. Dr Gomare said there were only seven cases of minor side-effects reported on Wednesday. The two healthcare workers who were hospitalised after the drive on the first day have been discharged. Meanwhile, the state health report showed that parts of Vidarbha and Marathwada led the inoculation programme, with Amravati district reporting 112% vaccinations on Wednesday and Hingoli district 107%. Aurangabad district reported the lowest vaccination in the state (31%). Though Pune district reported 38% vaccination, it had inoculated the second highest number of beneficiaries in the state (1,109) after Thane district (1,774). Rural parts of Pune reported an impressive 64% vaccination on Wednesday, while the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) had only 27% coverage. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) also had just 31% vaccinations till 7pm. Earlier on Wednesday, public health minister Rajesh Tope said the glitches in the Co-WIN app is creating confusion among beneficiaries and there is still some hesitation among the healthcare workers regarding the vaccination. “The turnout cannot be called low; Maharashtra was among the top states on the first day. The technical problems cropping up in the Co-WIN app is causing some problems. And we have also noticed that there is some hesitation about getting vaccinated among some healthcare workers,” said Tope. He said that the public health department would counsel the healthcare workers and reach out to them to allay their fears and appeal them to get vaccinated. “I will also release mass chips to all these beneficiaries. There are some ‘ifs’ and ‘buts’ in the minds of the healthcare workers and we will create awareness.” Tope also said that since the vaccination drive will be carried out every week from now on, the participation will only increase. He also said that the two vaccines—Covaxin and Covishield—are completely safe and people need not have any fear about getting inoculated. There will be no vaccine drive on Thursday. It will resume on Friday and continue till Saturday. (With inputs from the Pune bureau)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vax-day-3-walk-ins-rural-push-see-state-turnout-jump-to-68/articleshow/80377080.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 21, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: VK Sasikala, set to walk out of prison on January 27, admitted to hospital||BENGALURU: Former AIADMK leader VK Sasikala, serving a four-year term in Central Prison, was shifted to Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College Hospital around 5.30pm on Wednesday. Sasikala, who will be released on January 27, was suffering from fever and breathlessness. She was put in an isolation ward. Her throat swab samples were found negative in the Rapid Antigen and RT-PCR tests for Covid-19. “She’s being treated with high flow nasal oxygen,” said hospital medical superintendent Dr Vijayalakshmi GN. Former #AIADMK leader #VKSasikala was shifted to Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College Hospital around 5.30pm on… https://t.co/Y4dTnwdyz4— TOI Bengaluru (@TOIBengaluru) 1611197618000When she was brought to the hospital, her oxygen saturation level was 80% against the normal 95% and above. “With oxygen support, she is maintaining oxygen saturation level of 97 %,” shes aid. Prison officials said Sasikala was down with fever since Monday evening. Doctors from the prison hospital attended to her and gave some medicines. On Wednesday, Sasikala complained of breathlessness. “Prison hospital doctors checked her and referred her to Bowring for treatment. We have requested doctors to scan her general health too,” they said. “Sasikala, 63, who has comorbidities of hypertension, diabetes and hypothyroidism, has been admitted with cough and fever,” Dr Manoj Kumar HV, dean and director of Bowring hospital, said late at night. Prison officials officially communicated the date of her release to her advocates. However, there is no clarity on when her fellow convicts in the case — relative J Ilavarasi and nephew VN Sudhakaran — will be released. While conviction of the prime accused in the case, former chief minister J Jayalalithaa, lapsed as she died before the Supreme Court delivered its judgment on February 14, 2017, the three other convicts walked into Central Prison that same day. Besides four years in jail, the three were fined Rs 10 crore each, failure to pay which entails another year in the prison. A special court in Bengaluru had deducted 89 days of imprisonment of Sudhakaran, permitting him to walk out any time after paying Rs 10 crore. However, he hasn’t yet paid the fine and reports from Chennai indicate Sasikala will be the first to walk out of jail for political reasons. Sudhakaran’s jail term ended on January 14. “We wonder why he hasn’t paid the fine as he has been fighting a legal battle for early release,” an official of the prisons department said. Ilavarasi, to be relased in February, too hasn’t paid fine. Sasikala paid the fine in November 2020. In her application to the home department, she sought remission, enabling an early release. The papers are with the home department. “The formalities will begin on January 26. An official communication will be made to Sasikala, asking her to get ready to walk out on January 27. That morning, she has to sign a few documents,” prison officials said. Asked if she had deposited any property or gold, officials said, “There was no gold ornament on her when she walked into jail. She didn’t have any cash too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sasikala-set-to-walk-out-of-prison-on-jan-27-admitted-to-hospital/articleshow/80372990.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Agra||29 J&K prisoners booked under PSA to be lodged in Agra central jail||Agra: As many as 21 J&K prisoners booked under Public Safety Act (PSA) and lodged in various jails of Uttar Pradesh are now being transferred to the high-security cell of Agra central jail based on the orders of the Union home ministry. These prisoners were arrested in the wake of the revocation of special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu & Kashmir under Article 370 of the Constitution.Senior superintendent of Agra central jail VK Singh said, “While eight prisoners were already lodged in Agra central jail, 17 more were shifted from Naini, Bareilly and Ambedkar Nagar on Monday night. Four more are scheduled to be transferred from Varanasi central jail. All of them will be kept in a high-security cell away from the other prisoners.”In 2019, over 200 prisoners booked under PSA were transferred to the Agra central jail. A year later, most of them were ‘temporarily’ released based on the directives of the Union home ministry.Sources said that the prisoners being shifted now are believed to be “pro-Pakistan” separatists, of which 10 are associated with Hurriyat leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani. The high-security cell at Agra central jail was constructed 23 years ago and has a capacity to lodge 30 prisoners. The entire cell is soundproof and under constant CCTV surveillance. Sources said that the jail staff on duty at the special cell have been strictly directed not to speak to any prisoner. Only senior officials would communicate with them, if needed. They would be taken out of the lock-up one by one at a fixed time every day and allowed to walk for a few minutes. Besides visitors, the staffers, too, would be thoroughly checked at the main gate. Not only that, the entire premises would be monitored by police and provincial armed constabulary (PAC) round-the-clock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/29-jk-prisoners-booked-under-psa-to-be-lodged-in-agra-central-jail/articleshow/80371541.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 21, 2021||Nagpur||Injured birds rescued, treated at TTC||Nagpur: Maharashtra forest department’s transit treatment centre (TTC) in Seminary Hills has saved lives of more than 25 birds, injured by manja during Makar Sankranti. Wildlife advisory board member Kundan Hate said awareness about the TTC had increased and injured birds of different species like peregrine falcon, owl, pigeon, parrot, duck and migratory birds were brought by citizens at the centre. Many called the 24X7 TTC helpline number 0712- 2515306 to get the injured birds rescued. TTC staff undertook rescue operations across the city. Hate said the survival rate of injured birds went from 20 per cent to nearly 70 per cent this year due to awareness and TTC responding quickly to calls. He appealed to citizens to not use nylon manja, which is not only dangerous for humans but for birds and animals as well. Veterinary surgeons Mayur Kate and Sayyad Billal performed surgeries on the injured birds, and supervisors Siddhant More and Sameer Neware, along with two feeders, are taking care of the birds at the centre before they are let free. Hate said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had shown interest in having TTCs in all 11 circles of Maharashtra, including five in Vidarbha — of which three are already operational in Nagpur, Amravati and Chandrapur. Yavatmal and Gadchiroli are the other districts that would get the benefit once the centres are established.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/injured-birds-rescued-treated-at-ttc/articleshow/80376516.cms||Ranjit Deshmukh
January 21, 2021||Rajkot||Constable booked for suicide abetment||Rajkot: A police constable was booked on Tuesday in Rajkot for allegedly driving a mobile shop owner to suicide last month. Bharat alias Devanand Savseta, who is posted at Gandhigram police station, had threatened the deceased Vikram Khandekha to book in a false rape case if he would not stop talking to Jigna Ahir. Ahir is Savseta’s brother-in-law’s wife. Khandekha and Ahir used to chat on social media platforms and talk on calls. When Ahir’s husband Kuldeep learnt about it, he asked Savseta to intervene. Savseta had visited Khandekha’s shop and threatened to stop all communications with Ahir. He even said that if Khandekha will continue to talk to Ahir he will make sure that he will be booked in a false rape case at Malviyanagar police station. Following the threat, Khandekha went to a guest house on Dhebar Road and consumed poison. His body was found in the guest house on December 19. Khandekha’s elder brother, Vijay, gave a brief statement to cops then as he was grieving but later when he found out that his brother was receiving threats, he started probing. Vijay found footage of CCTV cameras installed at his brother’s shop where Savseta is seen and heard threatening him. Vijay gave a complaint along with CCTV footage to police on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/constable-booked-for-suicide-abetment/articleshow/80371537.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Delhi||Poor show: DU fails to fill a chunk of reserved seats in many colleges||NEW DELHI: Despite several cutoff lists and special drives this year, 5.6% of the economically weaker section (EWS) seats at Delhi University are still vacant. The vacancy is the highest among all reserved categories, followed by 3.5% for scheduled tribe (ST) seats. Under the other backward class category, the count stands at 1.5% and, for scheduled caste candidates, at 0.6%. According to DU officials, the EWS category has more vacant seats this year than in 2019, when the reservation was implemented. In 2019, 15% of the quota was implemented and the remaining 10% this year. DU’s 57 colleges now have 5,616 EWS seats. Kumar Ashutosh, teacher at College of Vocational Studies, said this could be because many students could not get the income certificate due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Kumar had earlier written to DU to conduct a special drive to fill up the seats. “This year, not many candidates have come for the ST category too. Earlier, a lot of students from the Northeast used to take admissions, but not this year,” he pointed out. Hindu College principal Anju Srivastava said EWS candidates might have thought that online classes without proper facilities would be difficult to manage. “Many EWS students who are from outside Delhi may have been put off by the prospect of finding accommodations in Delhi too,” said Srivastava. Many teachers, however, said high cutoffs for the category might have acted as a deterrent. Srivastava also said the EWS cutoffs were close to those for the unreserved category and did not come down much. Venkat Kumar, principal of Sri Venkateswara College, didn’t agree. The concept of EWS, he said, is fairly new and “many may not have the certificates for it”. Most seats are vacant in courses like life science with a high number of seats, he claimed. “In our life science course, we have around 140 seats and filling 10% of it with EWS students may not always be possible.” But in some colleges, even popular courses like BCom (H), English and history have vacant seats. DU said it was assessing the data. In a press conference with officiating vice-chancellor P C Joshi, dean of student welfare Rajeev Gupta said one reason could be that the EWS category was dynamic and a student might fall under it in one year, but not the next year. “We will analyse this data,” Gupta said. The numbers may change a little as DU is looking at multiple admission grievances, he added. “In many cases, we found that allocated seats were filled, but some students who cleared their medical or engineering entrances decided to opt out,” registrar Vikas Gupta said, explaining the jump in the number of vacant unreserved seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/poor-show-du-fails-to-fill-a-chunk-of-reserved-seats-in-many-colleges/articleshow/80374755.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
January 21, 2021||Delhi||Minimum temperature may dip again in Delhi from January 24||NEW DELHI: The minimum temperature on Wednesday was 7.8 degrees Celsius — one degree above normal — and is expected to remain near normal for the next three days, stated India Meteorological Department (IMD). Track the pollution level in your cityKuldeep Srivastava, scientist, IMD and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “As there was a cloud cover on Tuesday, the minimum temperature rose on Wednesday. However, no major variation is expected for the next three days, but there might be slight fluctuations in the temperature.” A Met official said, the night time temperature was expected to drop from January 24. “A western disturbance is likely to impact the hills on January 22, and after it passes, the minimum temperature is likely to dip from January 24 and touch 4-5 degrees,” the official added. The maximum temperature on Wednesday was 18.3 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal. The forecast shows the maximum and minimum temperatures will be around 19 and 8 degrees Celsius, respectively on Thursday. Strong surface winds with 15-20 kmph are predicted during the day along with mist or shallow fog in the morning hours. Meanwhile, the high wind speed on Wednesday helped improve Delhi’s air quality. The Air Quality Index (AQI) was 283 in the “poor” category on Wednesday. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) said, “Surface winds are westerly and high and it is forecast to stay high for the next 36 hours. Better ventilation coefficients are likely to improve the air quality on Thursday.” SAFAR said AQI was likely to deteriorate to “very poor” category on January 22 and 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/min-temp-may-dip-again-from-jan-24/articleshow/80375903.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Bhopal||18,000 vaccinated in state, no side effect reported: CM||Bhopal: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said on Wednesday that Corona vaccination work in the state has been a smooth affair with 18,000 persons vaccinated at 150 centres across the state in the first two days. All the vaccinated persons are healthy and there is no information of any side effect from anywhere. Chouhan was holding a meeting to review the Coronavirus situation in the state and progress in the Covid-19 vaccination work. In the district-wise review of the meeting, it was found that on-an-average 80 new Coronavirus cases were being found in Bhopal, while average in Indore is 50 and 19 in Gwalior. In Bhopal 60 new cases were found on Wednesday while the number was 38 in Indore, 26 in Jabalpur and 10 each in Khargone and Ratlam. Vaccination work is being carried out in the state on four days of the week. Vaccination is being done on Monday, Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday. On the first two days of vaccination on January 16 and January 18, 18,000 persons were vaccinated and on January 20, 6,000 people had been vaccinated till afternoon. Chouhan said that sufficient doses of the vaccine have been received in the state. In the first batch, 5.06 lakh dose of Covishield vaccines were received and second batch of 4.31 lakh dose have also been received. Additional chief secretary, Mohammad Suleman told in the meeting that as of now vaccination is being carried out in 150 centres but in the next two weeks, vaccination will be taking place in 450 health centres. Physiotheraphy council in state Bhopal: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said on Wednesday that setting up a separate council for physiotherapy in the state will be considered. The utility of other medical practices along with allopathy was experienced in the Corona period. Therefore, better use of these practices will be ensured for prevention of diseases. Chouhan was holding a discussion with a delegation of "Arogya Bharati". Chouhan said that "Arogya Bharti" is providing significant services in the health awareness sector. The organisation’s suggestion for the formation of a physiotherapy council is important. Development of physiotherapy is a must in public interest. This system will be promoted in Madhya Pradesh. A decision will be taken soon in this direction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/18000-vaccinated-in-state-no-side-effect-reported-cm/articleshow/80371540.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Maintenance charges can be based on flat size: Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: The Telangana state consumer disputes redressal commission has ruled that if an apartment maintenance association decides to collect maintenance charges basing on the plinth area of a flat rather than collecting the same flat-wise, the same cannot be found fault with at the behest of one or two owners of big flats. The commission president, Justice MSK Jaiswal, and member Meena Ramanathan pronounced this order after setting aside a district forum order that wanted the association to collect charges flat-wise instead. The bench pronounced this order after hearing an appeal filed by India Bulls Centrum Owners Welfare Cooperative Society that is maintaining a gated community at lower Tank Bund in Hyderabad that has 154 flats of various sizes ranging from 1,281 square feet to 3,270 sq feet. V Srikanth and K Sravani raised a consumer complaint earlier seeking a uniform charge for all flats and a district forum allowed it. Upon an appeal preferred by the association, the bench said that bigger flats will accommodate more persons. Their usage of common amenities including water would be more. Smaller flats will have fewer people in them. Asking them to pay on par with big flats is unfair, the bench said. However, the bench added that the association is generally run by the members of the same apartment. It is the decision of the majority that will prevail. In the current case, majority members agreed for paying charges on square feet basis, and hence one or two flat owners cannot object, the bench said while nullifying the district forum’s order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maintenance-charges-can-be-based-on-flat-size-hc/articleshow/80374566.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||K Chandrasekhar Rao has election fever: N Indrasena Reddy||WARANGAL: BJP national executive member N Indrasena Reddy has demanded implementation of 10% Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) reservations in Telangana. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has deliberately deferred its implementation, he said. Though the Union government brought in the EWS law, the state did not implement it, Indrasena Reddy said. “The 10% EWS quota does not go out from any existing quota. But the CM, habituated to implement the scheme, just for the sake of elections in the state. “Family rule is going on in Telangana and KCR is restricted to the farmhouse due to  fever after BJP won Dubbak and divisions in GHMC,” the BJP leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-has-election-fever-indrasena/articleshow/80374467.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
January 21, 2021||Dehradun||CM approves Rs 28 crore for solid waste management projects||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday approved Rs 28 crore for the construction of solid waste management facilities and decentralised segregation hall in various municipal bodies and nagar panchayats of Uttarakhand. On Wednesday, the CM released the first installment of Rs 4.82 crore for these projects. An amount of Rs 32.46 lakh was released for the construction of solid waste management facility and decentralised segregation hall in Dharchula nagar palika parishad, Rs 31.86 lakh for Chinyalisaur nagar palika parishad, Rs 45.19 lakh for Uttarkashi cluster (Uttarkashi and Gangotri), Rs 73.79 lakh for Tanakpur cluster (Tanakpur, Banbasa), and Rs 89.88 lakh for Ramnagar nagar palika parishad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-approves-rs-28-crore-for-solid-waste-management-projects/articleshow/80371536.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 21, 2021||Trichy||More students attend school on second day||Trichy: The attendance of students in class X and XII in the schools in the district was increased roughly by 8% on the second day of reopening on Wednesday. As the state government announced reopening of schools on Tuesday, 506 schools in Trichy district started preparing to accommodate more than 75,000 students for board examination. While 69% of students turned up to school on the first day on Tuesday, it went up to 77% on Wednesday. The students, who were absent on the first day, have decided to attend schools the next day as the reopening went smooth, teachers said. Since we didn’t start teaching from day one, students find it comfortable to come to school, they said. While zonal and district-level committees were formed with school education officials, inspection continued on the second day as well. Trichy district chief education officer R Arivazhagan conducted surprise inspections in Manapparai educational district. We want the schools to ensure that Covid-19 prevention measures are consistent instead of being a one-day event. Therefore, we are checking whether the schools are following the norms, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/more-students-attend-school-on-second-day/articleshow/80374458.cms||---
January 21, 2021||India||Not back-door entry in DNB seats but luck of the draw, says NBE||The National Board of Examination (NBE) has responded to an article in TOI about two candidates with very low ranks being given DNB seats in some of the most sought after institutions stating that these were not a case of “backdoor entry”. According to NBE, after allotting these students immunohaematology and blood transfusion in Nayati Hospital in Mathura, when the accreditation to the hospital was withdrawn, it was found that there were no vacant seats in the same specialty available anywhere in 2020 and in the three years before that. Since all rounds of counselling including the mop-up round were completed, “as a last resort and in the interest of the trainees as there was no fault of the trainees in this matter and they could not have been allowed to suffer, NBE allowed them to choose their specialty and seat from the vacant available left over seats”. The statement said it is “strictly adhering” to its principles of relocation of doctors and that there was no discrimination or backdoor entry. During the relocation process, some candidates are adversely affected due to non-availability of seats in their preferred institute and may get allocated to an institute not at par with the institute they were originally assigned, it stated. It added that such unavoidable circumstances were created due to a few vacant seats being left at the end of counselling and the inability to create extra seats in any other NBE accredited hospitals “as it would be discriminatory and prejudicial to the other candidates who participated in the merit-based counselling and would never have a chance to opt for the extra seats so created”. In some cases, candidates got better options when relocated due to availability of vacant seats which were not available during original allotment, stated NBE. The statement does not refute any of the facts in the TOI article except to reject the accusation of some DNB candidates about two candidates with poor ranks being given “backdoor entry” into highly sought-after institutions and specialties. One of the candidates relocated from Nayati Hospital with rank 34,655 was given a radiodiagnosis seat in Ganga Ram Hospital, considered one of the best in the country for DNB training. Post graduate seats in radio diagnosis, one of the most high-demand specialties, cost crores in private medical colleges. The other with rank 36,335 was given an ophthalmology seat in Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital. Ophthalmology, too, is a high demand specialty and government hospitals are among the top preferences of DNB candidates as there is no worry of non-payment of stipend (Rs 70,000 plus in Delhi) and there are enough patients. The NBE had received complaints from students about Nayati Hospital from the second half of 2019 onwards and from the Association of DNB Doctors in November 2019 after the students’ complaints were not heeded. However, it conducted an inspection only in August 2020. It claims the delay in inspection was due to Covid, though the complaints pre-date Covid by several months. The seats of several other institutions whose accreditation was withdrawn were removed from the mop-up round. Nayati’s accreditation was withdrawn only on October 9, after all the students had been allotted the hospital because the withdrawal process was completed only after the mop-up round. Till date, the NBE has not put out its policy of relocation of candidates or even a final list of how many candidates were relocated each year and to which institutions in the public domain. So candidates do not know what principles NBE has used to make these relocations. The association of DNB doctors have complained to the NBE about the arbitrary allocation of the two candidates to premier institutions in Delhi “without any formal counseling, which is against merit and principle of justice”. The statement also accused this correspondent of not waiting for a response from the board. The fact is that the report was published two weeks after sending mails and messages to the NBE after it failed to respond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/not-back-door-entry-in-dnb-seats-but-luck-of-the-draw-says-nbe/articleshow/80376900.cms||Rema Nagarajan
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Was slashed in train fight, Mumbra man tells GRP||MUMBAI: A 26-year-old commuter has lodged a complaint with GRP that a co-passenger got into a scrap with him on a local train and assaulted him with a sharp weapon. GRP is still verifying his complaint and trying to gather evidence. Jugnu Khan, a Mumbra resident, told the police he was travelling in the luggage coach of a CSMT-bound local on January 18 from Dadar to Currey Road. Around 6.25pm, after the train had left Dadar, he accidentally pushed a co-passenger who got furious and whipped out a sharp object. The co-passenger then slashed Khan on his hand, wrist, arm, neck and behind his ear before raining blows on his back. Khan added at Currey Road, the accused jumped out and fled. Police said Khan has been changing his statements. “Initially, he said the accused got off on Currey Road. Later, he said the accused jumped on to the tracks. His injuries are not deep.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/was-slashed-in-train-fight-man-tells-grp/articleshow/80373058.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Trichy||Golden Rock workshop flags off two wagons||Trichy: Golden Rock railway workshop flagged off the 200th bogie open high-sided air brake heavy loaded (BOXNHL) wagon and the 275th rolling stock programme (RSP) wagon here on Wednesday. In a statement on Wednesday, the workshop said that in spite of the pandemic situation, staff, supervisors and officers of wagon production shops rammed up their manufacturing activities. Due to the team’s extra-ordinary efforts, 275 wagons against railway board’s rolling stock programme orders were manufactured and dispatched within eight months. In this list, 200 are BOXNHL wagons and 75 BVCM wagons. This is the highest ever production in a single financial year in the last 17 years with still two-and-a-half months to go, the statement said. To mark this achievement, the wagons were flagged off in the presence of Shyamadhar Ram, chief workshop manager, A Clement Barnabas, deputy chief mechanical engineer and other officers, supervisors and staff. Railway board has also placed two new wagons orders – one for manufacturing of 15m gauge wagons for UNESCO fame Nilgiri Mountain Railway, another for manufacturing of 48 well-type wagons (BWT) for transportation of track machines in Southern Railway. Golden Rock workshop is also having a CONCOR order for the manufacturing of 1035 BLCS wagons for carrying double stack containers at 100kmph. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/golden-rock-workshop-flags-off-two-wagons/articleshow/80374477.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Agra||Farmers of Agra region mobilize support for R-Day tractor parade||Agra: Farmers of Agra region have started making elaborate preparations to participate in the massive tractor parade in Delhi on Republic Day, in protest against the three new farm laws. While senior leaders are campaigning in west UP villages to garner support for the parade, door-to-door meetings by young farmers are being held as well.To evade police, farm associations are planning to head to Delhi in small groups. The first batch of 50 tractors with 500 farmers from Agra district is scheduled to leave for Palwal in Haryana on January 23. By January 25, over 200 tractors from Agra region would report near the Delhi borders. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) has assigned targets to their district presidents of Agra region for mobilizing young farmers to Delhi border. Sensing possible police action, BKU leaders are avoiding taking women and the elderly to the stir. Over 10,000 farmers from districts of Agra region are required to report at the Ghazipur border by January 25, the members said, and according to their plan, a majority of the farmers will travel by cars, bikes or board buses. BKU Agra district president, Rajveer Lawaniya, said, “We are going to strengthen the stir against the three farm laws. Farmers will show their strength on January 26. Thousands of farmers from different states will participate in a historic tractor parade. Farmers from Agra will mark their strong presence too. We have outlined a detailed plan. Workers have been assigned specific responsibilities. The response from people is overwhelming."Farmer leader Shyam Singh Chahar said, “The Centre is unable to understand our discontent. Time has come to show the real strength of the farmers. Mass movement of farmers from Agra region to Delhi borders will take place from January 23 onward. Farmers from Agra district will reach the Delhi borders in small groups via different routes." Meanwhile, Agra-based social activist Savitri Chahar, who is camping at Ghazipur border for the past 12 days, is preparing to lead some of the women members as planned by the protest coordination committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/farmers-of-agra-region-mobilize-support-for-r-day-tractor-parade/articleshow/80371569.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Late don Karim Lala’s kin held in drug bust, Rs 4 crore and pistol recovered||MUMBAI: In a major drive against drug-trafficking, Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested the grandson of late don Karim Lala, Parvez alias Chinku Pathan, and is on the lookout for his partner, Arif Bhujwala. They recovered around Rs 4 crore and a pistol from the latter’s premises. Officials claimed they found 100gm mephedrone, a synthetic stimulant drug, during the raid. NCB officials said raids were continuing and they were arranging for a device to count the cash seized from the premises of Bhujwala in Dongri. “The pistol will be sent for ballistic examination. We don’t know if it is licensed,’’ an official said. Pathan and Bhujwala were partners in manufacture of mephedrone, officials said. NCB found a small laboratory in Dongri where mephedrone was illegally being manufactured. “Bhujwala is on the run. Once we get him, we will have more clarity on the extent of his business,’’ an official said. Last year, Dongri police had arrested him but within few months he procured bail and was back in business. Khan and his accomplices are believed to be major suppliers in South Mumbai. He will be produced before Esplanade magistrate court on Thursday. Many local leaders and residents’ associations have complained to senior police officials about the increasing menace of drugs among youngsters. Despite several drives, syndicates thrived due to drug lords like Khan, said residents. Sources said Khan recently became a big wholesale supplier of MD and many small drug peddlers, including Nigerians who buy MD in the absence of cocaine, sell it in retail. An associate, Mujaheed, moves around in high-end cars, a source said. The drugs are also smuggled into Mumbai from Gujarat and outskirts of the city, and are sold to peddlers, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/late-dons-kin-held-in-drug-bust-rs-4cr-pistol-recovered/articleshow/80373888.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 21, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Home run by Netaji to reopen after lockdown on January 23||KOLKATA: The 97-year-old Dakshin Kalikata Sevashram — a home for 70-odd destitute boys — will open its doors to public on January 23, for the first time since the pandemic, to celebrate Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary. Several published and unpublished letters and documents on Bose will be put on display at the event. Netaji was the founder secretary of the Sevashram, while the founder president was Deshbandhu Chittaranjan Das. Situated at a corner of Sarat Bose Road, the Sevashram was founded in 1924 but had started functioning full-fledged after it was gifted 11 cottahs in the 1930s by Bose when he was the city mayor. The institution now runs the home for destitute boys, a free primary school and provides vocational training on electric wiring, tailoring, motor winding and computers. “The pandemic had hit us badly and we were forced to send most of our students back home acting on central advisories. But we have got permission to reopen the centre and recall our students. This January 23, we will open the doors to public for the first time in 10 months to celebrate the life and legacy of Netaji,” said Subhendra Maulik, honorary secretary of the organization. The Dakshin Kalikata Sevashram (DKS) was founded on March 11, 1924 at a meeting of the citizens of Kolkata at Mitra Institution in Bhowanipore for the purpose of establishing an orphanage. Nirmal Chandra Chunder was the founder treasurer. In 1934, DKS moved to its current establishment at 93 & 97 Sarat Bose Road. “Since then, DKS has moved forward to fulfil the ideals of its founders and thousands of destitute/orphan boys have been successfully brought up and placed in society by the institution. Acknowledging our work, the Sevashram was crowned with the national award for child welfare by the President of India in 1999,” said Maulik. Giani Zail Singh, the then President of India, visited the Sevashram on Diamond Jubilee Year in 1984. Also, Krishan Kant visited the place during the platinum jubilee celebration in 1999 when he was the vice-president of India. To commemorate the 125th birthday of Bose, the institution has planned to put on display a number of unpublished and lesser-known letters and documents by Bose and open its doors to public from 9.15am till late evening. While Justice Chittatosh Mookerjee, former chief justice of Calcutta HC and Bombay HC, will preside over the meeting, Srimat Swami Chaitanyananda of Ramakrishna Mission Institute of Culture, Golpark, and Biswajit Gangopadhyay, trustee of Sri Aurobinda Bhawan, will be the key speakers. “The programme will be conducted keeping in mind the Covid protocol. The programme will be open to all and if there is a substantial rise in footfall, we may keep the invitation open for the next day as well. People can also attend the programme virtually,” Maulik added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/home-run-by-netaji-to-reopen-after-lockdown-on-jan-23/articleshow/80373008.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 21, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Gang that duped businessmen via card details busted||NEW DELHI: South Delhi Police have busted a credit card racket wherein crooks were impersonating bank representatives and duping businessmen on pretext of updating their account and personal details. The suspects used a payment gateway to siphon off the money, police said. The police started a probe after a businessman from Greater Kailash filed a complaint in May 2020 claiming fraudulent transactions from his card between April 18 and 27 last year even though he did not use his card. Transactions worth around Rs five lakh had been made. DCP (south) Atul Thakur said that an FIR was registered and a team under SHO Ritesh Sharma was formed to investigate. “The complainant came to know about these transactions when he received his monthly Credit Card Statement,” the officer added. During investigation, credit card details, recipient data and other technical details were obtained and analysed. “The exercise revealed that the accused persons transferred Rs 4.95 lakh into the account of a company named ‘Snehal Travels India Mart Ltd’ through Ease Buzz Payment Gateway.” The cops dug deeper on this company and obtained the registered mobile number of its director. On the basis of the mobile location, a raid was conducted in Tilak Nagar and a suspect named Aryan Chopra was apprehended. Chopra led the cops to his associate named Shashank who was nabbed from Ghaziabad. They also revealed the role of their third associate identified as Sanjay who is at large. The probe revealed that the company, whose account received the siphoned money, belonged to Chopra who had availed the facility of Ease Buzz Payment Gateway. The money was further routed to Shashank’s account. The company was deliberately registered in another state to avoid surveillance. The accused revealed during interrogation that they used to mimic bank officials and target unsuspecting customers. They had bought some data online and induced customers to share one-time password and other details on pretext of updating their account details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gang-that-duped-bizmen-via-card-details-busted/articleshow/80375917.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Goa||‘Will protest if cases not withdrawn’||Valpoi: The villagers of Melauli, Sattari, on Wednesday threatened to hold a morcha in Panaji if the criminal cases filed against them were not withdrawn. They said the cases are yet to be withdrawn five days after the chief minister Pramod Sawant announcing scrapping of the IIT project from Melauli. “We also demand that the government withdraw the case against our villager Sidhu Gaonkar, as it alleges that he has encroached upon a property,” said Melauli resident Shankar Naik. Member of the Melauli Panchkroshi Gram Bachav Andolan, Sadayo Melekar, said they have been visiting the crime branch office at Ribandar over the past three days, where they are made to sit for two hours. He said they have been told to pay Rs 10,000-25,000 as a bond on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-protest-if-cases-not-withdrawn/articleshow/80375913.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Kolkata||Bidhannagar civic head tests +ve; cases drop||Kolkata: The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area is currently witnessing a considerable drop in active Covid cases, with more recoveries than daily new cases over the past few weeks. However, the chairperson of the civic body’s board of administrators (BoA), Krishna Chakraborty, is among the few to have contracted the novel coronavirus. . “I had been feeling uneasy for the last few days and on Monday evening, I tested positive for Covid. I only have a little weakness,” said Chakraborty, who is in home isolation. Chakraborty was present at the urban primary health centre at Duttabad in Salt Lake last Saturday, when the vaccination drive was rolled out. Earlier, several Bidhannagar civic body officials had been affected by Covid-19, and in August last year, Ward 6 councillor Subhas Bose died of Covid. The scene has, however, improved with the number of active cases in the area hovering around 250 mark. So far, close to 15,800 Covid cases have been reported from the area and 106 deaths since March last year. The turnout for Covid vaccination remained low, as only 36 out of 200 enlisted recipients took the shot at the Duttabad PHC on Tuesday. On Monday, 41 out of 100 had turned up. Civic officials said they had been facing problems contacting the recipients, who had reportedly been receiving Co-WIN alerts only a few hours before the schedule. “It would have been easier for us if we could call people from our own list,” said a civic official. The late SMS might not be allowing the recipients enough time to mentally prepare for the shot, he said. “Hopefully, the turnout will increase in the next round,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bidhannagar-civic-head-tests-ve-cases-drop/articleshow/80374495.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 21, 2021||Dehradun||Doon police to tighten vigil on spas, massage centres; SSP issues circular to all police stations||Dehradun: Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dehradun, Yogendra Singh Rawat, on Wednesday issued a circular to all police station heads to keep a close vigil on all spas and massage centres operating in their jurisdictional areas and take prompt legal action when any illegal practice is noticed. The police stations have been asked to prepare a list of the spas and the massage centres operating within their jurisdictional areas and maintain an updated list of employees working in those centres. “The owners of the spas and massage centres will have to submit their IDs in the jurisdictional police stations. They will also have to provide details of the girls and women who have come from other states to work in these spas and massage centres,” said SSP Rawat. Besides, the spa and massage centres will mandatorily have to maintain a register of customers coming to their facility. The customers will need to give their mobile numbers and furnish a copy of their IDs. The police personnel have been especially told to keep a tab on the spas and massage centres where employees are changed within a few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-police-to-tighten-vigil-on-spas-massage-centres-ssp-issues-circular-to-all-police-stations/articleshow/80371596.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 21, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat: This thief owns swanky bungalows with CCTVs, motion sensors, cars||VADODARA/ ANAND: Navghan Talpada, an accused who was arrested by Anand police in connection with a robbery in Kheda’s Nadiad town last week, has proved to be a big catch for the cops. Navghan used to fly to cities like Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Chennai, stay in hotels for a couple of days, conduct recces before targeting unoccupied bungalows in Southern cities of India. Sources said that the robber, who has now been handed over to Kheda police, owns two posh bungalows in Ode village of Anand’s Umreth taluka and Kheda’s Nadiad town. These bungalows, said to be of the size of farmhouses, are equipped with digitally sophisticated 360-degree revolving CCTV cameras with night vision and motion sensors as well. “Locally, he would move around in suits, travel in cars and has two lavish bungalows with all possible digitally-sophisticated equipments. You won’t even realise that he is a thief,” said a top police official. But the historysheeter, who has nearly 22 offences registered against him has been arrested multiple times by Tamil Nadu police for burglaries in Chennai. “He used to board flights to Hyderabad, Chennai from Ahmedabad, Baroda and Mumbai airport. His local source would already have done recce for him. But he would stay in hotels for a couple of days, carry out recce himself and after carrying out robbery, he would return to Gujarat the next day,” said the official. “We also had similar modus operandi thefts. So, we had started collecting data of similar thefts in nearby areas. The Kheda offence came out in it,” said Anand district superintendent of police Ajit Rajian. Last week, Anand local crime branch and special operations group had nabbed Navghan along with two others in connection to robbery at a bungalow owned by owner of C M Smith & Sons Limited in Nadiad and recovered gold and silver ornaments amounting to Rs 45.95 lakh from them. Post arrest, Navghan confessed to three other burglaries including two in Hyderabad and one in Chennai. “While he had made two trips before lockdown, he had made his last trip after flight operations resumed,” said the official, adding that he used to avoid being digitally traced by keeping his cellphone at home while travelling outside the state. Interestingly, the class XII pass-out is well-versed with law, the police procedures and can even find technical loopholes, cops close to the investigation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/robber-owns-bungalows-with-cctv-motion-sensors/articleshow/80371593.cms||Prashant Rupera
January 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana targets cultivation of oil palm crop in 8 lakh acres||HYDERABAD: Telangana has set a target of cultivating oil palm crop in 8.14 lakh acres. Eight companies have entered into an agreement with state horticulture department for cultivation of the crop in 4.61 lakh acres in 15 districts across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-targets-cultivation-of-oil-palm-crop-in-8l-acres/articleshow/80374507.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Nagpur||FLY OVER, LAND IN TRAFFIC SNARL||Nagpur: The Wanjari Nagar flyover (connecting Umred Road and Wardha Road), constructed by the state public works department for a cost of Rs16 crore is going to land into a traffic mess according to motorists. Towards the railwaymen’s school side, the fly over lands smack into the road connecting Medical Chowk and Ajni creating a needless T-point. However, there is no such problem on the Wanjari Nagar water tank side as the road is very wide at the other end. Motorists coming down the wide flyover will go head-on with vehicles coming from TB Ward. With the flyover to be thrown open on January 23 by Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari, the state PWD is trying to take corrective measures. Its officials have convened a meeting with the NMC’s electrical department to discuss if a traffic signal will help in regulating the traffic. The flyover has been constructed by DV Patel Company with the money coming Central Road Fund sanctioned by Gadkari’s ministry. The work began in January 2019 and was to be completed within 18 months. It got delayed due to Covid-induced lockdown. The flyover was built to ease traffic as motorists coming from South Nagpur has to go through a narrow road between the railway quarters and Wanjari Nagar that joins TB Ward Square. “The road was part of the development plan. But the mindless design has defeated the purpose,” said former mayor Sandip Joshi who took to the social media to criticize the government agency for constructing such a mindless design. “The flyover has created an accident-prone spot,” he added. Former corporator Tanveer Ahmed has demanded a high-level inquiry to find out who sanctioned the plan without studying the existing roads on either side of the flyover. He also wanted action to be taken against engineers for turning a good project into accident prone spots. “The point where the flyover meets the road will be chaotic,” said senior traffic PI and in-charge of Ajni traffic zone Manohar Kotnake, adding that cops will have to be permanently stationed at the spot. PWD superintending engineer Vidyadhar Sardeshmukh was not available for comments. Deputy engineer Swati Godbole said the existing two-lane Ajni Road too will be widened soon. “To overcome the present situation, the PWD will be installing traffic signals on Ajni road side,” she said. WOMAN ENGINEERS The flyover work was monitored by state PWD’s women engineers. Deputy engineer Vaishali Godbole, junior engineer Vandana Havelikar and assistant engineer Madhuri Madavi worked hard for the completion of the project. “Superintending engineer Sardeshmukh and executive engineer Ajay Pohekar of the department provided guidance to us,” one the women engineers told TOI. FLYOVER FACTS From/To | Wanjari Nagar (Umred Road) to Ajni (Wardha Road) Length | 524 metres Width | 30 metres Cost | Rs16 crore Project start | January 2019 Lanes | Six with bicycle track and footpath FLAWS No problem on Wanjari Nagar water tank side. Road narrow on Ajni road side. Traffic coming down on collision course SOLUTION AT SITE: PWD to install traffic signals at Ajni road side FLAWED DEVELOPMENT * Railway Station Flyover * Ajni Jail Road *Ram Jhula Phase-II * Sadar Flyover CURTAIN RAISER Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, mayor Dayashankar Tiwari, standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke to inaugurate flyover at Sant Ravidas Sabha Gruha at 6pm on January 23. At 8pm at Onkar Celebratiion Hall, Dighori, they will also dedicate 2 km long cement road connecting Suyog Nagar and Mandewada. The Rs17 crore project too was sanctioned under Central Road Fund||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fly-over-land-in-traffic-snarl/articleshow/80376519.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 21, 2021||Dehradun||Man found dead on railway tracks in US Nagar||Rudrapur: A 45-year-old man was found dead on the railway tracks near Paiga police outpost area under the ITI police station jurisdiction of Kashipur in Udham Singh Nagar district on Wednesday morning. The deceased has been identified as Padam Singh, a tailor working in Banskhera village of Mahuakhera Ganj. The kin of the deceased allege that he has been murdered. Vikram Singh, the victim's elder brother, told the police that they hail from Tanda Badli village in Rampur district of Uttar Pradesh. Around ten years ago, his brother had shifted to Kashipur along with his wife and two kids. “He left his house on Tuesday morning as usual but did not return that night. On Wednesday at 6 am, I received a call from my cousin that Padam was found dead on railway tracks.” Vikram Singh alleged that it was not accident or suicide as his brother was very happy with his life. “Why would he go to the railway track which is so far from his house and shop? He had a feud with another villager whose son was in a relationship with his daughter. I doubt if the same person has killed my brother.” Meanwhile, the police officials said that the postmortem examination will ascertain the cause of death and if the victim’s kin file a complaint, then necessary action will be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-found-dead-on-railway-tracks-in-us-nagar/articleshow/80371647.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 21, 2021||Agra||Hearing of one Hathras case accused adjourned due to strike||AGRA: A special SC/ST court on Wednesday adjourned the hearing of the anticipatory bail plea filed by one of the four accused, Ramu, in the Hathras gang rape and murder case of a 19-year-old girl. The next hearing is scheduled on January 29. Talking to the media, victim’s lawyer, Seema Kushwaha, said Ramu had moved a bail application in the court but due to a strike, the case has been listed next week. The victim’s elder brother also reached the court. Last month, the CBI had filed a chargesheet in the court of special judge (SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act) BD Bharti in Hathras and invoked charges against four accused — Sandeep, Ravi, Ramu and Lovekush. The four have been charged under IPC sections 302 (murder), 376 (rape), 376A (punishment for causing death of resulting in persistent vegetative state of victim) and 376D (gang rape) and Section 3(2)(v) of the SC/ST Act (offence punishable with imprisonment for a term of ten years or more against a person on the grounds that the person belongs to an SC or ST community). The CBI had registered the case on October 11 and started investigating two days after that. The victim was allegedly gang-raped by the four men from an upper caste community in Hathras on September 14. She later died due to her injuries at a hospital in Delhi. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hearing-of-one-hathras-case-accused-adjourned-due-to-strike/articleshow/80371617.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Mumbai||Needle & dread: Plan to cover over 1 lakh Mumbai health workers in 20 days flops||MUMBAI: A slow start to the Covid immunization drive has derailed plans to finish vaccinating city’s over 1.2 lakh healthcare workers in 15-20 days. “At the current pace, the first phase of vaccination could take over a month,” additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani told TOI on Wednesday. The BMC had plans to vaccinate upto 10,000 in a day so that the healthcare round could be wrapped up early and preparations could be started for frontliners. However, owing to Co-WIN app glitches, only 5,251 beneficiaries could be carried in the first three days of vaccination. “Our initial plans were to operate 75 centres, but we were advised to bring it down to 40,” said Kakani. However, due to glitches, all 40 centres have never managed to go online in the three days of vaccination so far. He said the civic administration was fully geared to have the drive on all seven days but were told to restrict it to four days in a week—Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday. Issues with Co-WIN have primarily slowed down the drive and that will have a cascading effect over the upcoming vaccination phases, said another civic official. After healthcare workers, the vaccination of frontliners is to begin. Names of over a lakh frontliners have already been uploaded. Vaccination for the general population will start only after the first two phases. A civic official said that the list of health workers was being generated both through Co-WIN and through ward offices. “Duplication of names has been a huge problem. Also, those who have already taken the vaccine continue to get messages with date and time to take the vaccine from Co-WIN,” said the official, adding that even after selecting beneficiaries, the app doesn’t send them messages. Meanwhile, many city hospitals have discovered that months after submitting their names to the Co-WIN developers, their names are missing. For instance, names of several beneficiaries from Wadia Hospital were missing. Kakani said that it has been discussed with the Centre and their names would be registered soon. A doctor at Nair Hospital said that out of 4,000 names, only 2,700 were registered in the app till Tuesday. The registration for everyone was completed on Wednesday. Kakani said that if individual doctors find their names missing from Co-WIN, they can approach the ward offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/needle-dread-plan-to-cover-over-1l-in-20-days-flops/articleshow/80374510.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 21, 2021||Kolkata||Girder bridges 70m Metro gap on Bypass||Kolkata: The New Garia-Airport Metro project has achieved a milestone by launching a span of viaduct near VIP Bazar on EM Bypass, thus bridging a 70m gap leading to the upcoming Ritwik Ghatak station. This is an important section of Phase 2 of the 32km elevated Metro corridor, connecting the existing north-south terminus at Garia’s Kavi Subhas station in extreme south and the airport on the north-eastern fringes. Twenty-four elevated stations are coming up on the line. RVNL is trying to fast-track the first phase, covering 5km between Kavi Subhas and Hemanta Mukherjee station at the Ruby crossing so that the section can be commissioned in December 2021. Most of the viaduct of this section has been built and track-laying has started. But the second phase, which covers 7.5km from Hemanta Mukherjee till East-West Metro’s Sector 5 station, is saddled with multiple land logjams. The project was started in 2011 and the pillars (from P198 to P202) were long erected. But this gap couldn’t be filled until now. RVNL, which is implementing most of the city’s Metro projects, needed a three month’s traffic block and traffic diversion along a 150m stretch of this crucial EM Bypass flank. “This stretch between VIP Bazar and the under-construction Ritwik Ghatak station near the Ambedkar bridge posed a challenge because it also required shifting of CESC’s high-tension overhead transmission lines, for which power block was needed,” a senior RVNL official said. Even as RVNL has successfully executed most of the girder-launching with six segments, the final four segments will be installed on January 22 when CESC gives another power block. “Thus, the remaining 28m of the viaduct will be launched,” said the official. The pre-cast segments, each weighing about 40 tons, were transported at night to the construction site and erected between the pillars with the help of launching girders. The segments are glued and tied with a bunch of iron strands from inside, elongated and permanently grouted. The viaduct spans can withstand heavy loads and gales or earthquakes. The next challenge along this section will be bridging the 125m gap over the canal at Laskarhat. “We are waiting for the irrigation department’s permission to start work on the bridge section between piers 165 to 168,” the RVNL official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/girder-bridges-70m-metro-gap-on-bypass/articleshow/80373011.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
January 21, 2021||Nagpur||25-yr-old abducted in Ghugus, Rs30 lakh ransom demanded||Chandrapur: A 25-year-old engineering student (name withheld) was kidnapped from Ghugus town and the abductors have reportedly demanded ransom of Rs30 lakh from the family. Ghugus police has launched a massive manhunt for the abducted youth and are looking into all the clues to trace the kidnappers. Sources said that the abducted youth is the son of a WCL employee and had stepped out on his bike on Sunday evening. He had told his parents that he was going for dinner at a dhaba near Chandrapur with his friends. When he did not return home till late in the night, his mother called on his mobile phone. An unidentified person picked up the phone and told his mother that her son has been kidnapped. The abductor demanded Rs30 lakh ransom and warned they would kill the youth if their demand is not fulfilled. The parents rushed to Ghugus police station the same night and filed a complaint. Cops initiated investigations and soon found his bike abandoned near Dr Das’s hospital on Ghugus-Wani road. Sniffer dog was summoned to the spot, but it failed to pick up the trail. Cops have started questioning his friends to look for some clues. Ghugus police are tight-lipped in the case and not revealing any details in the light of the sensitiveness of the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/25-yr-old-abducted-in-ghugus-rs30-lakh-ransom-demanded/articleshow/80374514.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 21, 2021||Nagpur||4,322 take the jab as against target of 5.6k in Vidarbha||Nagpur: On-the-spot inoculation and increased registration on the Co-WIN application helped cover more number of healthcare workers in Vidarbha on Day 3 of Covid-19 vaccination programme. On Wednesday, 4,322 healthcare workers (77.18%) took the jab as against the target of 5,600 in 11 districts of Vidarbha. Though the registration numbers were increased, the percentage was calculated against the daily target which wasn’t revised. For example, if a centre registered 120 beneficiaries for the day and 80 were administered the vaccine, the percentage was calculated as 80% as the target remained 100. Only one case of minor Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI) was registered in Chandrapur district. In another silver lining, there was less wastage of doses in Nagpur city. Total number of beneficiaries increased to 11,430 — 3,881 registered on Day-1, 3,227 on Day-2 and 4,322 on Day 3. Additional municipal commissioner of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) Ram Joshi told TOI that a new feature added in Co-WIN application on Wednesday allows administering vaccine even to healthcare worker registered for the programme but not in the day’s list. “This will help increase the percentage and vaccinate all registered doctors, nurses etc,” he said. On-the-spot vaccination was started at NMC Pachpaoli Women’s Hospital, which benefited 26 healthcare workers of the civic body. Similarly, on-the-spot vaccination was done at two more centres in the city. Joshi added that now NMC can cover healthcare staff of private hospitals. “They will be inoculated at Pachpaoli and Daga Hospital from Thursday,” he said. Earlier, the government had directed all to register 100 healthcare workers for one centre per day. Registration number was increased due to less turnout on first two days. Joshi said 120 beneficiaries were registered at three of the five centres in the city. The increased registration will continue, he said. Deputy director of health services, Amravati division, Dr Rajkumar Chavan said that 150 healthcare workers were registered as against earlier 100 for each of 22 centres in five districts of Amravati division. “It helped in covering more healthcare workers,” he said. According to deputy director of health services, Nagpur division, Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, registration was increased in Co-WIN from all six districts of Nagpur division from Wednesday as per convenience and requirement. “On-the-spot vaccination will begin in the six districts from Thursday,” he said. On Wednesday, a total of 350 doses were used in the city and 26 were wasted (7.42%), which is low as compared to the first two days. The registration for Day 4 was also done on Wednesday. Vaccination will continue at 56 centres in the region. The government has restricted increase in number of centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4322-take-the-jab-as-against-target-of-5-6k-in-vidarbha/articleshow/80373077.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 21, 2021||Delhi||SDMC nod to plan for smart food vans||NEW DELHI: South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Wednesday approved the proposal to allow smart food vans in its area and plans to start issuing licences to them soon. At the House meeting on Wednesday, the proposal was cleared for granting permanent licences to restaurants of new design, including e-food carts, food trucks and buses. The proposal was among those suggested recently to increase the revenue collection. Due to traffic congestion and sanitation issues, the unified MCD had stopped issuing them licences 12 years ago. “We will charge monthly licensing fees from them. However, licences will only be issued after these vans obtain permission from local councillor and an NOC from traffic police. We will do random checks to ensure hygiene during food preparations,” said SDMC leader of the House Narendra Chawla. Levying compensatory charges at the time of sanctioning of building plan and approval of policy for setting up cell on wheels on land under SDMC were among other proposals approved at the meeting. SDMC also decided to name a road connecting Andrews Ganj to Indira Gandhi Camp 8 after late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, a proposal submitted by Congress councillor from the area Abhishek Dutt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-nod-to-plan-for-smart-food-vans/articleshow/80375920.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Dehradun||With 2 lakh Covid vax doses, Uttarakhand has enough to cover entire healthcare staff||DEHRADUN: With the latest batch of 92,500 Covid-19 vaccine doses reaching Uttarakhand on Wednesday, the hill state has received over 2 lakh vials (2 doses per person) enough to inoculate the entire healthcare staff. The state had sent a list of around 88,000 healthcare workers to be inoculated in phase one of the vaccination drive. With 2 lakh doses, it has become one of the few states in the country to have received enough share to cover the entire healthcare staff. State director of National Health Mission Dr Saroj Naithani said that Dehradun would get 22,500 doses followed by 15,000 in Haridwar, 9,500 in Nainital and 8,500 in Udham Singh Nagar. She added that nine hill districts would get around 37,000 doses of vaccine. The state has so far immunised 6,119 healthcare staff in three days of vaccine drive on Saturday, Monday and Tuesday. Meanwhile, the state reported 153 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the tally to 95,192 in Uttarakhand. The death toll, too, rose to 1,622 with three more deaths the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-2-lakh-covid-vax-doses-ukhand-has-enough-to-cover-entire-healthcare-staff/articleshow/80371670.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 21, 2021||Trichy||Thulasendrapuram upbeat as Kamala sworn in US vice-prez||Tiruvarur: Hours before US President-elect Joe Biden and Vice-President-elect Kamala Harris were to be sworn in on Wednesday, the villagers of Thulasendrapuram -- the ancestral village of Kamala Harris in Tiruvarur district – burst into celebrations. This was the big day they had been waiting for and they enjoyed the newfound attention by bursting crackers and distributing sweets.The villagers performed a special puja at the Sri Dharma Sastha temple and wished her success holding aloft placards. J Sudhakar, president of Mannai Green City Rotary who organized the event, said the villagers were waiting for the moment and they have also appealed to Kamala to visit the village.“We have decided to take all steps to bring Kamala Harris to Thulasendrapuram with the help of Rotarians and a DMK MP,” Sudhakar told TOI.M Gurunathan, village committee member, expressed his gratitude to Kamala Harris for bringing worldwide attention to their hamlet. “Our little hometown in Tamil Nadu is now known everywhere. I thank her on behalf of the people of Thulasendrapuram,” he said.Thulasendrapuram has been in celebratory mode since Kamala Harris' name was announced as the vice-presidential nominee of Democratic Party in the US presidential election. Her grandfather P V Gopalan, a former Indian diplomat, was a native of the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thulasendrapuram-upbeat-as-kamala-sworn-in-us-vice-prez/articleshow/80374527.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
January 21, 2021||Jaipur||Surat tragedy: 13 cremated in Banswara||JAIPUR: All the 13 deceased, who were killed in a freak accident in Surat early on Tuesday, were cremated in their native Kaushalgarh tehsil of Banswara on Wednesday. State tribal affairs minister Arjun Singh Bamaniya, local MLAs, officials and locals attended the cremations in four villages. Bamaniya handed over the CM relief fund cheque of Rs 2 lakh to the kin of those killed in the accident. The bodies of all the deceased, including a one-year-old infant, were brought in ambulances from Surat late on Tuesday night. The residents of Bhagatpura village didn’t sleep for the whole night waiting for sunrise to collectively prepare for cremation. “This is for the first time that the entire village is mourning the death of its five residents at a time. All the shops were shut shops and the residents attended the funeral march to pay respect to the deceased,” said Burelal, former sarpanch of Bhagatpura village. Similar scenes were witnessed at Garadkhora village which lost its four residents in the accident and Kherda village which lost two persons. People from other villages, too, attended the funeral procession and assured all possible help to the families of the deceased. Most of the people in these villages work in Gujarat. Bamaniya attended all 13 cremations in different villages along with the SDMs and senior police officials. Bamaniya handed over five cheques of Rs 2 lakh each to Kela Bhai, who lost five family members and consoled him. A total of Rs 27 lakh was handed over. “I have learnt that two children have become orphan in the incident. I have asked the officials concerned to look after them and ensure that they get education and access to healthcare,” Bamaniya said. Badri Lal Suthar, SDM, Kaushalgarh, said by late afternoon all cremations were completed in a peaceful manner. “The entire tehsil mourned the deaths of its citizens,” said Suthar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/surat-tragedy-13-cremated-in-banswara/articleshow/80374563.cms||---
January 21, 2021||Pune||Pune hospitals abort sessions for second day in a row||PUNE: Three private hospitals in the city that had to defer their vaccination sessions on Tuesday due to niggles in the CoWIN app continued to experience glitches on Wednesday. Bharati, Noble and Deenanath Mangeshkar had to cancel their January 18 sessions when staffers found themselves unable to login to CoWIN. On Wednesday too, the three hospitals had to cancel sessions as administrators could not generate a proper list of the day’s recipients from the ‘search for beneficiaries’ option, health officials said. The option in the app generated names of all 50,000 private doctors across the entire Haveli taluka, which made it difficult for the three hospitals to inform beneficiaries staying closest to the sites, said deputy director of health services, Pune region, Dr Sanjay Deshmukh. Officials said the same glitch was noticed at some other state sites as well. Overall, of the 285 vaccination sites in the state, 267 were operational on Wednesday. Authorities said central government officials, who were told about the glitch, have agreed to fix the problem. There will be a day’s break in vaccinations on Thursday and officials here said their central counterparts have assured them the issue would be fixed before planned sessions on Friday and Saturday. There’s also a plan, officials said, to operate three additional session sites at the Sassoon General Hospital, which is set to vaccinate its 4,400 employees soon. Also on Wednesday, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the state health department has decided to launch an information, education and communication (IEC) drive to increase vaccination awareness and acceptance among frontline healthcare workers who make up phase 1 of the nationwide Covid-19 inoculation programme. The minister maintained that the low turnouts in some parts of the state were largely due to vaccine hesitancy and technical glitches in the CoWIN app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hospitals-abort-sessions-for-second-day-in-a-row/articleshow/80374561.cms||Nisha Nambiar
