January 22, 2021||Kanpur||300 Odisha farmers on way to Delhi stopped near Kanpur||KANPUR: The Kanpur district police stopped over 300 Odisha farmers in Maharajpur on Kanpur-Fatehpur border on Wednesday night. The farmers were on way to Delhi to express solidarity with the protesting farmers, who have planned to take out a tractor rally on the Delhi border on Republic Day. UP in charge of Nav Nirman Kisan Sanghatan Himanshu Tiwari claimed that the farmers travelling in half-a-dozen buses were detained in Ruma area. However, the district administration denied the charge. Tiwari claimed, “police have detained nearly 300 farmers, who, under the leadership of national convener Nav Nirman Kisan Sanghatan Akshay Kumar, were heading towards Delhi to express solidarity with the protesting farmers, who have planned a mega tractor rally there on Republic Day, in six buses from Odisha. They had left Odisha on January 15.” “As soon as the farmers entered the UP border, police stopped them. We urge all citizens, farmers and political leaders to support the farmers,” said Tiwari adding, “The government can’t stop us from reaching Delhi to raise our voice against these laws.” ADM (City) Atul Kumar said, “Following local intelligence inputs, police force had been deployed at vulnerable points on the outskirts of the district in order to maintain peace in the area. They were stopped from entering the district as Section 144 CrPC is in force.” He, however, rubbished allegations regarding detention and harassment of farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/300-odisha-farmers-on-way-to-delhi-stopped-near-kanpur/articleshow/80393136.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
January 22, 2021||World||Nepal PM Oli thanks India for Covishield vaccine||KATHMANDU: Nepal Prime Minister KP Oli on Thursday thanked the Indian government for sending 1 million doses of Covishield vaccine under a grants assistance programme. "I thank Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi ji as well as the Government and people of India for the generous grant of one million doses of Covid vaccine to Nepal at this critical time when India is rolling out vaccination for it's own people," Oli tweeted. I thank Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi ji as well as the Government and people of India for the generous grant o… https://t.co/nXWYvYpLii— K P Sharma Oli (@kpsharmaoli) 1611223731000Earlier in the day, India delivered 2 million vaccine doses to Bangladesh also under the grants assistance programme. On Wednesday, India sent 1,50,000 doses of Covishield vaccines to Bhutan and 1,00,000 doses to the Maldives. Prime Minister Narendra Modi replied to Oli's tweet. "Thank you PM @kpsharmaoli. India remains committed to assist the people of Nepal in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. The vaccines being made in India will also contribute to the global efforts to contain the pandemic," Modi wrote on the microblogging platform. India, one of the world's biggest drugmakers, has been approached by numerous countries for its anti-coronavirus doses. While the Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute, the Covaxin doses are being produced by Bharat Biotech. India had earlier supplied hydroxychloroquine, Remdesivir and paracetamol tablets, as well as diagnostic kits, ventilators, masks, gloves and other medical supplies to a large number of countries to help them deal with the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/nepal-pm-oli-thanks-india-for-covishield-vaccine/articleshow/80393266.cms||---
January 22, 2021||World||Joe Biden proposing 5-year extension of nuke treaty, says US official||WASHINGTON: The Biden administration is proposing to Russia a five-year extension of the New START treaty limiting the number of US and Russian strategic nuclear weapons, a US official said Thursday. The proposal was being communicated to Russian officials, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss a matter not yet publicly announced by the administration. The treaty is set to expire in February and is the last remaining agreement constraining US and Russian nuclear weapons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/joe-biden-proposing-5-year-extension-of-nuke-treaty-says-us-official/articleshow/80393363.cms||---
January 22, 2021||World||Central Africa declares emergency as rebels try to oust president||BANGUI: The Central African Republic on Thursday imposed a 15-day state of emergency after rebels tried to blockade the capital Bangui and topple newly re-elected President Faustin Archange Touadera. "The state of emergency has been proclaimed across the national territory for 15 days, starting from midnight (2300 GMT)," presidential spokesman Albert Yaloke Mokpeme said over national radio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/central-africa-declares-emergency-as-rebels-try-to-oust-president/articleshow/80393901.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Business||Sensexceptional: BSE index breaches 50,000 mark for first time||MUMBAI: On a good day on Dalal Street—which houses the headquarters of BSE, Asia’s oldest stock exchange—one can hear talk of ‘teji’ in the market, indicating a bullish session. On bearish days, the dominant term is ‘mandi’. Then there are those days when even seasoned players can’t fathom the market’s trajectory and turn philosophical, saying ‘Bhav Bhagwan Chhe’ (price is god). Lately, more traders have been looking skyward as the sensex, the 30-share pack that is the most popular gauge of market sentiment in India, has gone on a record-setting spree. From a multi-year low of 25,639 points on March 24 last year, the sensex crossed the 50K mark to a lifetime high at 50,181 points on Thursday. That’s a double vault in only 10 months. It’s not that the sensex is new to milestones in its 41-year journey (the base year is taken as April 1, 1979) but the fact that this ‘fast fifty’ came despite a pandemic, one of the world’s strictest lockdowns, weak industrial production numbers, sliding exports and selling by most domestic institutions is what makes it thrilling or alarming, depending on what kind of investor you are. Thanks to the 10-month rally, investors’ wealth, measured by BSE’s market capitalisation, has also been breaking the ceiling regularly and is currently within touching distance of Rs 200 lakh crore or about $2.7 trillion, exchange data showed. Nifty on the NSE, which is actually ahead of BSE in terms of volume and turnover, has been following a similar trajectory. Read AlsoExplained in 12 charts: How sensex breached 50,000-markThe benchmark BSE Sensex achieved a remarkable milestone on Thursday by breaching the 50,000-mark for the first time ever. The Covid-19 pandemic dragged the Sensex to record low in late March. However, it staged a recovery from the lows. Both the BSE and NSE indices finally wrapped up 2020 on a“If it (the stock market) runs at this speed, in a couple of years we will be a $5 trillion stock market, even if we lag in becoming a $5 trillion economy by quite a distance,” a trader said, in a reference to PM Narendra Modi’s statement in mid-2019 that India would be a $5 trillion economy by 2024. The current market cap also makes India one of a handful of countries to have a market cap to GDP ratio of almost 1:1. Unfortunately, that ratio is also one of the popular indicators of a highly unsustainable stock market, a theory first propagated by billionaire investor Warren Buffet and followed by many others to decide whether to buy or sell a market. On the valuations front too, the sensex is at an all-time high price-to-earnings ratio of 34.4, compared to its 10-year average of 21.8. This ratio in essence indicates the amount in rupees an investor is willing to pay for every rupee of a company’s earnings. Foreign funds, however, do not seem to be worried either by the Buffet indicator or the all-time high PE ratio. They have been pumping in a record amount of money into the domestic market. Since October, foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) have net pumped in over Rs 1.6 lakh crore, or about $21.2 billion, making India the largest recipient of foreign funds among emerging markets. In comparison, mutual funds have been selling stocks aggressively with the net outflow at nearly Rs 75,400 crore, official data showed. According to Shiv Sehgal, president—institutional client group, Edelweiss Securities—a combination of global and domestic factors has led to this rush for Indian stocks among foreign fund managers. “Across the world, the news of Covid-19 vaccines and a Democratic victory in the US augur well for global reflation. On the domestic front as well, the absence of a second wave and a strong bounceback in pent up demand have given a fillip to high frequency indicators like GST collections, imports, PMI, etc,” Sehgal said. In addition, he feels that surprise earnings by India Inc are prompting analysts to up price targets for leading stocks. Corporate earnings have bounced back despite weak demand, which in turn is giving confidence to investors that stock prices will sustain once demand revives. Lastly, “domestic financial conditions have been kept quite benign by the RBI. After all, this is a necessary if not sufficient condition to revive risk sentiments,” Sehgal said. “Given the high foreign ownership (of Indian companies), risk on sentiments aid India disproportionately.” The nearly 10-month old rally has been mostly led by a handful of stocks that include Infosys, Reliance Industries, TCS, HDFC Bank and HDFC. In the earlier part of the rally while RIL, some banks and financials lifted the sensex, IT soon took over the lead and then pharma joined in. The rally in RIL was backed by a record foreign fund infusion in its telecom and retail subsidiaries. The strong buying in IT, banks and pharma stocks emerged after investors realised that as people remained confined to their homes due to Covid-induced issues, the demand for technology-driven solutions, healthcare and finance was increasing. As sector leaders were able to rise to the new challenges and meet those demands, their stock prices also galloped, market players said. In Thursday’s market, the sensex started the session at 50,097 points, scaled a new life-high at 50,184 points and after a late sell-off that shaved off over 800 points from the day’s high, closed at 49,625, down 167 points on the day. Selling in HDFC Bank, HDFC and Bharti Airtel contributed the most to the day’s selling while buying in RIL, Bajaj Finance and Bajaj Auto cushioned the slide to a large extent. On the NSE, the nifty too rose to a new life high at 14,754 points but closed lower at 14,590 points, down 54 points on the day. Technically, the indices are at crucial levels. On daily charts, the nifty and sensex are showing formations which suggest “high chances of quick intraday correction”, Shrikant Chouhan, EVP—equity technical research, Kotak Securities—wrote in a note. At a nifty level of below 14,750, correction could continue till 14,550-14,500, while on the up side, 14,750 would be the immediate hurdle for the bulls, Chouhan said. Watch Mumbai: Celebrations at BSE after Sensex breaches 50,000-mark||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensexceptional-sensex-breaches-50000-mark-for-first-time/articleshow/80394318.cms||Partha Sinha
January 22, 2021||Chennai||Why so hasty with PWD’s Rs 2,855 crore tenders, asks Stalin||CHENNAI: DMK president M K Stalin on Thursday questioned chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for the urgency being shown in floating tenders worth 2,855 crore by the public works department (PWD) in the past three months. “With notification for the assembly election expected in about a month, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has been showing undue haste to get the PWD to float several tenders in the months of November and December 2020 and in January 2021,” Stalin said in a statement. Stalin warned officials and other staff, who are assisting in the process, of action once the DMK returns to power. “Once we come to power, we will cancel all these tenders and bring to book those involved in the irregularities,” Stalin said. The state government has been citing lack of funds for timely payment of old age pensions and for workers under the rural employment guarantee scheme, said Stalin. “But how come the government has enough money to undertake civil construction work in water bodies, including check dams, and float tenders for them?” he asked. Meanwhile, in a social media post, Stalin condemned the state government’s order asking students of a medical college near Chidambaram, taken over the government, to vacate their hostel rooms by Thursday evening. The students have been protesting for the past 43 days against high fees being charged by the college, even though it is now being run by the government. “I have raised this issue and asked the state government to collect fee on a par with other government run medical colleges and not as a private institution. But the state government has not acted on my request,” Stalin said, while asking the government to ensure the safety of the students in the wake of the hostel being closed forcibly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-so-hasty-with-pwds-2855-crore-tenders-asks-stalin/articleshow/80394592.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Business||RBI sees V-shaped recovery, likely room for policy easing||MUMBAI: Forecasting a V-shaped recovery, Reserve Bank of India has said that if growth momentum continues and inflation stays benign there would be room for policy action to support growth. This observation comes in the central bank’s State of the Economy report released on Thursday. This comes at a time when the central bank has started 'normalising’ the liquidity in the money markets by draining out the surplus it had pumped in to stave off an economic crisis in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Recent shifts in the macroeconomic landscape have brightened the outlook, with GDP in striking distance of attaining positive territory and inflation easing closer to the target. If these movements sustain, policy space could open up to further support the recovery,” RBI said in the report.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Stating that the worst of the Covid-19 crisis is now behind RBI quoting William Shakespeare wrote: “Recent high-frequency indicators suggest that the recovery is getting stronger in its traction and soon the winter of our discontent will be made glorious summer,”. The report states that consumer confidence is expected to improve from January 2021, peak in July 2021 and continue till September ahead of the next festival season “Going forward, two positive features are going to shape up the fiscal landscape in H2. First, the general government gross fiscal deficit to GDP ratio is likely to moderate to 10.4%. This development will be revenue-driven as the war effort of H2 bears fruit and receipts return to positive territory. Second, the quality of the fiscal deficit is also likely to be better in H2,” the report said. The RBI also sees a revival in non-oil exports due to rise in shipments of drugs and pharmaceuticals, agricultural items and iron ore. “India is already manufacturing 60 per cent of the vaccines sold globally. Furthermore, the production linked incentive (PLI) scheme introduced for bulk drugs and medical devices has received a positive response and is expected to support pharmaceutical and medical exports going forward,” RBI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-sees-v-shaped-recovery-likely-room-for-policy-easing/articleshow/80394847.cms||---
January 22, 2021||India||Bodies of four fishermen from Tamil Nadu found in Sri Lanka||TRICHY: The bodies of four Tamil Nadu fishermen reported missing since they went out to sea from the Kottaipatinam jetty in Pudukottai district last Monday washed ashore on a Sri Lankan beach on Thursday, the Indian high commission in Colombo was informed. Another group of fishermen who had set sail alongside the boat carrying the victims alleged that the quartet was attacked by the Sri Lankan Navy while fishing mid-sea. Navy officials on Thursday contacted the Indian mission to say that the bodies had been found. There was no official confirmation about how the fishermen died. Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami sought an investigation into the deaths and wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to take up the issue with Sri Lanka. Read AlsoTamil Nadu CM condoles death of four Pudukottai fishermen after alleged attack by Sri Lankan NavyCondoling the death of four fishermen from Ramanathapuram, who went fishing at Kottaipattinnam of Pudukottai district on Thursday, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami wrote to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking for an investigation through the Indian high commission.The deceased have been identified as A Mesiya, V Nagaraj, S Senthil Kumar and N Samson Darwin, all of them from Ramanathapuram district. They were together in one among 214 fishing boats that had set out from the jetty around the same time. According to G Arockiaraj, one of the other fishermen, the boat came under attack from the Sri Lankan Navy near Katchatheevu. “They began dashing their vessel against the boat. Some of us tried to rescue our mates but had to flee as we feared for our lives. We came back and informed the authorities,” he said. The next day, the fishermen accompanied an Indian Coast Guard team looking for their missing colleagues, but the search proved futile. Condemning the alleged attack, CM Palaniswami said he would approach the Centre to ensure steps were taken to prevent such incidents. He announced ex gratia of Rs 10 lakh each to the kin of the deceased from the CM’s Relief Fund, a government job for an eligible member from each family and compensation to the boat owner. DMK president M K Stalin and other opposition functionaries slammed the Centre for allegedly remaining a mute spectator and not condemning the Sri Lankan Navy for the deaths. “The killings happened just weeks after the visit of external affairs minister S Jaishankar to Sri Lanka. This shows that the ruling dispensation in the island nation has no regard for the Indian people and their government,” Stalin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bodies-of-four-fishermen-from-tamil-nadu-found-in-sri-lanka/articleshow/80395014.cms||---
January 22, 2021||India||Vaccination drive: Fewer takers for Covaxin among healthcare workers||Bhawani Sharma, a nursing staff at Kanwatia Hospital in Jaipur, has been spending a lot of time these days doubling up as a self-styled counsellor. Sharma took the Covaxin jab on Saturday when the vaccination drive was rolled out across the country but found many of her colleagues hesitant to roll up their sleeves for a shot of the indigenously-developed Covaxin. “I have had no side effects,” Sharma has been going around telling others in her hospital. Five days into the nationwide drive — which saw the first phase being rolled out for healthcare workers in the frontline of Covid duty — and the dilemma whether to take the Covaxin jab has left beneficiaries in a fix. In none of the six cities, where Covaxin was made available, that TOI surveyed, did the percentage of healthcare workers going for the Covaxin shot reach 50%. Till Tuesday evening, Patna and Jaipur had clocked the highest of 49% while Mumbai and Delhi were at 31% and 33% respectively. Hospitals administering the vaccine have reported a higher percentage of beneficiaries taking the Covishield shot. “There is some hesitancy. We have seen some outright refusals too. However, what has equally contributed to the low acceptability are the glitches in the Co-Win application. We have not been able to intimate beneficiaries on time,” said Dr Lalit Sankhe, nodal officer for Covaxin at Mumbai’s JJ Hospital, the only centre in Mumbai with Covaxin. In Delhi, doctors have reported a “little higher hesitancy for Covaxin due to lack of efficacy data.” Covaxin is being administered in six central government-run hospitals in Delhi whereas Covishield is being given in all state-run and private hospitals. This has led to confusion and dissatisfaction among healthcare workers “Several doctors and PG students are not ready to take Covaxin as the third trial of this vaccine is in its initial stage. At least, the efficacy rate of Covishield is around 70% after its final trial,” said Dr Vinay Kumar, a senior resident at the AIIMS-Patna. In Pune, an official of the district hospital in Aundh said there was a general feeling among healthcare workers that they were being used as “guinea pigs”. “There are reports of anaphylactic reactions. I have decided to wait and I have also asked my junior doctors to wait,” said a senior gynecologist based in Chennai. (With inputs from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Patna, Jaipur and Pune)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vaccination-drive-fewer-takers-for-covaxin-among-healthcare-workers/articleshow/80395554.cms||---
January 22, 2021||India||Twitter faces IT panel heat over Amit Shah's ban in November||NEW DELHI: Twitter India officials on Thursday faced a barrage of questions from members of the parliamentary standing committee on information technology over the social media platform’s decision to temporarily block home minister Amit Shah’s Twitter account in November last year. While Twitter had then claimed the episode was an “inadvertent error”, its officials told the Shashi Tharoor-headed House panel that the account had to be blocked on account of “copyright issues” over a picture that had been posted. BJP MP Nishikant Dubey, sources said, asked how Twitter could refer to itself as a “healthy social media platform” when its ‘Fact Checker’ failed to identify the home minister and blocked his account. Twitter had also offended India’s sovereignty by depicting an incorrect map of India, which showed Leh as a part of Chinese territory. Panel chairman Shashi Tharoor is also learnt to have quizzed Twitter over its recent unilateral and permanent ban on former US President Donald Trump from the social media platform. The panel observed that though social media owed the responsibility to ensure people’s safety, it should explain why it indulged in censorship especially when it often called itself a mere data intermediary. Social media has often used this description to avoid being held to being a publisher which comes with certain legal liabilities. Sources said Tharoor also questioned the role of social media in perpetuating incendiary messages, referring in particular to Facebook and Twitter’s role in fanning the violence on Capitol Hill in the US earlier this month, as well as during the Delhi riots in February last year. Panel members, TOI has learnt, grilled Facebook over the recent changes in WhatsApp privacy rules and why the platform imposed different sets of rules for India and the rest of the world. Members, while debating the issues of community standards versus the law, also agreed, unanimously, that the existing Indian laws governing digital media needed to be “updated” and made more robust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/twitter-faces-it-panel-heat-over-amit-shahs-ban-in-november/articleshow/80395837.cms||Swati Mathur
January 22, 2021||India||Only widow, not dad, has right to dead man’s sperm: Calcutta high court||KOLKATA: Only a widow has the right to her dead husband’s sperm, the Calcutta high court has ruled, turning down an appeal by a father to be given his only son’s sperm, which lies preserved in a Delhi sperm bank. The father had moved the high court in March 2020 saying their daughter-in-law has not only refused to give them her assent to get the sperm but has also refused to acknowledge their pleas. The father feared that if the sperm was destroyed, or unused during the period of agreement with the hospital sperm bank, his family would “lose their clan”. The HC said the sperm preserved at the Delhi hospital “belonged to the deceased” and, since he was married when he died, “the only other person, apart from the deceased, having any right to it is his wife”. The court added that the “father-son relationship of the petitioner and the deceased does not entail any such right of the petitioner to the progeny of his son”. The hospital wrote to the father in 2019 saying “that the further usage of sperm, that is, for providing pregnancy to the donor’s wife, donation to someone else or discarding, can be decided only after the permission of the patient’s wife”, and that proof of marriage was required. His son died in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/only-widow-not-dad-has-right-to-dead-mans-sperm-calcutta-high-court/articleshow/80396053.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
January 22, 2021||India||Vaccine recipients in second round may get time, place options||NEW DELHI: Vaccine recipients in the second round of the anti-Covid immunisation — people above 50 and those who are younger but with co-morbidities — are likely to get an option to fix an appointment at session sites with a choice of place, time and date for immunisation. The request for an immunisation appointment is expected to require identity authentication through Aadhaar to eliminate proxies and duplications, said Ram Sewak Sharma, chairperson of Trai and head of the empowered group on technology and data management in India's anti-Covid campaign. “We have to provide freedom to people to get their vaccinations at the place and date of their choice. This will be facilitated through Aarogya Setu portal and other platforms,” Sharma said. These platforms will be linked with the Co-WIN app for recipient details and recording of other vaccination-related information. Co-WIN will remain the IT platform through which the government will track vaccinations at thousands of sites as also the supply management chain. Asked about software glitches faced at session sites, Sharma said these were minor hiccups and would be fixed completely by the end of this week. Read AlsoVaccination drive: Fewer takers for Covaxin among healthcare workersBhawani Sharma, a nursing staff at Kanwatia Hospital in Jaipur, has been spending a lot of time these days doubling up as a self-styled counsellor. Sharma took the Covaxin jab on Saturday when the vaccination drive was rolled out across the country but found many of her colleagues hesitant to rollThe idea is to better plan and manage vaccination sessions, while also facilitating recipients to get vaccinated at their preferred location. States will have the option to reserve a certain percentage of slots through appointments and keep some slots open for those who want to walk in for inoculation. “Authentication of the person receiving the vaccine is extremely important because of two factors: eligibility and establishing identity. It is to avoid a situation like if you are at a polling booth and realise somebody else has cast your vote,” Sharma said, underlining that Aadhaar was a robust instrument to authenticate identity and eliminate any leakages and loopholes in the system. The government is currently inoculating 3 crore health and frontline workers, who are likely to be covered by March-end. The next round will cover ‘priority’ population groups, including those above 50 years of age and those younger but with co-morbidities with the number estimated at 27 crore. While the data for health and frontline workers was pre-populated in Co-WIN, the government has said other people will have to mandatorily register themselves before vaccination. Those with co-morbidities will also be required to upload a physician’s certificate verifying the disease condition and eligibility for receiving vaccination on priority. On the problems affecting Co-WIN, Sharma said, “When you build a house and move into it, you realise there are minor issues like the bathroom tap may not be working. This is like that. These are minor software glitches which happen in any software when it is initially deployed on such a scale. The team is working on it and we will resolve it very soon,” he added. Sharma said Co-WIN and IT integration will generate major feedback that can then be used for framing policy interventions for public health programmes. “Co-WIN will essentially record the vaccination events and give real-time feedback at the granularity of an individual. It will also ensure there is no black marketing, proxies and no gaming,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vaccine-recipients-in-second-round-may-get-time-place-options/articleshow/80396240.cms||Sushmi Dey
January 22, 2021||India||China defends setting up ‘Arunachal’ hamlet||NEW DELHI: China defended construction of a village which according to reports based on satellite images put out by US-based imaging firm Planet Labs is allegedly in Arunachal Pradesh, calling it a matter of sovereignty and insisting that it never recognised the “illegally established” Indian state. The Chinese foreign ministry described it as normal construction activities on China’s “own territory”. The Indian government had reacted to the reports saying that China has been carrying out construction along the border and that India has also stepped up building infrastructure such as roads and bridges. India on Monday said it kept a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on the country's security, and took necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity. “First, I’d like to tell you that China’s position on the east sector of the China-India boundary, or Zangnan (the southern part of China’s Tibet), is consistent and clear. We have never recognised the so-called Arunachal Pradesh illegally established on the Chinese territory,” said the Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying. The official was responding to a query about the construction of the dwelling units. China has consistently denied India’s sovereignty over Arunachal Pradesh even though it was Tibet, previous to its takeover by China, that shared borders with India. “China’s normal construction on its own territory is entirely a matter of sovereignty,” added Hua. Hua said China’s development and activities “within our own territory is normal”. Watch Construction in 'own territory' normal, says China on report of encroachment in Arunachal Pradesh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-defends-setting-up-arunachal-hamlet/articleshow/80396256.cms||---
January 22, 2021||India||Covid-19: Some lie, others play truant to escape being vaccinated||BENGALURU/HYDERABAD: Authorities continued to grapple with the problem of vaccine hesitancy across the country on Thursday, the sixth day of Covid-19 vaccination drive, with healthcare workers allegedly lying about taking the shot in Bengaluru while some staff at government health centres and hospitals in Hyderabad doing the ‘vanishing act’. A health officer of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike said he had come across at least 20 instances where workers faked taking the jab. “One medical officer instructed the nurse to hold a ball of cotton to his arm to make it look like he took the jab,” said a source. Read AlsoVaccine diplomacy: How India is gaining edge over China with supplies to neighboursNEW DELHI: As the battle against coronavirus reaches a turning point, India is sharpening its vaccine diplomacy to reach out to its South Asian neighbours and boost its presence in a region dominated by China. Free shipments containing the first batch of Covishield, the Covid vaccine manufactured byIn Hyderabad, 10-15% of staff at government hospitals, primary health centres and and urban primary health centres haven’t returned to work since January 16, the first day of the campaign. “Few employees are on leave since the vaccination launch day. Few others did not come on the day they were to be vaccinated,” said a vaccination session in charge. Read AlsoIndia begins Covid-19 vaccine exports to Brazil, Saudi ArabiaIndia will begin commercial shipments of Covid-19 vaccines to Brazil and Morocco today, followed by Saudi Arabia and South Africa, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi attempts to burnish his credentials as a key global leader.Beneficiaries proceeded on a sudden leave citing emergency reasons. In Mumbai, though the BMC plans to launch an awareness drive for the second and third vaccination phases, some doctors say there is a need to spread similar awareness in phase one too. (With inputs from Malathy Iyer and Sumitra Deb Roy in Mumbai)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-some-lie-others-play-truant-to-escape-being-vaccinated/articleshow/80396425.cms||Kiran Parashar
January 22, 2021||India||UP cops to use AI to read faces and help women in distress||LUCKNOW: In a unique project involving use of high-end technology in policing and crime prevention, special Artificial Intelligence (AI) enabled cameras, capable of reading facial expressions, will be installed at 200 crime hotspots in the state capital and will sound alert to the police control room on noticing signs of any women in distress. The project will be part of the Uttar Pradesh government’s Mission Shakti programme launched in October 2020 and the Safe City project of the Union government. Lucknow police commissioner, D K Thakur told TOI on Thursday, “We have identified 200 hotspots across the city on the basis of presence of girls and women in an area and street crime complaints at Women Power Line 1090 and stalking and harassment plaints to UP 112.” A senior police officer said, all the AI-enabled cameras will be linked with the control room, while a ‘pink patrol unit’ and UP 112 emergency response vehicle will remain deployed near the hotspot for assured timely intervention.” The cameras will also be equipped to read number plates and check registration data of vehicles. Any unusual activity will also generate an alert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-cops-to-use-ai-to-read-faces-and-help-women-in-distress/articleshow/80396572.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
January 22, 2021||World||95% of Covid vaccines used by just 10 countries, says UN||NEW DELHI: The UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR) has said that the World Health Organisation is struggling to raise $4 billion for securing Covid-19 vaccines for the low and middle-income countries. “It is a troubling situation that 95% of the vaccines that have been administered so far have been used in just 10 countries,” said Mami Mizutori, head of the UNDRR. The UNDRR has urged rich nations to contribute generously, while pointing out how even during the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, which affected just 14 countries, more than $6 billion was raised. As on January 20, 53.8 million vaccine doses have been administered across the world. The US leads with 16.5 million doses, followed by China at 15 million, UK (5 million), Israel (3 million), UAE (2.1 million) and Germany, Italy, Turkey, Spain and Russia, each having administered over a million to its population, according to Our World in Data, a Covid-vaccine monitor run by researchers from the Oxford University. “The roll-out must start somewhere but low and middle-income countries with large exposed populations are being overlooked. I urge the international community to fund the COVAX initiative so that immunity is not the privilege of the few but the right of all,” Mizutori said. She expressed concern for the fact that not many countries are “as forthcoming in the generous way that we saw after the Indian Ocean tsunami which killed 2,28,000 people”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/95-of-covid-vaccines-used-by-just-10-countries-says-un/articleshow/80396606.cms||Pradeep Thakur
January 22, 2021||India||Covid-19: PM Modi, politicians over 50 years of age eligible for shots in phase-2||NEW DELHI: In response to reports of Prime Minister Modi being likely to receive the Covid vaccine in the next round of inoculation, official sources said those above 50, including many politicians, would automatically be covered in the second phase. They pointed out that the Prime Minister had recently told the chief ministers at a meeting that politicians need not jump the line and should wait their turn to get inoculated. “The Prime Minister and most chief ministers are in this age bracket, and might be covered, but there is no confirmation about when exactly he or chief ministers will be vaccinated,” an official source said.  It was also pointed out that the vaccination drive has only just begun with the first round of the two-shot regime being given to around 10 lakh people. Some 1 crore healthcare workers are to receive the vaccine shots. There is no estimate as yet of when the second round of recipients will be inoculated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-pm-modi-politicians-over-50-years-of-age-eligible-for-shots-in-phase-2/articleshow/80396627.cms||---
January 22, 2021||World||Jabs reach Bangladesh, Nepal; Myanmar to get them today||As vaccines gifted by India reached Kathmandu and Dhaka on Thursday, it was the culmination of a series of steps by the government to keep the focus on the immediate neighbourhood as the world struggled with a pandemic. On Friday, a consignment containing 1.5 million doses of Covishield vaccines will reach Yangon, Myanmar. On Thursday, one million doses of vaccines landed in Nepal and 2 million doses landed in Dhaka. Except for Sri Lanka and Afghanistan (which have not yet given regulatory clearances), India has supplied the first doses of vaccines to almost all its immediate neighbours. Interestingly, Pakistan gave emergency authorisation to the AstraZeneca vaccine last week, but it’s not yet clear where it would source the vaccine from. Beyond the immediate neighbourhood, India is also looking to provide Covid-19 vaccine to important defence and security partners in the Indian Ocean with a consignment of 100,000 doses likely to reach Mauritius, and another 50,000 doses to Seychelles, on Friday. India has already donated Covishield vaccine to Sri Lanka and Maldives. “India’s vaccine diplomacy demonstrates India’s role as a reliable partner and a net provider of humanitarian assistance in the Indian Ocean region,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/jabs-reach-bangladesh-nepal-myanmar-to-get-them-today/articleshow/80396655.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Patna||Deputy CM opens 20-bed private hospital in Gaya||GAYA: Deputy CM Renu Devi inaugurated a 25-bed private multispecialty hospital in Gaya on Thursday. The hospital will provide emergency treatment to patients. Director of the new facility, Vaishnavi Multispeciality Hospital, Rahul Kumar, said, “Treatment facilities for all types of emergency cases will be available under one roof at the hospital. There are facilities like emergency and trauma centre, general medicine, neurology and neurosurgery, general surgery, leproscopic surgery, kidney and urology, physiotherapy, skin disease physiotherapy, endocrinology, stomach related problems, tuberculosis and pathology. Kumar, also a Gaya Municipal Corporation councillor from ward number 13, said the hospital has intensive care, coronary care, neonatal intensive care and paediatric intensive care units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/deputy-cm-opens-20-bed-private-hospital-in-gaya/articleshow/80393065.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Business||RBI sees V-shaped recovery, likely room for policy easing||TNN Mumbai: Forecasting a V-shaped recovery, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has said that if growth momentum continues and inflation stays benign, there would room for policy action to support growth. The observation was made in the central bank’s ‘State of the Economy’ report released on Thursday. It comes at a time when the central bank has started “normalising” the liquidity in the money markets by draining out the surplus it had pumped in to stave off an economic crisis in the wake of the Covid pandemic. “Recent shifts in the macroeconomic landscape have brightened the outlook, with GDP in striking distance of attaining positive territory and inflation easing closer to the target. If these movements sustain, policy space could open up to further support the recovery,” the RBI said in the report. Stating that the worst of the Covid crisis is now behind, the RBI — quoting William Shakespeare — wrote, “Recent high-frequency indicators suggest that the recovery is getting stronger in its traction and soon the winter of our discontent will be made glorious summer.” The report stated that consumer confidence is expected to improve from January 2021, peak in July 2021 and continue till September ahead of the next festival season. “Going forward, two positive features are going to shape up the fiscal landscape in H2. First, the general government gross fiscal deficit to GDP ratio is likely to moderate to 10.4%. This development will be revenue-driven as the war effort of H2 bears fruit and receipts return to positive territory. Second, the quality of the fiscal deficit is also likely to be better in H2,” the report said. The RBI also sees a revival in non-oil exports due to rise in shipments of drugs and pharmaceuticals, agricultural items and iron ore. “India is already manufacturing 60% of the vaccines sold globally. Furthermore, the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme introduced for bulk drugs and medical devices has received a positive response and is expected to support pharmaceutical and medical exports going forward,” RBI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-sees-v-shaped-recovery-likely-room-for-policy-easing/articleshow/80394561.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Business||When ‘gut’ ruled, he got ‘research’ done||Partha.Sinha@timesgroup.com In the early 1960s when a fresh commerce graduate in his 20s analysed companies’ balance sheets and annual reports, attended AGMs, quizzed managements and visited manufacturing facilities, not many were amused. The young man only wanted to understand companies better to invest in their stocks, but in the days when speculation and ‘gut’ ruled Dalal Street, stock research was an alien idea. Kisan Ratilal Choksey, however, was sure he wanted to invest in stocks only after thorough research. Madras Cement (now Ramco Cement) and Bajaj Auto were two of his initial recommendations in which “my clients and I made good money”, he said. Choksey also believed in the ‘skin in the game’ principle. “I always believed in buying into companies that I recommended to my clients.” He still holds Bajaj Auto and the three offshoots of the Pune-based group: Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv and Bajaj Holdings. Some of his early picks also included Grasim, MICO (now Bosch India) and MRF. After working for 18 years with M K Choksey & Co, an old broking firm run by his uncle, Choksey branched out on his own in 1979. He set up K R Choksey Shares & Securities. In the last six decades, Kisanbhai, as he’s fondly called on the Street, has chiselled his research-based stock-picking skills. “Even today I attend AGMs, read a balance sheet, speak to the company management,” he said. Choksey was also a director of the BSE for eight years and a trustee of the exchange’s Investor Protection Fund for three. His mantra to prospective investors hasn’t changed: Understand the company, its business model and the management’s growth plan. And “in the current globalised world, one should also have a good understanding of the Indian economy and the world economy”, he signed off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/when-gut-ruled-he-got-research-done/articleshow/80394704.cms||Partha Sinha
January 22, 2021||Kolkata||In biggest vax drive, West Bengal eyes 400 sites, 40,000 recipients today||KOLKATA: Bengal will attempt its biggest vaccination drive on Friday, targeting 40,000 healthcare workers across 400 vaccination sites. The move came after flexibility to map recipients on the Co-WIN application, extended vaccination time till 7pm and follow-up with recipients over phone pushed up footfall in the 94 sites to 81% — highest since Saturday — with 7,692 people turning up for the shot. The state now has 207 vaccination sites. The centres went down to 94 on Thursday because primary health centres, many of which have outreach programmes for routine immunization, were excluded. “The target from the 94 sites on Thursday was 9,400 recipients, of which we achieved 7,692. Vaccinations will be held from 400-plus centres on Friday,” said director of health services (DHS) Ajay Chakraborty. All medical colleges will have two session sites and college authorities have been allotted 200 recipients at each booth. Despite a slow start on Thursday, most vaccination centres had a better turnout. Alarmed by low attendance till 4pm, hospitals began calling in additional candidates whose data had been fed into Co-Win. The flexibility in the application allowed planners to feed data of an extra 100 healthcare workers in addition to the 100-120 target recipients. The hard copies allowed people to call up these recipients. Additionally, Bengal decided to extend the vaccination time till 7pm at most centres. “Till 3pm, we had only 36 people out of 200 turning up at our vaccination centre. From 3.30pm, we began calling up candidates from a separate list. The move spiked the number of footfalls and, by end of the day, we vaccinated 102-odd healthcare workers,” said an official at SSKM Hospital. At Kolkata Medical College and Hospital, too, there was a sharp rise in number post 4pm, when willing recipients were called in after manually adding them on Thursdays list. “We ended up vaccinating 100-odd people. The number would have gone up if some hadn’t backed out after seeing television reports on AEFI cases,” said Indranil Biswas, medical superintendent and vice-principal (MSVP) at Medical College Hospital. The scene at SSKM, where the turnout had been low from the morning, changed once the willing candidates — many of them group D staffers — were called in. “Between 4pm and 4.30pm, around 70 people thronged the vaccination site. At one point, there was a large queue and we had to ask some to wait outside,” said a security guard outside the vaccination site at SSKM Hospital. ID Hospital, where the turnout had dropped in the past two days, recorded 123 recipients being inoculated on Thursday. “In addition to receiving calls from the hospital, the recipients received text messages from Co-WIN on time, making it easier for us,” said community medicine expert Sanjib Bandypadhayay, the supervisor at ID Hospital. Medical colleges are gearing up to operate two session sites from Friday. A list of 400 recipients allotted by Co-WIN is already with each college. “We are ready for two booths. Trained manpower is not an issue,” said Sandip Ghosh, MSVP, Calcutta National Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-biggest-vax-drive-state-eyes-400-sites-40000-recipients-today/articleshow/80393133.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 22, 2021||Madurai||Ensure liquor is sold at MRP at Tasmac outlets: Madras HC to TN govt||MADURAI: Madras high court on Thursday directed the state government to issue a circular to district-level officers to ensure that liquor is sold not in excess of the maximum retail price (MRP) and prices are displayed at all Tasmac outlets in the state. A division bench of Justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi observed that the circular should also indicate that departmental proceedings would be initiated against all employees involved in MRP violations at the outlets. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by M Rajeswaripriya, a resident of Chennai and founder-president of Anaithu Makkal Arasiyal Katchi, a registered political party. The petitioner sought immediate steps to prevent corrupt activities at Tasmac outlets by strictly prohibiting sale of liquor above MRP, providing bill / receipt to customers and prohibiting the sale of illicit liquor. Shops involved in MRP violation should also be sealed. At the previous hearing, the court had sought response from the government on three aspects — the basis on which prices are fixed for liquor varieties, steps taken to prevent overcharging and action taken against employees involved in MRP violations. On Thursday, the Tasmac managing director submitted a report on departmental proceedings initiated against those involved in MRP violations. Taking cognizance of the report, the judges observed that the petitioner emphasised that Rule 14 of the Tamil Nadu Liquor Retail Vending (In Shops and Bars) Rules, 2003 speaks about fixation of liquor retail price and mandates that the MRP should be displayed at Tasmac outlets. The report of the Tasmac MD speaks about action taken on numerous complaints received against selling liquor beyond MRP.  The issue can be solved by issuing bills for every sale of liquor and displaying MRP of the liquor at all Tasmac outlets so that buyers know they are not paying any excess amount. Hence, the judges directed the Tasmac MD to issue circular to all district-level officers directing them to strictly comply with Rule 14. Periodical inspections at the outlets should be carried out by officials to ensure that bills and receipts are maintained and excess price above MRP is not charged. Disposing of the petition, the judges posted the case for March 16 for reporting compliance by the state government and submit a report in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ensure-liquor-is-sold-at-mrp-at-tasmac-outlets-hc-to-govt/articleshow/80394201.cms||Kaushik Kannan
January 22, 2021||Delhi||Footfall up 2.5 times since reopening, queues outside Delhi Metro stations get longer||NEW DELHI: On Thursday, the average waiting time to enter Delhi Metro’s Rajiv Chowk station through gate number 4 around 6.30pm was 29 minutes. However, the waiting time was 37 minutes if you were trying to enter the busy station at rush hour from gate number 7. Comparatively, within 37 minutes one can travel from Rajiv Chowk to Ajan Garh station, the last halt before Yellow Line enters Gurugram. Rajiv Chowk is not the only Metro station that has been witnessing serpentine queues long enough to reach the next Blue Line station at Barakhamba Road during evening rush hour. On Thursday, the average waiting period was around 40 minutes at Chawri Bazar and Patel Chowk stations too. “DMRC resumed its services from September 7, 2020 in a graded manner with a new set of travel protocols to contain the spread of Covid-19, be it regulated entry at stations by ensuring social distancing, thermal scanning, hand sanitisation and wearing of masks throughout the journey, besides sitting on alternate seats inside the trains,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. As life in the Covid-hit capital limped back to normal, the number of passengers thronging Metro stations also went up. Since September, Delhi Metro has seen more than 150% rise in footfall, even though the system’s carrying capacity has reduced drastically. DMRC managing director Mangu Singh had recently told TOI that all trains were running at optimum frequency, but with one-fourth to one-third of the earlier traffic due to safety precautions implemented to ensure social distancing. “Demand is slowly going up and this is now causing more inconvenience to passengers as they have to wait in longer queues outside,” he had said. With the graded resumption of services in September, the average passenger journeys, which were around 6-7 lakh, are touching 16-18 lakh now. Though the footfall now is 20-25% of the traffic of around 60 lakh from before the pandemic, it is in sync with the current capacity offered by the system due to the new travel protocols in place. Dayal said that after assessing practical requirements, DMRC had opened additional entry and exit gates at some stations and allowed cash for smart card purchase and top-up. “DMRC is also informing the public on a real-time basis through its social media platforms about the waiting time at certain stations during peak hours owing to compliance with Covid norms,” he added. He further stated that DMRC had ensured that people adhered to the travel protocols for their own and everyone else’s safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/footfall-up-2-5-times-since-reopening-queues-outside-metro-stns-get-longer/articleshow/80394253.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 22, 2021||Kolkata||Larger apartment, study: WFH impact on home space requirement in West Bengal||KOLKATA: Post lockdown, home buyers are looking for larger apartments and are willing to shell out more for the additional space. “Buyers are seeking larger living rooms and balconies, and an additional study if budget permits. They are willing to spend 10%-15% more for a house that fits their specifications,” said Belani group managing director Nandu Belani, who is also chairman of the Bengal chapter of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India. A study by Anarock Property Consultants, a real estate services company, revealed that the average home size had increased from 1,000sqft in 2019 to 1,100sqft in 2020. Anarock chairman Anuj Puri said, “The two main reasons for apartment sizes reducing in previous years were affordability and millennials’ preference for low-maintenance homes. Keen to generate more buyer interest with smaller price tags, developers whittled down their flat sizes. Last year saw an almost immediate reversal of buyer preferences. With the accent suddenly being on accommodating the work-from-home (WFH) and learn-from-home (LFH) culture, flat sizes began increasing for the first time in four years.” Merlin group managing director Sushil Mohta said the demand for a larger apartment size had been witnessed across categories. “Those looking for budget apartments want a slightly larger living space to get a corner for a table to do office work. Those with a slightly bigger budget want an additional room to convert into a study,” said Mohta, who is also the chairman of the West Bengal chapter of Credai. The demand for additional workspace, realtors said, is a reflection of the experience people had during the lockdown when they realized the true worth of a home. Even after unlock, IT professionals, teachers, students and many more continue to work, teach or study from home. NK Realtors had, in June-July, discovered that 30% of customers wanted to purchase larger homes. Developers in Kolkata said that figure has shot up with 70%-80% now keen on additional space and are redrafting the plans of projects that are yet to be launched. Mohta said while sale of homes may be static, there is also a shift in preference to credible developers. “Real estate firms that have a good reputation are getting more business. Some of them have even been able to increase the price by 10% after several years,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/larger-apartment-study-wfh-impact-on-home-space-requirement/articleshow/80393162.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Patna||Now, character certificates must for contractors||PATNA: In an attempt to tighten the noose on contractors, the state government has made it mandatory for them to have character certificates from police. A decision in this regard was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by chief secretary Deepak Kumar and attended by additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani and DGP S K Singhal. While talking to reporters later, Kumar said all the contractors, especially those engaged in the bidding process for construction of bus stands and vegetable markets, would obtain character certificates from police. “Workers associated with the contractors or private firms, which are awarded government contracts, will also submit character certificates. They will be issued identity cards later,” the chief secretary added. To a question, Kumar pointed out that the provision of character certificate for contractors engaged in government works had been in vogue in the state for long. “It will, however, be implemented strictly now,” he said. Although the chief secretary claimed that the decision had nothing to do with the recent killing of Rupesh Kumar Singh, a senior executive of the IndiGo airline in Patna, sources said police investigation into the case found lapses on the part of the contractors of different government departments. A team led by city SP (central) Vinay Tiwari had visited the offices of different departments and inquired about the procedure of awarding contracts. Earlier, the DGP had hinted that Rupesh’s murder was a fallout of a dispute over contract of parking of vehicles at the Patna airport. Three people, Indrajeet Kumar, Chandan Kumar and Ram Sunder, have been awarded the contract. Sources in the state police headquarters said a few of them were earlier associated with don-turned-MLA Ritlal Yadav. They used to bag contracts for parking at different railway stations under the Danapur railway division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-character-certificates-must-for-contractors/articleshow/80392765.cms||Ramashankar
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||MPSC to withdraw application in Supreme Court on Maratha quota||MUMBAI: A day after CM Uddhav Thackeray ordered an inquiry into Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC)’s move to submit two applications in Supreme Court on the Maratha quota issue, the commission decided to backtrack. MPSC had sought withdrawal of all benefits availed by Maratha candidates under socially and educationally backward classes (SEBC) reservation. MPSC’s principal secretary, Pradeep Kumar, informed the general administration department that the commission had decided to withdraw the interlocutory application. The letter to the GAD states that after the Maratha quota was stayed by the SC on September 9, 2020, MPSC had written to the state seeking advice on how to go about the process. However, there was no response from the state and the commission approached the SC.  MPSC also stated the issue was discussed in the chief secretary’s office, in the presence of chief advisor to the chief minister and the additional chief secretary. On Wednesday, Sena minister Eknath Shinde raised the issue at the state cabinet meeting and Thackeray took serious note of it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mpsc-to-withdraw-application-in-sc-on-maratha-quota/articleshow/80395715.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||India on recovery path: Amit Shah||AHMEDABAD: Union home minister Amit Shah said India’s economy is getting back on track and this was evident from power consumption, which was higher in December 2020 than in December 2019. Shah was speaking at the virtual inauguration of the 1km overbridge connecting Shilaj and Thaltej over the Ahmedabad-Viramgam railway line. Shah said that the Prime Minister first decided to give power to every house and now a programme is taken up for tapped water in each house. Shah said the Indian economy is undergoing a recovery and the entire world is us. “The Covid-19 vaccination drive is progressing and once everyone is vaccinated, we will attain victory over the pandemic,” he said. “Economies of all countries in the world were affected due to the coronavirus. But, the world is surprised and watching the V-shaped recovery of the Indian economy. Power consumption in December was much higher than December 2019 and this was an indication that the country’s economy is getting back on track,” Shah said. Shah also said that infrastructure development carried out under the Narendra Modi government since 2014 exceeds the development done by governments in the 20 years before Modi became Prime Minister. He listed various infrastructure works such as metro lines, the bullet train and other projects taken up by the Centre. Shah further said , “The way in which our government has undertaken housing projects in the country in rural and urban areas, I have sure that by 2022 everyone in the country will have a house to live in. The Narendra Modi government has provided more than 10 crore units under affordable housing.” He also said, “I have full faith that by the time the BJP contests the next Lok Sabha elections, there won’t be a single house in the country devoid of a water connection.” “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken a decision to eradicate one lakh railway crossings in the country and under that we have taken up work on overbridges or underbridges with an equal share of the state and Union government. By 2022, there won’t be a single unmanned railway crossing in the country,” added Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/india-on-recovery-path-shah/articleshow/80393145.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Goa||Govt eyeing 10,000 vacancies by next year: Goa CM||POINGUINIM: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday reiterated that his government is planning to come out with 10,000 vacancies by next year. Speaking on the occasion of Vivekananda Yuva Sammelan at Canacona, he asked the youth to take self-employment by availing various government schemes as even god wouldn’t be able to give them employment amid the Covid pandemic. The chief minister urged the youth to work hard and become self-reliant. Deputy speaker and Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes called upon the youth to unite and support the government for development of Canacona and the state. He said the focus is on development and that he needs the support of people. Others present on the occasion include state BJP chief Sadanand Tanavade, former MLA Siddharth Cuncolienkar, party vice-president for south Goa Mahesh Naik, Canacona BJP chief Nandip Bhagat besides others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-eyeing-10k-vacancies-by-next-year-cm/articleshow/80394285.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Business||‘Sensex’s return mirrors nominal GDP growth rate in the long run’||NEW DELHI: The crossing of milestones is typically greeted with mixed emotions — rejoicing by some, and apprehension by others about whether things are overheated. This is no different for the sensex, which breached the 50k mark. Given the adverse impact of Covid on the economy, many feel the sensex is not grounded in economic reality. Before getting into this debate, however, let me share an unconventional count — the “double count” (see graph). The table below represents the years in which the sensex doubled from the previous level with the starting value of 100 in 1979. Seen this way, the journey of the sensex from 100 to 50,000 has nine steps over 42 years, that is, the index has simply doubled nine times, on an average in 4.6 years. The CAGR of this journey is about 16%. This number is close to the nominal GDP growth of the Indian economy over this period, especially of the manufacturing and services sectors. This is not a coincidence, rather it’s the very nature of the sensex. As it is diversified and represents most sectors, it tends to mimic the economic growth in rupee terms (real growth plus inflation) over time. Therefore, the 50,000 level has to be seen in the context of economic growth over this period. From this, it is evident that, while most of the attention is focused on the near-term movements of the sensex — which may be tough, if not impossible to forecast — the real money in equities belongs to the long-term investor. For 100 to become 50,000, it was patience that was the key and not intelligence or deep market knowledge. As someone beautifully remarked, “Time in the market beats timing the market”. This journey, like in real life, has also had several speed bumps — Asian crisis, the dotcom bubble, 9/11, the global financial crisis taper tantrum, etc, and more recently Covid. To the discerning few, the accompanying corrections around these events offered opportunities to buy cheaper and to improve long-term returns. However, this is easier said than done. That’s why it’s often said that equities are simple to understand but not easy to benefit from. How are markets doing well when the economy is weighed down by Covid? The first part of this answer is the impact of fall in one year’s profit has limited impact on the intrinsic value of equity. Second, lower interest rates—a result of Covid—has increased the fair value of stocks. Third, corporate earnings have surprised, led by cost savings. Finally, the 10- and 15-year returns at about 10% and 12%, respectively are reasonable and suggest that markets are not in an irrational zone. Seen another way, the total mcap to GDP at about 90% based on FY22 GDP is reasonable. Further, the returns have not been uniform across sectors and, therefore, there are pockets that offer better value than the average The sensex at 50,000 is an acknowledgement and result of India’s growing economy. The future growth outlook is supported by low interest rates, pent-up demand, continued easing of restrictions, strong rural economy and fiscal & monetary measures. To benefit from this, all equities ask is inactivity and patience. Now, what could be better than that? (The writer is ED & CIO, HDFC MF)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensexs-return-mirrors-nominal-gdp-growth-rate-in-the-long-run/articleshow/80395496.cms||Prashant Jain
January 22, 2021||Patna||Man kidnapped in NE seeks Nitish’s help for safe release||PATNA: Additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani has asked DGP Sanjeev Kumar Singhal to probe the video clips released by northeast militant groups, showing a man from Khagaria urging CM Nitish Kumar to get him released from the captivity of militants by taking up the matter with his Assam counterpart Sarbananda Sonowal. The video came in public domain on Wednesday. The Khagaria man, Ram Kumar (28), and one Pranab Kumar Gogoi were allegedly kidnapped by Assam and Myanmar-based militants from an oil drilling site in Changlang district of Arunachal Pradesh on December 21 last year. Subhani said state government would do whatever possible to ensure safe release of Kumar. According to sources, the DGP has sought a report on the matter from Khagaria SP Amitesh Kumar. The Khagaria SP said they were in touch with their counterparts in Changlang for safe release of Kumar. Kumar and Gogoi are workers of a Delhi-based oil drilling firm. Kumar is a resident of Bahadurpur village under the Alauli police station area in Khagaria district. Meanwhile, Kumar’s wife Bina Kumari told TOI over phone on Thursday that she had last talked to her husband at 3pm on December 21. “I was later informed by one of his colleagues on the same day that he was kidnapped,” Bina said, adding she was told that the militants have sought a ransom of Rs 15 crore for safe release of her husband. Bina said her husband had joined the firm in 2016. “Our five-year-old son, Aditya Raj, is a blood cancer patient and he is undergoing treatment at AIIMS-Patna. Our elder daughter, Arushi Kumari, studies in Class III,” she said, adding the Bihar government should take necessary steps for the safe release of her husband.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-kidnapped-in-ne-seeks-nitishs-help-for-safe-release/articleshow/80392485.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 22, 2021||Business||From 0 to 42%: Financials’ weightage||An unusual feature of the sensex is the dominance of the financial sector. From zero weightage when the sensex was first published in 1986, financials account for 42% of the free-float market capitalisation of the sensex. This is highly unusual for a large economy like India, where industry and non-financial services account for a significant part of the GDP. Rather than correct itself, the weightage of financials in the sensex could go up further and a key driver would be the listing of LIC, which is expected to be valued at between Rs 11-15 lakh crore. Also, more banks are expected to raise capital, which will increase the quantity of banking stock floating around. There are several reasons for the financialisation of the Indian equity markets. The primary among this is the death of manufacturing activity. Many of the steel, textiles and auto companies in the original sensex are doing poorly and there have been no competitors to take their place. Another theory is that services such as IT and financials have thrived in India because they are less dependent on infrastructure and therefore less affected by factors that determine the ease of doing business. But while the IT sector provides services for the world, the financial sector focus is entirely on domestic markets. The third reason is the regulator — the RBI — which has leaned on promoters to dilute their shareholding and forced banks to reduce stake in subsidiaries. Promoter’s stake in banks is capped at 15%, while banks and NBFCs, in turn, are not allowed to hold more than 49% in their insurance subsidiaries. The fourth reason is the absence of a developed bond market in India which has resulted in corporates relying upon bank loans, which has resulted in further bloating of bank balance sheets and consequently higher capital mobilisation. Former RBI governor Y V Reddy described financialisation as a situation where the performance of markets, households, or business depends not by demand or supply of commodities but by the liquidity is readily available. The big risk that preponderance of financials in the sensex pose is that a bad loan problem in banking could drag down the entire economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/from-0-to-42-financials-weightage/articleshow/80395169.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 22, 2021||Meerut||HC issues notice to UP govt, IAS officer over cast certificate||MEERUT: The Allahabad high court has issued notices to the state of UP and former additional principal secretary, social welfare, in a case pertaining to issuance of Scheduled Caste certificates to those in the other backward caste (OBC) category. The petitioners said that while caste ‘Julaha’ has been declared OBC in the Gazette of India (Presidential notification), the IAS officer, without any approval of the authorities concerned, directed the commissioners of Meerut, Moradabad, Agra and Saharanpur divisions and district magistrates of Saharanpur, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Rampur, Baghpat and Firozabad to issue certificate of caste ‘Kori’ to Hindu Julaha, Koli and Kabirpanthi Bunkar. So far, two cases have been filed against this in Baghpat and Saharanpur. In Baghpat, the local DM, too, has been made one of the respondents. Even the central government had taken cognizance of the issue and a letter was dispatched addressed to the principal secretary, UP’s social welfare department on June 21, 2019 (copy of which has been accessed by TOI). The letter signed by Bharat Lal Meena, the then director (administration), ministry of social justice and empowerment, states, “It is appropriate that the state government should withdraw their circulars and may consider sending the proposal for inclusion of Hindu Julaha, Koli, Kabirpanthi Bunkar in the list of SCs, if they fulfill the criteria of scheduling a caste as an SC to Government of India for considering their case in accordance with the statute.” The petitions have been filed under the aegis of Samvidhan Bachao Trust whose convener, Raj Kumar said, “We have been trying to fight violation of the Constitution for quite some time. It may be noted that even the Supreme Court in a similar case has directed that caste certificates should be issued strictly in accordance with the Presidential notification. Yet the officer knowingly and willfully issued government orders dated November 6, 2011 and July 16, 2020 for issuing caste certificates and thus committed offence under IPC’s section 124A (sedition), 217 (public servant disobeying direction of law) and 218 (public servant framing incorrect record or writing).” The HC is set to hear the Saharanpur case on January 29 and the Baghpat case on February 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hc-issues-notice-to-up-govt-ias-officer-for-wrongfully-issuing-sc-certificates-to-obcs/articleshow/80391996.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 22, 2021||Business||Overpriced markets make investors cautious||NEW DELHI: A price-to-earnings (PE) ratio of over 34 times for the sensex, compared to the long-term average of 21.8 times, shows that experienced investors have turned extremely cautious. Market analysts, however, feel that as long as central banks around the globe keep pumping money into the system and the economy, stock prices may not fall anytime soon. The PE ratio indicates the amount of money an investor is ready to pay for every rupee of a company’s net profit. According to Axis Securities chief investment officer Naveen Kulkarni, it’s the global liquidity deluge that’s pushing stocks and markets to record valuations, which look “stretched”. So, if global liquidity continues to remain at an elevated level, then chances of a correction in markets will also remain low. “Good quarterly results by corporates are also supporting prices, so any deep correction in the market is not expected,” he said. The liquidity deluge is the result of the concerted efforts of central banks around the world that opened their financial war chest to support their country’s economy as the pandemic ravaged across the globe. Market players pointed out that this was the result of their learnings from the global financial crisis of 2008-09. “It’s a template they are following to come out of an extremely difficult financial situation,” the head of a broking house told TOI recently. The result of this flood of liquidity is that “we now have more money to buy stocks but the supply of stocks is not matching the flow of money”, said an investment adviser. This adviser also agrees with Kulkarni’s view that any deep market correction is a distant possibility. “The chances of any correction look remote as long as liquidity infusion measures by central banks do not reverse...and that may not happen in the next couple of years,” the investment adviser said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/overpriced-mkts-make-investors-cautious/articleshow/80395163.cms||Partha Sinha
January 22, 2021||Patna||Union minister Ramesh Pokhriyal opens KV building in Bettiah||PATNA: Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal inaugurated a new Kendriya Vidyalaya (KV) at Bettiah in West Champaran via videoconferencing on Thursday. Speaking on the occasion, Pokhriyal said KVs had become the hallmark of excellence in the country. “In the last six years more than 150 new KVs have been opened and the construction of the remaining school buildings is underway,” he added. The Union minister also lauded the KVs for adopting green standards and initiating eco-friendly campaigns like ‘One Student, One Tree’, ‘Water Conservation’ and ‘Rainwater Harvesting in School Buildings’. Referring to the New Education Policy and its various provisions, Pokhriyal said, “While the academic session was delayed in many countries due to the Covid-19 pandemic, teachers, students and parents here quickly adapted themselves to virtual platforms without hampering the education.” The new building of KV at Kumarabagh in Bettiah is spread over 10 acres of land provided by the state government and developed at a cost of Rs 13.016 crore. Although the school was established in the district in 2003, it had been operating from a temporary building. At present, KV has 489 students from classes I to X. There are altogether 53 KVs in Bihar with four operating in two shifts. “When the new school becomes fully functional from classes I to XII, almost 1,000 students of the district will be benefited,” a senior official of KV claimed. Bihar deputy chief minister Renu Devi, MPs Sanjay Jaiswal, Sunil Kumar, Satish Chandra Dubey, MLA Umakant Singh and MLCs Rajesh Ram and Virendra Yadav attended the videoconferencing from Bettiah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/union-minister-opens-kv-building-in-bettiah/articleshow/80392692.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 22, 2021||Patna||NDA fumes as RJD backs teacher aspirants’ protest||PATNA: The lathicharge on protesting candidates who have passed the Bihar Teachers Eligibility Test (BTET) and Central TET (CTET), has given another opportunity to the opposition to attack the Nitish Kumar-led government. The teachers are demanding completion of the process of selection of teachers and issuing appointment letters to the qualified candidates. Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav on Wednesday evening came to the aide of the protesting candidates when he was told that the aspirants did not get permission for a peaceful protest at their planned venue. In a viral video on social media, Tejashwi was seen talking to Patna DM Chandrashekhar Singh over the phone to get permission for the protestors to sit on dharna. Talking to media persons, the RJD leader on Thursday said the candidates have the democratic right to protest to press for their demands, but the state government is trying to snatch away their rights. “Teachers were protesting at Gardanibagh protest site, but they were batoned by the police on January 20. Do they have to seek permission daily for their protest,” he asked. RJD spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said, “It is very unfortunate and a shame for the government of Bihar that after nearly two years have passed but they could not complete the recruitment of primary teachers in government-run schools.” Jitan Ram Manjhi tweeted on Thursday: “Nitish Kumar had recruited the teachers and giving all facilities to them and increased their salaries. The state government will further work for the rights of teachers. The leaders who dis not pay salaries to teachers while they were in the government, are provoking and instigating innocent teachers to break the law (sic).” Prem Ranjan Patel, spokesperson of BJP told this newspaper that it was inappropriate the way Tejashwi was trying to instigate teachers against the state government. “On Thursday, the leader of opposition called different organisations at his residence and provoked them to disrupt law and order. Secondly, he could not invite so many people in such a way in a VIP and restricted area. He is doing all this drama because he lost the election,” he said. The state government in September 2019 had issued an advertisement for the recruitment of about 94,000 primary teachers in government schools. However, the process has not been completed because the matter was pending in court. In December 2020, the Patna high court had given its verdict on the resumption of the recruitment process. Sanjay Kumar, principal secretary of the education department told this newspaper that the department is seriously looking into the case. A senior education department official said, “All applications have been received manually and the department is examining it accordingly to ensure there is transparency and fairness in the selection process because the department had a bad experience in the selection process of teachers. We have to ensure that the right people would be recruited,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-fumes-as-rjd-backs-teacher-aspirants-protest/articleshow/80393228.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 22, 2021||Business||Car sales growth slows to 20-year low in 2015-2020||CHENNAI: Increased cost of ownership, high base effect and lower disposable incomes pushed car sales growth to just 1.3% during 2015-20, a dip from 6% in the preceding five-year period. Compounded sales growth of cars and sports utility vehicles between 2005-10 was 13%, which slowed to 6% in the next five-year block, and further slowing to just 1.3% now. But one of the big reasons for the drop is the slowdown in economic growth. “The pace of growth for the passenger vehicle segment was high in the 2000-2010 period due to strong economic growth, new model launches and reduction in excise duty in 2005-06. After that, growth slowed due to moderation in economic growth and increase in cost of ownership due to high fuel cost in 2012-13. Since 2015, sales have been impacted due to regulatory norms and demonetisation, among other factors,” said Crisil director Research Hetal Gandhi. Of course, a sharp slowdown in previous year and the pandemic this year has slowed down momentum. “The growth pace tapered off from 2012 onwards and has since then stayed range-bound because it is a reflection of the performance of the economy and the resultant consumer sentiment,” said ICRA VP Ashish Modani. What has also impacted new car buyers is the expansion of the used car market. “A significant growth in the pre-owned car market has offered a new value proposition. As the car park grows and consumer buying behaviour changes, there is bound to be an impact on overall volume growth,” said E&Y head (auto sector) Vinnay Raghunath. Some feel that increasing cost of ownership has spooked sales growth. “Cost of ownership has been going up sharply due to regulatory changes (BS4, BS6 emission norms), taxes, insurance, road tax and increase in material costs. In the last 10 years, there has been a 60% increase in on-road price of cars and SUVs due to this cost pile-up,” said Maruti Suzuki India executive director (marketing & sales) Shashank Srivastava. A premium hatchback car with an ex-showroom price tag of just over Rs 5 lakh in 2010 and below Rs 6 lakh after road tax and insurance now costs Rs 9.55 lakh on road. Finally, despite the slowdown, India is still one of the few big auto markets still on the growth lane. “The base effect is of course one reason why the CAGR (compounded annual growth rate) has slowed down, but the good news is apart from last year (slowdown) and this year (pandemic),” said BMW Group CEO Vikram Pawah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/car-sales-growth-slows-to-20-year-low-in-2015-2020/articleshow/80394132.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
January 22, 2021||Patna||Shahnawaz, Sahani elected unopposed as MLCs||PATNA: BJP national spokesperson Syed Shahnawaz Hussain and VIP chief Mukesh Sahani were elected unopposed as members of the legislative council (MLC) on Thursday. The Patna divisional commission, Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, who was the returning officer, handed over the certificates to them. Hussain, a two-time MP and former Union minister, is set to get a berth in the Nitish Kumar cabinet. Sahani is already serving as minister for animal husbandry and fisheries. Both filed their nominations on January 18 as NDA candidates in the presence of CM Nitish Kumar and other senior leaders of the ruling party. Soon after receiving the certificate, Hussain tweeted, “I am feeling glad to be elected as a member of the legislative council unopposed. I express my gratitude to top leadership of the BJP, including PM Narendra Modi, party national president J P Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah.” He revealed that he had been serving as a worker of the party since 1986. “Whatever the responsibility the party deemed to be fit, I have discharged it honestly and with full vigour and hope to do so in future also,” he posted on Twitter. Hussain’s return to state politics will boost the party’s support in Seemanchal region comprising Purnia, Katihar, Araria and Kishanganj districts, which have a sizable Muslim population. He is a prominent Muslim face of the party both at the Centre and the state. VIP chief Mukesh Sahani also felt elated after being elected as an MLC. He, however, used the opportunity to attack RJD and the leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav for making hollow promises to provide jobs to 10 lakh youths. Meanwhile, a senior BJP leader attributed the reason for delay in cabinet expansion to the party’s focus on giving due representation to all sections of society keeping in mind the region where party had performed well in the recently held assembly polls. “Top leadership of the party is in the process of giving their nod to the names of the legislators likely to be inducted as ministers in the cabinet,” the leader preferring anonymity told this newspaper on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shahnawaz-sahani-elected-unopposed-as-mlcs/articleshow/80392913.cms||Ramashankar
January 22, 2021||Patna||2 held in Patna for looting jewellery from Delhi showroom||PATNA: A Delhi Police team on Thursday arrested a father-son duo with the help of local police from the vicinity of Patna high court ‘mazar’ under the Kotwali police station area here for their alleged involvement in loot of gold jewellery worth around of Rs 1 crore from a showroom at Pitampura in New Delhi on January 14. SHO of Kotwali police station Sunil Kumar said the arrested people were identified as Subarati Sheikh and his son Abdul Hakim, residents of Sahebganj in Jharkhand. He said the two had reached Patna from Delhi on Wednesday and were scheduled to travel to Jharkhand on Friday. Kumar said eight gold bangles looted from the Pitampura showroom were seized from the possession of the arrested duo. “The two were handed over to Delhi Police. They were later taken to the national capital,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-held-for-looting-jewellery-from-delhi-showroom/articleshow/80392788.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Patna||Gurdwara Sheetal Kund to be ready by next year: Nitish||BIHARSHARIF: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Thursday bowed his head before Guru Granth Sahib and participated in the concluding day functions at Rajgir’s Sheetal Kund on the occasion of 354th birth anniversary of tenth Sikh Guru Gobind Singh. The CM later inspected the construction work for Gurdwara Shri Nanak Dev Sheetal Kund Sahib and Makhdoom Kund. He expressed satisfaction over the progress of work and said the construction of Sheetal Kund would be completed before the Prakashotsava next year. “Guru Nanakji Maharaj had visited the place in 1506. There were several kunds of warm water around the place then. However, the water was not suitable for drinking purpose. Local residents gathered around Gurunanak Dev Maharaj and requested him for a ‘kund’ of cold or normal water. Gurunanak Devji then touched water of a warm kund with his feet and it turned cold. This is how the Sheetal Kund came into existence. A small gurdwara was built around it long ago, which was named Sheetal Kund Gurdwara,” the CM said. The new gurdwara is being built in an area of one acre with an estimated expenditure of Rs 12 crore. Nitish said once the gurdwara is ready, people visiting Takht Shri Harmandir Sahib Gurudwara in Patna will also visit Sheetal Kund at Rajgir. “Rajgir is a unique place as it is associated with all major religions. It was the capital of Magadh Empire before being shifted to Pataliputra,” Nitish said. The CM added that Gurdwara Sheetal Sahib will soon receive water from the Ganga as the groundwater is fast depleting. At Makhdoom Kund, the CM offered ‘chadar’ at the shrine of Sheikh Sharfuddin Yahya Maneri, a great saint of 12th century, who spent 24 years praying at the place which was named after him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gurdwara-sheetal-kund-to-be-ready-by-next-year-nitish/articleshow/80392632.cms||Farrukh Nadim
January 22, 2021||Patna||State records 168 fresh Covid cases, four deaths||PATNA: The state’s Covid-19 tally increased to 2,59,449 on Thursday with 168 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. Four fresh deaths, on the other hand, took the state’s toll to 1,468 on Thursday. However, with 2,55,080 people recovering from the virus so far, action cases in the state have now come down to 2,899. With 315 more people recovering from the virus in the last 24 hours, the state’s recovery rate has now gone up to 98.32%. As per the health department, Bhojpur, Muzaffarpur, Patna and Saran districts recorded one death each on Thursday. Two more people from the state capital have succumbed to Covid at AIIMS-Patna – a 68-year-old woman and an 80-year-old woman. AIIMS-P’s nodal incharge for Covid Dr Sanjeev Kumar said eight patients were admitted to the hospital and nine discharged on Thursday. Altogether 100 patients are currently undergoing treatment for Covid at the hospital. Of the 168 cases recorded in the state on Thursday, Patna accounted for 73. The district’s tally has now increased to 51,794. However, with 50,288 recuperating from the virus and 405 dying in the district so far, there were 1,101 active cases on Thursday. Among other districts, Bhojpur and Darbhanga reported seven cases each on Thursday; Araria, Gaya and Sheohar six cases each and Vaishali five cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-records-168-fresh-covid-cases-four-deaths/articleshow/80392030.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Patna||Tejashwi reviews preparations for human chain formation||PATNA: Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Thursday urged people to hold soil in their hands and take a pledge to support farmers while participating in the human chain on January 30 against the three controversial farm laws enacted by the Centre recently. Tejaswhi said the RJD would organise a weeklong ‘kisan jagrook’ programme in the state from January 24 to January 30 to create awareness among farmers. Tejashwi, who held a meeting with senior RJD leaders, including district presidents and MLAs at 10, Circular Road residence of former CM Rabri Devi, told reporters that the human chain will be formed at panchayat and village levels as well. Tejashwi accused the NDA governments at the Centre and in state of failing to address the concerns raised by farmers. “Farmers of Bihar are compelled to sell their produces much below the minimum support price (MSP). For instance, if MSP of any produce is Rs 1,850, farmers are selling the same at Rs 700 or Rs 800. During the RJD rule, farmers used to sell their produces above the MSP,” Tejashwi said, said the Bihar government’s decision to abolish Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) in 2006 led to the plight of farmers in the state. Tejashwi also slammed the state government over various other issues, including law and order, unemployment, problems faced by contractual employees and protests by the TET aspirants. JD(U) state spokesperson Arvind Nishad, however, said Tejashwi was raising the issue of farmers to gain political advantage. “Bihar has already implemented the third agriculture road map and it was awarded by the Centre for it. Two days back, a mobile app and a website, ‘sichai nishchay’, were launched to facilitate technical survey of farmland. Irrigating all farmland in the state is the priority of the state government,” Mishad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-reviews-preparations-for-human-chain-formation/articleshow/80392771.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 22, 2021||Lucknow||Nirbhaya’s lawyer: POSH Act needs better implementation||Lucknow: Lawyer in the Nirbhaya case and Supreme Court advocate, Seema Samridhi, said on Thursday that while delay in judicial processes is a major challenge in getting justice for victims of crimes against women, the POSH Act has not been able to achieve desired results due to laxity in implementation. Samridhi was speaking at a webinar on ‘legal tools for women against attempts of harassment at workplaces’ organized by the department of Sanskrit and Prakrit languages at Lucknow University. The event is a part of a six-month campaign launched recently under ‘Mission Shakti’ by LU to sensitise students on gender issues. Citing the example of Nirbhaya case that took almost a year to get listed in court and seven years thereafter for justice, Samridhi said that the government should come up with a mechanism to expedite the judicial process. She explained the aims of Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, also known as POSH Act, to students and faculty members. Dean of arts and Sanskrit faculty Prof BK Shukla informed the audience about strict punishments prescribed in Hindu scriptures for crimes against women. Coordinator for LU Mission Shakti Prof Sheela Mishra said that soon, LU will host a brainstorming session with ICC chairpersons of other institutes in the city to make POSH implementation more effective.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nirbhayas-lawyer-posh-act-needs-better-implementation/articleshow/80395468.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Business||Street Smart: Reaping Profits At 50,000 Peak...||Did you invest in the stock market during the April-May lockdown period? Nearly a crore of investors did. The number of new entrants into the stock market each month is now about five times more than what it was a few years ago. Consider this: Between December 2009 and December 2019, the two depositories — CDSL and NSDL — together had added 2.1 crore demat accounts with the total at 3.93 crore. By December 2020, the total had jumped to 4.98 crore, indicating the addition of 1.05 crore demat accounts in just one year. In effect earlier on an average less than two lakh new investors were being added each month. In 2020, this rate jumped to over eight lakh per month. And since the lockdown was imposed, this rate jumped further to over 10 lakh-a-month, official data showed. One of the reasons for the rush to open demat accounts was that during lockdown, investors realised gold was not as liquid an asset as they thought it to be. According to Ravi Kumar, co-founder & CEO, Upstox, the second-largest retail broker in India, earlier, many people saved in gold, something that was a highly liquid asset. But during the lockdown, since everything was shut, they had no way to sell gold to get money. On the other hand, stock markets were open. “People realised that it was important to have financial assets that could provide them liquidity in such extreme situations and physical assets were not as liquid.” There are other reasons too, adds Kumar. During the lockdown, people spent extra time planning their finances. Investors also looked for alternative ways to make money and the stock market was one of them. “The slide in FD rates in the past few years, from 7-9% per annum to 4-5% also prompted people to look at assets that could give them higher returns,” he said. The number of mutual fund investors has also seen a big jump since March last year: From nearly 9 crore folios, the end-November figure was 9.4 crore. The rush of new investors also throws up two important questions: Should you invest in the stock market now when leading indices are at such high levels and most stocks look either fully valued or overvalued? And if the answer is yes, then how should investors invest? According to Rajeev Thakkar, CIO & director, PPFAS Mutual Fund, people who are willing to invest through the mutual fund route, should first decide the quantum of investment and then move systematically. People who are salaried and those with a regular stream of income should invest through the systematic investment plan (SIP) route. And even while taking the SIP route, “diversified schemes are the most suitable ones”, Thakkar said. According to him, investing through the sectoral or market-cap based schemes is not the ideal solution. And what about those who are already invested in stocks directly? According to Arun Kejriwal, director, KRIS, an investment advisory firm, it’s a good time to look at one’s portfolio and go for some cleanup. “Most portfolios have some Class A shares, some Class B and some Class C shares. In the current market, most stocks are up and so it’s the right time to sell the Class C and some Class B stocks and invest the corpus in Class A stocks,” Kejriwal said. Brokers are also advising those who want to enter the market directly to look at investing in blue chips only and not take the undue risk that comes with investing in small and midcap stocks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/street-smart-reaping-profits-at-50000-peak-/articleshow/80395348.cms||Partha Sinha
January 22, 2021||Patna||Makeshift gun factory busted in Mokama, three arrested||PATNA: Police busted a makeshift gun factory leading to the recovery of a large cache of partially or fully manufactured firearms and ammunition, and arrested three persons at a village under Mokama police station area in rural Patna on Thursday. SP (rural) Kantesh Kumar Mishra said the factory was running inside the house of one Ashok Mistry. “Mistry along with Sooraj Kumar and a minor were arrested. Ashok is aged around 35 years and Sooraj is his son who is 19 years old. The minor is a resident of Saket Vihar in Phulwarisharif,” he said. Mishra said six country-made breach-load pistols, one country-made semiautomatic pistol with magazine, 11 partially manufactured pistols, 19 bodies of pistols, 20 different sized barrels for use in these pistols and six live cartridges were recovered from the spot. “Besides these firearms, equipment like an electrical and hand-held drilling machine, gas-welding machine, grinder, two generators, hammers and several other items were seized from the spot,” Mishra said. Mokama police station SHO Raj Nandan said Ashok runs an iron grill manufacturing shop at his house. “In the guise of this shop, he was operating the gun factory,” he said. Nandan said Ashok used to manufacture these firearms and sell them in bulk to smugglers and suppliers from other districts in the state. “His modus-operandi of not selling the country-made firearms to people from Patna and neighbouring areas kept his activities hidden from police for long,” he said. The SHO said Ashok is accused in four criminal cases of which two are registered with Noorsarai police station in Nalanda and one each with Mokama and Barh. “In Barh, he is accused in a theft case while in Mokama, a loot case is registered against him. One of the cases in Noorsarai is of an attempt to murder where he had shot at a person,” SHO Nandan said, adding the investigation is going on in connection with the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/makeshift-gun-factory-busted-in-mokama-three-arrested/articleshow/80392783.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Allahabad||Hoax bomb call gives police the jitters||Prayagraj: A hoax bomb call on Friday kept the city police on their toes for more than two hours. The police officials heaved a sigh of relief only after they found no explosives at the civil lines located Vinayak City Center (PVR Mall) and Katghar ( Mutthiganj) based Starwood complex after carrying out extensive checking exercise. SP (City) Dinesh Kumar Singh said that after city police received an information on its twitter account that explosives were being placed at two prominent spots of the city, teams of BDS (bomb defusal squad) and AS (anti-sabotage ) checking were deployed at both the sites. The police found no explosives at both the sites, he said. SP further added that the police cordoned off both the spot and vacated them for checking. He claimed that it was a hoax call and that the police have been looking for the person who had posted the fake information on Twitter. Legal action would be initiated against the persons who had given the fake information. However, the miscreants are yet to be arrested. As police cordoned the civil lines based multiplex, scores of people assembled outside the multiplex and police had to vacate them. The traffic on sadar patel marg was also diverted. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hoax-bomb-call-gives-police-the-jitters/articleshow/80411203.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Business||Cashing in on bulls & bells||The Sensitive Index: The US has its Dow, the UK its Footsie, Japan the Nikkei, while it is Kospi for South Koreans. The BSE’s 30-share ‘sensitive index’ got its name long before economic reforms made stock markets sexy. Equity analyst Deepak Mohoni was the first to use the term ‘sensex’ and tried to patent it later when it went mainstream with the exchange renaming its benchmark. More stocks are traded on the NSE and its index — the Nifty — is the one that is more tracked by institutional investors. But it is the history behind the sensex that keeps it going. Much like the time it resumed trading a day after being targeted by terrorists in the 1993 blasts, the exchange has managed to pick itself up from the dust. Gong Ho: After 1992, the BSE had a series of setbacks. The Harshad Mehta scam was followed by the launch of the NSE. , which was preferred by institutional investors. Also, the member-driven exchange saw infighting and came under pressure from the regulator. To counter the competition, the exchange, which has its origins in a gathering of traders below a banyan tree in the area, decided to reposition itself. One of the steps was the ‘bell ringing’ ceremony in 2002 on the day of a scrip’s listing. The ceremony was aimed at getting celebrities into the exchange for a photo-op. Those who rang the bell at the launches included Bollywood celebrities like Amitabh Bachchan and even politicians, latest being UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath at the listing of the Lucknow Municipal Bonds. Just Dial, Big B: While Harshad Mehta was called the big bull of the stock exchange, the Big B himself, Amitabh Bachchan, created some modest wealth (by his standards) in shares. By choosing stock over fees for an endorsement deal in Just Dial, Bachchan saw the value of his 62,794 shares, which was originally worth Rs 6.3 lakh, soar to Rs 3.8 crore on the debut day itself. Bachchan’s earlier tryst with the corporate world in the ’90s, when he set up ABCL, had ended in disaster with him losing a lot of money. Unlucky, For Some: A key change took place with Sebi issuing an order for ‘corporatisation and demutualisation’ of the BSE in 2005. This led to a repositioning of the exchange, not only in terms of how it operated but the management also sought to rebuild its history along the lines of a global exchange. One of the early attempts at rebranding was the installation of the bronze bull sculpture outside the Jeejeebhoy Towers. This drew a lot of criticism as many saw it as a cultural appropriation of the NYSE ‘charging bull’. Many of the highly superstitious members saw the bull as bringing bad luck as its installation on January 11, 2008 was followed by the biggest fall till then in the sensex, reflecting the sub-prime crisis. Yet, the bull remained and continued to be used as a photo-op for visiting celebrities, like Shah Rukh Khan. Longest Bull Run: While many people associated with the stock exchange wore the ‘big bull’ crown — including M J Pherwani, Harshad Mehta and Ketan Parekh — the one who has worn it the longest is Rakesh Jhunjhunwala. But unlike others, who took up trading positions, the leverage Jhunjhunwala has been using is time — holding value stocks long enough to get phenomenal returns. He once disclosed that what was behind his forecasts of the sensex hitting large numbers — he never mentioned the exact time frame — was that the index’s rise over time was almost an arithmetical certainty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cashing-in-on-bulls-bells/articleshow/80395416.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 22, 2021||Patna||Fog continues to hit movement of trains||PATNA: Low visibility and dense fog prevailing on the Kanpur-Prayagraj-Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Junction-Patna mainline route continued to affect the movement of special passenger trains on Thursday. While the New Delhi-Rajendra Nagar Terminal Rajdhani Express (02310) was delayed by 60 minutes, the Delhi-Bhagalpur Vikramshila Express (02368) was cancelled. However, the movement of the Delhi-Rajgir Shramjeevi Express (02392), Delhi-Rajendra Nagar Terminal Sampoorna Kranti Express (02394), and Delhi-Howrah Poorva Express (02304) was marginally affected as they reached their destinations on time. According to Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar, the use of fog pass devices has helped check accidents that occur due to poor visibility and foggy weather conditions. “Altogether 584 fog pass devices or GPS-based portable equipment, which comprise signal location, level-crossing gates and warning boards, have been supplied to the loco pilots in the Danapur division. These alert them about upcoming landmarks amid poor visibility and dense fog through audio and visual indication,” the DRM told this newspaper and added that the GPS-based equipment had replaced fog signals. A monitoring cell has also been set up in the Danapur control room to keep a close watch on passenger trains and fog-prone stations at night. Sources claimed that the East Central Railway had received altogether 1,317 fog pass devices this winter, of which Danapur, Samastipur and Sonepur divisions got 584, 511 and 222 equipment respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fog-continues-to-hit-movement-of-trains/articleshow/80392173.cms||Kumod Verma
January 22, 2021||Patna||Vaccination turnout rises on fourth day||PATNA/BIHARSHARIF: On the fourth day of the Covid-19 vaccination on Thursday, Bihar witnessed 54.6% of the registered beneficiaries turn up to get the shots. To further enhance the turnout and avoid vial wastage, changes in the software have been made to allow the health department to take new beneficiaries against the absentees. So far, only the beneficiaries registered on the Co-WIN app for the particular day were given the shot. However, after the changes, vaccinators can select others in place of those who fail to turn up. “Training will be given for the new software and after implementation of this new method the turnout will increase,” said state health department special secretary Manoj Kumar. This new method is expected to be implemented from Saturday. Talking about Thursday’s vaccination drive, Manoj said it was better than the second and third day and with time, they are expecting the numbers to pick up. As per data shared by the state health society, a total of 28,552 beneficiaries were registered to take the vaccine on Thursday, out of which 15,592 turned up. Of the total number of healthcare workers who took the shots on Thursday, 15,226 were given Covishield and 366 were given Covaxin. Vaccination was carried out across 296 sites involving 1,480 personnel. The department’s data further states that while the turnout on the first day on January 16 was 61.97%, on January 18 it came down to 51.2% and on January 19 it came further down to 50.1%. So far, 63,032 healthcare workers have been vaccinated and the break up shows 61694 got the Covishield and 1238 have been given Covaxin, while the average turnout for four days is nearly 55%. In Nalanda, 680 beneficiaries were administered Covid-19 vaccine on Thursday. This was the top figure of beneficiaries for Covid shots since its launch on January 16. Among the 10 vaccination centres across Nalanda district, the Harnaut primary health centre(PHC) achieved 100% target on Thursday, while Biharsharif Sadar hospital had only 60 recipients, which was the least of all. Nalanda civil surgeon Ram Singh said till Thursday 2,810 health and frontline workers, including those of past 50 age groups have been vaccinated against the targeted 5,000 beneficiaries. “Those who missed the opportunity of early vaccination might return for it soon as no side effects of the vaccine were reported from any recipients to date,” he said. He added that efforts were being made to improve the percentage of registered recipients. Altogether 570 health and frontline workers in Nalanda and their 280 counterparts in Sheikhpura district were successfully vaccinated for covid-19 on the inaugural day of the vaccination on Saturday. On Monday, 590 registered beneficiaries, including Nalanda civil surgeon Ram Singh, and many medical officers received the Covid-19 shots, while on Tuesday 490 of them were vaccinated in Nalanda district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vaccination-turnout-rises-on-fourth-day/articleshow/80392017.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 22, 2021||Patna||NITI Aayog’s innovation index: State finishes last||PATNA: Bihar has finished last by getting 17th rank in the second edition of the India Innovation Index, 2020 released by NITI Aayog on Wednesday. The state had secured 16th rank in the country in the first edition of the index in 2019. Interestingly, the overall score of the state has almost doubled in one year from 7.99 in 2019 to 14.48 now, but its rank has dropped one notch. The state has shown improvement on various parameters where it fared badly last time. The ranking was done on innovation inputs, including five enabler parameters – human capital, investment, knowledge workers, business environment, business environment and safety and two performance parameters – knowledge output and knowledge diffusion. The overall enabler score of Bihar was recorded at 14.43 with last position while in performance, the state stood 15th spot with 14.53 score. The state ranked last in investment and business environment with 2.49 and 5.17 scores, respectively, while it secured 16th rank in knowledge workers with 3.51 score. In human capital and safety and legal environment, the state has bagged 15th spot with 20.98 and 40.02 scores, respectively. In the performance parameters, the state has ranked 12th. Ram Lal Khetan, president of Bihar Industries Association, said the reason for state’s poor performance in investment and business environment parameters was non-implementation of investment and purchasing policy. “The state government had made the investment policies in 2011 and 2016. However, the investors have not received the benefits yet. Everything exists only in papers,” he said. Safety and legal environment parameter has three indicators which determine the scores, including number of offenses against information technology and intellectual property (IT/IP) related Acts, cybercrime police stations and pendency of court cases. The NITI Aayog report says that in the offenses under IT/IP related acts, Bihar has tied for the top position with the lowest proportion of such offenses, which can be accrued to low reporting of such cases. As per the report, the eastern parts of the country are lagging in human capital. “Given the potential workforce and demographic advantage, there lies tremendous potential in states such as Bihar, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh. Urgent attention is needed to enable improvement,” the report says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/niti-aayogs-innovation-index-state-finishes-last/articleshow/80392069.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 22, 2021||Patna||Netas shun politics, say they are ready to get vaccinated||PATNA: Cutting across party lines, netas in Bihar on Thursday said they would come forward and get themselves vaccinated for Covid-19 in the second phase in order to build confidence among common people. So far, the state’s average vaccination has been nearly 55% as many healthcare workers are avoiding taking shots. BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal said if any policy is made by the government regarding public representatives taking the vaccine shots, he will be the first one to do so. “Our MPs, MLAs and all leaders are ready to get vaccinated,” he said. JD(U) national secretary general and spokesperson K C Tyagi, said, “I have heard that even the PM Narendra Modi is willing to get vaccinated in the second phase. This will remove all confusions. All leaders above 50 years should take the jab.” Congress and RJD leaders also said they would not hesitate in getting vaccine shots. Congress state president Madan Mohan Jha said public representatives should come fowrad to build confidence among people. RJD state spokesperson Jagdanand Singh too said there is no harm in taking the vaccine. A health department official, however, said the Centre has so far not issued any guideline for the vaccination of public representatives above 50 years of age in the second phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/netas-shun-politics-say-they-are-ready-to-get-vaccinated/articleshow/80392107.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 22, 2021||Patna||Sunny day brings respite from cold||PATNA: Sunlight in the afternoon brought gradual respite from the biting cold in the state on Thursday. Though dense fog was witnessed in Patna and most other parts of the state on Wednesday night, it cleared from the lower level of atmosphere by the morning. Accordingly, the maximum temperature in Patna on Thursday was recorded at 21.5 degrees C. At 24 degrees C, the highest maximum temperature in the state was recorded in Dehri. Minimum temperature, on the other hand, stood at 9.8 and 7.8 degrees C in Patna and Gaya, respectively. Shailendra Kumar Patel, an officer at Patna Meteorological Centre, said slight plunge in minimum temperature was observed across the state, except in northeastern districts. The weather bulletin issued by Patna Meteorological Centre on Thursday stated that no large change in night temperature is expected during the next two days and it is likely to rise by 2-4 degrees C during subsequent three days. The meteorological centre has predicted that moderate to dense fog would prevail in the state during the next two days. A warning has also been issued for dense fog at one or two places on Friday. “Moderate to dense fog was witnessed at many places in the state in the last 24 hours,” Patel said, adding no significant change is expected in the minimum temperature over the next 48 hours. “Day and night temperatures are expected to surge slightly owing to western disturbance,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sunny-day-brings-respite-from-cold/articleshow/80392155.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Business||Why RBI governor Shaktikanta Das rang alarm bells||NEW DELHI: A key job description of the central bank chief’s profile is that he must take away the punch bowl when the party gets started or, in other words, prevent markets from getting overheated. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das in the financial stability report recently attempted to do just that by warning of the growing disconnect between segments of the financial markets and the economy. The report also indicated that, in a severe stress scenario, bad loans of banks could double. Higher NPAs has a direct bearing on the sensex as over a third of the weightage comes from banks and finance companies and their earnings could take a hit if bad loans rise. But fund managers point out that while the 92% rise in indices from last year’s 52-week low might seem too much and too fast, the equity gains are a much more modest 22% over January levels. Also the always market moves in fits and starts. For instance, between January 2010 and January 2020, the sensex just about doubled which meant a return of 7.4% which is measly when compared to the period between 2001 to 2008 when the sensex rose nearly 10 times. One of the key drivers of the recent rally has been the funds released by central banks globally. “Central banks globally have eased liquidity to support their economies in the wake of Covid resulting in bonds worth trillions of dollars yielding a negative return. The rally in equity markets is not driven by growth in earnings but by an expansion in the PE, which is an outcome of global liquidity expansion,” said Saibal Ghosh, CIO of Aegon Life Insurance. What this means is that companies do not need to earn more for their stocks to become more valuable. Increasing liquidity and making fixed income instruments less attractive can also drive up stock valuation. “While one should rightly argue that the current upswing is a consequence of global event and policy lead, it is a reflection of an underlying restructuring that has been happening with the corporate sector, and the policy framework, which is now bearing fruit,” said a note by Edelweiss. According to Edelweiss, the beginning of the pandemic had coincided with the end of the corporate restructuring cycle. “It had been slower than expected, but it was closer to the end. We believe the pandemic has precipitated this clean up and has set the business cycle for what could be a longer & cleaner upswing and more entrenched than a mere response to the pandemic,” the note added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/why-rbi-guv-rang-alarm-bells/articleshow/80395230.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 22, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Registration begins for 2nd phase of vaccination||PATNA: The state health department has started registering frontline workers on CoWIN digital portal for second phase of anti-Covid vaccination drive. Health workers and frontline workers, including police personnel, armed forces, home guards, prison staff, disaster management volunteers, civil defence staff, sanitation workers of civic bodies and teachers, will be vaccinated in the second phase. Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh said 39,152 beneficiaries of various departments have been registered so far for the vaccination in the second phase. “The registration process is still on,” she said. The same procedure of vaccination will be followed in the second phase. Beneficiaries will get the message on their registered cellphone number for the first and second doses of vaccine. After taking the second dose, the beneficiaries will get digital certificate. The state has vaccinated 63,032 healthcare workers in four days in the first phase out of 4.7 lakh registered beneficiaries. Meanwhile, different state government departments have also started preparing the list of beneficiaries. A Patna Municipal Corporation official said the list of sanitation workers and others was being prepared and it would be sent to the urban and development and housing department for approval. The education department has asked the officials concerned to prepare the list of schoolteachers and staff for vaccination in the second phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/registration-begins-for-2nd-phase-of-vaccination/articleshow/80392091.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 22, 2021||Madurai||HC nixes appointments made to mini clinics through pvt agency||Madurai: The state government on Thursday informed the Madras high court that staff nurses and multipurpose workers for mini clinics in the state would be recruited through the concerned district health societies. Following this, the court said that the earlier appointments made for the clinics through a private agency stand cancelled and directed the state to ensure that fresh recruitments are made through the societies. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by G V Vairam Santhosh, an advocate from Madurai district, challenging the proceedings issued for the recruitment of staff nurses and multipurpose workers through outsourcing by a private agency for mini clinics that are established in the state. Pursuant to the GO dated December 5, 2020, the director of public health and preventive medicine issued proceedings on December 15, directing the deputy directors of health services to fill up the posts of 1,415 staff nurses and 585 multipurpose workers at the clinics through outsourcing by a private agency. Advocate general Vijay Narayan submitted that the petition is not maintainable as the petitioner is not personally aggrieved and cannot seek relief as the issue is a service matter. He further submitted that the state government had decided to carry out the recruitment process through the district health societies instead of an external agency. District collectors and deputy directors of health who are chairpersons and mission directors of the societies would be making the appointments. Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi observed that it is made clear that the recruitment should be done only through the societies and there shall be no role for the external agency. The judges also made it clear to the government not to extend the period of appointment of the already recruited personnel. The judges observed that if the government requires such posts for a longer period, then they have to go for regular recruitment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-nixes-appointments-made-to-mini-clinics-through-pvt-agency/articleshow/80394207.cms||Kaushik Kannan
January 22, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara: Teacher gets life term for raping Class XII student||VADODARA: A former teacher at a private school was sentenced to rigorous imprisonment which can be extended to life on Wednesday for raping a Class XII student for three months in 2018 under the pretext of giving her good marks in exam. Quoting Benjamin Franklin, the court observed: “Law too gentle are seldom obeyed; too severe, seldom executed.” Keeping in view of the teacher’s perverted mindset, the court of special POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act) judge G D Pasi ruled that suitable punishment has to be given to teacher Vinu Katariya, also a father of two kids, so that he cannot target girl students again after coming out of jail. To explain the significance of the judgement and the importance of sentencing, the court also quoted another founding father of the USA – Alexander Hamilton, stating “Laws are a dead letter without courts to expound and define their true meaning and operation … I think the first duty of society is justice.” Katariya had not only raped the minor girl, but also recorded a video of his act and blackmailed her into submitting to his perverted demands using it. The girl, who was then 17-year-old, was taken to hotels in Ahmedabad, Surat and Padra and raped thrice between January and March 2018. A student of science stream, the girl used to go for tuitions to Katariya’s house on Kalali Road. He raped her by promising good marks in exam when she was Class XI. Katariya also used to video record the time they spent together and begun blackmailing her. Katariya used to threaten to make the video public if she did not give in to his demands. During the trial, the additional public prosecutor H R Joshi submitted evidence against Katariya and also examined witnesses, including the managers of the hotels where the convict took her, who deposed against the teacher. The court upheld the evidence and their deposition to convict the 42-year-old teacher and sent him to rigorous life imprisonment. Katariya has also been fined of Rs 13,000 by the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/teacher-gets-life-term-for-raping-class-xii-student/articleshow/80391682.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Patna||No Bihar tableau in Republic Day parade for the fifth year in a row||PATNA: For the fifth year in a row, there’ll be no Bihar tableau at the prestigious Republic Day Parade at Janpath in New Delhi on January 26. The concept of the ‘jhanki’ sent by the state government officials to impress the national-level selectors. The state government had again proposed CM Nitish Kumar’s ambitious project the ‘Jal Jeevan Hariyali Mission’ as the theme for the R-Day parade. The proposal was sent in early January, however, no communication about the selection or rejection was received from the selection committee under the defence ministry. A senior official of the state information and public relations department (IPRD) told this newspaper on Thursday that they have not received any information, which means they are not doing it this time as well. “It’s already January 21 and less than 5 days are left for the R-Day parade. So far, we have not received any information, besides it will be difficult for us to do it now. If we were selected then we would have found out at least a week ago,” the official said. The department and the selected agency jointly prepared the concept and the model of the tableau by incorporation all components of the JJH-Mission, which included water conservation, boosting green cover and farming among others. “Since it’s a comprehensive theme, no change was required in that. One official each from the IPRD and the selected agency presented the proposal before the selection committee. We will try and be more innovative next time,” IPRD officials said. The state last featured in the R-Day parade in 2016 when it represented a tableau based on the celebrations of ‘100 years of Mahatma Gandhi’s Champaran Satyagraha’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-bihar-tableau-in-republic-day-parade-for-the-fifth-year-in-a-row/articleshow/80392207.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 22, 2021||Allahabad||District admin gears up for Paush Purnima ‘snan’||Prayagraj: Principal Secretary, Urban Development, Deepak Kumar inspected the Magh Mela area on Thursday and took stock of the preparations made by the district administration in view of the upcoming major ‘snaan’ on the occasion of ‘Paush Purnima’ on January 28. Deepak Kumar inspected the Triveni Hospital built in Sector 2 for the devotees and inquired about the facilities available there. Giving information, Chief Medical Officer (CMO), Dr Prabhakar Rai, informed the official that all necessary facilities were made available in the 20-bedded Triveni hospital. Seers, who were present at the mela area, assured the officials that 100 percent compliance of Covid-19 protocol was being done and no Kalpavasi was allowed to come without RTPCR test report. Soon after that, the principal secretary also met the seers to review the arrangements made for the institutions and the Kalpavasis visiting Magh Mela. He went to Saket Dham ashram and met Vinayaka Baba and inquired about the arrangements made at his place. Vinayaka Baba said to stop Covid-19, he has given instructions to build a sanitizer and mask distribution desk at the entrance gate of his camp so that no devotee can enter the camp without a mask and sanitizer. He also informed that the arrival of Kalpavasis had started here and all the people arriving there were bringing their RTPCR test report. Appreciating the administrative arrangements, he also said that the administration had made arrangements for Covid-19 testing in Magh Mela area, and all the devotees staying in various camps were being tested. District Magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami informed the Principal Secretary that Covid-19 mobile testing van in the Mela area was continuously visiting different camps and conducting antigen tests of Kalpavasis. The principal secretary, along with other officials, went and interacted with the Kalpavasis living in the camps and checked their RTPCR test report. He also visited Shri Mahesh ashram and interacted with the Kalpavasis living in the camp and checked their Covid-19 RTPCR report. During the inspection, RTPCR report was found negative of 100 percent Kalpavasis present in the Magh Mela area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/district-admin-gears-up-for-paush-purnima-snan/articleshow/80394947.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Business||How he came back from a Rs 35-lakh loss||Partha.Sinha@timesgroup.com Sixteen years ago, Rajendra Agarwal’s, 53, accumulated losses from the stock market stood at Rs 35 lakh. “After that, I stopped trading and exited the market. Over the next few years I paid back all my loans from profits I generated from my grocery shop,” said Agarwal, who owned a store in Pune. Before we tell you Agarwal’s comeback story, here’s what happened. Agarwal began his investment journey in 1987 by picking up his first stock: Lohia Motors (LML), the company that produced LML Vespa scooters. For a few years, he was a typical retail investor: Buy a stock, wait for weeks/months for it to rise, and then sell it to make some profit. Then in 1991, the trading bug bit him. And by 2004, he began giving investment tips to speculators and traders. Agarwal’s foray into the world of speculation proved catastrophic for him with a total loss of Rs 35 lakh. But he didn’t lose heart. After paying his dues, when derivatives trading was just picking up in India, Agarwal re-entered the market. He started trading in cash as well as derivatives. Derivatives trading is a mechanism in which a trader enters into an agreement to transact at a future date or at a certain price after understanding what the future value of the underlying asset of the derivative is expected to be. He also studied technical analysis and day-trading techniques and started working on new processes. Finally, about three years ago, he began trading using a technique devised by him that he calls ‘SG’, or safeguard level — a technical-based process to cut losses if a trade goes wrong. Although Agarwal declines to share details about his trading volumes, his friends and acquaintances say his daily turnover would be in crores of rupees. “I prefer to trade in options rather than futures,” Agarwal said. “One should trade an asset based on the amount of money one has at his disposal. And one should not over trade.” Futures and options are derivative products through which traders can use a small amount of money, called margin, to trade in the market worth multiple times the margin money. Agarwal believes the time between buying and selling a stock or a derivative product could be as little as five minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/how-he-came-back-from-a-rs-35-lakh-loss/articleshow/80394623.cms||Partha Sinha
January 22, 2021||Business||Join the ride, but have seat belts on||By Chandresh NigamThe sensex first hit 1,000 in July 1990, 10,000 in February 2006 and has now hit an all-time high of 50,000 on Thursday. There seems to be something momentous about these levels and dates, but the reality is that the index number by itself does not mean anything. An index, such as the sensex, ultimately consists of a basket of stocks that broadly represent the market. So when the index has gone up 50 times in around 30 years, what it represents is the broad growth in equity markets that we have seen in India over this period. This growth has come through periods of booms and recessions and across bull and bear markets. So for investors, the biggest, greatest lesson is: India has long-term structural tailwinds that will allow us to keep growing and these trends are far more powerful than shorter-term cyclical ups and downs as far as wealth generation is concerned. Unfortunately, a lot of the savers have missed out on participating in this historic wealth generation due to either lack of awareness or misplaced fears of short-term market falls. Less than 1% of our population has exposure to equity mutual funds, the simplest and the most powerful vehicle available to participate in this opportunity. So this landmark provides us an opportunity to see our behaviour as long-term investors. Second, we should also realise that ultimately market highs do get overtaken over time and so will this one be as well. As investors, therefore, we are much better off investing regularly, not trying to time the market and staying invested over the long term. Here one should also look at the dramatic transformation that the markets have seen between 1990 and 2020. We have gone from a paper-based, scam-prone trading system to having one of the best regulated and technologically sophisticated equity markets in the world. Within the market what has not changed is the vibrancy across companies of different sizes to generate growth and reward shareholders. What has also not changed is that quality companies with strong management and conservative balance sheets have been the greatest wealth generators. On the other hand, what has constantly changed is the leadership — between old economy manufacturing, commodity players, consumers, banking and IT. And we can be sure that this will keep happening in future. as well as some new players come and disrupt the existing order or some new sectors emerge. So join the ride but make sure you have your seat belts on. (The writer is MD, Axis Mutual Fund)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/join-the-ride-but-have-seat-belts-on/articleshow/80394972.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Kolkata||200 shots a day: Pvt hosps fret over meeting target||Kolkata: The threat of absenteeism continued to loom over the vaccination exercise across private hospitals in Kolkata with each struggling to achieve their target on Thursday, despite efforts to reach out and convince the support staff, many of whom have been wary of the shot. The target for private hospitals has been doubled from Friday — each will now have to inoculate 200 recipients a day. Even though three private hospitals managed to crawl to 100 on Thursday, they feared that a shortfall was imminent on Friday. Peerless Hospital could inoculate 90 people on Thursday despite heightened efforts to reach 100.  “With the number revised to 200, it will be a challenge. We have started calling up recipients and have kept our own healthworkers ready to fill in for the absentees,” said Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra, who took the shot on Thursday. “On the first two days, few doctors and administrators had been on the list. On Thursday, however, many of us took the shot and we expect this to dispel fears,” said Mitra. At AMRI Hospitals, 109 were vaccinated on Thursday, but the hospital had to get its own staffers — who were not on the list — to reach the number. “We called up our healthworkers to make up the shortfall after several of those who had received Co-Win messages failed to turn up. Around 28 of our employees stepped in. Many are still scared and have been refusing to take the vaccine. While we were able to meet the shortfall on Thursday, it could be difficult to bridge the gap from Friday,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) managed to sail past the target and reached 111 on Thursday. But the revised number may make the job difficult, said RTIICS zonal director R Venkatesh. “We have called up all recipients for Friday, many of whom are not our healthworkers. In case we fall short, our staffers will be roped in,” he said. For those with multiple centres, like AMRI, the target will be steeper. “We will be inoculating 100 each at our Dhakuria and Salt Lake units from Friday. Our Mukundapur unit will join from Monday with another 100,” said Barua. Woodlands Hospital will join the exercise on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/200-shots-a-day-pvt-hosps-fret-over-meeting-target/articleshow/80393148.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
January 22, 2021||Business||When Scams Rocked Street||The stock market is a beast that no one can predict or control. Beginners are often warned that equities can remain irrational longer than one can remain solvent. The biggest stock market scams that happened in the decades following liberalisation are the stories of two fraudsters who tried to control the beast by tapping the deepest pool of funds in the country — the banking system. Harshad Mehta, who captured the nation’s imagination, yanked the sensex from 1,194 points in April 1991 to 4,467 in April 1992. He managed to do this by accessing a seemingly unending reservoir of funds from the interbank bond markets where he was a broker. In the absence of a centralised authority, bond market participants paid money directly into the broker’s account. This was used to buy bonds from other banks. But even Mehta could not satiate the beast and his scam was exposed. In 2001, almost a decade after the Harshad Mehta scam broke out, another of his associates — Ketan Parekh, a low-key stockbroker, — came into the limelight. Close on the heels of the dotcom boom, Parekh focused on select IT and telecom shares. These came to be known as the ‘K-10’ stocks, the prices of which went up nearly 100 times. Given that the tech boom had a global flavour, many felt that Parekh had figured out how to ride the beast. His story, too, was short-lived as it turned out that he was getting funds by borrowing against dud demand drafts that were issued by Ahmedabad-based Madhavpura Mercantile Cooperative Bank, which did not even have enough money to cover the DDs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/when-scams-rocked-street/articleshow/80395323.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 22, 2021||Business||Uniphore acquires Spain-based AI company Emotion Research Lab||Chennai: Uniphore, which specializes in Conversational Service Automation (CSA), has acquired Spain-based AI company Emotion Research Lab, which develops advanced facial emotion recognition and eye tracking technology to capture and analyse interactions over video in real-time to enhance engagement between people, for an undisclosed sum. Uniphore, said this acquisition will provide a global footprint and mark a European presence, and further aid its expansion plans in the continent by FY22. “This current pandemic has reshaped traditional customer service and has universally increased the use of video across a range of applications,” said its CEO and co-founder Umesh Sachdev, who is excited to bring customers with the next generation of innovations in AI and automation. This is Uniphore’s second significant technology addition to its portfolio, having announced it acquired RPA technology in October 2020.With this acquisition, the company aims to help combine voice and video AI with automation and machine learning will open up new use cases, including customer experience, sales, marketing, HR and other critical areas of business.“Clearly, the CX market is going through a major transformation and winners are starting to emerge with the pandemic accelerating company plans to enhance CX using all forms of outreach, including video,” said Zeus Keravala of ZK Research. . TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/uniphore-acquires-spain-based-ai-company-emotion-research-lab/articleshow/80394167.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Business||‘RBI’s estimates on bad loans too pessimistic’||BNP Paribas has said that the RBI has been pessimistic in its projections in the financial stability report and loan slippages are expected to be less than the 14.8% indicated. “We expect the slippages for the industry to be lower than what the RBI has forecast,” said senior analyst (finance & real estate) Avneesh Sukhija, while presenting findings of a study on the financial sector that included an on-the-ground survey of borrowers. According to Sukhija, the excess provisions made by lenders in the first half of the current fiscal would be enough to take care of credit costs in the second half. The study notes that there has been an improvement in all segments of loans. While in MSMEs, portfolio quality has improved with businesses showing a 60% capacity utilisation, housing financiers are reporting 30% higher disbursements compared to pre-Covid levels. “In personal loans, the expectation for restructuring in the self-employed portfolio is below 5% now as against 30-40% earlier,” he said. “We believe, the banking sector has emerged stronger from the recent pandemic. Balance sheets are stronger, asset quality issues have abated. On average, banks under our coverage had a tier 1 ratio of 17% in H1FY21, the provision coverage ratio of 77% and excess provisions of 100-190bps (100 basis points = 1 percentage point),” said Sukhija. In future, the credit quality in small loans is expected to improve because lenders have started using a behaviour-based lending model. “A small section of finance companies have started doing this, where they does a psychometric evaluation of the borrower based on an interview and they have had a positive outcome with 20% lower NPAs,” said Sukhija. Going by the BNP Paribas analysis, private banks and SBI will be the winners because of lower bad loans. Also, these banks have a high share of mobile banking which, according to BNP, will lead to a higher share of deposits in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbis-estimates-on-bad-loans-too-pessimistic/articleshow/80395462.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Kolhapur||Man gets 12-year RI for raping minor||Kolhapur: Solapur additional sessions judge U L Joshi has sentenced to rigorous imprisonment of 12 years and a fine of Rs 5,000 for raping a minor girl. The incident took place in September 2017. The girl’s mother had lodged the complaint against the man, who was a neighbour of the family. According to the prosecution, the woman had gone to work on the day of the crime. However, when she returned home, she found that both her daughters had not gone to school. The mother noticed the girls looked scared. The mother took them into confidence and the girl narrated her experience. The girl also said the man had also sexually abused her in a public toilet a few days earlier. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-gets-12-year-ri-for-raping-minor/articleshow/80392006.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Focus on Tablighis made Covid communal: Report||MUMBAI: A report has slammed government, media and some right-wing groups for communalising Covid-19 and calling Muslims “super spreaders and carriers” of the virus. Titled ‘Communalisation of Covid 19: Experiences from the Frontline’, the report by Bebaak Collective, a women’s advocacy group, says the identification of the Tablighi Jamaat Conference at its Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi in March 2020 “as a Covid hotspot “became the basis for the largescale communalisation of the pandemic.” “Fake news and communally coded news coverage rife with images and ideas of Muslims as intentionally spreading the virus followed the Tablighi incident,” the report says. The report was released at an online press conference where, apart from authors of the report, human rights activist Teesta Setalvad and historian-academic Uma Chakravarti too lashed out at the alleged attempt to demonise a community by falsely targeting its members as spreaders of the virus. “Tablighi Jamaat was made an excuse to target Muslim vendors and social workers who wanted to help the migrants returning to their homes,” said Haseena Khan, one of the founders of Bebaak and authors of this report which was prepared on the basis of interviews of frontline workers as well as testimonies of those who actually faced discrimination. The Tablighis were accused of carrying and spreading the virus so virulently that, as Setalvad pointed out, 205 FIRs were registered against members of the Jamaat in 11 states. However, Setalvad lauded the courts, especially the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court, which not only provided relief to the foreign Tablighi members kept in different jails, but also pulled up the police and other government authorities for their incarceration. The report authors said that in Mumbai, too, several members of the Tablighi Jamaat, both Indians and a group from Malaysia, faced harassment. Mumbai Aman Committee president Farid Shaikh told TOI, “There were 17 members in a Tablighi Jamaat from Assam in the city. The trustees of a mosque in Pydhonie were so scared that they threw the members out of the mosque. I sheltered them at a building near Crawford Market for two months. They were not criminals. Each of the 17 that I sheltered tested negative for Covid-19,” said Shaikh. The report’s recommendations include prompt intervention from the judiciary to protect rights of Indians and foreigners and implementation of the anti-discriminatory law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/focus-on-tablighis-made-covid-communal-report/articleshow/80394279.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
January 22, 2021||Chennai||Love in the time of conflict||Chennai: Convincing her parents to marry her Christian boyfriend was surprisingly difficult for Kavya Menon, a social worker from Velachery. "Since I come from a liberal family, I never thought marrying him would be so difficult," says the 34-year-old. Read the entire story on TOI+They share stories of interfaith love to counter hate||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/love-in-the-time-of-conflict/articleshow/80393137.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
January 22, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala couple builds library in memory of son and family who died in Nepal||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A year ago, the death of their son, daughter-in-law and three grandchildren in a tragedy left a huge void in their lives. Exactly a year after they lost them, Krishnan Nair and Prasannakumari have laid the foundation stone for a memorial and are readying plans to set up a charitable trust in memory of their loved ones. Praveen Krishnan Nair, his wife and his children were among the eight people who died in Nepal on January 21, last year, when they fell unconscious due to a gas leak from a heater in their room at a mountainous resort. On Thursday, on the occasion of their first death anniversary, minister for tourism and Devaswom Kadakampally Surendran laid the foundation stone of the memorial in a ceremony held at their residence. The memorial, a two-storied building that will come up on the premises of their residence at Ayyankoyickal residential colony at Chenkottukonam near Pothencode – will house a hi-tech library. Krishnan Nair said one floor of the building will function as the office of Ayyankoyickal Residents Association and the other one will house the library. Plans are underway to set up a charitable trust as well to conduct charity works such as free medical camps every month. Praveen Kumar was very actively involved in charity works and hence they made the decision to form a charitable trust, said Krishnan Nair. NIMS Medicity at Neyyatinkara has offered all support to conduct the medical camps, he added. Praveen Krishnan Nair, 39, who was an engineer by profession, was working in Dubai. He and his family, including his wife and three children were part of a group travelling from Kerala to Nepal when the tragedy struck. They allegedly died of asphyxiation after inhaling poisonous gas leaked from a gas heater in their room in the resort where they were staying. Praveen’s friend and family too had lost their lives in the incident. BJP leader and Poojapura ward councilor V V Rajesh and former MLA M A Vahid, NIMS Medicity managing director Faisal Khan and Kazhakootam Cyber City Assistant Commissioner R Anilkumar also attended the ceremony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/couple-builds-library-in-memory-of-son-and-family-who-died-in-nepal/articleshow/80393161.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Dehradun||Farmers from Uttarakhand prepare to take part in tractor rally on Republic Day||NAINITAL: As talks between the Centre and farmers failed again on Wednesday, farmers in Uttarakhand are gearing up to march towards Delhi to take part in the tractor rally scheduled for Republic Day. On Thursday, farmer leaders held several meetings with traders and appealed to support their march scheduled for Saturday. Speaking to TOI, Terai Kisan Sangathan’s president Tejinder Singh Virk said that the plans have been formalised to start the march on Saturday and farmers from across the state will join the movement. “We are speaking with local traders and common people so that our movement does not disturb them. We have held several rounds of talks with farmers from Bajpur, Kashipur, Kiccha and Rudrapur and they will turn up with tractors, cars and even motorcycles. Meanwhile, farmers from Uttar Pradesh’s Rampur and Moradabad will also join the march,” Virk added. Not only men, several women farmers have said that they will also join the march with their children and take part in the tractor rally in order to express protest against the laws. “It is not only men but thousands of women and children will also take part in the rally. We want to tell the government that each and every farmer is against these agri laws, and therefore, our participation is necessary,” said one Navreet Kaur. The farmers also conducted a trial rally on the national highway on Wednesday which saw several hundred tractors lining up on the road. The farmers have said that they expect over 8,000 people to turn up for the march, but the number can go much higher. “We held a trial rally on the NH in Bilaspur and hundreds of people turned up. It was just to see our preparedness and we expect thousands to turn up on the final day,” Virk said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/farmers-from-ukhand-prepare-to-take-part-in-tractor-rally-on-r-day/articleshow/80392010.cms||Prashant Jha
January 22, 2021||Madurai||‘No affected farmer will be left out’||Tuticorin: The report enumerating crop damage due to the recent unseasonal rains is likely to be completed at the district-level by January 29 and submitted to the state government by January 31, director of agriculture V Dakshinamoorthy said on Thursday. After supervising enumeration in affected areas in the district, he said that the extent of damage is severe in many areas. “Crops like maize and black gram have been damaged when they were ready for harvest. We have asked officials to ensure that no affected farmer is left out. We have asked them to collect the back account details and Aadhar number of affected farmers so that the compensation directly reaches into their bank accounts ,” he said. On the request of farmers for compensation of Rs 30,000 per acre in addition to insurance cover, he said that the requests of the farmers will be taken to the notice of the government . tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-affected-farmer-will-be-left-out/articleshow/80394242.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Madurai||Fresh cases rise to 80 in southern dists, fall to 43 in central region||Madurai/Trichy: Fresh cases in south Tamil Nadu saw an increase for the second straight day on Thursday as it reported 80 fresh cases. The region recorded 51 and 69 cases on Tuesday and Wednesday. Meanwhile, the number of fresh cases dropped from Wednesday’s 58 to 43, a new low, in the central region taking the tally to 75,416, which include 453 active cases. According to the health department bulletin, no deaths were reported in the south, while the central region recorded a casualty. Theni district collector Pallavi M Baldev has tested positive for Covid-19 and has been admitted to the Theni Medical College Hospital. The collector was sick for two days and took a swab test. The results, which came late on Wednesday, turned positive and the collector got herself admitted to the government hospital. Her condition is stated to be stable. Madurai (23) recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the region, followed by Kanyakumari (15). The other districts recorded less than 10 cases each. Tirunelveli (1) recorded the lowest, followed by Sivagangai and Tenkasi (4 each), Theni, Virudhunagar and Ramanathapuram (6 each), Dindigul (7) and Tuticorin (8). The number of active cases in Madurai saw a marginal increase from 112 on Wednesday to 119 on Thursday, while Kanyakumari has 93. The number of fresh cases in the central region came below 50 for the first time after several months. The sharp decline in the number of fresh cases in Thanjavur and Tiruvaur to five and six on Thursday from 18 and 11 on Wednesday resulted in the fall in the number of total fresh cases in the region. Trichy reported 11 fresh cases. Nagappattinam reported 11 cases on Thursday, while the number was three on Wednesday. While Perambalur recorded zero cases, Karur, Tiruvarur, Pudukottai and Ariyalur recorded fresh cases in single digits. The death toll of the region has climbed to 940 with a casualty in Thanjavur. A 60-year-old woman from Thanjavur died of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and Covid-19 pneumonia at a private hospital in Thanjavur on January 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fresh-cases-rise-to-80-in-southern-dists-fall-to-43-in-central-region/articleshow/80394228.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Madurai||Plea in HC to finish Tenkasi highway fast||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday sought a response from the state government on a plea which sought to swiftly complete the Tirunelveli-Tenkasi four lane highways project. A division bench of Justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by S Rajasekarapandian, a resident of Tenkasi district. The petitioner stated that he came across several news reports regarding the delay in starting the work to widen the road. He stated that the nearly 45km stretch from Pettai in Tirunelveli to Azad Nagar in Tenkasi was part of the Tirunelveli - Sengottai - Kollam state highway. Due to increase in traffic, the stretch from Tirunelveli to Tenkasi was proposed to be converted as a four-lane highway. He stated that if the road stretch is widened, dangerous curves, narrow bridges and culverts which are reasons for accidents would be removed. Though the land acquisition process was completed there was delay in commencing this project. Since the existing road is in a bad shape, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-in-hc-to-finish-tenkasi-highway-fast/articleshow/80394212.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Goa||Goa govt to amend law to bypass selection commission for hiring||PANAJI: The state government will move to amend the Goa Staff Selection Commission in the upcoming assembly session. The amendment will allow bypassing of the commission which was empowered to conduct recruitments for all departments. It will allow government departments to expedite recruitment by taking permission from the personnel department. The state cabinet has given approval for the Goa Staff Selection Commission (Amendment) Bill 2021. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that the government is stable and recruitment drive in the state will begin shortly. “We have to start recruitment in government departments, which have been pending for the last couple of years. We need time to complete this,” he said. Sawant had said that the process to recruit over 10,000 people — one of the largest recruitment drives — would begin from January. Currently, Goa has approximately 65,000 state government employees, including those in autonomous and semi-autonomous bodies. In 2019, the state government established the Goa Staff Selection Commission for the purpose of conducting examinations and selection of candidates for appointments to the subordinate services/posts in government departments. “The work of finalising the regulations is under process. Considering the time required for finalising the regulations, putting in place the required infrastructure for the staff selection commission and the requirement of sending the staff associated with the commission for training in conducting mass scale recruitment, use of latest technology for transparent examination process among other similar initiatives, the recruitment through staff selection commission will require some time,” the cabinet note stated. The government had banned recruitment since 2016 and had deferred recruitment up to November 2020. This led to large-scale vacancies in the departments. Therefore, there is a need to fill up the vacant posts on priority to strengthen the administrative machinery, the note read. “In order to address the issue of shortage of critical manpower in various department, the bill seeks to amend Section 7 of the Goa Staff Selection Commission Act, 2019 (Goa Act II 002019), so as to make enabling provision for the government departments to conduct examinations and select candidates for appointment to subordinate services/posts after obtaining prior approval from the department of personnel. The said provision remains in force for a period of two years from the date of commencement of the Goa Staff Selection Commission (Amendment) Act, 2021,” cabinet note stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-govt-to-amend-law-to-bypass-selection-commission-for-hiring/articleshow/80394661.cms||Murari Shetye
January 22, 2021||Meerut||Palatial bungalow of UP's most wanted don Baddo demolished||MEERUT: An eerie silence prevailed over Meerut's Punjabi Pura locality as dozens of heavily armed police personnel swiftly moved through its narrow bylanes on Thursday morning. All eyes were fixed upon one gate in a narrow lane that held the distinction of being pasted with several sheets of administrative orders right from sealing to demolition. This was the entrance to the exquisite palatial bungalow of Uttar Pradesh's most wanted criminal Badan Singh Sandhu, popularly known as Baddo, a 48-year-old fugitive who cops haven't been able to nab ever since he escaped from police custody 18 months ago. With over 30 cases at various police stations in the state, he carries a reward of Rs 2.5 lakh on his head. Soon enough, heavy earthmovers and bulldozers of Meerut Development Authority moved in accompanied by a battery of camera-holding photojournalists jostling with one another to capture the moment. The day marked the culmination of all legal proceedings that gave enough reason to the local administration to bring down the massive complex from where Baddo once ruled over his empire of loot, extortion, illicit liquor and murder. Within hours, the walls and roofs of the grand complex turned into rubble. Reacting to the development, additional SP Krishan Bishnoi said, "The demolition is being done after observing all legal aspects. The house was not registered in the name of Baddo. He had gifted it to his sister in-law. The house has no mention in the Nagar Nigam or Meerut Development Authority records, but Baddo used to pay house tax on the land adjacent to this bungalow. He was, in fact, fooling the system. It took us time to dig out all the documents and nail the culprit, and the entire exercise has been done within the ambit of law." The demolition comes a day after Meerut commissioner court while rejecting an appeal gave its green signal to raze the complex. Earlier, after the local police had attached movable assets worth over Rs 1 crore at the house, Baddo's sister in-law Kuldeep Kaur had appealed in the commissioner's court against the move to raze the bungalow. In her appeal, the applicant had claimed that the bungalow belonged to her and she had bought it in 2003. And she has no connection with Baddo. The court in its verdict contended that the applicant failed to produce any approval for construction, map or any documentary evidence. Baddo, serving life sentence, had fled dramatically from Meerut during his transit from a Ghaziabad court in March 2019, and has remained elusive ever since. In a PIL filed last year, petitioner Abhishek Som had alleged that Baddo - convicted for life on October 31, 2017, for the murder of advocate Ravinder Singh in 1996 - absconded from custody on March 28, 2019, but no efforts had been made to arrest him. Hearing the PIL, Allahabad high court had directed the principal secretary, department of home affairs, Uttar Pradesh, to file an affidavit stating complete details relating to the efforts made by the state to ensure arrest of the absconder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/palatial-bungalow-of-ups-most-wanted-don-baddo-demolished/articleshow/80391997.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 22, 2021||Meerut||Communal violence leaves 8 hurt in Meerut||MEERUT: At least eight persons were injured after people from two communities clashed with each other following a dispute in the Sardhana area of Meerut. Five FIRs will be registered in the case, police said. "Four FIRs - two from each side and an FIR on the complaint of police - will be registered in the case," Keshav Kumar, superintendent of police (rural areas) said. It all began on Wednesday afternoon when a man named Ashraf objected to people "gambling" in Jagmohan Nagar locality. Peeved over the objection, miscreants allegedly roughed up Ashraf who later approached police with complaint. A panchayat was quickly convened which demanded strict action against the miscreants who attacked Ashraf. The matter escalated towards the evening after one group led by supporters of a local MLA allegedly attacked the rivals near Ghari Khatikan locality. Witnesses at the spot claimed the face-off resulted in violence and vandalism while the outnumbered police at the scene alerted senior officials for reinforcement. A purported video of men from one community, armed with rods and sticks, vandalising shops in the area also surfaced. All the injured from both sides were rushed to local hospitals. A day later on Thursday, the situation continues to remain tense with police on alert to thwart any fresh spell of confrontation. A flag march was also conducted by senior police officials to take stock of the ground situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/communal-violence-leaves-8-hurt-in-meerut-5-firs-to-be-registered/articleshow/80392001.cms||Piyush Rai
January 22, 2021||Meerut||TB case reported in Meerut dip by 38% from 2019 to 2020 due to Covid-19||MEERUT: The number of tuberculosis cases reported in Meerut dipped by 38% from 2019 to 2020 from 8,764 in 2019 to 5,348 in 2020 due to Covid-19 induced lockdown and the fear related to the disease. Dr MS Fauzdar, Meerut district tuberculosis officer, said, “The number of tuberculosis cases dipped post-lockdown because the door-to-door drives to collect sputum were stopped. Not just this, the symptoms of Covid-19 and TB are very similar and suspected patients did not contact doctors for their testing or health workers advised them to go for Covid-19 testing instead of tuberculosis.” According to the statistics recorded by the Meerut tuberculosis department, while the number of cases in January in 2019 was 717, 653 were reported in 2020. In February, as against 749 cases in 2019, the number rose to 834 in 2020. However, the statistics dipped soon after the lockdown on March 25. “In April, the number of TB cases dipped from 793 in 2019 to 147 in 2020. In May, the number dipped from 817 in 2019 to 204 in 2020,” the statistics read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/tb-case-reported-in-meerut-dip-by-38-from-2019-to-2020-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/80392021.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 22, 2021||Madurai||CWC team inspects Vaigai dam, suggests additional shutters||Madurai: Members of the Central Water Commission and high-lever PWD officials, who inspected the Vaigai dam as the water level in the reservoir touched the maximum 71-feet mark, said that the dam requires additional shutters. PWD assistant executive engineer C Selvam, who accompanied the team, said that the team led by Central Water Commission’s hydrology director Nityanand Rai, Tamil Nadu members of state project management unit, project director Rani and executive engineer Veeralakshmi inspected the dam. The dam was constructed taking into account the seismic zone and rainfall zone. After inspection, the team said they would consider the revised zones, besides checking other factors such as the inflow, rain intensity and surplus arrangements. The Vaigai dam has 14 shutters including seven surplus gates and seven river sluices. They can collectively discharge 64,000 cusecs of water. The maximum surplus to the dam was observed on 11.12.1998 when 69,000 cusecs was received and discharged. This was the only time that the dam had seen such a huge inflow. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cwc-team-inspects-vaigai-dam-suggests-additional-shutters/articleshow/80394245.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Madurai||Jaya gave me tips on how to perform well: Sellur||Tuticorin: Minister for cooperation Sellur K Raju on Thursday said former chief minister Jayalalithaa had advised him in the presence of her aide V K Sasikala before he took charge as a minister. The minister said this at a cooperatives department function at Kovilpatti in the district. The statement comes a day after he told reporters in Madurai that everyone had been together when Jayalalithaa was alive – to a question if Sasikala would be reinstated in the party after her release from the Bengaluru prison. “Before I was entrusted with the responsibility as minister I was called to Poes Garden by late chief minister Jayalalithaa. She advised me on how to ensure excellent performance of the department, and I have been obediently executing it to this day as told by her,” he said. Asked if he would visit Sasikala since she was unwell, the minister refused to answer and reiterated that everyone had been united till Jayalalithaa was alive. “Chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami should become the CM again and meet the people,” he said. Strongly criticising the gram sabha meetings conducted by the DMK from last month, the minister said that the DMK was bringing women employed in the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme for those meetings by giving them Rs 500 per head. “The people and farmers know which government they should reject,” he said hinting at the DMK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/jaya-gave-me-tips-on-how-to-perform-well-sellur/articleshow/80394266.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Kolhapur||Pandharpur’s Vitthal temple lifts restrictions on devotees||Kolhapur: The Vitthal temple Vitthal in Pandharpur, that remained closed for nearly 10 months on due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the subsequent lockdown, lifted all its restrictions and opened its gates to devotees on Wednesday.Till Tuesday, the devotees were required to register themselves online to enter the temple. Though no prior booking is now required, devotees will have to carry a photo ID with them to gain acess to the temple. Devotees will have to follow all Covid-related safety protocols, like maintaining social distancing and wearing masks. As a precautionary measure, people aged 65 or more, pregnant women and children below 10 years will not be allowed to enter the temple. The temple was opened in Diwali with strict restrictions and heavy bandobast to avoid crowding of devotees at the premises. Later, an online booking system was introduced for the convenience of devotees. Around 8,000 devotees were allowed to take darshan every day. Two major events — the Ashadhi Ekadashi and the Kartiki Ekadashi — were cancelled on account of the pandemic. On a few occasions, curfew also had to be imposed in the temple town to prevent devotees from thronging the region and curb the chances of the infection’s spread. Pandhapur is the worst affected tehsil in Solapur district since the onset of the viral infecton. It has had the highest number of Covid cases (8,014) as well as the highest death toll (237) in Solapur district. The number of active cases in Pandharpur tehsil was 82 till Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/pandharpurs-vitthal-temple-lifts-restrictions-on-devotees/articleshow/80392012.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Surat||Gujarat: Zoos chicken out over bird flu scare||AHMEDABAD: As Gujarat remains on high alert for bird flu, chicken and eggs have disappeared from the menu of zoos across Gujarat. While the Sakkarbaug zoo in Junagadh has stopped feeding chicken to its carnivorous inmates, zoos in Ahmedabad and Rajkot have started using their own stock and stopped getting chicken from outside. Sakkarbaug zoo director Abhishek Kumar said, "Consumption of poultry meat has been reduced to essential requirements only. The zoo has gradually substituted it with carabeef or other animal meat. Whenever poultry meat is fed, it is pre-boiled before offering to animals. Meat handlers and employees are properly kitted, and maintain strict hygiene and sanitation. We are observing how animals are accepting substitute meat, and are phasing out poultry requirements in zoo due to avian influenza." Zoo officials said chicken was fed to cubs and young carnivorous animals. "They do not accept medicines in carabeef, so we used to give it mixed with chicken," they said. Dr R K Sahu, director of Kamala Nehru Zoological Garden, said, "When reports of bird flu spread, we began stocking up chicken. We have enough to last us 15 days. We are also breeding chicks and chicken from the stock available. The snakes in the zoo are to be fed chicks bred in zoo." Sahu said the zoo has replace chicken with carabeef. "We have cut down on usage of chicken which was nearly 5 kg. Even if we have to feed chicken, it is properly boiled before being given to the animals." Rajesh Patel, superintendent of Surat zoo, said that it has stopped using poultry. "We now give meat to animals. The zoo used chicken for medication but we have cut down on it. We have also stopped feeding eggs even though we used to boil it before giving it to the animals." Rajkot zoo superintendent Dr R K Hirpara said, "We have stopped using chicken, which was minimal to begin with. We are feeding chicks that we bred on campus to snakes."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/zoos-chicken-out-over-bird-flu-scare/articleshow/80399879.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Zoos chicken out over bird flu scare||AHMEDABAD: As Gujarat remains on high alert for bird flu, chicken and eggs have disappeared from the menu of zoos across Gujarat. While the Sakkarbaug zoo in Junagadh has stopped feeding chicken to its carnivorous inmates, zoos in Ahmedabad and Rajkot have started using their own stock and stopped getting chicken from outside. Sakkarbaug zoo director Abhishek Kumar said, "Consumption of poultry meat has been reduced to essential requirements only. The zoo has gradually substituted it with carabeef or other animal meat. Whenever poultry meat is fed, it is pre-boiled before offering to animals. Meat handlers and employees are properly kitted, and maintain strict hygiene and sanitation. We are observing how animals are accepting substitute meat, and are phasing out poultry requirements in zoo due to avian influenza." Zoo officials said chicken was fed to cubs and young carnivorous animals. "They do not accept medicines in carabeef, so we used to give it mixed with chicken," they said. Dr R K Sahu, director of Kamala Nehru Zoological Garden, said, "When reports of bird flu spread, we began stocking up chicken. We have enough to last us 15 days. We are also breeding chicks and chicken from the stock available. The snakes in the zoo are to be fed chicks bred in zoo." Sahu said the zoo has replace chicken with carabeef. "We have cut down on usage of chicken which was nearly 5 kg. Even if we have to feed chicken, it is properly boiled before being given to the animals." Rajesh Patel, superintendent of Surat zoo, said that it has stopped using poultry. "We now give meat to animals. The zoo used chicken for medication but we have cut down on it. We have also stopped feeding eggs even though we used to boil it before giving it to the animals." Rajkot zoo superintendent Dr R K Hirpara said, "We have stopped using chicken, which was minimal to begin with. We are feeding chicks that we bred on campus to snakes."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/zoos-chicken-out-over-bird-flu-scare/articleshow/80393166.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 22, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Zoos chicken out over bird flu scare||AHMEDABAD: As Gujarat remains on high alert for bird flu, chicken and eggs have disappeared from the menu of zoos across Gujarat. While the Sakkarbaug zoo in Junagadh has stopped feeding chicken to its carnivorous inmates, zoos in Ahmedabad and Rajkot have started using their own stock and stopped getting chicken from outside. Sakkarbaug zoo director Abhishek Kumar said, "Consumption of poultry meat has been reduced to essential requirements only. The zoo has gradually substituted it with carabeef or other animal meat. Whenever poultry meat is fed, it is pre-boiled before offering to animals. Meat handlers and employees are properly kitted, and maintain strict hygiene and sanitation. We are observing how animals are accepting substitute meat, and are phasing out poultry requirements in zoo due to avian influenza." Zoo officials said chicken was fed to cubs and young carnivorous animals. "They do not accept medicines in carabeef, so we used to give it mixed with chicken," they said. Dr R K Sahu, director of Kamala Nehru Zoological Garden, said, "When reports of bird flu spread, we began stocking up chicken. We have enough to last us 15 days. We are also breeding chicks and chicken from the stock available. The snakes in the zoo are to be fed chicks bred in zoo." Sahu said the zoo has replace chicken with carabeef. "We have cut down on usage of chicken which was nearly 5 kg. Even if we have to feed chicken, it is properly boiled before being given to the animals." Rajesh Patel, superintendent of Surat zoo, said that it has stopped using poultry. "We now give meat to animals. The zoo used chicken for medication but we have cut down on it. We have also stopped feeding eggs even though we used to boil it before giving it to the animals." Rajkot zoo superintendent Dr R K Hirpara said, "We have stopped using chicken, which was minimal to begin with. We are feeding chicks that we bred on campus to snakes."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/zoos-chicken-out-over-bird-flu-scare/articleshow/80399878.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 22, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat: Zoos chicken out over bird flu scare||AHMEDABAD: As Gujarat remains on high alert for bird flu, chicken and eggs have disappeared from the menu of zoos across Gujarat. While the Sakkarbaug zoo in Junagadh has stopped feeding chicken to its carnivorous inmates, zoos in Ahmedabad and Rajkot have started using their own stock and stopped getting chicken from outside. Sakkarbaug zoo director Abhishek Kumar said, "Consumption of poultry meat has been reduced to essential requirements only. The zoo has gradually substituted it with carabeef or other animal meat. Whenever poultry meat is fed, it is pre-boiled before offering to animals. Meat handlers and employees are properly kitted, and maintain strict hygiene and sanitation. We are observing how animals are accepting substitute meat, and are phasing out poultry requirements in zoo due to avian influenza." Zoo officials said chicken was fed to cubs and young carnivorous animals. "They do not accept medicines in carabeef, so we used to give it mixed with chicken," they said. Dr R K Sahu, director of Kamala Nehru Zoological Garden, said, "When reports of bird flu spread, we began stocking up chicken. We have enough to last us 15 days. We are also breeding chicks and chicken from the stock available. The snakes in the zoo are to be fed chicks bred in zoo." Sahu said the zoo has replace chicken with carabeef. "We have cut down on usage of chicken which was nearly 5 kg. Even if we have to feed chicken, it is properly boiled before being given to the animals." Rajesh Patel, superintendent of Surat zoo, said that it has stopped using poultry. "We now give meat to animals. The zoo used chicken for medication but we have cut down on it. We have also stopped feeding eggs even though we used to boil it before giving it to the animals." Rajkot zoo superintendent Dr R K Hirpara said, "We have stopped using chicken, which was minimal to begin with. We are feeding chicks that we bred on campus to snakes."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/zoos-chicken-out-over-bird-flu-scare/articleshow/80399877.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Congress aided Shiv Sena on BEST plan: BJP||MUMBAI: BJP alleged that Congress helped Shiv Sena pass a proposal appointing a contractor to hire a 400 buses for BEST with drivers and conductors. BEST buses have reduced and the administration wants to privatise it by hiring new buses on contract, it claimed. BJP group leader Prabhakar Shinde said, “Three years back the general body decided to merge BEST with BMC. What happened to the proposal?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cong-aided-sena-on-best-plan-bjp/articleshow/80395753.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Jaipur||Solar industry protests against RERC draft norms on rooftop solar||Jaipur: The MSMEs in Rajasthan on Thursday took out protests against Rajasthan energy regulator’s draft proposals that have raised risks of crippling the rooftop industry.Promoters of over 50 units, including some from other districts of the state, staged protests in front of RERC office and submitted a memorandum to delay the process of finalizing the draft guidelines and withdraw the draconian measures.They also met power minister B D Kalla to stop the process and have a relook at the provisions.The draft proposals seek to deny the rooftop solar power developers and investors the benefits of lower cost of the renewable energy. If implemented, the laws are likely to wipe out most segments of the rooftop solar energy except the domestic consumers.“The ambitious generation targets of 40,000MW from rooftop solar set by the Centre and a similar high target by the state lured many MSMEs into the sector. They invested in people, processes and assets to meet the growing demand. But with these draft norms, it’s hard for the MSMEs to survive,” said a Rajasthan Solar Association member.In fact, the draft norms propose to remove power developers except the domestic consumers from the ambit of net metering. As per the proposals, the institutional projects cannot use the renewable energy they produce from rooftop systems. They will have to pay the normal tariff to discoms for the power they consume and will be paid for the power they generate. The rates proposed for discoms to buy power will not be more than Rs 2.50 paise per unit today.The regulator’s argument has been that if people shift to solar power, the discoms will lose high value customers and their stretched financial condition will further deteriorate. But the MSMEs in the solar sector said that instead of killing the renewable industry, the discoms should focus on reducing high transmission and distribution losses.“Even if they kill the rooftop segment, their financial situation will not improve if they will not reduce their losses,” said the RSA member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/solar-industry-protests-against-rerc-draft-norms-on-rooftop-solar/articleshow/80393167.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Madurai||Sewage flows on roads dug up around Meenakshi temple||Madurai: The ongoing Smart City works around the Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple have been causing inconvenience to the people, especially after recent rains as many places were inundated, which hindered daily activities.M Sivakumar, who has an office in East Avani Moola Street, said “Neither the Madurai Corporation authorities nor the contractors considered taking up the work in a phased manner. Instead, they dug up long stretches, which will stay as it is for many more months,” he said. Thangam, a resident in the area said that they would not mind if the water stagnated on the roads was rainwater. “But it is dirty smelly sewage and we develop rashes when we walk in it,” she said. Thalavai Agraharam is another street that is facing a similar problem. “They have now started working on it, but is it the responsibility of authorities to ensure that these problems do not crop up, keeping in mind some contingency plans for rains,” said Kumaran K of Simmakkal, who regularly uses these roads.“The old and ancient city was much smarter than the new city that they are planning, for even the drains were laid at a depth of 12 feet and now they are being laid at a depth of six feet and an uneven gradient is going to result in perpetual sewage on the streets when the works are completed,” said Sivakumar.Madurai Central MLA DMK’s PTR Palanivel Thiagarajan, under whose constituencies these roads fall, agrees that the ongoing works when completed would have engineering flaws as the roads have been heavily flooded during the recent rains.City engineer S Arasu said that the problem would be solved when the roads are laid completely and that it was all being done with proper planning and engineering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sewage-flows-on-roads-dug-up-around-meenakshi-temple/articleshow/80394291.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Dehradun||Vaccine hesitancy dampening Covid-19 inoculation drive in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: Vaccine hesitancy is playing a major spoilsport for the Uttarakhand government, as only 8,206 healthcare workers of the targeted 13,600 people have turned to up take the Covid-19 vaccine in the past four sessions. This is despite the Union health ministry stating that getting vaccinated for Covid-19 would be voluntary and assuring that the vaccine is as effective as any vaccine developed by other countries. According to the authorities of Government Doon Medical College Hospital(GDMCH), 16 people have directly refused to take the vaccine during the sessions held from Saturday, while 23 healthcare staffers are not responding to the follow-up calls. “Only 40 people whose names were in the list turned up for vaccination on Wednesday, but we have also got seven add-ons following the centre’s guidelines that now that the healthcare workers who voluntarily want to take the shot can also be administered the vaccine. Hopefully, the voluntarily vaccination news would reach more people and then the vaccination will also pick pace,” said Dr NS Khatri, deputy medical superintendent of GDMCH. Dr Saroj Naithani, director National Health Mission (NHM), said 2,087 healthcare workers were vaccinated on Wednesday against the target of 3400. “We have conducted 136 cumulative sessions of vaccinations in which 8,206 people were vaccinated. This is around 62% of the target. The vaccination will pick up pace eventually as the news of voluntary vaccination and even about the well-being of already vaccinated people will propagate which will reduce apprehensions,” said Dr Naithani. Meanwhile, with 162 new cases of Covid-19, Uttarakhand’s coronavirus tally reached 95,354. The death toll of also mounted to 1,626 with four deaths on Wednesday. The recovery tally in the Himalayan state reached 90,547 as 283 patients recovered from the infection. “The recovery rate in the state has reached 95% while there is a slight increase in death rate that reached 1.71% . Sample positivity rate is 4.7 percent,” said Abhishek Tripathi from Covid-19 control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/vaccine-hesitancy-dampening-covid-19-inoculation-drive-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/80392054.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 22, 2021||Goa||Goa govt's move to dilute Lokayukta to control its functioning: Ex-CJ Rebello||PANAJI: The former chief justice of Allahabad high court, justice Ferdino Rebello, on Thursday came down heavily on the Goa government for its intention to dilute the Goa Lokayukta Act and said it smacks of plans to control its functioning by making it accountable to the people whom it is supposed to investigate. “The proposed bill, which seeks amendment to the Goa Lokayukta Act, in my opinion is retrograde and defeats the very object of the Act,” Rebello told TOI. “It will be better if the Act itself is repealed and public money not wasted if the chief minister, ministers and public officers can only be investigated by taking permission of the very officers who are under the control of the chief minister or the ministers,” he said. Rebello said the Act was enacted to bring in transparency and remove maladministration in the functioning of the government and its functionaries. Instead, the bill now seeks to omit the acts of maladministration from the scope of review by the Lokayukta, he said. “This is highly objectionable. Corruption and maladministration are two sides of the same coin. To omit acts of maladministration is to keep Lokayukta from investigating such cases. Apart from corruption, maladministration affects the common citizen. The present Bill seeks to dilute the power of Lokayukta and put hurdles in the functioning of Lokayukta,” he said. “The object of the Act was to investigate acts of corruption and maladministration by ministers and public officers. By seeking to provide for prior sanction, is to control the entire functioning of the Lokayukta,” Rebello said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-move-to-dilute-lokayukta-to-control-its-functioning-ex-cj-rebello/articleshow/80394533.cms||Lisa Monteiro
January 22, 2021||Jaipur||Mayor’s surprise inspection: 38 officers found ‘absent’||JAIPUR: Officials at the headquarters of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC), Greater, had a difficult day on Thursday. Mayor Soumya Gurjar, went on a surprise inspection in the morning and found 38 officials to be absent. Notices were issued to these officials to state reasons for their absence in the office. This was the first surprise inspection by mayor Soumya Gurjar in the headquarters at Lal Kothi. “Coming late to office is a very bad trend set in the JMC. We have to enhance the efficiency of the workers and employees in the JMC so that there will be improvement in the overall working of the JMC. I have issued notices to employees and they will provide reasons for their absence,” said Soumya. The timing of JMC employees is 9.30am to 6pm. According to the mayor, she arrived early at the JMC, Greater office around 9.45am and ordered that all the attendance registers be brought to her by 10am. After that she went on an inspection to every room and found many officials missing. It took around two hours to visit all the rooms of JMC. The officials in the JMC accepted the bad trend set in the organisation, but said there is a reason for such delay. “The entire system is to be blamed. Even if we come on time the clerical staff will not enter the office before 10.30am. Hence, it has become a practice to come late,” said an official anonymously. The mayor earlier visited all the zonal offices in a surprise inspection early in the morning and found many sanitation staff missing and all of them were marked absent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mayors-surprise-inspection-38-officers-found-absent/articleshow/80393168.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Madurai||AIIMS budget hiked to Rs 2K cr||Madurai: The budget for the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) that is to be established at Thoppur here has been increased to Rs 2,000 crore from the earlier estimate of Rs 1,264 crore as a hospital for infectious diseases is also to be setup along with the super speciality hospital-cum-medical college. The information was shared by the joint secretary (AIIMS) to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, Nilmabuj Sharan to Madurai MP Su Venkatesan when the latter met him at his office in Delhi on Wednesday and made a representation on the project. “He said that the additional fund of over Rs 700 crore is awaiting administrative sanction and cabinet approval. I urged them to expedite the works as the sanction should not cause further delay the project,” the MP told TOI on Thursday. According to the MP, Sharan also stated that the loan agreement for Madurai AIIMS with Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) will be signed before March 31, 2021. “Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan also assured that efforts will be taken to expedite the project in Madurai,” Venkatesan added. The MP in his representation to the Union health secretary and joint secretary urged them to appoint the executive director, medical superintendent, deputy director (administration), and administrative officer for Madurai AIIMS as early as possible for the administrative works to be taken up by them. Pointing out that other AIIMS projects for which the foundations were laid close to the same time as the one in Madurai have started admission processes for students, the MP urged the ministry to start admissions at Madurai too from the coming academic year. The foundation for AIIMS, Madurai was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 27, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/aiims-budget-hiked-to-rs-2k-cr/articleshow/80394272.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Delhi||Highrise near DU: Builder to apply for fresh green clearance||NEW DELHI: National Green Tribunal (NGT) has disposed of all pleas regarding the construction of a 39-storey group housing project being built next to the Vishwavidyalaya Metro Station, after the builder said it would apply for a fresh environmental clearance (EC) from the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF). In view of the submission made, the tribunal said, it was no longer necessary for it to go into the merits of the case and express any final view of the viability of the project, or otherwise. “Accordingly, the appeal is disposed of as infructuous, without prejudice to the rights and remedies of the parties in accordance with law,” a bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said. “The project proponent has to apply for fresh EC to the MoEF and the impugned EC will not be acted upon,” it added. Delhi University had challenged the grant of an environmental clearance, stating the project was a violation of the Master Plan 2021 and in addition to creating congestion in the area, also lied particularly close to the Delhi Ridge. NGT had then asked the builder to stop any further construction, appointing an independent committee to evaluate the project. The committee in its report had stated , while the project would lead to a significant increase in population density of the ward, it was not likely to impact the groundwater table or cause significant air pollution. Bipin Tewari, deputy dean works, DU said they were happy with the decision, stating the EC was taken without full disclosure of vital information. “The width of the road is not even adequate to allow a firetruck to turn, and if allowed, the project will cause a number of problems for the students,” said Tewari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/highrise-near-du-builder-to-apply-for-fresh-green-clearance/articleshow/80394301.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Welder, wife held for burglaries in Ambernath||KALYAN: Mahatma Phule police arrested three persons, including a welder and his wife, for breaking into houses and stealing valuables here and in Ambernath. Police said Shekhar Nayar (34), would check houses and share the information with Devendra Shetty (23). They would give the stolen items to Sunita Nayar (28), who would sell them in the market. Police recovered 54gm gold, four phones and a motorcycle worth Rs 2.5 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/welder-wife-held-for-burglaries/articleshow/80395793.cms||Pradeep Gupta
January 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: AMC seals 14 properties||AHMEDABAD: As part of the ongoing drive against property tax defaulters, the AMC sealed 14 more properties in north east zone on Thursday. The officials said that the tax dues against these buildings were between Rs 1.29 lakh and Rs 4 lakh. Of the 14 properties, nine were sheds in Khodiyar Estate in Gota while five properties were in Business Hub also in Gota. So far, the civic body has sealed 50-odd properties and have given time to the owners to pay the dues. According to the officials, in case of failure, the AMC will auction these properties and recover the tax. In the past also, some properties were auctioned in the central zone but when the AMC failed to get buyers, it took possession of the property at a token price of Re 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-seals-14-properties/articleshow/80393177.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Tourists have close encounter with tiger at Ranthambore park||JAIPUR: A group of tourists at the Ranthambore National Park (RNP) was left terrified after they had a close encounter with a tiger on Thursday. As per the reports, the driver of a tourist gypsy returning from Ganesh temple parked the vehicle on Mandir Marg after he saw the big cat from distance inside the forest. The vehicle was parked in close proximity of the wall having a height of approximately 7 feet. A source said, “The wall was tall and tourists and the driver sitting in the gypsy which was parked inches away could not see the other side. Even the tiger inside the forest cannot see the vehicle on the road because of the wall. Suddenly, the tiger jumped and climbed the wall. The encounter was close and tourists were terrified.” The incident occurred around 9.30am. Sources said, Mandir Marg passes through the forest area and connects Tri-Ganesh temple situated inside the fort. The road, which runs along the core area is open for pilgrims. The tourists in a gypsy stopped after they saw the big cat from the road. “The tiger did not hurt anyone and walked away. The tiger was crossing the road.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tourists-have-close-encounter-with-tiger-at-ranthambore-park/articleshow/80393171.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||PIL seeks ban on loot-box sale in online gaming||Ahmedabad: A PIL in the Gujarat high court seeks to regulate the activity of online gaming by banning loot-box purchase or to regulate it on the ground that it is nothing but gambling, which is prohibited. The PIL filed through advocate Dhruvin Dossani has asserted that online gaming portals should be prohibited from offering loot-box sales, which is an innovative form of gambling. A loot-box is a kind of purchase which the players of a particular game buy from real money and they are given a reward which is uncertain and is virtual in nature. The PIL seeks directions to the state government to form a committee to identify the total number of games offering loot-box purchases to the players, and to consider loot-box purchases offered by creators of games as a form of online gambling and ban such loot-box purchases. The HC is likely to hear this PIL on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-seeks-ban-on-loot-box-sale-in-online-gaming/articleshow/80393170.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Varanasi||Villagers allege removal of names from electoral roll||Varanasi: A high-voltage drama unfolded in Puraramji village of Phoolpur tehsil in Azamgarh district on Thursday when a group of villagers went on a rampage alleging that the names of 409 of them had been deleted from the panchayat poll electoral roll by showing them dead or married to other places. On Thursday morning, the Puararamji villagers staged a demonstration, claiming that the village head had hatched a conspiracy with the help of booth level officer (BLO) Rambadan Bind to prevent them from voting in the forthcoming panchayat polls. Many villagers also reached Phoolpur SDM’s office and tehsil headquarters to report the matter. Sensing the gravity of the situation, BLO Bind gave a written complaint to Phoolpur SDM Ravendra Singh stating that the village head had threatened him to ensure the removal of 409 voters. Bind demanded SDM to probe into the role of the village head and take necessary action against him. Taking serious note of the episode, Singh reached the village along with other officials and convened a meeting with protesting villagers. In the meeting, the elector role was being verified by matching the deleted names. The SDM said that the investigation is on and the guilty would not be spared at any cost. “Further action in this connection will be initiated on the basis of the outcome of the investigation,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/villagers-allege-removal-of-names-from-electoral-roll/articleshow/80395005.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Jaipur||HC notice to govt over recruitment of teachers||Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court on Thursday issued notice to principal secretary of education, department of personnel, directorate of secondary education and secretary of RPSC, over school lecturer recruitment 2018.The single bench of Justice SP Sharma issued the notice on a petition by Mohita Sharma and others.R P Saini counsel for the petitioner said RPSC announced on April 13, 2018, 5,000 posts in 20 subjects for appointment of school lecturers of which a total of 2,541 posts were earmarked for the unreserved category.Later, the RPSC issued a corrigendum on May 25, 2018 amending the categorisations setting apart 5% of the post for ex-servicemen.Subsequently, the state government by a notification in February 13, 2019 brought an amendment to the Rajasthan Backward Classes (reservation of seats in educational institutions and appointments in service) Act 2017 by which more backward cases reservation was enhanced to 5% from the existing 1%.Besides the state government made provision for 10% reservation under the economically backward classes in direct recruitment in additional to the existing reservation.The petitioner said the RPSC despite the creating new posts for enhanced reservation to the MBC and EWS had curtailed the number of posts to the unreserved category by 689 posts.The RPSC has also revised date on which the maximum age of candidates to be reckoned as on July 1 2020 making many previous applicants ineligible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-notice-to-govt-over-recruitment-of-teachers/articleshow/80393180.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Year after Anaj Mandi fire, a pilot safety plan||NEW DELHI: More than a year after the Anaj Mandi fire tragedy, which had consumed the lives of 43 migrant labourers due to rampant violations of building and safety norms, a pilot project has been started to implement micro-area plans to improve the safety standards of “special areas”. A special task force has directed for developing detailed plans for 2-3 micro areas as pilot projects keeping in view the existing master plan and disaster management provisions. A senior official associated with the process said that a detailed report had been made to improve the safety standards in special areas, like Karol Bagh and the Walled City. “Suggestions have been sought from police, power discoms and Delhi Fire Service (DFS). In residential areas with dense population, a fire hydrant system with a common water tank can be developed. This will provide DFS access to water in case of a fire. The width of roads also needs to be altered at several points so that fire tenders can approach the incident spot without any hindrances,” added the official. Another official said Anaj Mandi and Sitaram Bazaar near Chandni Chowk could be the first two micro areas that could be developed. The interim report prepared by the town planning department of South Delhi Municipal Corporation had earlier recommended addressing the issue of unauthorised constructions to curb such hazards and identification of vulnerable areas within a fixed time frame, along with evacuation or disaster management plans. Located in the heart of Delhi in Filmistan area near Rani Jhansi flyover, Anaj Mandi housed several illegal industrial units. One such building caught fire during the night of December 9, 2019. Taking suo motu cognisance of the TOI report headlined “Another avoidable tragedy: Fire in the building with illegal units in heat of city kills 43”, National Human Rights Commission issued a notice to Union ministry of housing and urban affairs for action within six weeks. The ministry, in turn, entrusted the responsibility to a special task force on January 6, 2020 and provided it a deadline of three weeks. The tragedy has become the proverbial image of Delhi’s institutional failure in tackling illegal operation of factories and commercial units. While the incident generated much public outrage, the probe afterwards saw the administration falling in the same old habits. The probe that was supposed to be carried out within three weeks has still not been finished by municipal corporations after nearly a year as one institution keeps on sending the files to the other. No action has been taken on officials who overlooked the grave violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/year-after-anaj-mandi-fire-a-pilot-safety-plan/articleshow/80394348.cms||Paras Singh
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Constable sexually exploits woman, held||HYDERABAD: A constable was arrested for sexually exploiting a 27-year-old woman and terminating her pregnancy.  The accused, A Abhilash Kumar Yadav, 32, of Jaipuri Colony in Nagole is Armed Reserve constable posted at AR Head Quarters. Several months ago, he met the victim at a gym and befriended her with a promise of marriage, LB Nagar inspector, Ashok Reddy said. By promising to marry her, the accused sexually exploited her several times.  Police arrested Abhilash on Thursday. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/constable-sexually-exploits-woman-held/articleshow/80393185.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Goa||HC notice to Goa govt over non-payment of DSSS funds||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa has issued notice to the government and director of social welfare over non-release of funds under the Dayanand Social Security Scheme (DSSS) to the poor and to people with disabilities. A division bench comprising Justices Mahesh Sonak and Bharati H Dangre took suo motu cognisance of a letter written by the Disability Rights Association of Goa to the court. In the letter, the association stated that the government has not paid the Rs 2,000 monthly stipend to the poor and to those with disabilities for the past five months. Association president Avelino de Sa said this amounted to “denying them their only source of livelihood as the scheme is applicable only to those who have an income of less than Rs 2,000 per month”. “Persons with disability who are beneficiaries of the scheme, are facing a hard time due to non-receipt of the amount for five months. Besides their daily living expenses, they have to pay for other aspects like physiotherapy, occupational therapy and medical expenses,” de Sa stated. There are 12,000 persons with disability in Goa who are beneficiaries of the scheme, he submitted to the court while requesting its intervention to prevent any eventuality of deaths or suicides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-notice-to-govt-over-non-payment-of-dsss-funds/articleshow/80394452.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Madurai||Steady rise in dengue cases in Madurai in Jan||MADURAI: Following unseasonal rains that lashed Madurai district through January, the number of dengue cases has witnessed a steady rise with 45 cases reported till January 20. Of the 45 cases, 25 were in rural areas and 20 in urban areas. Health officials said the number is still less compared to last year but asked the public to remain vigilant. In 2020, a total of 279 cases were reported between January and December in Madurai. However, during the onset of monsoon season, in September and October, only nine cases were reported. It went up to 14 in November, and 45 in December. No deaths have been reported both in 2020 and in January. Last year, 100 dengue cases were reported in January. Health officials said that the cases will come down gradually. “Intermittent rains are favourable for mosquito breeding. It takes time for cases to come down. This season, the overall count is much less. Public are urged to co-operate in bringing down the cases further by keeping their houses and surroundings clean and free of mosquitoes,” said a health official. As many as 1086 DBCs are engaged in dengue preventive measures across the district like fever surveillance, spraying of abate solution, sprinkling of bleach powder. Fogging is done periodically as well. Fever surveillance is actively on for both dengue and Covid-19. Those with symptoms of dengue, which include high fever, headache, rashes, muscle and joint pain etc., must immediately consult a doctor. In children, a severe form of dengue called dengue haemorrhagic fever may develop, which can lead to death, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/steady-rise-in-dengue-cases-in-madurai-in-jan/articleshow/80394342.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Madurai||Schools step up preparations for board exams for classes X, XII||MADURAI: With schools across Tamil Nadu having reopened for Class X and XII on Tuesday, teachers and students are looking to step up preparation for the board exams, expected to be held in May. “Even with the reduced syllabus, students need as much time as possible to get back on track for board exam preparation. Full day classes are going on and allowing six working days a week and no holidays except for government holidays is also welcome. When we asked for feedback as well, parents and students were more than willing to have six working days,” said the headmaster of a government school. Teachers said that especially for government and aided schools where no online classes were being conducted, it was crucial to have more working days. Compared to the day of reopening, by Thursday, most schools reported an improvement in attendance and are hoping to have more than 95% strength by next week. “We definitely need to have six working days. It is not about pressurising students. With the social distancing measures in place, only 25 students or less are in allowed in one classroom. With the need to conduct practical classes in labs as well, we need more time to get students to take the sessions in small batches,” said the principal of a private matriculation school. Private schools, however, are not sure of alternating between online and offline classes as it would require more resources. “We have more than 95% of students back so at this point of time, we are not considering having both online and offline classes as it would not be viable,” said Aruna MV, senior principal and correspondent, Adhyapana School. However, some concerns still remain as students will be spending many hours in schools and even with Covid-19 safety measures in place there is always a risk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/schools-step-up-preparations-for-board-exams-for-classes-x-xii/articleshow/80394330.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Tomorrow, anniv of 1st Covid quarantine case in the state||Mumbai: When Maharashtra hit the first million cases on September 11, the pandemic was at its peak. Incidentally, on that day, Maharashtra had a record single-day high of 24,886 cases. On Thursday, in comparison, the state reported a total of 2,886 cases, including 527 from Mumbai, and 57 deaths. In fact, for most of December and January, daily detections have remained under 4,000 with Mumbai circle being the biggest contributor. Maharashtra had reported the first two coronavirus cases on March 9 when a Pune couple, who were a part of a 40-member group that had gone on a Dubai tour, tested positive. Incidentally, the state will complete a year of quarantining the first five foreign returnees on January 23. Within Maharashtra, Pune district is the worst hit with 3.83 lakh cases, followed by Mumbai (3.04 lakh) and Thane (2.65 lakh). N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, said the state has consistently been reporting fewer than 4,000 cases daily of late. “The road ahead for Maharashtra is to continue masking and physical distancing as vaccination is not a replacement for either. There will be no let down in those campaigns,” he said, adding that the focus has now shifted to districts that have a higher positivity rate. At least seven districts in Maharashtra have a daily positivity rate higher than the state average of 5.5%. “Nandurbar, Nashik, Nagpur are some that continue to have higher positivity rates,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, the state’s surveillance officer, adding that international travel and influx of people continue to be at the root of transmission in these pockets. “With vaccination, we hope to see a further decline in the mortality rate, which is currently at 2%,” he said. State figures pointed out a further dip in active cases in the state and the city. There were 45,622 active cases in the state, of which 6,669 were in Mumbai. Mumbai added 527 fresh cases and 10 deaths on Thursday, taking the total caseload to 3,04,653 and deaths to 11,278. The city reported deaths in double digits after a gap of eight days. Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state Covid-19 task force, said that even though Maharashtra is in a far better position, the emphasis on testing cannot be undermined. “We have to keep testing, tracing and treating people. And, RT-PCR must be the primary mode of testing,” he said. Dr Awate added that 50,000 to 65,000 tests are being carried out daily, but a push will be given to districts with higher positivity rates now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/tomorrow-anniv-of-1st-covid-quarantine-case-in-the-state/articleshow/80394352.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 22, 2021||Jaipur||Army officer laid to rest in city||Jaipur: The mortal remains of the army Major, who allegedly committed suicide in Kupwara on Monday, were laid to rest at a city graveyard early Thursday. Major Faiz Ullah Khan (erroneously spelled as Fayazullah Khan in earlier TOI reports), was a company commander with the Jammu and Kashmir Rifles and hailed from Jaipur. The reason behind his alleged suicide was yet to be determined.The 29-year-old officer was posted in Kupwara for the last two years and was unmarried. His parents reside in Vaishali Nagar and also have an ancestral home in the Walled City."We received the body of Major Faiz in the early hours of Thursday around 1am. Since he was declared Covid positive his body was brought as per Covid protocol by road in a convoy which was accompanied by an officer from his unit and other medical staff. Later, his body was buried in a specific area earmarked for Covid patients at the Ghat Gate graveyard as per protocol," said Asif Ullah Khan, the deceased officer’s uncle. The family told TOI on Thursday that it was satisfied with the way the officer’s death was handled by the Army. It refuted claims by one Shafi Khan, who had identified himself to TOI as the officer’s uncle, about the family being agitated over the officer’s death. "We, the family of Major Faiz Ullah Khan, totally disassociate with the comments made by Shafi on behalf of the family," Asif said.He added, "In fact, we are grateful to the Army, the commanding officer of his unit, his colleagues and the Jammu and Kashmir police for extending all help and assistance in transporting his body. Major Faiz hailed from a family, which has the distinction of serving the Indian armed forces in various capacities. We have the highest regard for the bravehearts of the Indian armed forces."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/army-officer-laid-to-rest-in-city/articleshow/80393173.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Sivasankar arrested in currency smuggling case||KOCHI: Commissionerate of customs (preventive) probing the currency smuggling through Thiruvananthapuram international airport on Thursday recorded the arrest of M Sivasankar, former principal secretary to the chief minister, who was earlier arrested in the controversial gold smuggling case. Customs officials visited Kakkanad district jail, where Sivasankar is lodged, to record the arrest, which was allowed by additional chief judicial magistrate (economic offences) court on Thursday. The case is that Egyptian national Khaled Ali Shoukry, a former employee of the UAE consulate, smuggled foreign currency with help from Suresh and Sarith while travelling from Thiruvananthapuram to Muscat in August 2019. Customs will soon approach the court seeking Sivasankar’s custody for interrogation. He has been arraigned as fourth accused in the case after Suresh, Sarith and Khaled. Meanwhile, Customs summoned two more persons to the Kochi office on Thursday and questioned them based on revelations of gold smuggling case key accused Swapna Suresh, sources said. One of them, a Ponnani native, is a friend of assembly speaker P Sreeramakrishnan, and the other person is the founder of an educational institution in Muscat and also owns colleges in India, sources added. Customs is looking into Suresh’s statements about high-profile persons using SIM cards registered in another person’s name and has been switched off since the gold smuggling was busted, sources said. The man, who runs the educational institutions, was questioned based on information that Suresh and Sivasankar knew him. Customs suspect that Suresh and co-accused Sarith P S visited him in Muscat in August 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sivasankar-arrested-in-currency-smuggling-case/articleshow/80392076.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Varanasi||UP: SI, 2 constables among 6 held for looting jeweller||GORAKHPUR: Gorakhpur police on Thursday arrested six persons, including three policemen posted at Purani Basti police station of Basti district, for looting a jeweller and an employee of another jeweller of Maharajganj district on Wednesday in Gorakhpur. “We have also recovered Rs 19 lakh cash and gold of around Rs 12 lakh and silver of around Rs 4 lakh from their possession and SUV used in crime,” said Gorakhpur SSP Jogender Kumar. Basti police administration has suspended 12 policemen of Purani Basti, including the three who were found to be involved in the crime. “The three policemen found to be involved in the loot have been suspended. Nine other policemen have also been suspended as they showed laxity in discharge of duty and also concealed the information about their absence from duty.” SP Basti Hemraj Meena said. “The accused have been booked under section 395 (punishment for dacoity), 412 (dishonestly receiving property stolen in the commission of a dacoity), 420(cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of IPC,” Kumar said. “The arrested cops are sub-inspector Dharmender Yadav and constables Mahendra Yadav and Santosh Yadav. The driver involved in the crime, Devendra Yadav, a resident of Purani Basti and two others, Shailesh Yadav of Thoothibari in Maharajganj and Durgesh Yadav of Nichloul Maharajganj, who leaked the location of the victims to the looters, have also been arrested,” Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/si-2-constables-arrested-for-looting-jeweller/articleshow/80395133.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Madurai||Drive launched to create awareness on asthma||MADURAI: The third chapter of the ‘Berok Zindagi’ or ‘Breathe Free’ campaign was launched in Madurai on Thursday to create awareness on asthma and the benefits of inhalers in asthma management. Asthma is a chronic disease characterised by airway inflammation and narrowing of the airways, which can vary over time. With eminent personalities like actor Ayushmann Khurrana, celebrity chef Vikas Khanna and Arjuna awardee badminton player Parupalli Kashyap leading the campaign, it emphasizes on breaking the social stigma associated with asthma and inhalers. Speaking on the occasion, Dr Palaniappan, consultant, pulmonology and critical care, Shree Chest and ENT Centre, said the general perception around inhalation therapy should change. “The myths attached to inhalers is high dosage, side effects and addiction. There has been a steep increase in asthma cases over the years due to rising pollution levels. Inhalers are the most sought-after therapy for asthma. Inhaled medication is better because of the direct delivery of the drug to the site of action. Proper guidance and education are required, which is why such initiatives are important.” According to Palaniappan, though the acceptance of inhalation therapies has improved a lot in the past decade, many people are still unaware and anxious over its use. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/drive-launched-to-create-awareness-on-asthma/articleshow/80394314.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Lucknow||J P Nadda lauds UP CM for steering development in Covid times||LUCKNOW: On a two-day visit to Lucknow, BJP national president J P Nadda on Thursday rolled out the template for expanding and strengthening the party organisation, ahead of panchayat elections, touted as the semi-final to the high-stakes 2022 assembly elections. Soon after touching down in Lucknow on Thursday evening, Nadda held a closed-door meeting with chief minister Yogi Adityanath and his cabinet colleagues and sought feedback on functioning of the state government and discussed areas which need to be addressed to consolidate BJP’s foothold. The meeting was also attended by deputy chief ministers, Keshav Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, BJP vice-president Radha Mohan Singh, national general secretary Arun Singha and UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh. Later, Nadda presided over a core committee meeting of the party and discussed programmes in coming days. Talking to reporters, state BJP general secretary Ashwini Tyagi said, the party president lauded the state government for executing developmental work and providing employment during the pandemic. “He also expressed satisfaction over coordination between the party and the government in ensuring public welfare measures reach the grassroots,” he said. Tyagi said, Nadda’s visit is in a series of pravas (political tours) undertaken by the party chief across India. He said, Nadda categorically stressed on strengthening the party, while reaching out to various sections of society and ensure Central public welfare programmes launched by PM Narendra Modi reaches the grassroots. Nadda was greeted at the airport by chief minister Yogi Adityanath and a host of other senior state unit leaders. The party put up multiple hoardings greeting the BJP chief all through the route between the airport and BJP headquarters. Nadda was scheduled to reach Lucknow in the afternoon, but his arrival was delayed by five hours. In his absence, BJP national general secretary (organisation) B L Santosh held a meeting with state unit leaders, including state vice-presidents and general secretaries at the party office. Tyagi said, Santosh expressed satisfaction over social work by BJP workers during the pandemic. On Friday, Nadda will hold a meeting of booth-level functionaries and then meet MPs and MLAs of Awadh region. He would also meet party functionaries from Lucknow and Kanpur region. Later in the day, he would address a convention of prominent people in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nadda-lauds-cm-for-steering-development-in-covid-times/articleshow/80395282.cms||Pankaj Shah
January 22, 2021||Lucknow||Signal snag halts Metro, 2k stranded||Lucknow: Failure in signalling system brought operations of Lucknow Metro to a grinding halt on Thursday, leaving over 2,000 passengers in the lurch. While the UP Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (UPMRC) officials claim that the operations stopped for 27 minutes starting around 3.18 am, stranded passengers TOI spoke to revealed that the duration was much longer. Many of them heading to Charbagh and Amausi airports claimed to have missed their trains and flights. “Operations were stopped for 27 minutes because of failure in the signalling system. Trains were later operationalised in manual mode instead of automated mode causing further delay. Initial probe suggested that one of the electronic switches in signalling systems was defectiv,” said Sushil Kumar, director, operations. Many passengers alleged they were left caged in coaches with poor ventilation even though the rakes were still on platforms. At the time of breakdown, 16 rakes out of 19 were active. To add to their woes, the UPMRC website also crashed. According to UPMRC, this was the longest breakdown in the history of Lucknow Metro. “I was supposed to board a Mumbai-bound flight at 5pm, but missed it as I was stuck in the Metro for more than one and a half hours,” said Hira Kundalini, who was on way to Amausi. LU’s assistant professor Sangeeta Srivastava, who boarded the train at the university Metro station said, “The metro service was delayed by 70-80 minutes. My train remained stranded for 40 minutes at Lucknow University, then 20 minutes at KD Singh Babu Stadium and then again more than 10 minutes at Sringarnagar following which I lost my patience and left the train to take another public transport.” “There was a distressed passenger in the coach who missed his flight due to the delay. When I contacted the helpline, the customer executive replied to opt for another mode of public transport in case of urgent travel, as the Metro service had suffered some technical fault which they refused to explain,” Srivastava said. Aditi Mishra, a local TV news anchor who was heading to Hazratganj in Metro to meet her fiancé said, “Many passengers were in dismay and were agitated due to the unprecedented breakdown. My fiancé Pankaj was stuck inside Metro coach with poor ventilation for over half an hour at Hussainganj. ” The UMPRC officials claimed that at around 3:18 pm automatic train signalling system had collapsed near university station following which in ripple effect other train services were blocked behind each other. “Train operations were stopped for 27 minutes because of failure in signalling system. Trains were later operationalised in manual mode instead of automated mode causing further delay. Initial probe suggested that one of the electronic switch in signalling system was defective which had disrupted the public transport,” said Sushil Kumar director operation of UPMRC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/signal-snag-halts-metro-2k-stranded/articleshow/80395484.cms||Arvind Chauhan
January 22, 2021||Varanasi||Bhopal lab confirms bird flu in 3 of 8 ducks found dead in Unnao||Kanpur: On Thursday, the reports of National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal confirmed H5N1 avian influenza virus in the samples of three of the total eight ducks which were found dead in a pond in Hadha Bazar area of Unnao district on January 17. Following the arrival of the reports, an alert was issued and the entry within one km periphery of the pond has been restricted, said the officials. To recall, the samples of eight ducks found dead in a pond in Hadha Bazar in Unnao on January 17 were sent to NIHSAD for confirmation of the virus. The pond now has 60 ducks. Culling of remaining ducks will begin on Friday under the supervision of the chief veterinary officer. Chief veterinary officer Pramod Kumar Singh said, “The pond witnessed the death of eight ducks on January 17. Samples of the birds were sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal for serological examination. The NIHSAD has confirmed H5N1 avian influenza virus in three ducks in RT-PCR testing. We have made all necessary arrangements for culling the remaining 60 ducks. Several teams have been formed. The area of one km around the pond has been restricted and cordoned off.” Adequate arrangements have also been made for the disposal of dead birds, he added. As per the protocols and guidelines issued by the government, sanitisation and surveillance drills have been intensified in the infected zone, which covers around one km of periphery from the pond and all possible preventive measures are being taken, said CVO further. Spray of lime and sodium hypochlorite are being done in and around the pond. The sampling of poultry birds from across 400 poultry farms has also been done, he said adding that the sale of poultry and other birds and eggs has been banned in the area within a radius of 10 kilometres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhopal-lab-confirms-bird-flu-in-3-of-8-ducks-found-dead-in-unnao/articleshow/80395176.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
January 22, 2021||Chennai||Plan to buy 525 e-buses goes off track||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government’s plan to buy 525 electric buses has hit a roadblock. The first two e-buses, which were being operated in Chennai on a trial basis by Ashok Leyland in 2019, have been grounded without any announcement. The air-conditioned buses that cost Rs 1.5 crore each were being run on Thiruvanmiyur-Central Railway Station and Koyambedu-Broadway routes. However, a month before the lockdown, the bus services were stopped. Ashok Leyland refused to comment when asked why the trial had stopped and if it had shared any report with MTC. MTC sources said they were not aware of the project results. Last August, the Union heavy industries ministry had sanctioned procurement of the 525 e-buses. According to the scheme, Coimbatore, Madurai and Trichy is supposed to get 100 buses and smaller cities, including Salem, Erode, Tirupur and Vellore, will get 50 vehicles each. Another 25 buses have been sanctioned for Thanjavur under Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles (Fame) II in India scheme. However, the scheme guidelines mandated a gross cost contract (GCC) between the state transport corporations and successful bidder. There will be no outright purchase and the private bidder will own and maintain these buses. Since GCC doesn’t recommend deployment of government bus drivers too, it faced stiff opposition from transport workers’ union, which saw the scheme as a step towards privatisation of bus operations in the state. But Transportation activist R Rengachari said, “There was no need for unions to fear as Telangana has implemented the GCC model for procuring 40 buses and maximised profit by operating them along airport routes. Drivers were trained on not only bus operation but also charging technology. Ridership too increased steadily. This was a better way to maximise profit and reduce pollution.” Even as the debate continues, TN transport minister M R Vijayabaskar said the e-bus scheme will not be dropped even though funds through Fame-II got delayed due to Covid. He said procurement of BS-VI vehicles for Chennai will continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/plan-to-buy-525-e-buses-goes-off-track/articleshow/80393169.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Varanasi||Gorakhpur admin gears up for Sunahri Mahotsav||Gorakhpur: Following the instructions of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the Gorakhpur administration has started the preparation for Sunahri (Orange-Fleshed Sweet Potatoes) Mahostsav to be organized next month in the district. The event would be likely inaugurated by the CM. The African super food OFSP, exclusively cultivated in Gorakhpur region, is rich in Vitamin A, fiber, potassium, protein, Beta Carotene, Chlorogenic acid, etc and is an effective solution for the problem of malnutrition while on the other hand it give a boost to farmer’s income. One gm of orange sweet potato provides 20 mg Vitamin A and fruit yield is completed within 100 to 112 days. The people of the state became aware of this super fruit after Prime Minister Narendra Modi discussed OFSP and its cultivation in the Vantangiya town of Maharajganj district in his monthly radio programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’. “The Mahotsav aims to provide fair price of the produce to the farmers cultivating Sunahri Kand. People will also be made aware of the benefits and nutritional values of this super fruit in the event. The golden sweet potato is abundant in Vitamin A and can be added in the menu of midday meals/hard cook of children, ” said Gorakhpur DM Vijyendra Pandiyan during a meeting with the officials of concerned departments on Thursday. This super beneficial fruit is to be cultivated in remote villages of Gorakhpur and UP to help poor families fight malnutrition among children. Enriched with antioxidant, Sunahri helps in promoting skin health and reduces the risk of cancer. The Central government has identified eight districts of UP —Bahraich, Balrampur, Chandauli, Chitrakoot, Shravasti, Siddharthnagar, Sonbhadra, and Fatehpur as inspirational districts for cultivation of OFSP in every season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakhpur-admin-gears-up-for-sunahri-mahotsav/articleshow/80395084.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Varanasi||DDUGU plans to conduct online exams in future||Gorakhpur: After the success of the online Research Eligibility Test (RET) 2020-21 conducted on home-based proctored system, the Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gorakhpur University plans to opt for home-based system for other exams in future as well. DDUGU vice-chancellor Prof Rajesh Singh said that the university administration is preparing to conduct exams in online mode on regular basis in future and is strengthening the IT infrastructure in the university and colleges under its jurisdiction for the same. Around 1,500-2,000 Wi-Fi enabled computers will be installed in the university while 25,000 computers will be installed in more than 300 colleges affiliated to the university, said the VC. The university has decided to make the campus and affiliated colleges technically more efficient for online exams and studies in view of technical glitches faced in the RET Exam conducted at Vimal Women’s College, Gorakhpur, he added. The work of installing computers has been started at different departments. “The affiliation rules of colleges will also make it compulsory to install a Wi-Fi computer system for at least five percent of the total enrollment of the students,” said Prof Singh. The university is conducting online classes and has conducted online national webinars and research eligibility test. Computers will be installed in the university’s library and also in computer centre for online examination. At the same time, plans are also being made to install 25 computers in Deendayal Upadhyaya Shodh Peeth and Guru Gorakshnath Shodh Peeth, 40 computers in the committee hall of Samvad Bhavan. Plans to equip many other departments with computers are also being implemented, the VC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ddugu-plans-to-conduct-online-exams-in-future/articleshow/80395105.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Lucknow||UP Diwas festivity to have global outreach||Lucknow: The world is getting ready to celebrate UP Diwas on January 24. Along with Lucknow and Noida, where official government programmes will be held to mark the foundation day of the state, diaspora from UP will also hold celebrations in countries like the US, UK, UAE, Sweden, Malaysia, Singapore, Japan, Taiwan. The international events are being organised by the UP Development Forum. UP Diwas commemorates the day when the state’s name was changed from United Provinces to Uttar Pradesh in 1950. “There will be cake cutting, lighting of lamps, poetry sessions among others to celebrate the occasion. The state government will also be making videos of the events organised in the state and distribute to the forum to show it to the UP diaspora in other countries,” said a government spokesperson. Pankaj Jaiswal, a member of the Forum, said the event will be celebrated on a huge scale in Dubai and Sharjah this year, led by the UAE chairperson of the Forum, Nadeem Zaidi, who hails from Deoria, and vice chairperson Asim Farid, who belongs to Aligarh. The programme in Sweden will be spearheaded by Ram Upadhyay, who hails from Agra; in London by Ajay Singh who belongs to Lucknow; in Taiwan by Akhilesh Gupta of Maharajganj; in Malaysia by Rajan Upadhyay from Gorakhpur; in Singapore by Mumbai resident Jagdeep Yadav; in Japan by Ganesh Yadav from Gorakhpur, and in the US by Rahul Gupta, who hails from Lucknow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-diwas-festivity-to-have-global-outreach/articleshow/80395557.cms||Neha Lalchandani
January 22, 2021||Allahabad||RSS office bearer shot at in trans-Ganga area||Prayagraj: A 30-year-old Rastriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) office bearer was shot at by some unidentified armed assailants near Chapahi Bagh area under the limits of Mauaima police station in trans-Ganga area in the early hours of Friday. The injured RSS office bearer identified as Dinesh Maurya, a resident of Markhamau village was admitted at SRN hospital where his condition was stated to be out of danger. The reason behind the incident was still unknown. SP (trans-Ganga) Dhawal Jaiswal told reporters that four persons have been detained for interrogation regarding the incident. He further added that the incident took place at around 6am when the victim, a contractual staff in UP roadways was going to his house after work. Hearing the gunfire noise, locals rushed to the spot and informed the police. Police first rushed the injured RSS office bearer at Mauaima community health centre where doctors referred him to SRN hospital for treatment. The bullet was aimed at the head of the RSS office bearer, said the police. SP said that cops have been probing the incident thoroughly and the motive behind the incident was still not clear. Police, however, said that they were also probing old temple dispute case which might be a reason behind the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/rss-office-bearer-shot-at-in-trans-ganga-area/articleshow/80411215.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Goa||2 Delhi men injured in assault at Candolim||CALANGUTE: Three persons from Delhi were allegedly assaulted by locals at Vaddy, Candolim, on Wednesday.  Following the assault, the injured persons were taken to the Candolim primary health centre, but as their injuries were severe, they were shifted to Goa Medical College and hospital at Bambolim by noon. Sources said the incident occurred over a property dispute after some women were allegedly manhandled by the Delhi natives, following which some locals gathered at the spot and assaulted the three from Delhi. Calangute police officer Videsh Deykar, the investigation officer, late on Wednesday night, said they are investigating the incident. “There are cross-complainants from the persons involved and we're verifying facts,” he said. No persons have been arrested so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2-delhi-men-injured-in-assault-at-candolim/articleshow/80488317.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat CM donates Rs 5 lakh for Ram temple||RAJKOT: Chief minister Vijay Rupani donated Rs 5 lakh for of Ram temple in Ayodhya during a program held in Rajkot’s Pramkhuswami auditorium on Thursday. He handed over the cheque to kathakar Rameshbhai Oza. Rupani was presiding over the program held to greet donors. “The Ram temple will become the symbol of our culture and strength. Gujarat has also fought for the building of this temple.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cm-donates-rs-5l-for-ram-temple/articleshow/80391998.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Lucknow||49L MSMEs got over Rs 1.8k crore in UP in 3 years||LUCKNOW: Since it came to power in 2017, Yogi government has helped more than 49 lakh MSME units get finance of over Rs 1,84,000 crore. This was revealed by additional chief secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal during an MSME conclave organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Thursday. Saying that this is the most conducive time for UP to achieve the target of $1 trillion economy as visualised by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Sehgal added that in 2020 itself, banks had financed over seven lakh new MSME units in the state. Emphasising on the importance of the one district one product (ODOP) scheme, Sehgal said: “The scheme is concentrating on the development of clusters and taking all the necessary steps for the growth of industries, such as helping them with finance, marketing, skill, packaging, raw material and other vital aspects. We have been trying to link MSMEs with specialised institutions that can handhold them, such as BSE, NSE, QCI and institute of packaging.” Sehgal also spoke about the flatted factory concept that is being implemented in the state, saying that these multi-storeyed buildings in which multiple non-polluting units can operate work well where there is a shortage of land. “In this regard, we have already sent proposals to the Government of India for setting up flatted factories in Agra, Gorakhpur, Kanpur and Lucknow,” he said, adding that industries should take advantage of government schemes to ensure overall development of the state. “The CII must bring out a recommendation paper to help us formulate a policy to take up with the institutions and help us make hard and soft interventions wherever required. Government has been interacting with various institutions to modify and change the course of policies so that maximum benefit is provided to the MSMEs of the state,” he concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/49l-msmes-got-over-rs-1-8k-cr-in-up-in-3yrs/articleshow/80395551.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Allahabad||Prayag Sangeet Samiti’s bank a/c seized over house tax dues||Prayagraj: The Prayagraj Municipal Corporation (PMC) has seized the bank account of Prayag Sangeet Samiti after it failed to clear house tax arrears of Rs 88 lakh. The municipal corporation had sent a notice to the institution and a notice was also published in newspapers. “We had issued a public notice, which was also published in the newspapers on January 10, wherein we had mentioned the names, addresses, dues and even the date of attachment of the property of the defaulters. Prayag Sangeet Samiti has to pay Rs 87, 92, 098 to the corporation as house tax. Since they failed to pay, we seized their bank account,” said chief tax officer PMC, PK Mishra. The officers said the drive is yielding good results after the newspaper notice. In case of Prayag Sangeet Samiti too, the corporation had sent a reminder for paying the dues. But when it failed to clear the dues, its account of Bank of Maharashtra located on Leader road was seized, informed Mishra. PMC could have also seized the bank account of the district cooperative federation at George Town over Rs 20 lakh dues. But the institute deposited an amount of Rs 10 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/prayag-sangeet-samitis-bank-a/c-seized-over-house-tax-dues/articleshow/80411220.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Rajkot||‘Family farmers’ at your doorstep||Rajkot: Move over family doctors. Agriculturalists too have started giving a touch of good health by turning into ‘family farmers.’The concept of ‘family farmer’ promoted by the Bhavnagar district administration has started picking up with industrialists and businessmen getting farm fresh organic produce in the comfort of their homes.In fact, a farmer assigned to every family is responsible for meeting the client’s all requirements - fruits, vegetables, cereals and pulses - all with organic certificates.Bhargav Dhandhlia, a businessman in Bhavnagar’s Bharatnagar area, used to drive nearly 50 km just to fetch vegetables from a farm owned by a farmer Kanu Bhatt in Talaja’s Timana village. “This farm produce is costly compared to what you get from local mandis. But cost does not matter when you are getting fresh organic fruits and vegetables delivered right at our home,” said Dhandhlia.Young Indians (Yi), the youth wing of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has also partnered this initiative through which one farmer attached to one family serves as a single point contact for all the agriculture produce needs of the family.A group of 400-odd farmers have already adopted chemical-free natural farming.“If we have family doctors, why don’t we have farmers. It was with this idea that we approached the district authority, and the concept was born,” said Falak Sheth, managing director of ayurvda products major Sheth Brothers, who heads Yi chapter in Bhavnagar.“There is lot of demand for organic farm produce. At the same time, there is enough supply as well. But there was not platform from where people know about the farmers who are into chemical free farming. Farmers too do not know their prospective customers. This concept will become a bridge between them,” said V J Baranwal, district development officer of Bhavnagar. Baranwal said YI aims to first reach out to at least 50 families first and later engage Rotary Club, Lions Club, Indian Medical Association to reach out at least 200 families within a month. So far, a beginning has been made with ten such families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/family-farmers-at-your-doorstep/articleshow/80392025.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
January 22, 2021||Lucknow||‘Start In UP’ project: Four start-ups to get Rs 5L each||Lucknow: As part of the ‘Start in UP’ programme under the state’s start-up policy-2020, the policy implementation unit has approved marketing assistance of Rs 5 lakh each to four start-ups, including one that aims to use artificial intelligence for face recognition to provide safety for women and children. Alok Kumar, additional chief secretary (IT and electronics), who heads of the unit, said that the funds would be released to the four start-ups over a period of a year to allow them to launch a ‘minimum viable product’ in the market. The four start-ups, which have been granted approval, include G Systems of Prayagraj for farming, Enray Solutions LLP of Ghaziabad for solar power, Bhurak Technologies of Saharanpur for a face recognition project and Matfusion Weld Pvt Ltd of Lucknow for a project in the bio-fuel sector. Bhurak Technologies of Saharanpur has been founded by Kumar Satyam who has developed a prototype of artificial intelligence-based face recognition system mainly to ensure safety of children and women through facial recognition. G Systems, founded by Ashish Kushwaha, aims to promote smart farming systems based on the Internet of Things (IoT) with machine learning-based sensors for automated irrigation and other farm-related activities. Enray Solutions LLP founder Rishabh Bhardwaj has developed a prototype of a water-free automatic solar panel cleaning system to mitigate wastage of drinkable water. Matfusion Weld Pvt Ltd has been registered by Vivek Kumar which is working on the concept of converting waste cooking oil into biofuel. It has already entered into a 10-year contract for supplying biofuels to Indian Oil Corporation. Kumar said that the objective of facilitation and incentives in the early stages of product development was to encourage innovators to stimulate commercialization of their inventions. He said that under the new start-up policy, seed capital in the form of marketing assistance up to Rs 5 lakh per start-up will be given to up to 10 start-ups per incubator per year to launch a minimum viable product in the market. “Under this provision, seed capital will be disbursed in milestone-based instalments in three tranches, 40% as advance and 30% in two instalments on completion of milestones,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/start-in-up-project-four-start-ups-to-get-rs-5l-each/articleshow/80395555.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Surat||Surat: Minors to stay protected in cops’ daycare centre||SURAT: As part of its efforts to prevent crime against minor, especially sexual assaults on unprotected children of working parents, city police has developed the first daycare centre for children in industrial hub Sachin GIDC. In most crime cases, cops find that the victims were exposed to the threats alone at home. After the recent two cases of sexual assault with minor girls in Pandesara and Sachin GIDC police station limits, senior police officials started the process to develop daycare centres in areas where such cases are being reported. City police commissioner Ajay Tomar had discussed the project with industry representatives in Pandesara earlier. The first centre has been developed in Laxmi Textile Park in Sachin GIDC and will be inaugurated on January 26. Space for the centre has been provided by Laxmi Textile Park and it is being developed with support of Rotary Club Surat West. “The basic idea is to provide a safe place for children whose parents are working, especially workers from construction, textile and other units. The first centre has been developed in an area where a large number of labourers are employed,” said Vidhi Chaudhary, deputy commissioner of police, zone III. “At five other locations Premnagar and Vadod in Pandesara, Unn in Sachin, Harinagar in Udhna and Limbayat have been identified for the centre. If the response is good at Schin GIDC process to develop other centres will be started soon,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/minors-to-stay-protected-in-cops-daycare-centre/articleshow/80392067.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Lucknow||Republic Day events to be held in UP amid Covid protocols||LUCKNOW: Covid-19 notwithstanding, Republic Day will be celebrated across the state. In directions issued by chief secretary RK Tiwari pertaining to functions to be organised on January 26, it has been said that keeping in mind Covid protocols, flag hoisting and police parades should be organised in all districts. Schools have been directed to hold programmes likes debates, sports events, dangals etc. During public programmes, officials should tell people about the importance of family planning and the environment. All DMs have been asked to set up committees which should have as members representatives of political parties, government departments, educational institutes etc. Flag hoisting at government offices will take place at 8.30am and at 10am in educational institutes. Tiwari said that students should be told about the history of the freedom movement and inspirational stories of jawans and patriots. Plays, debates and essay writing competitions should also be organised. At all parades, freedom fighters, widows and families of defence personnel should be invited and felicitated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/r-day-events-to-be-held-amid-covid-protocols/articleshow/80395521.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Lucknow||Schoolkids must be taught traffic safety rules: UP CM||LUCKNOW: Expressing concern over road accidents, chief minister Yogi Adityanath issued a passionate appeal to the people of the state, asking them to follow all traffic rules. He was inaugurating the road safety month from his residence on Thursday. He said that the number of road accidents had gone down in recent years but about 65 people lose their lives every day in road accidents in India. The CM also inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of various projects of the transport department worth Rs 55 crore. These included the construction of bus stations, automatic driving tracks and renovation work in districts. An awareness rally was also flagged off by the CM. “Drunken driving, using mobile phone while driving, over-speeding, not wearing a seat belt and such similar mistakes result in road accidents... The entire family of an individual taking risks has to pay for the mistake of a single person,” the CM said. “Poor road engineering, over-speeding and illegal cuts on expressways are also a big cause of road accidents. The departments concerned should pay special attention to these lags. This special campaign has been organised to spread awareness among people in the initial days and later those flaunting traffic rules will be penalised,” asserted the CM. Emphasising on spreading awareness among schoolchildren, CM Yogi said that a sense of traffic awareness and road safety should be instilled in them from the very beginning so that they remain aware throughout their life. He directed nodal officers in every district that qualification of individuals should be checked by the licensing authorities before issuing a driving licence. The CM also administered an oath to people to follow rules and drive safely. “Continuous efforts are being made to create awareness among the people about road safety and traffic rules,” said Ashok Katariya, minister for transport (independent charge).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-schoolkids-must-be-taught-traffic-safety-rules/articleshow/80395458.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Varanasi||PM Narendra Modi to interact with Varanasi doctors, vaccinators||VARANASI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with the frontline Corona warriors getting vaccinated and the vaccinators during the second leg of Covid-19 vaccination on Friday. The interaction will be held through video conferencing for which arrangements have been made at three vaccination centres in Varanasi. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma told TOI on Thursday, “An interaction of the Prime Minister with beneficiaries and vaccinators is proposed to be held during the vaccination drive tomorrow. The PM will start interacting with beneficiaries in Varanasi via video conferencing from 1.15pm. The participants will share their experience of vaccination.” Arrangements for the interaction of PM with beneficiaries and vaccinators have been made at Government Women Hospital, DDU district hospital and at one rural site, he added. After interacting with them, the PM will also hold dialogue and discussion with scientists and medical practitioners, and so arrangements have also been made at divisional commissioner office’s auditorium, where senior doctors will be present, the DM said. The vaccination drive will now be held on Thursday and Friday every week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pm-to-interact-with-docs-vaccinators/articleshow/80395029.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid losses: TSRTC likely to hike fares||HYDERABAD: With mounting losses to the TS Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) due to increase in fuel prices, lockdown and pending dues, Telangana government is likely to increase RTC bus fares to bail out the government-run public road transport corporation from the losses. “If the salaries of the TSRTC employees and staff are increased, there would be a heavy financial burden on the TSRTC. Unless the government extends major financial assistance to the RTC and the bus fares are raised, the financial burden of the RTC cannot be reduced,” RTC authorities said in a report submitted to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. The CM held a review meeting on Thursday at Pragathi Bhavan with transport minister Puvvada Ajaykumar, chief secretary Somesh Kumar and senior officials on the RTC’s financial status.  “The TSRTC incurred losses due to the lockdown imposed due to the pandemic. Under these circumstances, salaries of the employees in RTC have to be increased. If the salaries are increased, then it would cause ore burden on the RTC. TSRTC is not in a position to bear that burden. Hence, the state government should extend more financial assistance apart from increasing bus fares. Unless these two measures are taken, the RTC will not be able to come out of the crisis,” officials said. The chief minister was told by the officials that TSRTC’s position had improved with several measures taken by the management. “The RTC is now operating buses to AP and occupancy rate has gone up to 58%. As a result, the corporation is getting Rs 9 crore profit every day. The situation will be much better in the days to come. But, the increase in diesel rates is causing losses to the RTC. Losses incurred due to lockdown and dues are still a financial burden on the TSRTC,” the officials said. The CM said through cargo services the TSRTC transported 17.72 lakh parcels to the destination and earned Rs 22.61 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-losses-tsrtc-likely-to-hike-fares/articleshow/80393191.cms||Koride Mahesh
January 22, 2021||Lucknow||‘Demand up for def corridor, land; investors throng Jhansi’||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh government’s focus on its aspirational project, the Defence Industrial Corridor (DIC), is bearing result as the land on offer in Aligarh node is saturated. There is demand for more land from investors, said UP Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) CEO Awanish Awasthi, while reviewing the progress of the defence corridor. UPEIDA, the nodal agency for the defence corridor, has written to the district authorities for more land as there is pressure from investors, Awasthi said. “It is heartening that investors have started coming to Jhansi in Bundelkhand which was lacking in industries till recently. Bundelkhand expressway and defence corridor promise to trigger development of the region,” he added. A letter of intent has been signed for investment of Rs 600 crore on 100 acre land in Jhansi node by defence manufacturer Nitro Dynamics Aerospace and Defence Private Limited. This is the biggest investment by the private sector in Bundelkhand region in the recent past, said Awasthi, while credited PM Narendra Modi’s stress for self-reliance in defence production and chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s vision for development of the parched region, said Awasthi. The Union government has decided to develop Defence Industrial Corridor in UP to speed up development of the state. HAL, Bharat Electronics and Ordnance Factories are already functioning in UP. The defence corridor is being established in six districts — Lucknow, Kanpur, Agra, Aligarh, Jhansi and Chitrakoot by UPEIDA. Out of all nodes, land purchase, requisition process has started in four and 94% of total land in Jhansi, 96% in Chitrakoot, and 81% in Kanpur has been taken over by UPIEDA. UPEIDA has signed MoUs with 25 companies for a total investment of Rs 1,500 crore in Aligarh node for manufacturing drones, small arms and electronics, said Awasthi. A Defence Park is proposed to be set up on 213 hectare land in Kanpur and investment proposals have been received from different companies. Besides, proposals have been received from Tata Technology, Siemens and Dassault for setting up a central facility centre. UP defence industrial corridor will be showcased at the International Aero India-2021 exhibition in Bengaluru in February and around 15 MoUs are likely to be signed before the President on February 5, 2021 and investment of over Rs 3,000 crore is expected to be announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/demand-up-for-def-corridor-land-investors-throng-jhansi/articleshow/80395562.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||TPCC mulls breaking Cong unit into zones||Hyderabad: TPCC is considering dividing the city Congress unit ahead of MLC polls for Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates constituency. One suggestion was that the present city unit can have multiple zones having three or assembly segments as the party decides to select candidate for Hyderabad-Rangareddy and Mahbubnagar graduates constituency. Latest proposal was to divide party into multiple zones and have in-charges report to senior vice president-level leader, who will head city Congress panel. Another proposal is to divide unit into two covering two parliamentary seats. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tpcc-mulls-breaking-cong-unit-into-zones/articleshow/80393211.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 22, 2021||Lucknow||UP Board practicals from February 3||LUCKNOW: Practical examinations for UP Board class XII students will be held in two phases this year. The first phase will be from February 3-12 and the second phase from February 13-22. An order issued by secretary, UP Secondary Education Board, Divyakant Shukla, schools in districts lying in 10 divisions, including Agra, Saharanpur, Bareilly, Lucknow. will participate in the first phase, the second phase will see participation from schools covering districts in remaining eight divisions. For the practical examinations, 50% of the total marks will be awarded by internal examiner, while another 50% will be given by the external examiner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-board-practicals-from-feb-3/articleshow/80395543.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Bhubaneswar||300 Odisha farmers stopped on Kanpur border||KANPUR: The district police stopped over 300 Odisha farmers in Maharajpur on Kanpur-Fatehpur border on Wednesday night. The farmers were on way to Delhi to express solidarity with the protesting farmers, who have planned to take out a tractor rally on the Delhi border on Republic Day. UP in-charge of Nav Nirman Kisan Sanghatan Himanshu Tiwari claimed that the farmers travelling in half-a-dozen buses were detained in Ruma area. However, the district administration denied the charge. Tiwari claimed, “Police have detained nearly 300 farmers, who, under the leadership of national convener Nav Nirman Kisan Sanghatan Akshay Kumar, were heading towards Delhi to express solidarity with the protesting farmers, who have planned a mega tractor rally there on Republic Day, in six buses from Odisha. They had left Odisha on January 15.” “As soon as the farmers entered UP border, police stopped them. We urge all citizens, farmers and political leaders to support the farmers,” said Tiwari adding, “The government can’t stop us from reaching Delhi to raise our voice against these laws.” ADM (City) Atul Kumar said, “Following local intelligence inputs, police force had been deployed at vulnerable points on the outskirts of the district in order to maintain peace in the area. They were stopped from entering the district as Section 144 CrPC is in force.” He, however, rubbished allegations regarding detention and harassment of farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/300-odisha-farmers-stopped-on-kanpur-border/articleshow/80402674.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
January 22, 2021||Lucknow||Ram temple: Saryu course & retaining wall delay final blueprint||AYODHYA: The blueprint for the Ram temple foundation in Ayodhya could not be hammered out on Thursday even after a five-hour brainstorming session at Faizabad Circuit House chaired by temple construction committee chief, Nripendra Mishra, with country’s top engineers. The design is likely to be finalised in the next round of discussions on Friday after engineers of Larsen & Toubro, Tata Group and other experts arrive at a consensus on composition of the retaining wall, which will be erected to block the meandering stream from Saryu that flows under the Ramjanmabhoomi site, said a key member of the temple trust. “The design has to include the possibility of the Saryu river changing course, swamping its banks and then damaging the foundation,” he said. The temple foundation has been hanging fire since late last year after the first pillar wobbled in loose sand and water after being lowered into the site. Construction too failed to begin, barring piling of bricks to erect a periphery wall around the 2.77acre sanctum sanctorum. Sources said, experts may finally zero in on use of reinforced cement concrete to erect the retaining wall even though the Trust had earlier ruled out use of iron in the foundation. Treasurer of Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, Govind Dev Giri, told reporters after the meeting that the foundation design has not been finalised. “We will hold another round of meeting on Friday,” he said. Trust general secretary Champat Rai said, work on foundation will begin soon. “Best brains from IITs and engineering institutes are preparing a report. The soil is loose below 17m and beyond that is only water. Till now, 120m has been dug at the foundation site,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/saryu-course-retaining-wall-delay-final-blueprint/articleshow/80395355.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
January 22, 2021||Lucknow||Soil sample test of Ayodhya mosque site from Sunday||AYODHYA: The Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF) constituted by Sunni Waqf Board to build the Ayodhya mosque complex will kick-start the soil testing procedure on the 5acre site in Dhannipur village on January 24. Talking to TOI, secretary of IICF, Athar Hussain, said, “A team of experts will reach Dhannipur mosque site on Sunday and take soil samples for laboratory tests, before the blueprint is sent to the development authority for approval. Soon, we will begin construction after completion of formalities.” He said, members of the mosque trust will celebrate Republic Day at Dhannipur and unfurl the Tricolour, which will be followed by tree plantation on the 5acre site, signalling a formal launch of the project, whose defining theme will be zero carbon footprint. “Nine fruit trees will be planted by nine members of the Trust,” he added. The mosque will have a cosmic design resembling the spherical earth cushioned in space powered by solar energy, as per the blueprint launched in December last year. The focus of the mosque project is to provide community service with a determined effort to create awareness on climate change, which is a major challenge to humanity,” said Athar Husain. The blueprint envisages a green area, where saplings from India and all over the world, including Amazon forests and Australia will be planted to create awareness on climate change.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/soil-sample-test-of-ayodhya-mosque-site-from-sunday/articleshow/80395369.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
January 22, 2021||Lucknow||Expedite Purvanchal e-way work: UPEIDA CEO||LUCKNOW: Keen on ensuring that the construction of Poorvanchal expressway gets completed by March, authorities of the UP Expressways and Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) on Thursday asked the developers to expedite work while ensuring the quality is not compromised. UPEIDA CEO Awanish Awasthi said around 75% of the physical work of the expressway is complete and the construction of airstrip on the expressway near Sultanpur is nearing completion. Awasthi directed officials to expedite the construction of flyovers, bridges, interchanges and toll plazas. The 340km expressway is being constructed between Lucknow and Gram Haidaria in Ghazipur, around 18km from UP-Bihar border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/expedite-purvanchal-e-way-work-upeida-ceo/articleshow/80395321.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Lucknow||Land in Jhansi boon for cultivation of ginger, turmeric||Jhansi: The district has shown wonderful results in the past in growing good quality ginger and turmeric which has a good market. Some farmers use the unique method of multi cropping pattern in which they grow both ginger and turmeric side by side along with Taro (Arvi) and Ratalu, both root vegetables.  RK Tiwari, senior scientist, Central AgroForestry Research Institute (CAFRI), Jhansi, said this is a unique combination seen in this region where these vegetables are grown. While turmeric is grown on the outer circle as it is not eaten by stray cattle, the rest of the three vegetables are grown side by side in the middle because the root vegetables give partial shade to turmeric and ginger, which is essential for their growth, he said.  “All of them are sown together between May and June, and are covered by palash tree leaves which are available in abundance for mulching. This process reduces the water evaporation rate of the soil reducing water requirement for irrigation”, Tiwari added.  Asha Ram, scientist agronomy, CAFRI says the land of Bundelkhand region is conducive for growing ginger and turmeric as it is sloppy in nature with an average yield of 100-180 quintal per hectare.  Talking to TOI, he said,”There are a number of fruits which besides having good medicinal values also have a good yield in Bundelkhand giving value for money to the farmers for their produce. They are amla and bel. “Director CAFRI, A Arunachalam said, “I feel Bundelkhand has immense opportunities for cultivation of such fruits which are quite conducive to the topographical conditions of this place, and require less water and efforts giving good results”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/land-in-jhansi-boon-for-cultivation-of-ginger-turmeric/articleshow/80395248.cms||Arindam Ghosh
January 22, 2021||Varanasi||Covid +ve Mirzpur youth back from Britain did not suffer from UK strain, says report||Varanasi: Health officials heaved a sigh of relief on Thursday when the report from National Institute of Virology laboratory in Pune confirmed that the Mirzapur youth who returned home from Britain in mid December did not suffer from the the UK strain. Chief medical officer Dr VB Singh said that the BHU lab had sent the samples of the youth, who tested Covid positive late December, to the Pune lab on December 30. “The report from the Pune lab was received at BHU on Thursday, and it confirmed that no UK strain of the coronavirus was found in him,” said the CMO, adding that the state government has also been informed about the report. The Mirzapur native tested Covid positive a fortnight after he returned home from Britain in December. He was traced from his in-laws’ place in Sundarpur area of Varanasi, and admitted to a separate ward at level-3 facility of BHU hospital. All the people who came in his contact including 14 family members in Mirzapur and nine in Varanasi had also been quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-ve-mirzpur-youth-back-from-britain-did-not-suffer-from-uk-strain-says-report/articleshow/80395046.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Kochi||Approver goes incommunicado||Kochi: In a development in the actor rape case, prosecution submitted before the additional special sessions court that an approver Vipin Lal, against whom a warrant was served, has gone incommunicado. According to sources, the investigation officer submitted a report that a warrant against him couldn’t be executed and similarly the summons also were not served as his whereabouts are not known. The court again issued a warrant and direction was given to produce him before the court on Saturday. The court is set to continue trial and witness examination on Friday. Another accused, meanwhile, filed a petition expressing willingness to turn approver. The court will consider this petition on Friday. The trial hit a roadblock October last year when Kerala high court dismissed a plea seeking to change the judge in the case. The prosecution alleged that the present court was biased and a fair trial was not possible. The HC, however, held that most contentions of the survivor and prosecution were unsustainable. This was upheld by the apex court. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/approver-goes-incommunicado/articleshow/80392096.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Delhi||AAP slams south Delhi corporation for nod to food vans||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj on Thursday slammed the BJP-led South Delhi Municipal Corporation for passing a scheme to provide permanent licences to mobile restaurants and eateries, like food cart or food trucks, on the roads and footpaths in the city. The scheme has a condition that these licences could only be issued by the local councillor, which means “BJP is trying to give full power to the local councillors so that they can earn crores of money before the upcoming polls,” Bharadwaj said. Demanding its rollback, he added that the scheme would bring massive chaos. Earlier, the Centre had formulated Street Vendors’ Protection Act, under which the authorities should have identified the street vendors and issued licences in their respective zones. But the corporations have not done any such thing, Bharadwaj said. “It will not only harm the pedestrians but also the existing street vendors. The only reason behind the scheme is BJP’s corruption, and before leaving the corporations, it wants to completely finish the institution,” said Bharadwaj and asked if BJP had consulted the RWAs and the people of Delhi before passing the scheme. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, AAP has developed a habit of levelling false allegation every day. “Food cart scheme is people-friendly, under which food cart licence will be issued in all 104 SDMC wards. Councillors of both ruling and opposition parties will be able to make recommendations, so there is no scope of corruption,” the spokesperson added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-slams-south-corporation-for-nod-to-food-vans/articleshow/80394376.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||No bail for Tops Grup former MD||MUMBAI: A special Prevention of Money Laundering Act court on Thursday rejected the bail plea of former managing director of private security firm, Tops Grup, M Sasidharan. He was arrested by Enforcement Directorate (ED) last month in a money-laundering case allegedly involving Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik. The prosecution had opposed his bail plea as he was part of the conspiracy and assisted in diversion of funds. Sasidharan’s defence denied the allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-bail-for-tops-grup-former-md/articleshow/80395908.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Kanpur||300 Odisha farmers stopped on Kanpur border||KANPUR: The district police stopped over 300 Odisha farmers in Maharajpur on Kanpur-Fatehpur border on Wednesday night. The farmers were on way to Delhi to express solidarity with the protesting farmers, who have planned to take out a tractor rally on the Delhi border on Republic Day. UP in-charge of Nav Nirman Kisan Sanghatan Himanshu Tiwari claimed that the farmers travelling in half-a-dozen buses were detained in Ruma area. However, the district administration denied the charge. Tiwari claimed, “Police have detained nearly 300 farmers, who, under the leadership of national convener Nav Nirman Kisan Sanghatan Akshay Kumar, were heading towards Delhi to express solidarity with the protesting farmers, who have planned a mega tractor rally there on Republic Day, in six buses from Odisha. They had left Odisha on January 15.” “As soon as the farmers entered UP border, police stopped them. We urge all citizens, farmers and political leaders to support the farmers,” said Tiwari adding, “The government can’t stop us from reaching Delhi to raise our voice against these laws.” ADM (City) Atul Kumar said, “Following local intelligence inputs, police force had been deployed at vulnerable points on the outskirts of the district in order to maintain peace in the area. They were stopped from entering the district as Section 144 CrPC is in force.” He, however, rubbished allegations regarding detention and harassment of farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/300-odisha-farmers-stopped-on-kanpur-border/articleshow/80395213.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
January 22, 2021||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra cases hit 2 million, 19% of India’s total||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 caseload in Maharashtra crossed the two-million (20 lakh) mark on Thursday. Maharashtra has recorded more cases than the next two worst-hit states, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, put together. The Covid-19 case count is yet to touch one million in any other state, with Karnataka’s tally the closest at over 9.3 lakh. If Maharashtra were a country, it would figure at the 11th spot in the list of nations with the highest number of cases. At 19.4% of India’s total caseload, the state accounts for one in every five Covid-19 infections detected in the country so far. Maharashtra reached the grim milestone more than 10 months after reporting its first Covid-19 case. On Thursday, 2,886 more people tested positive for the infection, taking the state’s total to 20,00,878. The state had crossed the one-million case mark in the second week of September. In the past few days, Maharashtra and Kerala have been the only two states reporting fresh cases in four figures. On Thursday, the two states had 63% share in fresh cases detected in the country, with Kerala alone contributing 43%. Kerala recorded 6,334 infections out of 14,617 new cases reported on Thursday. There were 161 Covid-related deaths recorded on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-maharashtra-cases-hit-2-million-19-of-indias-total/articleshow/80396736.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Ram temple donations: TRS, BJP in slugfest||Hyderabad: Even as the state BJP unit has embarked upon collecting donations for the Ram temple in Ayodhya, the ruling TRS and the saffron party have locked horns over the donation drive. TRS Korutla MLA K Vidya Sagar Rao at a party programme said the BJP leaders are begging for donations. “They are enacting s new drama. Everyone is a devotee of lord Rama. Why do we need a Ram temple in Ayodhya. We have lord Rama temples in every village,” he said. He appealed to the people not to give donations to the BJP. Earlier, tension prevailed in Metpally when BJP activists obstructed the TRS MLA’s convoy. The MLA’s comments evoked a sharp response from BJP MLC N Ramchander Rao. The MLC said the TRS MLA should clarify if it is the stand of his party or his own. “He is hurting the sentiments of the people. He should apologise for his remarks,” Rao said. BJP MLA Raja Singh said the BJP is not forcing donations on anyone. The BJP state minority morcha on Thursday announced the donation drive for Ram temple. Christian leader Allam Bharat Reddy donated a cheque for Rs 1.11 lakh for construction of Ram temple. They are enacting new drama. Everyone is a devotee of lord Rama. Why do we need a Ram temple in Ayodhya. We have lord Rama temples in every village||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ram-temple-donations-trs-bjp-in-slugfest/articleshow/80393225.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Delhi||Jamia Millia Islamia’s forced retirement plan sparks row||NEW DELHI: An order on forced retirement at Jamia Millia Islamia has created ripples in the university where the teachers have opposed the move claiming that it could be misused. An office order signed by registrar Nazim Husain Jafri dated January 13 stated that there would be a periodic review of the university’s employees for strengthening the administration under the Fundamental Rule 56 (j). “There is a provision under the fundamental rule to undertake periodic review of performances of government servants to ascertain if they should be retained or retired from service prematurely,” the order said. However, Jamia Teachers’ Association (JTA) called for executive council meeting on Wednesday and met the registrar. Stating that Jamia Millia Islamia “is an autonomous body where this rule cannot be implemented,” the association condemned the move. JTA member Majid Jamil said, “Notices like these come from the government, but the administration has never circulated it before. We spoke to the registrar and asked him to withdraw the letter stating that we have our own ordinances about retirement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jamias-forced-retirement-plan-sparks-row/articleshow/80394425.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Kochi||FM allots Rs 7cr for Sneha’s school||Palakkad: Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac allotted Rs 7 crore fund for a new building of Government High School, Kuzhalmannam, where K Sneha studies, thus honouring his word. Sneha, is a Class 7 student of GHS, Kuzhalmannam, whose poem on Covid-19 pandemic was the opening part of Isaac’s budget speech. The minister, on Wednesday, announced in the assembly that he has increased the earlier allotment of Rs 3 crore to Rs 7 crore for the new school building. The school has been functioning in a rented building since 86 years. The government had earlier allotted 1.6 acre for the new school building. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fm-allots-rs-7cr-for-snehas-school/articleshow/80392121.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||Auto driver cheated of Rs 35,000||Ahmedabad: An 63-year-old autorickshaw driver, Farooq Chhipa, was cheated of Rs 35,000 by a man of around 35 years, who told him he had fallen short of money and needed to buy medicines urgently. The man told Chhipa he was the son of a retired high court judge. The incident took place on December 11, but as the complainant had to go to Nagaur in Rajasthan for a social function, lodged the complaint at Maninagar police station after returning on Wednesday. According to the FIR, Chhipa was sitting in his auto near Gujarat College waiting for passengers. The man came up to him and told him he wanted to go in the auto to Maninagar, back and then to Gota and back. According to the FIR, the man took him to a building opposite Maninagar railway station and told him he would return after buying medicines. “According to the complaint, he also told him that if he ran short of money, he would borrow some from Chhipa and would return it,” said a police official. The FIR states that the man came back in 10 minutes and said they would have to go LG Hospital to get the medicine. “There the man asked the complainant for money and identified himself as the son a retired judge. Chhipa gave him the Rs 5,000 he had. The man made him speak to someone on the phone, who told him that the passenger was his son and he is a retired judge, and promised to return to Chhipa the money he would lend,” said a police source. The man went to LG Hospital and returned after a while, and asked for more money. As Chhipa had no cash, the man took his ATM card and PIN and went back into the hospital. “In a little while, Chhipa started getting messages for withdrawals from his account totalling Rs 30,000. We are gathering CCTV footage to identify the accused,” said a Maninagar police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/auto-driver-cheated-of-rs-35000/articleshow/80518163.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Lucknow||UP: PM Narendra Modi to open Chauri Chaura centenary||LUCKNOW: The centenary celebrations of the Chauri Chaura incident will be inaugurated virtually by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on February 4. The year-long programme is being held to mark a turning point in India’s freedom struggle, the Chauri Chaura incident, which led Mahatma Gandhi to call off the Non-Cooperation Movement. To commemorate the sacrifice of the Indians who participated in the protest in Chauri Chaura near Gorakhpur on February 4, 1921, the government will pay tribute to the martyrs at memorials across the state and also felicitate their families. The CM has said that events should be organized on a daily basis to pay respects to the martyrs. On Wednesday, the CM and Governor Anandiben Patel released the logo for the event as well. Programmes will be organized in schools, universities, at block level, etc. A government spokesperson said that Yogi Adityanath’s guru, Mahant Digvijay Nath, was of the 222 persons accused of having set fire to a police station in Chauri Chaura. Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya represented the accused as their lawyer and eventually, 19 persons were sentenced to be hanged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pm-to-open-chauri-chaura-centenary/articleshow/80395546.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Firm finalised for Ramniwas Bagh parking project||JAIPUR: The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) on Thursday finalised the firm for constructing Ramniwas Bagh parking project. After analysing the financial bid, the civic body has decided to award work to L and A Infra Projects, which submitted the lowest bid of Rs 83.25 crore against the base price of Rs 95 crore. Joint venture of GRJ and Rishab construction, which also qualified the technical bid, quoted Rs 90 crore. A senior official said, “After receiving the UDH minister’s nod, letter of acceptance will be released. The work order will be issued after signing the agreement. The process will take 15 days.” The JDA has fixed 30-month deadline to finish the work. The two-storey parking will be constructed in approximately 49,000 square metre area. Once constructed, the parking space will house 1,530 vehicles. Last month, the JDA invited tenders for the project for the second time as only one firm qualified the technical bid. This time three firms qualified the technical bid. An official said, “In the first bid, three companies had expressed interest to construct the underground parking project. But only one firm could make it to the next round, after the civic body evaluated the technical bid for the Rs 94 crore project. As re-tendering was initiated, the process is delayed by one month.” After Jaipur Smart City Limited (JSCL) gave the administrative and financial sanction, the JDA initiated work to appoint the firm and also applied for environmental clearance. Moreover, the civic body’s executive committee (EC) had given a nod to the tripartite agreement to be executed between JSCL, JDA and the contractor for Ramniwas Bagh underground parking project, phase-II. An official said, as per the preliminary design, majority of the constructions will be beneath the Union Football Ground at the park. JDA had earlier proposed to extend underground parking till Jaipur Traffic Police office towards Ajmeri Gate end. However, the authorities are apprehensive about constructing a parking space beneath Sawan Bhado Park as it might violate high court directives which prohibited construction of any kind in that area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/firm-finalised-for-ramniwas-bagh-parking-project/articleshow/80394411.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Lucknow||8,500 more health workers to get vaccine cover in Lucknow today||LUCKNOW: Around 600 health workers in three hospitals will be inoculated with indigenously made Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin on Friday. These health workers will be among 8,500 people to be vaccinated in the second round of vaccination that will be held at 35 centres through 85 booths across the city. Covaxin, which is still undergoing phase-3 clinical trials, will be administered to 550 staff members of SPM Civil, 307 at Lokbandhu and over 200 at Rani Laxmi Bai hospitals. All three hospitals will have two vaccination booths each. On Friday, 200 workers at each will be given Covaxin. The remaining will get the same vaccine in the next round. Additional chief medical officer (ACMO) and district immunization officer Dr MK Singh said, “We have received nearly 70 vials of 5ml each, which is sufficient to inoculate 700 health workers.” “All those selected for Covaxin have been informed in advance about the side effects and the status of the vaccine. They will be given a consent form on Friday at the booth and the vaccine will be administered only when they will agree to it in writing. We will also inquire about their medical history before giving the jab,” he said. Covishield will be administered to total 7,900 beneficiaries in 32 hospitals which include 12 centres where the drive was held on January 16. The turnout on the inaugural day was 70% (840). Those who did not turn up to get the jabs in the first round will get a second chance on Friday. Dr Singh said that random selection through the computer has not been done this time. “We have selected the first 100 health workers from the lists provided by the hospitals. All selected health workers have been sent SMSes through Co-Win portal informing them about time and location of the vaccination centres. Meanwhile, vaccines in cold carriers were transported to the cold chain points nearest to the centres on Thursday itself. The batches will be sent to the centres on Friday morning. The drive will be held from 9am to 5pm with an hour’s break in between.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/8500-more-health-workers-to-get-vaccine-cover-today/articleshow/80395413.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Jaipur||Astro tourism, a new attraction for tourists in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Besides the love for royalty and colourful extravaganza, If you nurture a passion for stargazing, now the Pink City won’t disappoint you. The art and culture department on Thursday introduced the experience under ‘Night Sky Tourism’. Launching the initiative at the secretariat lawns, art & culture minister B D Kalla said that the ‘Night Sky Tourism’ will give a fillip to night tourism in the state. “It will be a new experience for tourists and add more depth to the state as a tourist destination,” said Kalla. The department has cranked up the telescope which was in the possession of the science department and there are resourcepersons to tell the myriad stories about stars that we love so much. Secretary, art and culture and department of science and technology Mugdha Sinha said the state government has taken the initiative to start night tourism after the lockdown. “Using new astronomical technology, the people of Jaipur and the visitors to the city will have the opportunity to see the night sky, stars, planets, the moon and much more. “This initiative will ensure that Jaipur becomes known for science and technological advancements along with history and heritage,” she added. The department has arranged for another viewing session in Jawahar Kala Kendra on Friday. But Sinha said that all the state monuments will be used to offer the experience. “We want to offer the experience at most of the state monuments like Nahargarh and Jaigarh,” added Sinha. She said that to encourage students, the experience can be organized in schools and colleges. “Such exposure can inspire students. Who knows some of them can become astronomers in future,” added Sinha. She said there are many officials in the science department who understand the subject well. They can add value to the experience of the viewers with their insights. Watch ‘Night Sky Tourism’ begins for visitors at Jaipur's Jantar Mantar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/astro-tourism-a-new-attraction-for-tourists-in-jaipur/articleshow/80394432.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Jaipur||Potash mining to open a new chapter for Rajasthan: CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: After oil, gas and silver, Rajasthan is now set to open a new chapter with potash, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said while chairing a virtual meeting organized for signing an agreement with state PSU Rajasthan State Mines and Mineral Ltd (RSMML) and Mines Exploration Corporation Ltd (MECL), under Union ministry of mines. The agreement will allow MECL to undertake a pre-feasibility study of potash mines in Hanumangarh where preliminary estimates of two blocks done by Geological Survey of India has found reserves of 220 million tonne. Addressing the meeting, which was also attended by Union coal and mines minister Prahlad Joshi and heavy industries and public enterprises minister Arjun Ram Meghwal, Gehlot said that he had announced exploration of potash in the state as the country fully depends on imports for its requirements. “Rajasthan is the only state where potash has been found by GSI. The exploration by MECL with new technologies will positively find the mineral and we will be able to achieve the dream,” said Gehlot. He also drew attention to his recent meeting with Vedanta Resources chairman Anil Agarwal where the focus was on exploration of minerals in the state. “We want to explore the minerals in all of Rajasthan and MECL can also play a role,” added Gehlot. Joshi in his speech said that GSI in its early estimate has found availability of 2500 million tonne potash in the whole basin and there is a direction in Rajasthan to estimate the reserves and start mining. He also highlighted the reforms measures undertaken at the Centre for growth of the mining sector. Drawing attentions to benefits, Union minister Meghwal said that mining of potash will create opportunities for several ancillary industries that will generate employment and livelihood opportunities for large number of people. Potash is used for mainly making fertilizer and the country does not produce the commodity. Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, mines and petroleum, said, “This has set example in the country for harnessing the deep-seated mineral deposits to attain self-sufficiency. There are around 25 minerals on which Indian import dependent. This sort of studies will pave the way for reducing import dependency for other mineral also.” Most of the potash deposits in Rajasthan are identified in Nagore-Ganganagar basin of Rajasthan covering parts of Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh and Bikaner districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/potash-mining-to-open-a-new-chapter-for-raj-cm/articleshow/80394439.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: ‘Casting director’ of production house cons aspiring actors||MUMBAI: A criminal offence has been registered against a person who fraudulently claimed to be a casting director of a film production house and took money from aspiring actors wanting a break in films. He said it was an auditioning fee. The man, whose identity the police have not revealed, had advertised on social media, said an official from Amboli police station. The man had floated a rumour about T-Series company wanting to launch a film project and collected money from aspiring actors from across the country over the last few months. He was summoned by the police who are not yet sure of how many people he has conned of how much money. The office of the production house was alerted after several callers called up about the audition date. An official of T-Series, LJE Joseph, lodged an FIR on January 18. “We have registered a case based on the complaint about a fake announcement posted on social media about a proposed film project. So far, no victim has approached us about the fraud,” said senior inspector Someshwar Kamte of Amboli police station. “T-Series lodged the complaint on the basis of repeated calls that the production house had been receiving from people who were duped.” The fraudster had created a fake profile on social media, claiming to be the casting director for “T-Series Radheshyam Film Project”. The advertisement invited aspiring actors wanting to take an audition test to apply with payment towards the same. Another officer said that the accused had made a fake letterhead of T-Series and used it to con wannabe actors. A case of cheating and forgery has been filed under sections of the Indian Penal Code besides the Copyright Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/casting-director-of-prodn-house-cons-aspiring-actors/articleshow/80390482.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Disciplinary action against cop for illegally detaining man||WARANGAL: Commissioner of police (CP) P Pramod Kumar said that he will take disciplinary action against the inspector of Mills Colony police station for illegally detaining a 25-year-old youth in an IT Act case. The incident came to light when some people complained to the commissioner that he had kept a person in custody without producing him before the magistrate. The CP responded immediately and directed DCP K Pushpa to inquire.  “I went to the police station on a surprise check on January 9 and found the 25-year-old man accused of morphing photos of a woman in his step brother's family and uploading them on facebook. As the complainant who was his stepbrother did not give a written complaint, case was not registered and after my instructions, the inspector let him off,” DCP K Pushpa said. However, a few days later, the man again allegedly committed the same offence. “The second time, a case was registered against him under the IT Act and a notice was served to him under CrPC. This time he was not detained,” DCP Pushpa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/disciplinary-action-against-cop-for-illegally-detaining-man/articleshow/80393236.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
January 22, 2021||Pune||FTII plans phased recall as it gets ready to reopen campus||Pune: The Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) is planning phased recalls to its campus as it prepares to reopen the campus, while its admissions process for the current academic year is still up in the air.“We are waiting for the express permission of the state and local municipal governments to open up educational institutions. Obviously, we will not be able to allow all 207 enrolled students back into the campus once it opens. However, that is largely our plan to resume operations at FTII. We will allow the oldest batch of students to return to the campus first, that is 2017, as well as the television batch, because theirs is only a one-year course,” said institute director Bhupendra Kainthola.While the institute has a plan to resume classes for the existing batches as well as the 2020 batch, the admission process for the new academic year is still a matter of discussion. The ultimate decision on the issue will rest with the governing councils of FTII and Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute (SRFTI) in Kolkata, as the latter is conducting joint entrance exams this year.“That is an issue which the governing council will decide. We are still in talks with the SRFTI to decide how the admissions this year will go ahead, as they are conducting the exam for 2021, like they did last year as well,” Kainthola added.In March last year, the institute had announced that all its academic activities related to classes, workshops and film shoots, would remain shut in the wake of the pandemic. The shutdown was expected to cause delays with respect to the completion of semester work as well as induction of the new batch since the admission process was underway at the time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ftii-plans-phased-recall-as-it-gets-ready-to-reopen-campus/articleshow/80393214.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||Jaw recreated, replaced, prosthesis implanted in 11-hr long surgery||Nagpur: In a unique multi-disciplinary surgery, doctors performed three procedures at one go on a 50-year-old woman from Nagpur to remove a tumour in the lower jaw, then reconstruct the jaw and plant permanent prosthesis for teeth.The procedures — mandibular resection, microvascular reconstruction and dental implantation — were performed by a team of maxillofacial surgeons, plastic surgeons and dentists. The entire surgery lasted for 11 hours. After about six months from now, the patient will get ceramic teeth planted on the prosthesis and will be able to chew normally. This process, if done in conventional way, would have taken about two years. But due to joint efforts of three specialities, the patient will be able to chew within eight months. Dr Shashwat Magarkar performed this oral and maxillofacial surgery along with Dr Ketaki Joglekar. He claimed that such type of surgery is not common in India.“The patient had an odontogenic keratocystic tumour in the lower jaw extending from one angle (corner) to the other, causing complete destruction of the mandible (lower jaw),” he said. Such tumours are not cancerous. They have genetic origin and cannot be recognized unless they grow big. Initially, the woman experienced toothache and gradually her teeth loosened. Dental surgeon Dr Amit Rajgadkar diagnosed the condition and referred tumour removal surgery. “While removing tumour, saving the patient’s lower jaw was not possible at all. So, the biggest challenge was reconstruction of almost the entire jaw and future dental rehabilitation,” said Dr Magarkar. Plastic surgeons Dr Shailesh Nishal and Dr Amol Dhopte removed the diseased jaw. “We performed microvascular surgery where portion of bone called fibula was taken and used to reconstruct the lower jaw,” said Dr Nishal. Along with bone, the plastic surgeons also took out a portion of artilleries and veins attached to it. In microvascular surgery, small blood vessels are reconnected and blood flow is restored before the tissue starts to die. This insures 95% success of the reconstruction. While doctors were reconstructing the jaw, dentists placed six implants in the harvested bone. These implants will be used for dental rehabilitation. Dr Sachin Dongarwar was anaesthetist for the entire procedure. After surgery, intensive care specialist Dr Anant Singh Rajpur and his team took care of patient who is now discharged, and can consume semi-liquid diet.Dr RS Shenoi, vice dean and HoD, Oral And Maxillofacial Surgery, at VSPM Dental College, said that the surgery is “not common”. “This will achieve definitive patient rehabilitation with a reconstructed mandible. It is very comfortable for a patient both in the functional and aesthetic sense,” he said.Year saved, aesthetic ensured - Bone was harvested from patient’s fibula bone (leg)- Lower jaw was reconstructed using this bone, and blood vessels attached to it- A permanent prosthesis by using six dental implants was placed on these bones immediately - After six months, ceramic teeth will be fixed on the prosthesis implants- Traditionally, implant for teeth are fixed on reconstructed jaw after 8-10 months of surgery - Fixed dentures are placed on these implants after another 6-8 months- All these months were saved and early rehabilitation was ensured due to multidisciplinary approach||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jaw-recreated-replaced-prosthesis-implanted-in-11-hr-long-surgery/articleshow/80392158.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 22, 2021||Pune||Puneites take time during pandemic to write stories||Pune: The new normal of working from home has offered ample time to working professionals to harness their creative skills.Sumit Menaria, a chartered accountant, said, “There was immense fear of pandemic. The fear and depression encouraged me to write my latest psychological suspense thriller in Hindi. I received positive responses from readers. Even a few publishers got in touch with me.”Menaria said weekends were great opportunities to pen down one’s thoughts. Instead of writing a complete novel at once, one can write in parts whenever there is time, he said.Vikas Bhanti Kulshreshtha, who works for a cement company, said, “I used to write Hindi content on social media platforms and my friends and relatives were the only readers. So, I received only positive comments from them. When I published my first content on Pratilipi free literary platform, I received a mixed response. Readers on the portal were reading three-four stories daily, comparing good and bad content. I learnt to evaluate my writing and got better at it”.Currently, he is writing a historic fiction about Naga Sadhus fighting the war for India’s Independence.Kanisha Hivrekar, a graphic art designer, said, “As I work US shift, night is the time for professional work. I finish my work by 6am and get enough sleep by noon, after which I get three to four hours a day to write. The lockdown was like an encouragement booster. My Marathi stories served as a stress buster for readers stuck at home during quarantine. I have published one of my stories Mahimar Chi Safar as a novel and am currently working on its sequel.”IT employee Ganesh Subhash Shinde wrote stories in Marathi to encourage people to live through the dark times caused by the pandemic. “Saving on travel time and energy, I could sit calmly, think and develop a story. My family let me have some ‘me’ time to pursue writing. I’ve written more than 100 articles, including short stories, long stories, episodic series, and some poems.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/puneites-take-time-during-pandemic-to-write-stories/articleshow/80393226.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Lucknow||UP to promote defence corridor at Aero Show||LUCKNOW: The upcoming Defence Corridor in UP will be a part of International Aero India-2021 exhibition, to be held in Bengaluru from February 3-5. Awanish Awasthi, CEO of the UP Defence Corridor, said the state will set up a huge pavilion at the aero show. “Our team is ready and several foreign defence companies have signed agreements to put their units in the defence corridor. Some work is in progress and we will surely be able to attract more companies to come to Uttar Pradesh,” he said. The aero show is organised every alternate year in India and is one of the most important exhibitions for aerospace and defence industries which includes a public air show. Several foreign defence manufacturing companies which participated in Defence Expo in Lucknow last year will also be a part of the Aero India show. It is being organised by the defence ministry and Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL). According to the defence ministry, around 541 defence companies will be participating in the event, of which 463 are from India while 78 are foreign. In addition to this, 105 companies will join the exhibition virtually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-promote-def-corridor-at-aero-show/articleshow/80395548.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Pune||Pune man loses Rs 5 lakh in bid to get son role in ad||PUNE: A businessman from Yerawada has lodged an FIR stating that a caller duped him of Rs4.72 lakh in July-August last year after promising to cast his four-year-old son in an advertisement for a well-known biscuit company. “We have established the identity of the caller on the basis of the bank details he had given to the businessman for transferring the money. We hope to arrest the suspect soon,” an officer from the Yerawada police said. Police said the suspect prepared fake email IDs having similarities with a prominent biscuit company and randomly sent emails to people stating that he was looking for kids for a forthcoming advertisement of the company. The victim received the mail and decided to pitch his son’s profile, police said. Police said the fraudster then asked the victim to transfer money to his account and also to his UPI application. The victim made these money transfers to the given bank and UPI accounts. In all, the fraudster took Rs4.72 lakh from him. The businessman then waited for a few months. When the suspected stopped answering his phone, he realised that he was cheated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-loses-rs-5l-in-bid-to-get-son-role-in-ad/articleshow/80393220.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Planning helps smooth delivery of doses to districts||JAIPUR: A day after the state received 5,50,500 lakh Covishield doses at Jaipur and Udaipur, the health department distributed them among all the districts on Thursday. Earlier, on January 14, each district had come to collect the vaccines from Jaipur, but now the health department has changed the process and the vaccines have been distributed in such a way that the far of districts such as Barmer and Jalore need not have to come to Jaipur to collect the vaccines travelling long distance and they will be able to collect it from Jodhpur. On January 14, a Barmer driver had to drive vaccine van covering 1,100km from Barmer and within 24 hours he returned back Barmer after collecting the vaccine. Now, it has not happened at this time, as the health department judiciously planned the routes for vaccine distribution. A van carrying the vaccine from Jaipur reached Jodhpur from where it was distributed to Barmer and Jalore. “We have distributed the 5,50,500 vaccines from Jaipur and Udaipur to districts which we had received at Jaipur and Udaipur airports on Wednesday,” said a health department official. The vaccines are now sufficient for vaccinating registered 4.5 healthcare workers twice at a gap of 28 days. While the vaccines were being distributed, two more persons died of Covid-19 in the state on Thursday, while 265 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state bringing its overall tally to 3,16,081. With two more deaths, state’s toll rose to 2,756. Districts which reported new cases are Kota (69), Jaipur (40), Nagaur (28), Jodhpur (15), Ajmer (11), Alwar (11), Bhilwara (11), Dungarpur (10), Udaipur (9), Chittorgarh (9), Bundi (7), Baran (7), Sriganganagar (6), Banswara (4), Bharatpur (4), Jhalawar (4), Pali (3), Rajsamand (3), Pratapgarh (2), Dausa (2), Jalore (2), Karauli (2), Sirohi (2), Tonk (2), Sawai Madhopur (1) and Barmer (1). Jaipur reported its 513th Covid-19 deaths and Jodhpur reported its 301st Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/planning-helps-smooth-delivery-of-doses-to-dists/articleshow/80397084.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Planning helps smooth delivery of doses to districts||JAIPUR: A day after the state received 5,50,500 lakh Covishield doses at Jaipur and Udaipur, the health department distributed them among all the districts on Thursday. Earlier, on January 14, each district had come to collect the vaccines from Jaipur, but now the health department has changed the process and the vaccines have been distributed in such a way that the far of districts such as Barmer and Jalore need not have to come to Jaipur to collect the vaccines travelling long distance and they will be able to collect it from Jodhpur. On January 14, a Barmer driver had to drive vaccine van covering 1,100km from Barmer and within 24 hours he returned back Barmer after collecting the vaccine. Now, it has not happened at this time, as the health department judiciously planned the routes for vaccine distribution. A van carrying the vaccine from Jaipur reached Jodhpur from where it was distributed to Barmer and Jalore. “We have distributed the 5,50,500 vaccines from Jaipur and Udaipur to districts which we had received at Jaipur and Udaipur airports on Wednesday,” said a health department official. The vaccines are now sufficient for vaccinating registered 4.5 healthcare workers twice at a gap of 28 days. While the vaccines were being distributed, two more persons died of Covid-19 in the state on Thursday, while 265 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state bringing its overall tally to 3,16,081. With two more deaths, state’s toll rose to 2,756. Districts which reported new cases are Kota (69), Jaipur (40), Nagaur (28), Jodhpur (15), Ajmer (11), Alwar (11), Bhilwara (11), Dungarpur (10), Udaipur (9), Chittorgarh (9), Bundi (7), Baran (7), Sriganganagar (6), Banswara (4), Bharatpur (4), Jhalawar (4), Pali (3), Rajsamand (3), Pratapgarh (2), Dausa (2), Jalore (2), Karauli (2), Sirohi (2), Tonk (2), Sawai Madhopur (1) and Barmer (1). Jaipur reported its 513th Covid-19 deaths and Jodhpur reported its 301st Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/planning-helps-smooth-delivery-of-doses-to-dists/articleshow/80397083.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Planning helps smooth delivery of doses to districts||JAIPUR: A day after the state received 5,50,500 lakh Covishield doses at Jaipur and Udaipur, the health department distributed them among all the districts on Thursday. Earlier, on January 14, each district had come to collect the vaccines from Jaipur, but now the health department has changed the process and the vaccines have been distributed in such a way that the far of districts such as Barmer and Jalore need not have to come to Jaipur to collect the vaccines travelling long distance and they will be able to collect it from Jodhpur. On January 14, a Barmer driver had to drive vaccine van covering 1,100km from Barmer and within 24 hours he returned back Barmer after collecting the vaccine. Now, it has not happened at this time, as the health department judiciously planned the routes for vaccine distribution. A van carrying the vaccine from Jaipur reached Jodhpur from where it was distributed to Barmer and Jalore. “We have distributed the 5,50,500 vaccines from Jaipur and Udaipur to districts which we had received at Jaipur and Udaipur airports on Wednesday,” said a health department official. The vaccines are now sufficient for vaccinating registered 4.5 healthcare workers twice at a gap of 28 days. While the vaccines were being distributed, two more persons died of Covid-19 in the state on Thursday, while 265 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state bringing its overall tally to 3,16,081. With two more deaths, state’s toll rose to 2,756. Districts which reported new cases are Kota (69), Jaipur (40), Nagaur (28), Jodhpur (15), Ajmer (11), Alwar (11), Bhilwara (11), Dungarpur (10), Udaipur (9), Chittorgarh (9), Bundi (7), Baran (7), Sriganganagar (6), Banswara (4), Bharatpur (4), Jhalawar (4), Pali (3), Rajsamand (3), Pratapgarh (2), Dausa (2), Jalore (2), Karauli (2), Sirohi (2), Tonk (2), Sawai Madhopur (1) and Barmer (1). Jaipur reported its 513th Covid-19 deaths and Jodhpur reported its 301st Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/planning-helps-smooth-delivery-of-doses-to-dists/articleshow/80397085.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra gets 8.7 lakh Covishield doses to complete phase I of vax drive||MUMBAI: The state government on Thursday received the remaining 8.7 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine needed to complete the first phase of inoculating nearly eight lakh healthcare workers. State director of health services Dr Archana Patil confirmed this and said 50% of the stock had already been dispatched to various districts. Of these, nearly 1.3 lakh doses were en route to BMC’s public health headquarters in Parel while going to the press. When the state received the first consignment of over 9.6 lakh doses on January 13, it was forced to decide that only 55%-60% of the healthcare workers would be administered the vaccine to avoid delay and the mixing of Covishield and Covaxin doses. The state has a list of almost eight lakh healthcare workers so far, including more than 1.2 lakh from Mumbai who have to get vaccinated in the first phase of the mass inoculation drive. Meanwhile, public health officials said Co-WIN software functioned well on Thursday, preparing adequate lists for the state to operationalise all 285 vaccine booths. “Co-WIN is working well and people have been alerted about their vaccination on Friday. There have been instances of people not getting notifications, but these are isolated cases,” said National Health Mission director N Ramaswami. So far, Maharashtra has vaccinated 51,650 healthcare workers. In Mumbai, too, the BMC public health department will, for the first time since the Covid-19 vaccination drive started on January 16, create log-ins for all 40 booths across 10 centres. In the first three days of vaccination, the BMC has managed to vaccinate 5,254 healthcare workers as against the target of 10,500. Officials said the Co-WIN app allowed vaccination sessions to be created in all 40 booths for the drive on Friday. “We have scheduled over 4,000 appointments and hope the turnout will be better. Besides, healthcare workers have the walk-in option,” said BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare. As an added measure, calls to beneficiaries were also made from the civic ward-level war rooms. Since the vaccine drive began,Gomare said there have been few cases of adverse events following immunisation. There were three instances on Tuesday and seven on Wednesday, but none were serious or warranted hospitalisation. “That alone we feel will motivate more to take the vaccine. We will take a review of the overall drive after Saturday,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-gets-8-7l-covishield-doses-to-complete-phase-i-of-vax-drive/articleshow/80394479.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 22, 2021||Jaipur||Vaccination: Increase No. of sites from 167 to 350, says Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Vaccination programme in the state should be conducted in a time-bound manner and immunisation of healthcare workers and frontline workers in the first phase should be completed soon, directed chief minister Ashok Gehlot at a review meeting here on Thursday. He said Rajasthan is ahead of the national average in vaccination which is an indication that like Covid management, the state will be on top in vaccination as well. He directed to increase the sites of immunization from 167 to 350 from Sunday. The chief minister also directed to increase the number of days of immunisation as well once the first phase is completed. He also directed to include private hospitals also in the immunisation process. Gehlot claimed that according to the assessment by the WHO, Rajasthan fulfils all the criteria of immunisation and thereby the only state in the ‘green category’. The chief minister said according to experts, the threat of Covid is still there. He said 100 percent immunisation of health workers is very critical so that any eventuality of a next peak of the virus could be tackled with confidence and next phase of vaccination could be taken up soon. The chief minister said the central government had set a target of vaccinating about 30 crore population. He said such a huge task could be accomplished only with decentralisation of management and systems. He said due to glitches in the software, there was difficulty in achieving the target. The central government should take necessary upgradation in the software and technology, he said. Secretary medical and health Siddarth Mahajan said due to the various conditions in the central government guidelines only 90% of the vaccines could be used now. He said currently Rajasthan is using 96.59% of the vaccines. The wastage vaccine in the state is only 3.40%. He said in the first here days at 501 session sites, 32,379 people were given vaccination. He said this is about 9% higher than the national average.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/increase-no-of-sites-from-167-to-350cm/articleshow/80394450.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Planning helps smooth delivery of doses to districts||JAIPUR: A day after the state received 5,50,500 lakh Covishield doses at Jaipur and Udaipur, the health department distributed them among all the districts on Thursday. Earlier, on January 14, each district had come to collect the vaccines from Jaipur, but now the health department has changed the process and the vaccines have been distributed in such a way that the far of districts such as Barmer and Jalore need not have to come to Jaipur to collect the vaccines travelling long distance and they will be able to collect it from Jodhpur. On January 14, a Barmer driver had to drive vaccine van covering 1,100km from Barmer and within 24 hours he returned back Barmer after collecting the vaccine. Now, it has not happened at this time, as the health department judiciously planned the routes for vaccine distribution. A van carrying the vaccine from Jaipur reached Jodhpur from where it was distributed to Barmer and Jalore. “We have distributed the 5,50,500 vaccines from Jaipur and Udaipur to districts which we had received at Jaipur and Udaipur airports on Wednesday,” said a health department official. The vaccines are now sufficient for vaccinating registered 4.5 healthcare workers twice at a gap of 28 days. While the vaccines were being distributed, two more persons died of Covid-19 in the state on Thursday, while 265 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state bringing its overall tally to 3,16,081. With two more deaths, state’s toll rose to 2,756. Districts which reported new cases are Kota (69), Jaipur (40), Nagaur (28), Jodhpur (15), Ajmer (11), Alwar (11), Bhilwara (11), Dungarpur (10), Udaipur (9), Chittorgarh (9), Bundi (7), Baran (7), Sriganganagar (6), Banswara (4), Bharatpur (4), Jhalawar (4), Pali (3), Rajsamand (3), Pratapgarh (2), Dausa (2), Jalore (2), Karauli (2), Sirohi (2), Tonk (2), Sawai Madhopur (1) and Barmer (1). Jaipur reported its 513th Covid-19 deaths and Jodhpur reported its 301st Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/planning-helps-smooth-delivery-of-doses-to-dists/articleshow/80394457.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||HC asks Telugu states to set up security panels in 4 weeks||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Thursday gave four weeks each to the states of Telangana and AP to set up the state security commission (SSC) and the police complaints authority (PCA) in tune with the Prakash Singh Case judgment pronounced by the Supreme Court 15 years ago. The bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy took note of the fact that Telangana has already forwarded some names of the retired judges of the Supreme Court, high court and also the names of retired district judges to be appointed as chairman and members of these state and district level bodies and assured advocate general BS Prasad that it would soon clear some of the names. You can take four weeks from the date of receiving our reply for completing the rest of the work, the bench said. “The common high court took up this cause in 2017 and has been monitoring the case to ensure that the required mechanism is in place. The mechanism would bring in some protection and independence to police officers holding important positions and would also hold them accountable for any excesses. We are not closing the PILs,” the bench said. Appearing for AP, its counsel P Govind Reddy informed the bench that they brought out two GOs for the appointment of chairman and five members of the state security commission along with the formation of police complaints authorities at the state and district level. But Covid-19 had an adverse impact on the governance and hence we could not complete the remaining formalities, he said, seeking more time to do that. The bench gave four weeks to the state of AP to complete the formation of the committees and adjourned the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-asks-telugu-states-to-set-up-security-panels-in-4-wks/articleshow/80393259.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Lucknow||UP Covid deaths per 10 lakhway below national average||Lucknow: The recovery rate from Covid-19 in UP has reached 97% while the death rate (per 10 lakh population) here is among the lowest, said a government spokesperson on Thursday. Against the national average of 114 Covid-19 deaths per 10 lakh, UP's average is just 34, he said. It is also far below other states like Delhi (543), Maharashtra (414), Tamil Nadu (162), Karnataka (185), Andhra Pradesh (136), West Bengal (104) and Kerala (100) per population of 10 lakh, the spokesperson said. The total lives lost due to the Covid-19 in UP since the onset of the pandemic is 8,597, including six in the past 24 hours, which is about 1.4% of the total cases reported in UP. The number of active patients now is just 7,500, he added. Crediting the trend to UP CM’s strategy in dealing with the epidemic health, government officials said that the state’s management of the pandemic has been lauded by World Health Organisation. Medical teams reached out to the homes of more than 18 crore people for surveillance, he said, adding "Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi has cited Yogi’s Covid-19 management as an example for other states to follow.” The strategy rested on testing and treatment, but what actually brought a difference was the robust management from the CM’s end. With over 2.65 crore tests, while UP is much ahead of other states, it has also conducted 46 tests against one infected person which is much higher than the national average (17.8 per infected person), the spokesperson said. Principal secretary, health and family welfare Alok Kumar, said that more recoveries (345) than new cases (321) were reported in the past 24 hours. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-covid-deaths-per-10-lakhway-below-national-average/articleshow/80395539.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||Apprehensions aplenty, GMCH sees sharp fall in Covaxin takers||Nagpur: Top doctors, department head and Class-I officers taking the Covaxin shots hasn’t changed the general perception among the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) health care workers, most of whom remained elusive on Thursday.On Wednesday, vice-dean Dr Brajesh Gupta, medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande and surgery department head Dr Arti Mitra were among the 52 beneficiaries inoculated on Day Three of the drive. GMCH’s ward number 49 is the only other inoculation centre in Vidarbha to administer Covaxin shots beside Amravati’s district general hospital. So far, Amravati centre has seen cent per cent turnout for the indigenous jab on two out of the three immunization days while the scene at GMCH has been bleak. The immunization was not done in Amravati on Thursday as it will be done on alternate days only. Those taking the jab too have tried to lift the morale of other beneficiaries by posting their pictures on social media while getting injected. They have also given positive feedback to motivate their colleagues. Yet, the confusion and doubts seem to persist in the minds of the GMCH beneficiaries.As per the official record, around 5,200 frontline health care workers are registered for the jab. However, 155 have been vaccinated against a target of 400 in four days of the drive since January 16. Officials were tight-lipped about the continued reluctance of their colleagues to take the vaccine. Those who turned up on Thursday said they have done some browsing on the Internet and consulted top doctors. “Why would the government give the jab to health care workers if there was any major risk? Our seniors have been appealing us to take the jab. None of those who took the vaccination have so far complained of any adverse effect. Authorities need to be strict now as another Covid wave is expected in April,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/apprehensions-aplenty-gmch-sees-sharp-fall-in-covaxin-takers/articleshow/80392162.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||HC quashes rape FIR against Gadchiroli doctor||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court quashed an FIR against a Gadchiroli doctor, who was accused of raping a medical practitioner several times on the pretext of marriage.According to prosecution, petitioner Dr Saurabh Nagulwa was a neighbour of the complainant, a divorcee. The complainant claimed that Dr Nagulwa forced her into sexual relationship on the promise of marriage and continued to exploit her on multiple occasions. However, Dr Nagulwa later refused to marry the woman and threatened her with dire consequences, it was alleged.After Dr Nagulwa refused to marry, the woman lodged a complaint with Gadchiroli police. The accused moved the high court, through counsel Neeraj Khandewale, contending that the woman had levelled false allegations and pleaded for quashing of the FIR.“We have carefully considered the contents of FIR. There is no allegation in it that the promise of marriage was a false one at its inception, given in bad faith. The accusation in FIR does not show false promise, as of immediate relevance or had direct nexus to the woman’s decision to engage in sexual act,” said a division bench comprising Justice Zaka Haq and Justice Amit Borkar.“We are, therefore, satisfied that continuance of proceedings against the petitioner would amount to abuse of process of the court,” said the judges before allowing the doctor’s plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-quashes-rape-fir-against-gadchiroli-doctor/articleshow/80392170.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 22, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: After gap of 2 days, vaccination drive to resume today||JAIPUR: After a gap of two days, the Covid-19 inoculation drive will be beginning from Friday with the health department making efforts to increase the percentage of target achievement. The messages have been sent to the beneficiaries a day in advance through Co-WIN App to remain prepared for vaccination as they are among those in the list who will get vaccinated at their respective vaccination site. Major challenge ahead of the health department officials before starting the fourth day of vaccination is to increase the percentage of achievement of target. The health department had witnessed that the percentage of target achievement had decreasing every day. On Day 1 of Covid-19 inoculation drive, the achievement of target in the state was 73.7%, on Day 2 of the vaccination drive, the achievement of target was 68.7% and on Day 3 (Tuesday), it has done further down to 54.8%, shows the report issued by the health department on Tuesday. “Directions have been issued to ensure conducting the drive online using Co-WIN. In the first three days, frequent emergence of glitches in Co-WIN has affected immunisation coverage. On the first day, the coverage was high as it was allowed to conduct the immunisation drive offline. But, now it will be done online,” said a health department official. The health department has imparted training to the teams involved in feeding data and details of beneficiaries in Co-WIN during vaccination. “We hope that the percentage achievement of target of vaccination on fourth day will be high as the government has allowed to vaccinate those registered healthcare workers who are not among the list of getting vaccinated on that particular day, but they will be vaccinated in place of absentee beneficiaries,” said the official. A video conferencing of health department officials continued till late Thursday night on successfully organising the vaccination session on Friday with an increasing percentage of target achievement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-gap-of-2-days-vaccination-drive-to-resume-today/articleshow/80394464.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Seven dead, 13 injured in Nalgonda truck-auto smash||HYDERABAD: Seven labourers died and 13 others suffered injuries when the auto they were travelling in was mowed down by a truck coming from the opposite direction at Angadipeta in Nalgonda district on Thursday night.  The victims were travelling from Peddavoora to different villages in Deverakonda mandal in an auto when the mishap occurred at Angadipeta on Thursday night.  “They boarded an auto to reach their villages. When the auto reached Angadipeta, a truck coming from the opposite direction, rammed into the auto while attempting to overtake a mini goods carrier. After the truck hit the auto, the driver of the goods carrier panicked and turned his vehicle suddenly to right and it also over turned,” Gudipally police said.  Six passengers of the auto and the auto driver died in the accident while 13 other passengers suffered injuries. A case was registered under section 304-A and 337 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/seven-dead-13-injured-in-nalgonda-truck-auto-smash/articleshow/80393271.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Electric vehicle sales up, lack of govt support spoils the ride||CHENNAI: In Tamil Nadu, sales of conventional diesel/petrol vehicles dropped by 24% in 2020 over the previous year, but sales of electric vehicles recorded an uptrend, particularly in Chennai. In 2020, Regional Transport Offices (RTOs) across TN registered 5,696 electric vehicles (EVs), almost 90% of them two-wheelers that too scooters, against 3,400 in 2019, but misconceptions and lack of government will to promote them have meant the growth remains below par. S Rajvel, state chairperson of Federation of Automobile Dealers Association (FADA), said the success ratio is better in the e-scooter section because those who ride them travel less than 60km a day. "Charging is easier and necessary infra is available at some places. But few prefer electric motorcycles or cars because of confusion about battery life, charging time and financing options." While conventional car batteries come with a five-year warranty, there is no more than a two-year warranty for EVs after which owners have to spend again spend on batteries (up to 60% of its cost), he added. Charging time has reduced and travel range (three hours charge for 120 km travel approximately for bikes) is up, but people fear batteries may drain en route. Even if public charging points come up, few would be willing to queue up to recharge them, said a transport department official. EV makers say swappable battery technology is available, but not many prefer fitting one or two-year-old batteries in new vehicles. The high cost, says Chennai-based EV maker Mansoor Ali Khan, is because it take, on an average, ₹1,10,000 to manufacture a battery for e-auto and equal amount to import power trains. "So we can’t sell a vehicle for less than ₹3 lakh. Availing government subsidies is also still difficult," said Khan. Had a request by the Society of Manufacturers of Electric Vehicles to the state to include EVs in Amma two-wheeler scheme been accepted, scooter sale would have increased, but the proposal remains with the TN Women Development Corporation. Reluctance of financiers to offer loans for EVs is another problem. Enquiries with local showrooms suggest not many are ready to offer even 40% of the on-road price for EVs, while 90% of the price is offered for petrol and diesel cars. This is because financiers are still not sure about the resale value in case an EV is seized for non-payment of loan interests. To avoid such problems, manufacturers like Ather have begun tying up with financing firms and offer buy-back options after two or three years. There is a legal angle too. Advocate V S Suresh Kumar said few are aware that there is a separate driving licence for EVs. "They are exempted only from road tax but not from insurance renewals. For instance, battery-operated vehicles operated by Greater Chennai Corporation do not have insurance or permits. When such vehicles meet with accidents, insurance claims become complicated," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/electric-vehicle-sales-up-lack-of-govt-support-spoils-the-ride/articleshow/80393253.cms||Ram Sundaram
January 22, 2021||Bhopal||Villages show the way in vac drive||Bhopal: Tribal and rural areas of Madhya Pradesh are replicating the trend of high immunisation coverage in getting the coronavirus jab. Overall, 62.25% (10,508 doses out of 16,881 targeted doses) was achieved on Thursday. For instance, Dhar district has three vaccination sites. “The tribal belt’s turnout for vaccination is much higher than others. Manawar and Kuchi reported a coverage of 85% on Thursday, whereas Dhar (more urban) reported 65% turnout. Our coverage would have been in the high 90% if urban sites replicated what took place in tribal areas,” said Dhar collector, Alok Singh. The district has a target of vaccinating around 12,000 health workers. The message of keep Covid-19 away is steady. On Thursday, a banner was hung on the historic Mandu fort, urging people to take the vaccine and also keep wearing a facemask. “Historically, rural and tribal areas are more accepting towards health programmes and immunisation. Same goes with health workers in rural areas, who are more accustomed to vaccination drives and more forthcoming. Balaghat, for instance, has one of the highest coverage for regular immunisation. Dindori reported 93% on first day of the vaccination in MP,” said a senior health consultant. Balaghat district with 70.33% and Dindori district (65.3%) on Thursday were higher than the state average of 62%. Going by health department reporting on Thursday, areas with major concentration of tribal population reported higher vaccination numbers than the state average on Thursday. Chhindwara (64.5.3%), Betul (60.96%), Seoni (69.44), Rewa (60.1%), Khandwa (71.77%) and Shivpuri (67.57%). Shahdol with 37.4% and Mandla (51.8%) reported a low turnout. Barwani reported 45.6% and Alirajpur 49.8% coverage. The targeted coverage in Sondwa, Bhahra and Kattriwari block was not known. In Neemuch, World Health Organisation field monitor, Pappu Rajora, was administered the coronavirus vaccine. ‘Feeling good after the vaccination’, Rajora said, urging others to come forward and get the vaccine jab’. Chhatarpur reported the highest 83.33 daily targeted coverage on Thursday. In Madhya Pradesh, more than 38,663 people have been given the Covid vaccine by the end of fourth day of vaccination. On Thursday, there were 140 centres across the state. Covid vaccination is being done in the state for four days a week on Monday, Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/villages-show-the-way-in-vac-drive/articleshow/80392169.cms||Jamal Ayub
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||NHAI to build four wildlife underpasses on NH-6 for Rs540cr||Nagpur: Finally addressing a decade-old issue, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has floated tenders for wildlife underpasses on NH-6 (NH-53) in the dense forest patches left out between Sakoli and Deori in Bhandara and Gondia districts. The bids will open on January 29.NHAI regional officer Rajeev Agrawal told TOI that the tenders were floated in December as per recommendations from NTCA & WII, Dehradun and orders by Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court.Agrawal said, “There will be three underpasses of 750 metres and one of 700 metres with 5 metre height in four critical patches. Besides, there will be 26 culverts. Construction will be completed in 730 days after issuing work permits. The project will cost Rs540 crore.”Underpasses will be built at Patch-I between Sirpur-Navatola (700mt), Patch-VI Maramjob-Dongargaon (750mt), Patch-VIII Bamhni-Duggipar (750mt) and Patch-X Sakoli-Mundipar (750mt).These patches connect seven vital tiger populations of Central Indian Tiger Landscape Complex. This wildlife corridor connects Melghat, Satpura, Pench (MP & Maharashtra), Kanha, Navegaon-Nagzira, Indravati, and Tadoba-Andhari tiger reserves. There have been regular wild animal deaths in these patches.WII’s initial report submitted in 2012 had recommended 1,500-2,000 metre wildlife underpasses in 10 forest patches but NHAI did not agree due to cost constraints. The number of underpasses was brought down to four under political pressure in 2015.Later, the high court took up the matter of NH-6 (Mumbai-Kolkata) & NH-7 (Varanasi-Kanyakumari) simultaneously.The regional empowered committee (REC) approved the proposal in January 2019 and accordingly Stage-I clearance was granted in March 2019. One year was wasted as the user agency made some typographical errors in the proposal as recommended by the WII-NTCA. Over 50.68 hectares of forest land will be diverted for the project.REC member Suresh Chopne said, “On REC’s order, NHAI and WII officials conducted a joint survey in January 2020. The proposal was submitted before the REC and approved on February 24, 2020. Now, getting Stage-II clearance is just a formality.”Chopne further said the NHAI proposal has been approved with a suggestion to develop separate nurseries to raise at least 50,000 seedlings of native species. It was suggested that 50% of these seedlings should be used for plantations in the vicinity of the project area and distribute the remaining free of cost.Under Phase-III, the NHAI undertook to upgrade the two-lane road to four between Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh border up to Wainganga bridge from chainage 405km-485km with 60 metre right of way throughout the stretch.Out of the total project length of 80km, 23.85km of road passes through 10 dense forest patches. However, some patches were completed by the NHAI without taking mitigation steps. Of the stretch from Bhandara to Deori, 13.45km has already been upgraded to a four-lane by violating Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nhai-to-build-four-wildlife-underpasses-on-nh-6-for-rs540cr/articleshow/80392196.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||15-year-old fails in bid to kidnap mother’s lover, rounded up||Nagpur: A teenager, aged around 15 years, allegedly plotted kidnapping of his mother’s paramour to bump him off. The victim, Pradeep Nandanwar, had a miraculous escape on Wednesday after he jumped off a speeding bike at Itwari after spotting a cop in the vicinity. The kidnappers fled in the other direction to avoid getting caught by cop on patrolling duty. The teenager had also allegedly roped in his sister’s friend Suresh Koradkar, 19, and another friend aged 17. Tehsil police team, under senior inspector Jayesh Bhandarkar and assistant PI, crime, Shailesh Gaikwad, have rounded up the trio. Nandanwar was kidnapped from a shop where he worked at Jagnath Budhwari. He allegedly had an illicit relationship with the teenager’s mother who stayed alone at Kanzi House chowk. The teenager’s parents often had a fight over the woman’s extra-marital affair. The teenager wanted to teach Nandanwar a lesson. He roped in his two accomplices and picked up Nandanwar from his shop. They also snatched Nandanwar’s cell phone.Police said after escaping the kidnapping bid, Nandanwar reached the woman’s residence and alerted his family. Tehsil cops, who were alerted by Nandanwar’s employer, immediately sent constables Sameer Shaikh, Nazir Shaikh and others to pick up the teenager and his two accomplices. “The three do not have any criminal record but we have taken suitable legal action against them,” said Bhandarkar who investigated the case under the supervision of zonal DCP Lohit Matani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/15-year-old-fails-in-bid-to-kidnap-mothers-lover-rounded-up/articleshow/80392174.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 22, 2021||Delhi||Jewellery shop worker who felt harassed planned Rs 20 crore heist in Delhi, held||NEW DELHI: The arrest of a 26-year-old electrician has solved a Rs 20-crore burglary case at a jewellery showroom within 24 hours. The heist is reported to be the biggest in the city in terms of the worth of stolen items. Sheikh Noor Rehman, himself an employee of the three-floor Anjali Jewellers, sneaked into the shop wearing a PPE suit on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday and made away with over 25kg gold jewellery. The stolen items have been recovered. As the shop was manned by guards at the front and the rear, Rehman got inside through the terrace of the third floor by cutting open its fibre sheet. Police said he claimed to have planned the heist as he was feeling harassed, with his seniors asking him to get them tea and water though he was supposed to be handling electricity-related work. Rehman had approached the shop from the terrace of an adjacent building. He first broke the lock before cutting the fiber sheet and another window, and then used a pressure cutter to unlock the shutter. He was aware of the CCTV cameras installed at multiple places, so wore the PPE suit and a mask to hide his identity. According to DCP (southeast) R P Meena, the heist was reported around 10.30am on Wednesday when the manager arrived to open the showroom. When the cops checked the CCTV camera footage, they just saw one man in a PPE suit. The cops had found that most ornaments in the show window of the ground floor were missing and the locks of the drawers were also broken open. The burglar seemed to have entered the store room on the third floor and then into the main shop, police said. The lock on the iron grill gate on the third floor was found broken. Personnel from virtually all police stations were out on the job, and the cops probing an insider’s role soon got a clue. They were told that Rehman had gone to West Bengal on leave 10 days ago. His whereabouts were checked and he was traced to Karol Bagh. Rehman reportedly revealed that he had prepared for a month and even learnt to operate gas and pressure cutters. He then took leave on January 10 on the pretext of going home. Before leaving the area, he did a recce of the adjoining buildings and ways to reach the showroom undetected and identified a building with several vacant flats. He also prepared a list of the articles and equipment that he might require to enter the jewellery shop. While on leave, he collected the equipment. Rehman had joined Anjali Jewellers in Kolkata around two years ago and shifted to the Delhi outlet last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jewellery-shop-worker-who-felt-harassed-planned-rs-20cr-heist-held/articleshow/80393294.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Chennai||R-Day travel: Flights costly, trains full||CHENNAI: The demand for flights and trains for the Republic Day extended weekend show that domestic travel, for leisure and for family visits, is edging closer to pre-Covid levels. Domestic air fares are up and trains are full for travel on Saturday. As Republic Day falls on Tuesday, many people are taking leave on Monday to get four days off. There is a government holiday for Thaipoosam on Thursday. The demand for seats on flights and trains are high on Saturday and Sunday. One-way fare from Chennai to Delhi is close to Rs 7,000 and to Mumbai it is around Rs 6,000. Flights to Kolkata, Madurai and Bengaluru are costly. Tickets to Madurai and Tuticorin are costly as the number of flights are few. A one-way ticket costs Rs 3,500 to Rs 6,000 to Madurai and Rs 6,000 to Rs 6,200 to Tuticorin on Saturday. The Chennai airport has also increased the number of domestic flights to 230 a day. Nishant Pitti of EaseMyTrip.com said: “Fares have increased for the extended weekend. It will come down post the seven to 15 days. At EaseMyTrip, we have seen 95% of domestic business back to pre-Covid-19 levels. The travellers comprise a mix of leisure and those flying for family visits.” Trains from Chennai to southern towns such as Madurai, Tuticorin and Tirunelveli are full with tickets on waitlist for all classes on Saturday, Sunday and Wednesday, a day before Thaipoosam. T Sadagopan, a consumer activist, said Republic Day and Thaipoosam holidays, marriages and absence of passenger services are the reason for high demand for seats on express trains to the southern towns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/r-day-travel-flights-costly-trains-full/articleshow/80393273.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Bhopal||Mutton sales up in Bhopal as bird flu scare hits poultry business||BHOPAL: The poultry industry in Bhopal continues to incur huge losses as the sales of eggs and chicken have gone down by almost 50%. Though many people continue to consume poultry products, mutton sales have gone up to over 40%. The animal husbandry department has, however, denied any outbreak of bird flu in Bhopal’s poultry farms. In most of the places, including Bhopal, only crows were found infected by the flu, said Dr RK Rokde, director of MP’s animal husbandry department. Even otherwise, Dr Rokde said, “There is no harm in consumption of chicken and eggs if they are cooked at 70 degrees Celsius.” He said that a total 4,000 chickens were culled in Jhabua, Neemuch, Mandsaur and Harda, among other places. Only in one small farm in Jhabua, the chicken were found infected with the flu. In all other cases, including Harda and Mandsaur, the backyard chickens were found infected. But people are panicky. For the last 15 days, poultry sales have collapsed. Even the demand of Kadaknath, the black poultry, has also gone down in Bhopal drastically. Poultry dealers of Bhopal are concerned about the “rising losses”. From Rs 100 per kg, chicken was sold at a rate of Rs 70 to Rs 80 a kg in the wholesale market in Bhopal while the sale declined to almost 50%, said Inamurehman, a poultry farm owner in the city. However, retailers still sell at a rate of around Rs 120 a kg. Rajendra Singh, a poultry farm owner and office-bearer of the city unit of the National Eggs Coordination Committee, said, “It is extremely incorrect to link the bird flu with consumption of eggs and chicken.” Due to the bird flu scare, a large number of non-vegetarians have switched over to mutton which is sold at a rate of Rs 600-Rs 650/kg in Bhopal. Meat sellers in Bhopal said that now that the consumption has gone up, so have the prices of goats. “It is already so costly that selling beyond Rs 600 per kg may bring down its consumption,” said a meat seller, adding, “the sales of badaa or buffalo meat has also gone up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mutton-sales-up-as-bird-flu-scare-hits-poultry-business/articleshow/80392187.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
January 22, 2021||Chennai||Madras high court fines men who threw dog off roof||CHENNAI: The two final year medical students who in 2016 had flung Bhadra, then a five-month-old stray puppy, off the terrace of their house in Kundrathur, have been asked to pay cash compensation in the form of a donation to Blue Cross of India (BCI) by the Madras high court on Thursday. The accused are now practising doctors. Read AlsoDog thrown from Chennai rooftop found aliveThe pup who was thrown off a rooftop in Chennai has been found alive. One of the animal rights activists involved in pushing for police action on the issue posted a picture late on Tuesday night, saying the pup is unable to walk properly and that she is presently receiving medical attention.In July 2016, Ashish Paul and S Gautam, then students of Madha Medical College, flung the dog from the terrace. A video of it went viral on social media after some students uploaded it. Animal welfare activist Shravan Krishnan shared it on Facebook and received a tip-off following which the duo was arrested. Animal welfare activists also rescued the puppy, which suffered multiple fractures. However, the two were granted bail by a court in Sriperumbudur. “I had filed a bail quash case in the high court with the help of my lawyer S V Pravin Rathinam asking that the bail be cancelled and that psychiatric evaluation be done for the students. It came up for final hearing on Thursday,” said animal welfare activist Antony Rubin. “The judge Justice P N Prakash asked about the dog’s welfare and took note that she is in good health. He then asked the accused to donate Rs 25,000 to BCI for animal welfare and submit the receipt in court within four weeks,” said Rubin, adding that the trial against the duo is still going on in the Sriperumbudur magistrate court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-fines-men-who-threw-dog-off-roof/articleshow/80393268.cms||Priya Menon
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Witnesses in murder case felicitated||Hyderabad: East Zone joint CP M Ramesh Reddy felicitated Abdul Aijaz, Md Zahid and Md Imran whose statements as witnesses in a murder case led to life conviction of the accused recently. The witnesses have told police that each of them were offered Rs 1 lakh to favour the accused by an unknown caller using virtual phone number. But the trio refused the offer saying they want justice for the victim from their locality, police said. In another development, Hyderabad CP Anjani Kumar honoured K Praveen Kumar, AR Police Constable, posted with Interceptor Vehicle with a reward for feeding street dogs during the lock down period. Praveen fed street dogs at KBR park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/witnesses-in-murder-case-felicitated/articleshow/80394467.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Bareilly||Five men of ‘fake’ outfit booked for collecting money for Ram Mandir||Pilibhit: Five persons were booked in Pilibhit on Wednesday for allegedly collecting donations for the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya through a "fake" local outfit.A written complaint was filed in this regard by district president of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP).Following a nationwide campaign of VHP to collect voluntary donations from people for the construction of Ram Mandir, area wise collection teams of VHP and RSS workers have been constituted in Pilibhit.When one such team reached the Kala Mandir locality under Sungarhi police station to collect the donation, devotees told team members that they had already given money to another local outfit.The VHP functionary told the police that members of the other outfit had issued "fake" receipts to voluntary donors, and they had no authority to collect money for Ram Mandir on VHP's behalf.Sungarhi SHO Shrikant Dwivedi said that the receipt issued by the local outfit revealed the names of its office bearers. After a probe, they all were found to be the residents of Pilibhit city.The police have now booked them under IPC sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forging a document purporting to be a receipt acknowledging the payment of money), 468 (committing forgery, intending that the document forged shall be used for the purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document).One of the men, with a past criminal record, has been arrested, the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-men-of-fake-outfit-booked-for-collecting-money-for-ram-mandir/articleshow/80390529.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 22, 2021||Chennai||Demolish this water tank, say residents||Chennai: A dilapidated Metrowater tank on Eighth Cross Street in Rajalakshmi Nagar, Velachery, has endangered the lives of residents nearby as they fear the structure may collapse any time. The residents had petitioned the CM’s Cell in 2017, requesting the government to demolish the tank. Metrowater had replied stating that the tank was not in use and would be demolished after approval from higher authorities. However, three years since the response, the agency has not brought down the tank, said residents. “This tank is located right next to my house. There is a Metrowater office there and this is a residential locality. There is a school located close by and children often cycle on the road. The tank’s staircase is broken and iron rods are visible. The cracks on the structure have become wider and we are worried it may collapse,” said Hariharan Padmanaban, a resident. During the heavy rain, we were living in constant fear. A small portion of the stair case and a part of the tank’s lid came off in December.” Padmanaban said he reached out to officials several times but there was no response. “The tank has not been in use for more than 20 years. During the 2015 floods, we were lucky that nothing happened. However, over the years, due to constant rainfall, the tank has been filled with rainwater and there are big cracks due to the volume of the water. The structure is tilted on one side,” said J Venkatraman, another resident. The executive engineer in-charge of the area told TOI that the tank will be demolished soon. “We will get orders from senior officials and bring it down. That tank is not in use now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/demolish-this-water-tank-say-residents/articleshow/80393281.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Bhopal||Jyotiraditya Scindia finally allotted a government bungalow in Bhopal||BHOPAL: After almost three years of searching for an address here in the state capital, BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia on Wednesday was allotted a bungalow by the Madhya Pradesh government at 5, Shyamla Hills. Interestingly, Scindia will be the new neighbour of two former chief ministers Uma Bharti and Digvijaya Singh. After losing the Lok Sabha election from Guna in 2019, he had vacated his old bungalow in Delhi, which was located at 27, Safdarjung Road. On July 27, 2019, he had vacated the noted Delhi address where he had passed golden years of his life with family and father Madhavrao Scindia. The bungalow was initially allotted to Madhavrao Scindia when he was Union minister. Later, after his demise, the government made an allotment in the name of Jyotiraditya. In May 2018, Scindia was the member of Congress’ campaign committee for assembly elections and wanted to set up a base in Bhopal. He was also a MP from Guna and had requested the then BJP government to allot an accommodation in the state capital. His application remained pending for almost six months, though he was within rights to claim a government bungalow. Unlike Scindia, former Union minister Kamal Nath was allotted a bungalow long back during Congress regime in the state in early 1990s. Although Nath hardly stayed at the bungalow, it came handy only after he was appointed as the Congress chief in MP.  Scindia realised that if he had to set base in the state capital to establish his credentials as a pan MP leader, he needed a bungalow allotted to his name, said sources. When the Congress came to power after the 2018 assembly elections, Scindia could not get a government accommodation for losing the Guna Lok Sabha seat in 2019.  After joining BJP in March 2020, Scindia was elected to Rajya Sabha in July and decided again to establish a base. The BJP government has finally allotted him a bungalow near the chief minister’s residence. The bungalow was earlier allotted to Congress minister Surendra Singh Baghel. Scindia’s bungalow is bigger than his neighbours Bharti and Digvijaya Singh. “Scindia had applied for a bungalow a long time back as he wanted to set up his base in Bhopal. After allotment procedure and repair works, he will shift here,” confirmed BJP state spokesperson and Scindia loyalist Pankaj Chaturvedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/scindia-finally-allotted-a-govt-bungalow-in-bhopal/articleshow/80392218.cms||Rajendra Sharma
January 22, 2021||Rajkot||64 people booked under land grabbing act in Jamnagar||RAJKOT: In the first case under the newly enacted 'The Gujarat Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Act 2020' in Jamnagar, police booked 64 persons for allegedly grabbing government land and huts, houses, shops. They rented out or illegally sold this properties which are worth crores. According to police, a complaint was lodged with Panchkoshi (B division) police in Jamnagar city under the new act. The government land on survey number 131 and 132 has been grabbed by many people who constructed kuchha, pucca houses, shops and collected rents from the occupants. Some of the shops were sold to individuals too. "The district administration had received a complaint about the land near the Dared GIDC area. On the basis of this complaint, a primary probe was launched. Moreover, collector and superintendent of police visited the place a few days ago and prima facie, it was found that the land belongs to the government,'' police official said. "The notices have been issued to occupants of huts, houses and shops to vacate them with immediate effect,'' an official said. The investigation has been handed over to deputy superintendent of police Krunal Desai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/64-people-booked-under-land-grabbing-act-in-jamnagar/articleshow/80392238.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||Tiger found dead in Melghat, Maharashtra toll 5 this year||Nagpur: A young male tiger was found dead in Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) in Amravati district on Wednesday. This is the fifth tiger death in Maharashtra this year.The body of the tiger was found in compartment number 271 of Madizadap beat under Raipur forest range under Sipna division. MS Reddy, APCCF & field director of Melghat, ruled out poaching as all the body parts including whiskers, claws and canines were intact. There are no marks on the body too.“Poisoning and electrocution are ruled out as there is no contamination in the two water bodies in the area and no power line passing through the spot,” said Reddy.Madizadap village, which is 3.5km from the spot, is the same area where park management and tribal rights activists are at loggerheads. A dispute is going on between tribals demanding rights on forest land under Forest Rights Act (FRA) 2006. Some activists are allegedly instigating villagers to oppose tourism. Sources said evidence may have been destroyed after killing the tiger.The Melghat forest officials have registered a preliminary offence report (POR) and are investigating further. A sniffer dog has been pressed into action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tiger-found-dead-in-melghat-maharashtra-toll-5-this-year/articleshow/80392226.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat govt aims for key changes in town planning regime||GANDHINAGAR: The state government is contemplating to make key changes in its town planning and urban development regime to boost the real estate sector. Both, RERA (Real Estate Regulatory Authority) and the Hasmukh Adhia led committee had proposed several reforms to augment the sector in the current scenario. Key sources in the state urban development department said that RERA and the Adhia committee had recommended key changes in the current town planning regime. “Some of the key reforms proposed by RERA and the Adhia committee were removal of agriculture zoning from municipal corporation limits in development plans so that more space could be made available for residential purposes, shifting of polluting industries out of congested areas and developing an exchange mechanism for transferable development rights (TDR) equal to the prevailing `jantri’ rates for facilitating rehabilitation schemes in cities with dense slums,” said sources. Sources added that among other recommendations, industrial zoning in cities could be converted to non-industrial zones by making gradual changes in the town planning (TP) schemes. Besides, mixed TP schemes may be encouraged in sub-zones, specific schemes to bring down the trip length, reduce road congestion and decrease pollution can be introduced, experts have opined. “The government intends to adopt most of the recommended reforms by the Adhia committee and RERA in the coming days,” sources said. While RERA – with technical support from CEPT University – had prepared a report on the changes needed in Gujarat’s town planning regime and had submitted it to the state government, the Adhia committee was appointed last year to chalk out a comprehensive economic revival and reform plan to boost economic activities post lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-aims-for-key-changes-in-town-planning-regime/articleshow/80393300.cms||Kapil Dave
January 22, 2021||Rajkot||Fake call centre duping British citizens busted in Gujarat||RAJKOT: A fake call centre conning British citizens was busted at Moti Barar village in Morbi district on Wednesday night. The gang chose a village to operate the call centre as several such operations have been busted in Ahmedabad and Rajkot in the past. Cops from Maliya Miyana police station had received information about the call centre being operated from a two-storey building behind a petrol pump in the village. On raiding the place, nine persons were found working at the call centre. All nine are residents of Ahmedabad. Police said that Vikas Tyagi is the kingpin while the eight others identified as Miresh Shah, Jitu George, Narendrasinh Rathod, Umesh Hiranandani, Rajesh Topno, Akash Rawal, Kaushal Patel and Reema Solanki used to talk to victims in the UK Using a software called eyeBeam, they used to randomly send text messages to people stating that their tax payment is outstanding and legal action will be taken against them. The message also used to carry a phone number asking them to call if the wanted to avoid legal hassles. When the victims called, they used to talk to them as per a script given to them. The panicked victims used to make payments believing it to be tax payments in a bank account in the UK. Later, the money used to be transferred to an account in Indian banks. “All nine accused have been arrested for cheating, criminal conspiracy and under Information Technology Act. We are interrogating them about how many people have they targeted and how much money they have made,” said sub-inspector N G Chudasama. Their bank accounts have been seized along with nine laptops, three mobile phones and an internet server.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fake-call-centre-duping-british-citizens-busted/articleshow/80392251.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||No IEC drive for now, healthcare workers aware of vaccine: BMC||MUMBAI: Even as the Centre launched an IEC (information, education and communication) campaign on Thursday to address vaccine hesitancy in some pockets, the BMC hasn’t scheduled one yet. “We are not planning any aggressive campaign at the moment since we are only vaccinating healthcare workers. They are aware about vaccination,” said BMC additional commissioner Suresh Kakani. The BMC plans to launch an awareness drive for the second and third phases where essential workers and senior citizens, respectively, will be vaccinated. But, many doctors believe there is a need to spread awareness among healthcare workers too. “Only a few of the 1.3 lakh healthcare workers are doctors,” said a doctor from KEM Hospital. Dr Sushant Singh from Bakul Parekh Hospital in Ghatkopar, who got vaccinated at Rajawadi Hospital, said: “I have served as an Army doctor. During vaccination drives, there is a central announcement system at centres that explains details about the vaccine, how it will feel and why it is needed. We need a similar arrangement in the Covid vaccination centres.” Dr Shashank Joshi, memb-er of state Covid-19 task force, suggested that efforts be made to spread awareness about the vaccine even among healthcare workers. But a BMC ward official said IEC could be a double-edged the sword at the moment. “We don’t have adequate stocks to vaccinate the medical fraternity. If we start a campaign on the benefits of the vaccine, the common man may feel cheated at being asked to wait.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-iec-drive-for-now-healthcare-workers-aware-of-vaccine-bmc/articleshow/80394550.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||HC turns down ‘false complaint’ under Atrocities Act||Nagpur: Coming to the rescue of a citizen, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court quashed a police complaint against him under the Section 3(1)(r)(s) of the ‘Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989’, and Section 506 of the Indian Penal Code. The complaint was lodged at Dhantoli police station by flower shop owner Shivraj Bavankar against Avinash Shegaonkar who is the secretary of the Shri Saibaba Seva Mandal, the trust managing affairs of popular Sai Mandir on Wardha Road. The complaint was a fallout of a tiff between the two on December 7, 2017 when Shegaonkar had placed a barricade in front of Bavankar’s shop. It’s alleged that when Bavankar requested him to remove barricade, Shegaonkar allegedly hurled caste abuses on him. “We’re satisfied that the prosecution launched by the respondent isn’t legitimate. It appears that registration of offence against the petitioner was due to his act to place a barricade in front of the respondent's shop, resulting in economic loss to him. Therefore, we’re satisfied that continuation of proceedings against petitioner would amount to abuse of court’s process,” a division bench comprising justices Zaka Haq and Amit Borkar held. After the FIR was registered on December 8, 2017, its cognisance wasn’t taken, as respondents failed to produce his caste certificate. It was only after he completed the formalities that FIR was lodged on February 15, 2018. Later, Shegaonkar through counsel Shreeganesh Abhyankar challenged it in HC. Opposing his plea, Bavankar filed his reply contending that the petitioner had abused him similarly on several occasions and even repeated the act against his mother on March 3, 2018. Quoting a joint report submitted by the Dhantoli Police in HC, Abhyankar pointed out that the incident narrated by Bavankar in his complaint and by his mother was totally different. “It appears that when the petitioner went in front of the respondent's shop to place barricade, the latter abused and threatened him to implicate under the case of abuse in the name of caste. The shopkeeper was disgruntled with the petitioner's act, as his business was affected due to it,” the judges said before quashing the FIR against Shegaonkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-turns-down-false-complaint-under-atrocities-act/articleshow/80393352.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Order probe on TRS corruption: Bhatti||Hyderabad: Congress Legislature party leader (CLP) Bhatti Vikramarka on Thursday asked BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar to act and not just talk. Addressing a press conference, he said, “Sanjay keeps boasting that corruption in Kaleswaram project would be investigated. If they have the courage they should order a probe into that.” Bhatti said the TRS regime is trying to divert the attention of people by talking about the change of guard in the state. “It is their internal matter, we will not comment on that,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/order-probe-on-trs-corruption-bhatti/articleshow/80394518.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Bareilly||Truck overturns on biker who had stopped to answer a call||Bareilly: The driver of a vegetable-laden truck lost the control over his vehicle and it overturned on a biker who had stopped to answer a phone call, killing him on the spot in Allahaganj area of Shahjahanpur district on Thursday morning. The driver, however, fled the scene.Dalpat Ram, a farmer hailing from Tatiyari village, was on his way to the market to buy household items when he stopped to answer a phone call on the roadside and suddenly a truck overturned on him, burying him alive, said police.The truck loaded with hundreds of sacks of green peas was moving slow, but as its front wheel went into a pit on the road, it overturned, said police. Allahaganj police station SHO Ajab Singh told TOI, “We have impounded the truck and booked the truck driver under sections 304A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code. We handed over the body to the family after autopsy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/truck-overturns-on-biker-who-had-stopped-to-answer-a-call/articleshow/80390540.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 22, 2021||Delhi||Dense fog engulfs Delhi-NCR; chilly week ahead||NEW DELHI: Dense fog engulfed parts of Delhi and the national capital region (NCR) early on Friday, leading to poor visibility in several areas. At least 10 trains were running late due to low visibility and other operational reasons in the Northern Railway region, reported news agency ANI. Delhi: Vehicles move through dense fog as visibility drops in the national capital. Visuals from ITO and GT Karnal… https://t.co/v0rcbMqavG— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1611284980000The regional met department said the lowest visibility at Palam airport was 1000-meter while 500-meter at the Safdarjung airport, at 7am. Delhi remains enveloped in a layer of fog, temperature drops in the city. Visual from India Gate. Current tempera… https://t.co/U3NoJdJyne— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1611285179000Gusty winds blew in parts of Delhi on Thursday, with their speed touching as high as 40km/hr. Dense fog envelops Delhi-NCR; visual from Noida Sector-137#NoidaFog https://t.co/QcrAV1U5em— TOI Noida (@TOINoida) 1611280423000 The minimum temperature stayed near normal at 7.4 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature was recorded at 22.8 degrees Celsius, one degree above normal, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). A thick blanket of fog engulfs Delhi, leading to poor visibility. Visuals from Rohini Sector-16#DelhiFog https://t.co/nRFvXRaPQE— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1611280201000Track the pollution level in your city“The wind speed may slightly reduce on Friday but it is likely to rise again on Saturday and is expected to reach around 30km/hr,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre. Delhi is expected to see moderate to dense fog on Friday. The maximum and minimum temperatures will remain around 23 and 6 degrees, respectively. Temperatures will once again start dipping from January 25, said an official. “A western disturbance is predicted to impact the hills on January 22 and after it passes, the minimum and maximum temperatures are likely to dip to 5 and 18 degrees Celsius, respectively from January 25,” the official explained. Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality remained in ‘poor’ category on Thursday. The overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of the national capital was 296. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research said, “Surface winds are forecast to slow down on Friday and the AQI is likely to deteriorate to the middle to the high end of very poor category.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dense-fog-engulfs-delhi-ncr-chilly-week-ahead/articleshow/80393364.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Patna||Minor girl stabbed to death in front of 4-year-old niece in Patna||PATNA: In a gruesome incident, an unidentified youth brutally murdered a 14-year-old girl by stabbing her multiple times in the neck after barging inside her Jai Prakash Nagar home under Jakkanpur police station in Patna on Thursday. The brutal daylight murder in the densely populated area and killer slipping out unnoticed has terrorised the neighbourhood. The incident came to light when people found the minor girl’s four-year-old niece crying hysterically in the narrow bylane in front of the house saying her ‘fua’ has been ‘beheaded’, police said. The slain girl has been identified as Anshu Kumari, a Class X student of a school at Nagarnausa in Nalanda. She lived with her parents in a one-room rented accommodation on the ground floor of a two-story private building owned by one Sanjay Sao. According to the local police, Anshu was attacked between 10 am and 10.30 am while she was with her elder brother’s daughter Vaishanavi in the house. Five more rooms are on the ground floor in which six youths live on rent. The tenants as well as the neighbours told the police that none heard Anshu scream when she was stabbed. Anshu’s mother Rita Devi was on her way to Nagarnausa to get her study materials which were kept at her maternal uncle’s house in Nalanda. The inconsolable mother said she was crossing Mithapur bus stop when she received a call about the incident and rushed home only to find Anshu lying in a pool of blood. “My husband Mithilesh Ram had left for work around 8.30am. He is a daily wager,” she said. The woman said her daughter never complained about harassment by anyone at her school, neighbourhood or the coaching centre where she studied in Patna. “She didn’t even have a cellphone. We are living here for more than two years. She had handed over her identity card and Rs 200 just before I left home,” she said. “My daughter used to attend three coaching classes from 8am to 10am, 12noon to 2pm then the last one from 6pm in Jakkanpur with a few other girls,” she said, adding she has no suspect in mind. She said her son Gopal Prasad, his wife Sangeeta Devi and their daughter Vaishnavi live in a rented house near Bypass road. “Sangeeta was at her maternal residence in Jai Prakash Nagar along with Vaishnavi. Anshu had brought the little girl to our place for feeding and playing with her just before I left,” she said. “The killer seems to be known to the slain minor girl. His entry was friendly. We have some leads and footage of a suspect captured in a CCTV camera. The case would be cracked soon,” the city SP (east) Jitendra Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minor-girl-stabbed-to-death-in-front-of-4-year-old-niece-in-patna/articleshow/80392277.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 22, 2021||Agra||Two peacocks found dead, samples sent for bird flu test||Agra: The recovery of carcasses of two peacocks in Mathura’s Hathiyawali village on Wednesday has put forest department officials on alert because of bird flu. The officials have sent the samples of the dead birds for testing avian influenza. Talking to TOI, forest conservator Dharmendra Yadav said that the samples have been sent to Mathura Veterinary College for testing and the report will reveal the exact cause of death. The peacocks have been buried. He added that samples of different birds at Jodhpur Jhal were also taken to test for bird flu and random sampling is being conducted across the district including Yamuna ghats where birds are usually found. Vetenary doctor Dr Uttam Singh, who was a part of the team responsible for testing the samples of the peacocks, said that samples of poultry birds have also been taken by the department as a precautionary measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-peacocks-found-dead-samples-sent-for-bird-flu-test/articleshow/80391153.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||31-year-old CA from Mumbai quits Rs 15 lakh job to take diksha||AHMEDABAD: When Payal Shah joined a well-known firm at Nariman Point in Mumbai as a chartered accountant in 2014, the road ahead seemed clear. A chance encounter with another qualified CA, a topper in the all-India rankings, changed it all, making her tread an uncharted path. As a step in this direction, she began walking 5km a day to prepare for her new beginnings. On February 24, the 31-year-old will shed all the trappings of her current life and take diksha as a Jain sadhvi, clad in plain white robes. At a ceremony in Surat, she will be joined by the person who inspired her, her teacher Guruji Pujya Sadhviji Prashamlochnashrij. Payal is the first in her family to take diksha.Shah will attain diksha under the guidance of Acharya Bhagwant Pravachan Prabhavak PP Kirtiyashsurishwarji MS. Shah worked at a firm in Walkeshwar, earning about Rs 15 lakh a year. A native of Gujarat, her father runs a kitchenware store in Mumbai. “My journey started about seven years when I began visiting Jain sadhvis living near our house in Mumbai. I was struck by the fact that they were all happy and content despite not having a holiday or even a mobile phone,” said Shah. Payal also refused a pay hike by her employer to become a sadhvi.She started living with the sadhvis. “I must have lived with them for at least a year,” she says. This is when the inward journey began, she added. “A meeting with Guru Maharaj Paramlochan Shreeji was an eye-opener. My outlook towards life started changing completely,” said Shah. For the young woman, the search was more about her soul than any other goal. To lead a life of austerity one does not need to renounce the world and walk through the jungles or venture somewhere deep into the Himalayas, she said. “You can live it right here, among people. I realized that life is more about the journey of the soul than the body. And having known this I cannot turn back. I have got to embrace it,” said Shah. Bringing order amid chaos in the world can be a Himalayan task but to bring peace within can be achieved with practice and patience. Payal is the first in her family to take diksha. Her younger sister Reena has completed her MBA and CFA and is working with an equity research firm. Payal’s decision to become a sadhvi came at a time when her firm had offered her a pay increase in recognition of her work. “When you measure happiness from within, you feel complete and independent. In the world out there, your happiness is decided by others. There is competition in everything. The life of sadhvis is different. It is a combined effort to make the world a better place for all,” said Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ca-quits-rs-15-lakh-per-annum-job-to-take-diksha/articleshow/80393357.cms||Bharat Yagnik
January 22, 2021||Bhopal||Pyare Mian sexual abuse case: Minor victim cremated amid tight security||BHOPAL: A day after the 17-year-old victim in Pyare Mian sexual abuse case allegedly died of sleeping pills overdose while undergoing treatment at Hamidia hospital, the post-mortem of the body was conducted in tight police security at the hospital mortuary on Thursday. The short PM report revealed suspected poisoning as cause of death. The body of the girl was directly sent to Bhadbhada crematorium ground where the last rites of the girl were performed by the girl’s family members. A force of around 300 police officials including women cops were deployed outside the mortuary and at Bhadbhada crematorium since morning. The family members of the deceased including her mother raised accusations that her daughter was poisoned and killed to dispose off the evidence in the case. Family demanded a high-level inquiry in the case and stern action against those responsible for minor’s death. The family members of the remaining four victim girls, who are currently staying at a shelter home, demanded that they should be handed over to their respective families or their security should be ensured. Notably the 17-year-old minor girl along with four other minor girl victims in the high profile Pyare Mian sexual abuse case were being kept at a government shelter home on the directions of Child Welfare Committee (CWC). The 17-year-old girl and another minor victim allegedly took overdose of sleeping pills three days ago on Monday. They were rushed to JP Hospital for treatment from where the 17-year-old girl was referred to Hamidia hospital for treatment. The girl was kept on life support system; she died on Wednesday night. The deceased girl’s brothers and mother alleged that they were informed about the incident late around midnight on Monday when the girl was undergoing treatment. Similarly, they were informed late about her death at hospital. They accused the shelter home officials of committing negligence in the matter. They raised concern over their own safety as well as the safety of the remaining four minor girls. The enraged family members did not come to Hamidia hospital mortuary on Thursday to take the body till noon. Police officials went to their home and counselled them after which the family members reached the spot and completed the post-mortem formalities. ASP (Zone-1) Rajat Saklecha said that the short PM report of the minor girl revealed the cause of death as suspected poisoning. Magisterial probe is already on as per the district collector’s order in the case and Kamla Nagar police have registered an unnatural death case. Police will investigate the case from all angles, including suicide by overdose and murder. Superintendent of the shelter home Antonia Kujur Ikka was removed soon after the incident and Yogita Mukati has been appointed as the new superintendent. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pyare-mian-sexual-abuse-case-minor-victim-cremated-amid-tight-security/articleshow/80392270.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Pune||Frequent accidents on busy bypass push motorists to internal roads||Pune: Frequent accidents on the busy Katraj-Dehu Road bypass have led to a noticeable surge in vehicular movement on the internal roads in areas such as Narhe, Dhayari, Ambegaon, Vadgaon and Katraj along either sides of the ever-busy road.This, in turn, is making life difficult for people residing in the internal areas and also exposing them to risk of accidents. Police inspector (traffic) Nandkishor Shelke said, “The motorists want to use the internal and service roads instead of the speed lanes of the bypass. We have witnessed an increase in the vehicular movement on the service lanes as well as on the narrow by-lanes off thebusy bypass.”He said, “Many cars and heavy vehicles have also started using these lanes instead of travelling on the bypass stretch from Jambhulwadi to Sinhagad Road. Earlier, these vehicles used to ply on the bypass. This is causing traffic jams on the service lanes during evening and morning hours. Similarly, people are using the road joining Narhe-Dhayari-Sinhagad Road for their daily commute.”Shelke said “The situation on Sinhagad Road as well as in the Anandnagar area can be eased out in some way if the construction of the bridge on the nullah (natural stream) in front of Prayeja City can be expedited.” Dheeraj Pandhare, a sales executive with a software company, said “I stay on Sinhagad Road and my office is in Hinjewadi. I used to take the bypass from Navale bridge to Vadgaon bridge. But because of the frequent accidents, I now go to Anandnagar, from where I reach Warje through the underpass near Suncity.”Sahakarnagar resident Santosh Patil said “I used to take the bypass stretch from Dattanagar to Sinhagad Road to reach my office at Anandnagar. But now I have changed my route from Mitra Mandal chowk to Anandnagar on Sinhagad Road because of the frequent accidents on the bypass.” Umesh Joshi, a resident of Bavdhan,said he has to travel to Marunji Road daily. “I always take the service road to avoid the speeding heavy vehicles. Though the service road is not fully operational between Bavdhan and Wakad bridge, I use it as much as I can.”An officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad traffic branch said it was not possible to deploy police personnel at the service roads due to the manpower crunch. “Our patrolling team has to spend time every day to clear traffic on the service roads,” the officer said. Another resident Mohan Sole said during evening hours, the service roads in Baner and Bavdhan mostly remained blocked because of heavy traffic load. “One can sometime see that the traffic on the bypass is moving. But the scene on the service roads is different then with the vehcles crawling.”The police and the National Highways Authorities of India have started taking a slew of measures on the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass following a spurt in accidents since October 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/frequent-accidents-on-busy-bypass-push-motorists-to-internal-roads/articleshow/80393369.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Rajkot||55-year-old farmer killed over Rs 4,500 in Sayla||RAJKOT: A 55-year-old farmer was murdered over Rs 4,500 by two men in Dhedhuki village of Sayla taluka in Surendranagar district on Wednesday evening. The deceased was identified as Khodubhai Vala, a resident of Dhedhuki village. His brother Bhupat Vala stated in his complaint that his brother was murdered allegedly by Ebhal Vegad and his brother Ramku Vegad. According to police, Khodubhai owned land on the outskirts of the village where people used to graze their cattle. Khodubhai had collected the cattle dung and sold it to the accused duo for Rs 9,000. Ebhal and Ramku had paid Rs 4,500 to Khodubhai earlier. When Khodubhai demanded the remaining amount two days ago, the accused duo entered into an argument with the deceased. On Wednesday, Ebhal and Ramuk reached Khodubhai’s house and allegedly stabbed him to death, said police. A manhunt has been launched to nab the two accused, police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/55-year-old-farmer-killed-over-rs-4500-in-sayla/articleshow/80392274.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||Jail guard caught with ganja in socks||Nagpur: A jail guard, Mangesh Solanki, was on Thursday caught with marijuana stashed in his left socks while entering at the central prison for duty. He was booked under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. It is learnt that Solanki was taking the consignment for an undertrial. “We have handed him over to Dhantoli police for further action,” said jail SP Anup Kumre. Solanki hails from a sound family background with his father working at a senior post in ZP while his sister is a patwari. Solanki’s mother is a government nurse too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jail-guard-caught-with-ganja-in-socks/articleshow/80393361.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||23-yr-old defies goon’s threat, files rape complaint||Nagpur: A 23-year-old rape survivor says she is ready to face a bullet for justice but wants to see the alleged rapists behind the bars. She was allegedly exploited for six hours by the accused, Junaid Khan, having several offences including murder against him, at his residence in the early hours of January 18. Khan, earlier booked under MCOCA too, is now on the run. The survivor, who was born in the city but currently settled in Rajasthan, said she had come to meet her friend who is Khan’s wife. The friend and an aide of Khan too have been booked in the case. The friend had promised to introduce the survivor to a moneylender who would give her Rs2.50 lakh by mortgaging her land. According to the survivor, she had also planned to financially support Khan’s wife but “she ditched me”. “After learning about her husband’s deeds, she tried to emotionally blackmail me to ensure that I did not file police complaint. Even her family tried to bribe me,” said the survivor who, along with her friend, owns a restaurant in Rajasthan. She requested the police to arrest Khan at the earliest and seize the cell phone in which he had allegedly filmed the survivor while exploiting her. “He threatened to make the clip viral if I lodged a complaint. Still, I came forward to fight for justice knowing well he can murder me,” she said. It is learnt, the survivor landed in the city on January 16. As she was late, Khan’s wife had requested her to stay back at her house as she did not have a sound rapport with her brother and his wife who stayed in the city. “I was sleeping when Khan’s wife woke me up and suggested me to shifting to the third floor’s terrace room. The room had no lock so I was asked to put a table against it and rest,” she said. “I woke up around 5am after feeling someone’s hand on my body. Khan was seated on my bed. He even tried to throttle me and also bit me when I tried to resist,” she said. Gittikhadan police, after registering an offence against Khan, his wife and aide Sonu, are looking for the gangster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/23-yr-old-defies-goons-threat-files-rape-complaint/articleshow/80393380.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 13,000 driver’s licences suspended in 5 years||CHANDIGARH: In five years, the city suspended 13,306 driver’s licences for three to six months for various traffic violations. The highest 4,621 suspensions were in 2020. In the other four years (January 1, 2016, to December 31, 2019), the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) suspended 8,685 licences. Despite several months of Covid-19 lockdown, last year’s jump was more than 52% from 2019. In five years, 5,192 drivers paid this penalty for speeding, 2,815 for drink driving, and 2,095 for jumping red light, while 2020 alone had 2,146 challans for speeding and 2,007 for riding two-wheelers without helmet. Section 19 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, read with Rule 21 of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, recommends suspending driver’s licences for up to six months for offenses such as using mobile phone while driving, jumping red light, speeding, and drink driving. The Motor Vehicles Act amended in September 2019 raised the fines to Rs 1,000 along with the suspension of licence for three months for riding without helmet. Earlier, this penalty was just Rs 300. The RLA also suspended licences for triple riding and blowing pressure horn. In 2018, the traffic police had started sending suspension recommendations online. Earlier, these recommendations took 10 days to reach the RLA, and then it took more time to act on those. The online system speeded up the process. Recently, the traffic police installed six speed radars with electronic display, for public awareness first. When motorists didn’t take their foot off the accelerator, the cops started penalising them. The road accident analysis wing attributed 65% of the road fatalities in Chandigarh to speeding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/13k-drivers-licences-suspended-in-5-years/articleshow/80392281.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
January 22, 2021||Bareilly||18-year-old sodomizes minor, arrested||PILIBHIT: An 18-year-old youth was arrested for allegedly sodomizing a 14-year-old who lives in the same residential premises in Pilibhit city. In his complaint with police, the minor’s father claimed that the accused lured his son on some pretext and sodomized him Atar Singh, SHO of Pilibhit Kotwali police station, said the accused was booked under IPC section 377 (having carnal intercourse against the order of nature) and provisions of the POCSO Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect his privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/18-year-old-sodomizes-minor-arrested/articleshow/80390551.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Traffic diversions for Republic Day rehearsal||NEW DELHI: Delhi Traffic Police on Thursday issued an advisory on the arrangements and restrictions in place for smooth conduct of the full dress rehearsal on January 23 for the Republic Day parade. The rehearsal will start at 9.50 am from Vijay Chowk and will proceed to the National Stadium. Traffic movement on certain roads leading to the parade’s route will be restricted, and no traffic will be allowed on Vijay Chowk from 6 pm on Friday till the rehearsal is over on Saturday, Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Manish Kumar Agarwal said. No cross traffic will be allowed on Rajpath intersections from 11 pm on Friday at Rafi Marg, Janpath and Man Singh Road till the parade is over, the officer added. “The 'C'-Hexagon-India Gate will be closed for traffic from 9.15 am on Saturday till the entire parade and tableaux enter the stadium. Road users are requested to plan their journey in advance and avoid the route of the parade between 9 am and 12.30 pm for their own convenience,” Agarwal said. “Commuters are suggested to take alternative routes.” Though there will be no restriction for people from north Delhi going towards New Delhi Railway Station or Old Delhi Railway Station, yet it is advised that they plan their journey in advance, according to the advisory. Movement of city buses will be curtailed at Shivaji Stadium, ISBT Sarai Kale Khan, Kamla Market, Delhi Sachivalaya (IGI Stadium), Pragati Maidan (Bhairon Road), Hanuman Mandir (Yamuna Bazaar), Mori Gate and ISBT Kashmir Gate. Boarding and deboarding will not be allowed at Kendriya Sachivalaya and Udyog Bhawan Metro stations from 5 am till noon, the advisory said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/traffic-diversions-for-r-day-rehearsal/articleshow/80393376.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||Candidate ‘unfit’ due to kidney stone: Gujarat HC notice to CRPF||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court issued notice to the authorities concerned after a candidate for the job of constable in the central armed police forces (CAPFs) filed a petition complaining that he was wrongly declared medically unfit after being diagnosed with a kidney stone. The case involves Bipin Deshmukh from Navsari district. He applied for the post of constable with the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), National Investigation Agency, Assam Rifles etc. He was declared medically unfit after his urine report reflected that he had renal calculi. As Deshmukh was disqualified for having a renal stone, he approached the high court through advocate Vashishtha Joshi. He submitted that blood cells were found in his urine test the first time when he went for a checkup to Vansda Hospital. He was then diagnosed with a kidney stone. However, his second test was absolutely normal. The doctor declared him physically fit and certified that there was no need to conduct surgery on him. During the hearing, the case of another candidate, Dhanpalsinh, was cited. He was also diagnosed with hematuria and renal stone and declared unfit by GMERS, Himmatnagar. His case was considered by the medical board but Deshmukh was declared physically unfit. After hearing the case, the bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice Sangeeta Vishen issued notice and sought a reply from the CRPF authorities and posted further hearing on the issue for February 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/candidate-unfit-due-to-kidney-stone-hc-notice-to-crpf/articleshow/80393382.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Positivity rate for Covid-19 dips below 4% in Mumbai||MUMBAI: While the focus is on Covid-19 vaccination, civic officials have noticed a positive development as far as the pandemic is concerned: Positivity rate for diagnostic tests has dipped below 4% for the last four days. The positivity rate indicates how widespread the viral fever is in the community. On January 20, city laboratories conducted 15,672 tests and found 3.9%. The positivity rate was lowest on January 19 when 18,867 tests were performed and 577 (3%) tested positive. On January 17 and 18, the positivity rate was 3.8%. “We haven’t gone beyond 5% since January 11,’’ said a senior BMC official. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the Covid-19 situation is under control in the city. “We have been conducting over 16,000 tests on an average every day,” he said. In the early phase of the pandemic, the positivity rate was between 20% and 30%. On Thursday, the overall positivity since March was 11.44%. “In Mumbai, we have conducted over 2.6 million tests and found 3.04 lakh positive cases since the pandemic began,” said the official. The 5% mark is the thumb rule laid down by the World Health Organization (WHO) for governments; 5% positivity for two weeks means a further reopening of facilities can take place. A positivity of less than 5% for a month or two would help public health officials to downgrade the pandemic to an endemic status. While the rising vaccination numbers and declining positivity rate will help control the pandemic, a BMC official said Covid-appropriate behavior of wearing a face mask, maintaining social distancing and frequent handwashing should continue. “Some experts in the West have said that social vaccination will have to continue throughout 2021 as the real vaccination process will take months to cover the entire population,” said a civic hospital doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/positivity-rate-for-covid-19-dips-below-4-in-mumbai/articleshow/80394564.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 22, 2021||Rajkot||60 cheated of Rs 10 crore with ponzy scheme in Jamnagar||RAJKOT: As many as 60 people including six retired army men lost over Rs 10 crore as they were cheated by a firm on PN Marg in Jamnagar promising high returns on investments in the stock market. One of the victims Ranveerpratapsinh Darbar lodged a complaint against seven persons identified as Hiren Dhabba, Mahendra Dhabba, Jay Dhabba, Asha Dhabba, Hasmukh Parmar, Tausif Sheikh and Sangeeta on Wednesday. Four of the accused are owners of the firm while Parmar, Sheikh and Sangeeta used to work there as accountants, police said. Darbar alleged that he was lured to invest money through the firm as they promised 10% returns every month on the invested money. Darbar came to know about the firm through an advertisement pamphlet in 2019 which mentioned ‘Invest in stock market and fulfil your dreams’. Darbar initially invested Rs 33 lakh and he even received interest on investment during the initial months. Darbar then encouraged his five other friends who had retired from army to invest the money. Darbar and his friends invested Rs 3.1 crore until December last year. When they stopped receiving the interest on their investment, Darbar went to check at the office, but it was locked. Darbar even tried calling the owners, but his calls were never answered. Like Darbar and his friends, 54 other victims too came forward against the firm as they had also lost the money. “We have registered an offence of cheating and investigating documents submitted by complainants. We will arrest the accused once we have more evidence,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/60-cheated-of-rs-10-crore-with-ponzy-scheme-in-jamnagar/articleshow/80392321.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Delhi||Loan fraud: 64-year-old man in EOW net in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 64-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly signing forged papers of sale deed of a property, which his associate used to avail a loan of Rs 2 crore from UCO Bank. The accused is Suresh Kumar Pruthi, a resident of Sonipat. His associate and the main accused, Satish Sharma, was arrested last year. Sharma had taken a loan of Rs two crore from the bank to purchase a school in Sonipat. The loan was secured by mortgaging a property with the bank as collateral security. Joint commissioner of police (EOW) OP Mishra said the bank later found out that Sharma had availed another loan of Rs four crore from Corporation Bank in Mayapuri, Delhi by mortgaging the same property. Further probe revealed that Pruthi had signed forged papers of the sale deed of the same property. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/loan-fraud-64-yr-old-man-in-eow-net/articleshow/80393424.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Doctor families get jab in same session||AHMEDABAD: It was a ‘Vaccine Day’ for the Desai family — eye surgeon Dr Parimal Desai, his son Dr Aditya Desai, an ophthalmologist; his daughter Dr Sanjana Dharaiya, an orthodontist; and his son-in-law Dr Nisarg Dharaiya — took the Covid-19 shots on Thursday morning. His wife, Dr Mona Desai, who leads the Indian Medical Association’s Women Wing, was among the first recipients of the vaccine onDay 1. Likewise, Dr Adit Desai, MD of KD Hospital, and his sister Dr Anuja Desai, an ophthalmologist, were also among the recipients. Their father Dr Ketan Desai, ex-president of the World Medical Association (WMA), was one of the first two vaccine recipients in Gujarat. “Our participation en masse shows our trust in the vaccine. Everyone should get vaccinated without apprehension,” said Dr Parimal Desai. Dr Mona Desai said that she has not experienced any side effects after five days. Dr Adit Desai said that while side effects in any vaccine are common, adverse reaction is very rare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doctor-families-get-jab-in-same-session/articleshow/80393552.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Bareilly||53 days on, villagers on edge as foresters fail to trap PTR’s stray tiger||Pilibhit: A three-year-old tiger that strayed out of Barahi forest range of Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR) on November 29 is moving from village to village in Puranpur tehsil showing no inclination to retreat into the wild. In fact, it is now about 12-14 km from Madhotanda, where it had first stayed for about a week. Annoyed at the forest department’s failure to push the tiger back into PTR, local villagers have warned that they will deal with the matter on their own as they are unable to venture out to their fields and tend to their crops. The possibility of the man-tiger conflict flaring up any time is worrying wildlife experts and forest department officials who fear both are at risk. Foresters said they are yet to get permission from chief wildlife warden, UP, Pawan Kumar Sharma to tranquilize the tiger which has eluded capture despite putting up live baits. Instead he has ordered officials to increase the number of cages from two to four to trap the tiger. Wildlife experts have slammed the authorities for delay in tranquilizing the tiger in the wake of farmers’ anger. As the tiger has crossed the busy Pilibhit- Basti national highway 730 twice, they fear it may be run over by a passing vehicle. “Delaying permission to tranquilize the tiger at the present juncture is not a sensible decision as the prolonged straying of the big cat can be risky for its own life as well as farmers The dependency on trapping the tiger in a cage even after 53 days of its straying has not produced any desired outcome,” said GC Mishra, a former field director of Dudhwa tiger reserve. “We have placed one cage at Manharia Khurd village, the second at Khandepur village. The third was set on Thursday in compliance with the chief wildlife warden’s directions at Karnapur village and the fourth will also be placed there on Friday with live baits,” said Sanjeev Kumar, the DFO of forest and wildlife division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/53-days-on-villagers-on-edge-as-foresters-fail-to-trap-ptrs-stray-tiger/articleshow/80390569.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Act against marble market encroachers, UT adviser tells DC||Chandigarh: UT adviser Manoj Parida on Thursday directed deputy commissioner Mandip Brar to take action against encroachers at marble market in Dhanas. In the last 10 years, the number of shops here has increased from around 50 to over 500 and the majority of them are running their businesses illegally by encroaching upon government and agricultural land. Many shops in the marble market—which is known to be the second biggest marble market after Delhi in the region—also violate the Periphery Control Act, which stipulates that no business can be run from agricultural land.Talking to TOI, UT adviser Manoj Parida said directions have been issued to the deputy commissioner, who has further deputed the SDM concerned to prepare a report on the matter.Over the years, the UT estate office has put off demolition drive in the area several times. On some occasions, even though the drive date was fixed and even police deployment was ensured, last-minute decisions put a halt on it.Requesting anonymity, a shopkeeper said despite having acquired 85 acre in Maloya for a marble market way back in 2002, the administration has done nothing in this regard. He claimed that before setting up their market in Dhanas, they had been running their business from Sector 51-52, Mohali Road, Chandigarh. But in 2004, that land was acquired by the Chandigarh administration and after negotiations with the then deputy commissioner, the market was shifted to Dhanas and its adjoining areas.The UT administration had promised them of a permanent solution through schemes for allotment on a rental basis, but so far nothing has been done in that direction, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/act-against-marble-market-encroachers-ut-adviser-tells-dc/articleshow/80392284.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Badlapur man arrested for issuing fake season passes||MUMBAI: A 30-year-old man placed an advertisement on social media for special season railway passes that would allow one to travel on local trains, as the state is yet to resume services for the general public following the Covid-19 outbreak. Badlapur resident Shiva Mishra was arrested by the cyber crime cell of Mumbai Police on Wednesday, for allegedly issuing fake Central Railway (CR) passes, declaring the pass-holders as health workers and doctors. Sources said the police received information that people had placed advertisements on social media that said, “Any one needs ID for train passes can contact one given number.” The police send a dummy customer who called the number and asked for a pass from Kurla to CSMT. Shiva Mishra told him to pay Rs 1,100 via an e-wallet app. When Mishra came to deliver the pass, he was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-arrested-for-issuing-fake-season-passes/articleshow/80394569.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||11-member panel to study leopard-human conflict||Nagpur: As discussed in the 16th meeting of the State Board for Wildlife (SBWL), the government on Thursday announced an 11-member technical group of officials and experts to study leopard-human conflict. The group will submit its report in three months. From 110 leopard deaths in 2019, the state last year recorded 172 animal deaths, a rise of 57%. As per data from the forest department, of the total leopard deaths in 2020, 86 were natural, 34 road/rail hits, 25 drowning, 17 poaching and three due to other reasons. The deaths due to road hit, poaching and drowning have almost doubled as compared to the previous year. Following recommendation of PCCF (wildlife), chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had suggested to set up a technical group. The committee will be headed by Mumbai-based APCCF (wildlife), West, Sunil Limaye, while Ahmednagar deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) M Adarsh Reddy will be member-secretary. The other members include wildlife biologist Vidya Athreya, Wildlife Conservation Trust president Anish Andheria, WII scientist Bilal Habib, state wildlife board members Bandu Dhotre, Anuj Khare and Bhau Katdhare, retired DFO Shivaji Fatangre, veterinarians Dr Neha Panchmiya and Dr Swapnil Sonone. The group will study spurt in leopard deaths and increasing attack on humans. It will make recommendations to curb the conflict.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/11-member-panel-to-study-leopard-human-conflict/articleshow/80393403.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||In a first, RSS’s triennial meet to be held out of Nagpur||Nagpur: For the first time in the Hindutva fountainhead’s history, the RSS’s triennial conference — Pratinidhi Sabha — in which decision to change or retain the sarkaryavaha (general secretary), who holds the position of second in command in the organization, will be held out of Nagpur this year. The conference for 2021 will be held at Bengaluru from March 19 to 20. The Pratinidhi Sabha is a conference of office-bearers representing each region, including Vidarbha. Representatives of other Sangh Parivar constituents also attend the meet. The 2018 Pratinidhi Sabha was attended by then BJP president Amit Shah also. The conference is held each year in different parts of the country, but only at Nagpur after every three years. The Nagpur meet assumes significance because of the decision on sarkaryavaha. Since last 12 years, Bhaiyyaji (Suresh) Joshi, 73, has held the post. The sarkaryavaha is also in-charge of the day-to-day activates of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), and can eventually take over as sarsanghsanchalak or the chief. There were speculations during the 2018 meet that Joshi may be replaced by Dattaterya Hosbale, who is from Karnataka. There were rumours that a section of BJP leaders from out of Nagpur have been backing Hosbale and the Nagpur lobby wants Joshi to stay. Joshi continued as the sarkaryavaha. Now as the meeting will be held in Bengaluru, the home state of Hosbale, again there is a buzz that Joshi may be replaced. A functionary of RSS’s media wing confirmed that for first the time the meet is being held out of Nagpur. However, the official said the sabha for 2020 was supposed to be held in Bengaluru, but was cancelled due to Covid situation. So now, the 2021 meet will be held there. The official clarified that this would be still the third year’s meet as the deliberations in 2020 were done without holding a physical meet. The functionary also confirmed that proposal on the sarkaryavaha will also be mooted in the Bengaluru meet. The practice is that any representative can moot the name of new candidate, after which voting is done. If not, the current sarkaryavaha continues. Normally, the sarkaryavaha quits after the age of 75, said the functionary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-a-first-rsss-triennial-meet-to-be-held-out-of-nagpur/articleshow/80393426.cms||Shishir Arya
January 22, 2021||Aurangabad||1 held for rape, murder of 5-yr-old||Aurangabad: The Nanded police on Thursday arrested a 35-year-old farm worker on the charges of rape and murder of his employer’s five-year-old daughter in a village in the Bhokar tehsil. The accused was produced before the local court on Thursday and was remanded in seven-day police custody. Nanded superintendent of police Pramodkumar Shewale told TOI, “The accused had been a farm worker for several years. On Wednesday, he found the girl alone. He allegedly took her to a secluded place and raped her.” The accused panicked when the minor got seriously injured. Fearing that she might inform her parents, the accused strangled the child and threw the body on the banks of a tributary of the Sudha river. Unable to find the girl, her parents and other villagers launched a manhunt. They noticed that one of the farm workers too was missing. Police soon got the sniffer dog squad and found the accused hiding in the bushes and arrested him. The body of the victim was found stuck in long grass on marshy land. Shewale said police intervention prevented the villagers from lynching the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/1-held-for-rape-murder-of-5-yr-old/articleshow/80391880.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 22, 2021||Delhi||Delhi HC pulls up AAP govt and corporations over fund war||NEW DELHI: The AAP government and the municipal corporations on Thursday came in for scathing criticism in Delhi High Court, which pulled them up for their “irresponsible” attitude. Questioning Delhi government for delay in transferring funds to the civic bodies, a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli remarked that the political class had to mature. It added that things could not go on like this, else it would not be a surprise if people who indulged in this were condemned by the public. The court was anguished that employees of the three corporations had not been paid salaries and ex-employees not given pension. “You are behaving completely irresponsibly and do not care about the poor employees and retired pensioners at all,” it observed. The bench directed Delhi government to transfer within two weeks to the municipal corporations and local bodies the amount recovered or adjusted from them against their outstanding loans. “In our view, the deduction of loan made by Delhi government in these circumstances is not called for, particularly when the recovery of loan by the corporations had been in consideration for the last over three years,” it observed. The judges pointed out that the problem of shortage of funds and non-payment of salaries also arose because Delhi government was sandwiched between the corporations and the central government, which were ruled by another political party. The high court was hearing various petitions relating to non-payment of salaries of employees and pensioners by the north, east and south corporations. It said safai karamcharis were suffering at the hands of the authorities. “We will tell them not to come to work from tomorrow if they are not paid. Let us see how your houses and hospitals are cleaned then,” the judges said, adding that the corporations and Delhi government were fighting with each other like “cats and dogs”. While asking Delhi government to file an affidavit on the amount it was liable to pay, the court also directed the corporations to furnish their expenditures since April 2020. It cautioned that if the affidavits were not filed on time, the chairpersons of the corporations would have to be present in the hearing on February 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-pulls-up-aap-govt-and-corporations-over-fund-war/articleshow/80393431.cms||Abhinav Garg
January 22, 2021||Aurangabad||6 years on, zoo relocation remains on paper||Aurangabad: For over six years now the relocation of city-based zoo still remains only on paper, causing distress to many creatures housed in it. The proposal to relocate the existing zoo on adequate land at Mitmita on the city outskirts dates back to 2014, but the necessary shifting is still not in sight. Notably, the city zoo, which is infamous for continuous non-compliance of Central Zoo Authority of India (CZAI) norms, had even faced de-recognition in past due to such glaring lapses. The increase in tiger population at city zoo due to birth of five cubs has again brought on the anvil the cramped space at zoo along with other irregularities such as small enclosures, improper flooring, lack of creepers and vegetation around cages some of the key issues . Expert member of the state board for wildlife Yadav Tarte-Patil on Thursday said the CZAI and the state government should put pressure on the civic body for speedy relocation of the existing zoo. When contacted, zoo director B S Naikwade said the project management consultancy appointed for relocation of zoo has floated the tenders for setting up the new zoo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/6-years-on-zoo-relocation-remains-on-paper/articleshow/80391877.cms||Prasad Joshi
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||HC disposes PIL on proposed tree felling in Ajni||Nagpur: Flaying a petitioner for hastily filing a public interest litigation (PIL) without doing proper research, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Wednesday disposed of his plea. Quoting NMC garden department’s survey, petitioner Iraj Sheikh had claimed that thousands of trees are going to be felled in Ajni and adjoining areas for construction of Inter-Modal Station (IMS) and other commercial projects. “A petition bereft of any particulars or independent research will not achieve cause, which the petitioner seeks to espouse. We dispose of the PIL giving liberty to file a fresh one after doing proper research and study of the cause involved,” said the bench of Justice Nitin Jamdar and Justice Anil Kilor. “We make it clear that in case any application is made by the petitioner or any other public-spirited person under the RTI Act seeking copies of basic documents such as the proposal submitted and survey report, those shall be supplied to them expeditiously,” said the bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-disposes-pil-on-proposed-tree-felling-in-ajni/articleshow/80393443.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||INS Mumbai celebrates 20 years of service||MUMBAI: INS Mumbai, a frontline guided missile destroyer of Indian Navy, will celebrate her 20th anniversary on Friday. The ship’s association with Mumbai is unique as it is the only Indian Navy ship stationed at her namesake city. Built indigenously at Mazagon Dock, she is the latest of three P-15 class destroyers and was commissioned by then governor of Maharashtra, Dr P C Alexander. It has rendered yeoman service to the nation and always excelled in her endeavours. She was adjudged ‘Best Ship’ thrice and ‘Most Spirited Ship’ twice, which is a rare feat for any warship. The ship had been at the forefront of major naval operations like Op Parakram (2002), Op Sukoon (2006: Evacuation of Indian, Nepalese and Sri Lankan citizens from Lebanon) and Op Rahat (2015: Evacuation of Indian and foreigners from Yemen). Parts of the ship have been christened after iconic locales of Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ins-mumbai-celebrates-20-yrs-of-service/articleshow/80394601.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||NMC recovers Rs34cr tax from 34.8k property owners||Nagpur: Less than 10% of property tax defaulters in the city availed of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s amnesty scheme, offering 80% penalty waiver, that ended on January 20. Of the 3.73 lakh property tax defaulters, who collectively owe Rs293 crore (including Rs184.12 crore arrears), only 34,878 owners paid current tax and arrears by availing the 80% waiver. As per the Abhay Yojana 2020 (amnesty scheme), the civic body had announced 80% waiver on interest for tax defaulters if they paid dues between December 15 and January 14. Owing to poor response, the NMC had extended the date for availing 80% penalty waiver till January 20. Now, the waiver will be reduced to 50%, if the dues are paid between January 21 and February 14. According to property tax department data, 34,878 persons paid their arrears of over Rs19.49 crore and current year’s property tax amounting to Rs11.62 crore. The defaulters have also paid 20% of the penalty (Rs2.44 crore) and availed 80% waiver, which amounts to around Rs9.76 crore. Highest recovery was from Mangalwari zone from where 4,386 property owners cleared dues and current tax amounting to Rs5.55 crore. Lowest amount was recovered in Dhantoli zone with 1,226 property owners paying dues and current tax totalling to Rs12 lakh. Meanwhile, water works department has extended the last date of 100% waiver in penalty under its one-time settlement (OTS) scheme for defaulters till January 31. The last date to avail the OTS was supposed to end on January 21. However, due to poor response, it has been extended to month-end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-recovers-rs34cr-tax-from-34-8k-property-owners/articleshow/80393439.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 22, 2021||Delhi||Diabetes, cardiac problems top chronic ailments in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Just 2.6% of Delhiites suffer from chronic illnesses, while a third of this population suffers from diabetes, followed by hypertension, cardiac diseases and respiratory ailments. This was revealed by the socio-economic survey carried out by Delhi government, which covered over one crore people. The survey conducted by 6,000 field workers covering more than 20 lakh households also revealed that 72.8% Delhiites got medical treatment from government-run hospitals or dispensaries and 27.2% of the population visited private hospitals or clinics. The survey was conducted between November 2018 and November 2019 and finalised in November last year. Among those suffering from chronic and persistent illnesses were 50.3% male and 49.7% female patients. The highest proportion of the population with chronic illnesses (36.3%) was found suffering from diabetes, followed by 21.7% from cardiac illnesses, including hypertension and blood circulatory disease, and 9.2% from respiratory diseases. Other illnesses included TB, thalassemia and cancer. In all, 24.3% people were reported suffering from joint pain, arthritis, etc. Most diabetes patients were reported from Central district (43.3%), while the highest proportion of cardiac patients were in North West district (26.2%). The highest number of patients with respiratory disease were reported from North district (11.6%). Among males, 37.1% had diabetes as chronic illness, compared with 35.5% in females. The proportion of other illnesses, including joint pains, was 23.5% in males and 25% in females, while cardiac illness was higher in females (25%) compared with males (23.5%). According to the survey, 77.5% of children in the age group of 0-5 years had received or were receiving vaccination. The highest proportion of the population getting medical treatment from public healthcare facilities was in North East district (78.4%), followed by North district (77.2 %). On the other hand, 37% of the population in South East district preferred getting medical treatment at private healthcare facilities, followed by East district (30%). The study mentioned that 69.8% of the population used public transport, including Delhi Metro and buses, to commute to their workplace, educational institutions or other destinations. The section of population that used personal transport was 15.7%, including 15.4% that used two-wheelers and 0.3% that travelled by cars. The top three districts where the number of people using personal vehicles were Shahdara (21.5%), East (18.4%) and West (16.5%) districts. The largest number of Delhi Metro users were in New Delhi district (10.9%) and the highest proportion of bus users in North district (75.2%). Public buses (68.3%) were the preferred mode of transport for the female population, followed by shared autorickshaw, e-rickshaw or cabs (14.9%), two-wheelers (6.8%) and Delhi Metro (6.7%). The survey revealed that the effective literacy rate (for people aged 7 years and above) was 88.5%, whereas the crude literacy rate (for all ages) was 85.8%. Most children in the age group of 6-17 years were reported to be enrolled in educational institutions (90.2%), while 52.5% were studying in Delhi government-run schools. Among the 9.8% children in the age group of 6-17 years who had dropped out of school, discontinued education or had never attended an institute, the predominant reason was financial constraint (29.2%). Among the children in the age group of 0-6 years, 55.4% children were reported to be attending Anganwadi centres. In all, 43.3% of senior citizens were reported to be receiving pension from Delhi government, while 47.2% of pregnant women were attending Anganwadi centres for availing healthcare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/diabetes-cardiac-problems-top-chronic-ailments-in-city/articleshow/80393518.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||KBC-fame woman among Vid farm widows headed to Delhi||Nagpur: Chairman of Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission (VNSSM), a state government task force on agrarian crisis, Kishore Tiwari is leading a team of widows of farmers who had committed suicide to join the protests in Delhi. The protests are being carried out by relatively well-off farmers of the north, said Tiwari and added that his group will represent the underprivileged cultivator of the country. “The widows are the real face of the country’s farmers,” he said Tiwari from Yavatmal has been raising the suicides’ issue since over a decade. The first batch of 60 women includes Aparna Malikar, widow who had taken part in Kaun Banega Crorepati (KBC) show in 2011. Around 1,000 widows will reach Delhi and take part in the Republic Day march also. “Even as voices are being raised against the three laws, no one is taking about the agrarian crisis of Vidarbha. The widows will tell the story of the distress in Vidarbha to farmers in Delhi.” “The issues of dryland farmers like those in Vidarbha are not being raised at all. Even we demand a law ensuring MSP according to the Swaminathan Commission’s formula. There are other issues like credit disbursal and availability of water,” he said. On the three new farm laws, Tiwari said those going to Delhi will also tell the rest that the model proposed by the centre is already under implementation in Maharashtra but has failed. “The moves were taken as part of the relief packages and the market system was liberalized long ago in the state but they failed to deliver,” he said. Yavatmal district has seen the highest number of farmers’ suicides in the state. Before the group led by Tiwari, All India Kisan Sangh, the farmers’ wing of Communist Party of India (CPI), had taken a group of 35 widows from other parts of the state to Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kbc-fame-woman-among-vid-farm-widows-headed-to-delhi/articleshow/80393480.cms||Shishir Arya
January 22, 2021||Aurangabad||Excess grain sent to Hingoli fair price shops, finds RTI||Aurangabad: An RTI query by an activist has revealed that over 1,600 tonne of grain, worth Rs 4.6 crore, was allegedly allotted in excess to the fair price shops under the public distribution system (PDS) in one of the tehsils in Hingoli district in the first seven months of 2019. On the basis of the documents obtained by NGO Virat Rashtriya Lokmanch, a complaint was lodged with the Hingoli district administration. Preliminary inquiry carried out by the sub-divisional magistrate Atul Chormare has indicted some employees who served in the district supplies department during that specific period.“We have taken serious cognizance of the complaint. Preliminary inquiry has revealed that excess grain was given to the fair price shops through the offline mode. The accountability of the officials and employees responsible for the act will be fixed, following which they will face action,” Ruchesh Jaywanshi, the district collector of Hingoli, told TOI.On completion of the internal probe, a detailed report was sent to the revenue divisional commissioner’s office and necessary action was also proposed. However, citing technicalities, the divisional commissioner’s office asked the Hingoli district collector’s office to submit more details. Accordingly, a fresh set of show cause notices were sent to the officials and staffers named in the report. Once their replies are received, they will be forwarded to the divisional commissioner’s office.As per the complaint lodged by Shaikh Naeem, an office bearer of the NGO Virat Rashtriya Lokmanch, around 11, 377 quintal of wheat and 4,890 quintal of jowar were supplied in excess to a handful of fair price shops in those seven months. The complaint stated that by opting for offline method of distribution, at a time when online distribution was already in practice and even mandatory, innumerable poor people were deprived of their rightful share of grain. Moreover, the discrepancies in grain distribution caused heavy losses to the state exchequer.When contacted, Shaikh said, “Our complaint now has been corroborated by the internal inquiry carried out by the sub-divisional magistrate. If it still gets ignored, we will reach out to the high court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/excess-grain-sent-to-hingoli-fair-price-shops-finds-rti/articleshow/80391884.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 22, 2021||Aurangabad||4 held for stealing from liquor shop||Aurangabad: City police arrested four burglars within hours of them targeting a country liquor shop and stealing 28 boxes of alcohol. The suspects — Bhagwan Jaiswal (40), Pawan Jatekar (31), Ganesh Gawde (29) and Prashant Shisoriya (40) — will be produced before the court on Friday and police will seek their custody. Nitesh Jaiswal, the shop owner, lodged a complaint stating that burglars targeted his shop, within the limits of Pundaliknagar police station, in the wee hours of Thursday and walked away with the boxes of liquor along with the DVR of the CCTV cameras installed. Assistant inspector Ghanshyam Sonawne told TOI, “Jaiswal is the brain behind the crime and he is also the relative of an employee working at the country liquor shop they targeted.” To make some quick money, Jaiswal roped in Jatekar, who is an auto-rickshaw driver, and Gawde, who works at a mineral water plant. As per the plan, Jaiswal reached out to the watchman at the r shop and took him to his farm on the pretext of some work. Later, Jatekar and Gawde cut open the grills and barged in the shop . Jaiswal had already roped in Shisoriya to buy g the stolen liquor and the accordingly all the boxes were delivered at his home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-held-for-stealing-from-liquor-shop/articleshow/80391886.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||Dead crow from Chanda, duck from Wardha test bird flu +ve||Nagpur/Chandrapur: More districts of Vidarbha are now reporting bird flu cases. First bird flu case was detected at Manora village in Ballarpur tehsil of the district after one of the three crows found dead here has been found positive to the disease in the test carried out at Disease Investigation Section (DIS), Pune. Apart from it, sample of a duck reared in a farm at Hinganghat tehsil of Wardha district has also tested positive for H5N8 strain of avian flu. This is the first case of domestic duck being tested positive, said sources. The area where duck samples were found positive has been declared as infected zone, with all birds within a radius of 1 km to be culled, the press release said. Reports of a wild duck found dead near Bor forest also in Wardha are awaited, said sources. Meanwhile, samples of poultry that had died in Yavatmal have tested positive. Commeting on Manora sample testing positive, Chandrapur zilla parishad chief executive officer Rahul Kardile said the \administration is seeking re-confirmation from National Institute of Veterinary Research at Bhopal and its report is awaited. Kardile informed that there had been suspected deaths of chickens at poultry farms in Pirli in Bhadrawati tehsil and Bailampur in Rajura tehsil. Animal husbandry department had sent the samples for bird flu testing to Pune in both the cases. The tests reports for the two samples sent from Pirli village have been found negative. However, test reports of four samples sent from Bailampur are still awaited. Kardile called upon people not to panic and fall prey to rumours about bird flu. On Wednesday, 390 poultry birds were reported to have died in Yavatmal, apart from 39 and 44 in Amravati and Nagpur, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dead-crow-from-chanda-duck-from-wardha-test-bird-flu-ve/articleshow/80393498.cms||Shishir Arya
January 22, 2021||Jaipur||Rs 9.72cr for godowns approved||Jaipur: Cooperative minister Udailal Anjana said on Thursday that administrative and financial approval has been given for construction of 100-100 MT godowns in 81 village service cooperative societies of the state. He informed that Rs 9.72 crore will be spent on these godowns to be built in 25 districts with an expenditure Rs 12 lakh per society. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-9-72cr-for-godowns-approved/articleshow/80393463.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Chennai||Bodies of four TN fishers ‘killed in SL Navy attack’ found||Trichy: The bodies of four Tamil Nadu fishermen, who allegedly died after being attacked by Sri Lankan Navy while fishing in mid-sea, had washed ashore on a beach in the island nation. Sri Lankan Navy authorities on Thursday informed the Indian high commission about the bodies. The deceased fishermen were identified as A Mesiya, 30, V Nagaraj, 52, S Senthil Kumar, 32 and N Samson Darwin, 28, all from Ramanathapuram district. The victims were part of a group of fishermen who set sail on 214 boats from Kottaipatinam jetty in Pudukottai district early on Monday. Other fishermen who returned to the shore on Monday night said four fishermen had gone missing after their boat was attacked by a Sri Lankan Navy vessel. G Arockiaraj, a fishermen who witnessed the incident, said the boat came under attack from the Sri Lankan Navy when they were fishing near Katchatheevu. “They began dashing their vessel against the boat. Some of us tried to rescue our mates but had to flee as we feared for our lives. We came back and informed the authorities,” he said. The next day, several fishermen along with Indian coast guard personnel , went in search of the victims but were unable to locate them. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, who announced a solatium of Rs 10 lakh each to the family of the victims and promised government job to one eligible member from each family, has sought an investigation into the incident and had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take up the matter with Sri Lanka.The four victims were on a boat owned by Arockia Jesu from Thangatchimadam in Rameswaram district. Meanwhile, fishermen in Kottaipattinnam staged a protest condemning the attack on Thursday. Opposition leader and DMK chief M K Stalin and other leaders have slammed the Centre for allegedly remaining a mute spectator and not condemning the Sri Lankan Navy for the murders. “The killing has happened just weeks after the visit of external affairs minister S Jaishankar to Sri Lanka. This shows that the ruling dispensation in the island nation has no regard for Indian people and their government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bodies-of-four-tn-fishers-killed-in-sl-navy-attack-found/articleshow/80394619.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||Footfalls double at city clubs||Ahmedabad: City clubs are back in business. As clubs introduce new activities and sporting facilities, footfalls have almost doubled in a month. After being shut following the second wave of Covid during Diwali, the clubs reopened in December. From January 1, most clubs which had been operating only gymnasiums resumed other activities like billiards, badminton, cricket ground, among others. This has drawn more members to the clubs. N K Patel, president of Gujarat Sports Club, said, “We had shifted our gymnasium outdoors soon after we opened the club. However, from January 1, we resumed the gym in full swing. With this, footfalls have drastically improved. We have also restarted activities such as restaurants, cards and billiards room, library, table tennis and badminton. As a result, footfalls have grown 3.5 times since we first resumed operations.” Similarly, Rajpath Club has also seen a gradual rise in footfalls. Club secretary Mishal Patel said, “We receive more than 900 footfalls daily. This is 50% of the pre-pandemic figure. With the commencement of more activities and drop in Covid cases, members are gathering the confidence to visit the club.” Clubs have also resumed tournaments after almost a year’s break. Gujarat Sports Club, which is the city’s oldest club, started with a cricket tournament for club members from Wednesday. Similarly, other clubs in the city have also announced sporting tournaments and events. A senior Rajpath Club management member said, “Tournaments for volleyball and cricket will begin in February. We will be holding these event at the club after a year. Let’s see how the participation is, given the ongoing pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/footfalls-double-at-city-clubs/articleshow/80393547.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Aurangabad||Name suggestions sought for tiger cubs in Aurangabad zoo||Aurangabad: It is time to name the five tiger cubs in the Siddarth Garden and Zoo and the authorities want to hear from the citizens. Zoo authorities have called for suggestions from the public to name the five tiger cubs born on December 25, 2020. All five cubs are females and born to the tiger pair Samruddhi and Siddharth.Director of the Siddharth Garden and Zoological Park, , on Thursday said “As per the official norms, the cubs are being kept under mandatory neo-natal care of six weeks. They are scheduled to make their first public appearance after that. In the meantime, citizens are requested to suggest suitable and attractive names for these cubs,” he said. Citizens can write to the zoo authorities or the Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Limited (ASCDCL) with their suggestions. Kept under CCTV watch, the cubs and their mother are being looked after by dedicated caretakers round the clock, the zoo authorities said. In the past, the same tiger pair had given birth to three cubs — one male and two females — on November 16, 2016. Later, four more cubs — one male and three females — were born on April 26, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/name-suggestions-sought-for-tiger-cubs-in-aurangabad-zoo/articleshow/80391892.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Jaipur||No march past, award ceremony this yr on R-Day||Jaipur: In view of Covid situation in the state, there will be no march past and award ceremony this year during the Republic Day celebration to be held at SMS Stadium on January 26. General Administration Department (GAD) secretary Dinesh Yadav took a meeting to review preparations for state-level Republic Day celebration on Thursday. Yadav directed officials of departments concerned to ensure Covid guidelines are followed in organising the event. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-march-past-award-ceremony-this-yr-on-r-day/articleshow/80393494.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Goa||Bihar man hit by train in Goa, dies||VASCO: The body of a 34-year-old Bihar native, who was hit by a train while he was walking towards Dabolim on Wednesday, was recovered by the Vasco railway police at Shantinagar. Mohammed Ujale, a tiles fitter by profession, used to reside at Zuarinagar. He was hit from behind by a train while walking close to the tracks and consequently landed onto the adjoining road before he breathed his last. His body was handed over to his family after a panchanama was conducted. Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bihar-man-hit-by-train-dies/articleshow/80394640.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||First in Telangana: Hyderabad mosque opens gym for women||HYDERABAD: A mosque at Rajendranagar has set up a wellness centre with a gymnasium for women residing in the nearby slums. This is the first time in the state that a mosque has facilitated a gym for women with an expert trainer. The aim behind the gym and wellness centre is to reduce the incidence of non-communicable diseases in women living in the slum areas. A professional woman trainer has been hired to train women in physical exercises, in two sessions daily. It has also health counsellors and a physician. The gym at Masjid-e-Mustafa located in Wadi-e-Mahmood in Rajendranagar is funded by SEED, a US-based NGO. Helping Hand Foundation (HHF), a city-based NGO, is coordinating with the mosque committee in running the wellness centre. The gym follows a survey conducted in the slums of Old City which revealed that 52% women are at risk of cardiometabolic syndrome. During the survey, women with high risk of non-communicable diseases (NCDs), mainly with body mass index (BMI) greater than 25 and those with morbid conditions, were identified for the purpose of being trained at the gym. “The key components of the NCD programme at the mosque clinic-cum-gym are risk assessment, counselling on diet and exercise and screening for renal, liver and eye issues. Trained and professional counsellors are part of the clinic,” said HHF managing trustee Mujtaba Hasan Askari. The survey also revealed that women with polycystic ovarian disease (PCOD) constitute about 30% of the participants. Women between 25 and 55 years were screened as part of the survey. About 12% had single or comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension and thyroid problems. All women (20-49 years and above) had a BMI more than 25 (obesity). Mujtaba said 52% of women had high hip-waist ratio more than 0.8, which predisposes the women to the risk of cardiometabolic syndrome, which is now classified as a cluster of dysfunctions like insulin resistance, tolerance and de-arranged lipids that lead to the risk of diabetes, hypertension and cardiovascular diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/first-in-t-city-mosque-opens-gym-for-women/articleshow/80393502.cms||Syed Akbar
January 22, 2021||Rajkot||Congress leaders on dharna for rally permission detained in Rajkot||RAJKOT: Members of the Gujarat Kisan Sangharsh Samiti (GKSS), comprising of Congress affiliated farmers’ organisation, has alleged that farmers from different districts were being prevented from entering Rajkot for a rally on Friday. The GKSS was denied permission for a rally by the police on Thursday. Several members of GKSS were detained, twice on Thursday, for holding dharna demanding permission to hold a rally at Racecourse. Pal Ambaliya, chairman of Gujarat Kisan Congress said, “The farmer leaders from various districts have been put under illegal house arrest to prevent them from reaching Rajkot. They have also been threatened.” Manoharsinh Jadeja, deputy commissioner of police Rajkot said, “We have already conveyed to GKSS that we are ready to issue permission for a rally but they have to follow the Covid-19 guidelines. We detained only those leaders who were on dharna.” Jadeja also denied any preventive detention of GKSS leaders as alleged by the farmers. The leaders of GKSS held dharna at Racecourse Chowk on Thursday morning. A number of leaders including Ambaliya, Indranil Rajguru, Girdhar Vaghela, Abhishek Tala, Hemant Virda were detained and taken to Pradhyumannagar police station and later shifted to Aji Dam police station. They were released in the evening. But the GKSS members again began protesting at Jilla Panchayat Chowk demanding permission for the rally. There they were detained again. Congress leader, Vashram Sagathiya, said, “BJP government is trying its best to create hurdles in our rally. We had been taken to four police stations in one day. We asked police to issue us permission as they have allowed for the chief minister’s functions. But they have denied it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cong-leaders-on-dharna-for-rally-permission-detained/articleshow/80392372.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Collecting Aadhaar ‘creating hurdles’ in student transfer||HYDERABAD: Claiming that the system of collecting Aadhaar details of students during admission and storing it with the education department is making it difficult for them to shift their children to a new school, parents from the city are demanding that the state direct schools to discontinue this process. Citing a Supreme Court order that prohibits schools from seeking Aadhaar details during admissions, they claimed that the norm is not being followed. As per the current system, a child’s information, including Aadhaar details, are stored with the management information system coordinator in the mandal education office (MEO). Information of a child is linked with the student’s current school and only after the details are delinked, can the new school upload a child’s information afresh. In 2018, the apex court upheld the Centre's flagship Aadhaar scheme as constitutionally valid but struck down some of its provisions, including its linking with bank accounts, mobile phones and school admission. “Due to the financial constraints, I have decided to shift my children to a new school. But when I approached the school to withdraw my children’s admissions, the school management forced us to pay all dues and threatened that they would not delink my children’s details if dues are not cleared,” said a parent, whose children are studying in class 5 and class 7. Members of the Hyderabad School Parents Association (HSPA) said that they have received several complaints from parents about the Aadhaar issue recently. “What is the need to store Aadhaar details with MEO especially when it is against the SC verdict and right to education,” asked K Venkat Sainath, joint secretary, HSPA. He said that although schools have been collecting Aadhaar details for about four years now, it has become a major issue this year as many parents have been unable to pay fees due to the pandemic. Meanwhile, school managements said they are collecting Aadhaar details as it is part of a child’s information sought by the school education department. “Unless we fill these details, information of a student will not get uploaded,” said Shekar Rao Y, president, Telangana Recognized School Managements Association, adding that exercising the dropbox option in child data should be withdrawn from MEOs and restored to school headmasters with immediate effect so that the data is not misused. They said that giving Aadhaar is beneficial for students as it can be used to prove their local status and can act as a genuineness certificate in future. Mandal level officials, however, said that parents need not worry if a school refuses to delink their child’s details. “They can visit the MEO office and get it delinked,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/collecting-aadhaar-creating-hurdles-in-student-transfer/articleshow/80393523.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||NMC discontinues services of three security agencies||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Thursday discontinued services of three agencies for not having valid city police licence to provide security guards. The decision was taken after BJP corporator Dharampal Meshram demanded departmental inquiry against assistant municipal commissioner Mahesh Dhamecha for continuing the services of the security agencies — Kishore Agency, M/s Unity Security Agencies and Super Security Services — citing the police licence issued to these agencies has lapsed long back. Speaking to media persons, Meshram alleged irregularities in appointing the security agencies. In a year, the civic body spends Rs7.50 crore for deputing security guards on its premises and properties. Meshram said recently he had exposed that the agencies’ licences to provide security services, obtained from Nagpur city police commissionerate, had lapsed in July 2020. Despite this, the NMC continued their services and paid them. The BJP leader claimed favouritism by the general administration department (GAD) officials. After Meshram brought this irregularity to the notice of municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, the GAD’s assistant municipal commissioner Mahesh Dhamecha issued a show-cause notice to a Class III employee for overlooking the expiry date of police licence of these agencies. Demanding Dhamecha’s suspension, Meshram questioned how a Class III employee can be responsible for such massive irregularity. Meshram also claimed that Dhamecha had been booked by Lakadganj police in a fraud case of providing occupancy certificate to a building in 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-discontinues-services-of-three-security-agencies/articleshow/80393524.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||NU lacks in many aspects, may not retain top NAAC grade: VC||Nagpur: With the National Assessment and Accreditation Council’s (NAAC) team scheduled to visit Nagpur University next month for inspection, the institution is unlikely to retain its top grade this time. The candid admission came from vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhari himself, who told TOI that the university lacked in several aspects as per the new rating system introduced by the Bengaluru-based body. “We lack in big research and consultancy, our placement record isn’t that good, even our social and extra-curricular activities aren’t documented and highlighted, and we don’t run bridge courses like in other universities,” he said. TOI had on January 13 exposed how NU administration’s apathy had led to expiry of NAAC grade on December 9, even after one year extension granted by the NAAC. Now, the university, which will be celebrating its centenary in two years, is operating without mandatory NAAC certification. According to Chaudhari, ever since he took over in August last year, he has started making efforts in this direction. “We’ve started PhD centres for students in the university departments, where they can conduct research. We’re also coming out with software (enterprise resources planning-system applications and products in data processing) for keeping a digitized record of all activities held in various departments.” The VC added though a lot of activities like seminars and conferences were being held in various NU departments throughout the year, those were not documented by anyone. “Now, you can’t expect teachers to do all such work instead of teaching. Using the new software, they simply need to feed the information, which would be then digitized. NU can then inform about such activities to NAAC, which is one of its parameters for awarding grades.” Explaining further, Chaudhari pointed out that NU’s current website was static and he aimed to make it more dynamic. “We would also be upgrading to make it more interactive. We’ve constituted a panel under Dr Ambedkar Institute of Management Studies and Research director Sudhir Fulzele for suggesting improvements.” The VC said that NU would also explore if its website could be handed over to renowned information technology players like TCS, which is already handling passport services efficiently, for providing a comprehensive platform to the users, particularly students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-lacks-in-many-aspects-may-not-retain-top-naac-grade-vc/articleshow/80393537.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 22, 2021||Jaipur||‘Withdraw order to open a/cs to release GP funds’||Jaipur: State BJP president Satish Poonia has written to chief minister Ashok Gehlot opposing the government’s decision to open PD (personal deposit) accounts for the release of funds for development work in the gram panchayats (GP). He demanded that the government’s order must be withdrawn immediately and funds should be directly transferred to the bank accounts of the GPs. Meanwhile, sarpanches of over 11,433 gram panchayats boycotted work on Thursday. Poonia further demanded that the funds under state finance commission (SFC), pending for the past two years, and the funds under fifteenth finance commission (FFC) must be released soon. “The funds should be directly sent to the bank accounts of the gram panchayats, the practice that was followed earlier,” he said. “There has been no development at the panchayat level in the past two years. With the opening of PD accounts, there will be more restrictions on the release of funds. The gram panchayats will be fully dependent on the government for the release of funds,” said Poonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/withdraw-order-to-open-a/cs-to-release-gp-funds/articleshow/80393511.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Aurangabad||Trains connecting Nanded to Mumbai and Pune from January 26||AURANGABAD: The South Central Railway (SCR) has announced that the Nanded-Mumbai-Nanded special train will be restarted from January 26. Counting this special train, a total of five trains will be running to Mumbai via Aurangabad — equivalent to the pre-Covid connectivity to the state capital. The special train (07618) will leave Nanded every day at 10.05 am and reach Mumbai via Aurangabad and Nashik at 9.55pm. In the return direction, the train (07617) will leave Mumbai at 6.15 am and is scheduled to reach Nanded by 6 pm. SCR public relations officer (Nanded division) Rajesh Shinde said the Mumbai-bound new train will have 18 coaches. “The Indian Railways has been gradually restoring train connectivity amid decline in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases. These trains will follow the old routes, but have been introduced as special trains due to the current situation,” he said, adding that train to Mumbai from Nanded can be considered equivalent to the Tapovan Express. The SCR has also introduced a special train on the Nanded-Pune-Nanded route from January 26. The train (02730) will leave Nanded every day at 9.30pm and is expected to reach the destination the next day at 9.40 am. In return direction, the train (02729) will depart Pune at 10 pm and reach Nanded at 10 am. Both the trains are fully reserved trains and will follow Covid prevention norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/trains-connecting-nanded-to-mumbai-pune-from-jan-26/articleshow/80391898.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||Power bill defaulters set to lose connections||Nagpur: Faced with alarming increase in arrears, MSEDCL head office has directed the discom field officers to cut the power connection of defaulters. So far it had not been severe with those not paying bills in view of the Covid pandemic. A MSEDCL spokesperson said that the arrears owed to MSEDCL by consumers had increased to Rs63,740 crore at the end of December 2020. “Our financial condition has become dire and there is no alternative but to disconnect. Defaulters must pay up else MSEDCL won’t be able to function,” he added. Giving the category-wise break up of arrears, the spokesperson said that farmers were the biggest defaulters with Rs45,498 crore due to the company. “The low tension (LT) domestic, commercial and industrial consumers owe us Rs8,485 crore while high tension (HT) consumers owe us Rs2,435 crore,” he added. He further said that energy minister Nitin Raut had directed the company in March 2020 not to disconnect consumers till December 2020 in view of the economic hardships faced by them due to Covid lockdown. “We are providing instalment facility to consumers. We are also not levying delayed payment charges on them. Therefore, it is the duty of consumers to clear their dues at the earliest,” said the spokesperson. He further said that private discoms in Mumbai took permission from Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) in September to disconnect defaulters. “They disconnected large number of consumers, who did not pay their power bills. We, however, waited till December. Unfortunately, we simply don’t have the money to continue working unless people start paying bills. So we have to be tough with our consumers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/power-bill-defaulters-set-to-lose-connections/articleshow/80393560.cms||Ashish Roy
January 22, 2021||Chennai||Sasikala tests +ve for Covid-19, is stable in ICU at Bengaluru hospital||BENGALURU: Former AIADMK general secretary V K Sasikala, who was slated to be released on January 27 after serving a four-year jail term at the Bengaluru Central Prison in a disproportionate assets case, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. She is being treated in the intensive care unit of Victoria Hospital, said medical superintendent Dr Ramesh Krishna K. The repeat RT-PCR test of Sasikala, who had tested negative for Covid-19 on Wednesday after being admitted to Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital and shifted the next day to Victoria Hospital following persistent fever and breathlessness, came positive late on Thursday. “She is in a stable condition and not on a ventilator,” Ramesh Krishna said. Dr Ramesh Krishna said, “Sasikala is suffering from severe lung infection and her CT severity score is about 16/25. She is on oxygen support; 10 litres of oxygen is given though her saturation level is 98%. As she is diabetic, we’re monitoring her.” Sasikala is suspected to be suffering from severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). She has been diagnosed with Type-2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, hypothyroidism and urinary tract infection. The hospital said she is “stable” and the examination revealed “bilateral crepitations”. Earlier in the day, AMMK general secretary T T V Dhinakaran, nephew of Sasikala, met senior Karnataka police officials at the Victoria Hospital. “I met senior state police officials at the hospital. They asked me to send a list of people and vehicles to be permitted inside the prison campus when Sasikala is formally released from the jail on January 27. We have sought a day or two to revert,” Dhinakaran said. On reports about her followers and AMMK functionaries and cadres planning to host a grand welcome to Sasikala enroute to Chennai, Dhinakaran said he discussed it with the Karnataka police, since they were apprehensive about the crowds gathering in Bengaluru. “I have assured them that our party functionaries and cadres will not cross the Tamil Nadu border into Karnataka. While they are keen to accord her a grand reception throughout the route, I am asking them to set an example to other political parties by wearing masks and observing social distance. In the case of cadres and leaders in Karnataka, they will assemble without creating any trouble for the police or the members of the public,” Dhinakaran said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sasi-tests-ve-for-covid-19-is-stable-in-icu-at-bluru-hospital/articleshow/80394666.cms||Kiran Parashar
January 22, 2021||Bengaluru||Sasikala tests +ve for Covid-19, is stable in ICU at Bengaluru hospital||BENGALURU: Former AIADMK general secretary V K Sasikala, who was slated to be released on January 27 after serving a four-year jail term at the Bengaluru Central Prison in a disproportionate assets case, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. She is being treated in the intensive care unit of Victoria Hospital, said medical superintendent Dr Ramesh Krishna K. The repeat RT-PCR test of Sasikala, who had tested negative for Covid-19 on Wednesday after being admitted to Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital and shifted the next day to Victoria Hospital following persistent fever and breathlessness, came positive late on Thursday. “She is in a stable condition and not on a ventilator,” Ramesh Krishna said. Dr Ramesh Krishna said, “Sasikala is suffering from severe lung infection and her CT severity score is about 16/25. She is on oxygen support; 10 litres of oxygen is given though her saturation level is 98%. As she is diabetic, we’re monitoring her.” Sasikala is suspected to be suffering from severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). She has been diagnosed with Type-2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, hypothyroidism and urinary tract infection. The hospital said she is “stable” and the examination revealed “bilateral crepitations”. Earlier in the day, AMMK general secretary T T V Dhinakaran, nephew of Sasikala, met senior Karnataka police officials at the Victoria Hospital. “I met senior state police officials at the hospital. They asked me to send a list of people and vehicles to be permitted inside the prison campus when Sasikala is formally released from the jail on January 27. We have sought a day or two to revert,” Dhinakaran said. On reports about her followers and AMMK functionaries and cadres planning to host a grand welcome to Sasikala enroute to Chennai, Dhinakaran said he discussed it with the Karnataka police, since they were apprehensive about the crowds gathering in Bengaluru. “I have assured them that our party functionaries and cadres will not cross the Tamil Nadu border into Karnataka. While they are keen to accord her a grand reception throughout the route, I am asking them to set an example to other political parties by wearing masks and observing social distance. In the case of cadres and leaders in Karnataka, they will assemble without creating any trouble for the police or the members of the public,” Dhinakaran said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sasi-tests-ve-for-covid-19-is-stable-in-icu-at-bluru-hospital/articleshow/80397437.cms||Kiran Parashar
January 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||Covid vaccination Day 3: Drive picks up in Ahmedabad, Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: After lukewarm response to the Covid vaccination drive in Gujarat on first two days, the process gathered steam on day 3. According to the health department figures, 85% of registered healthcare workers (HCWs) in Ahmedabad city and 90% in Gujarat got the shot. According to state health department, 12,487 persons got the vaccine on Thursday. To put the figure in perspective, 12,320 HCWs on January 16 and 11,045 on January 19 had got vaccinated. So far, 35,852 HCWs have got the shot, said officials. Among the cities, Ahmedabad city recorded 1,580, Surat 1,297 and and Vadodara 611 vaccinations. In all, Ahmedabad city recorded 65% of vaccination against the registered beneficiaries in three days. On Thursday, top doctors from the city got vaccinated to create awareness about the process and also to dispel myths. Dr Tushar Patel, a city-based pulmonologist and member of the state Covid-19 task force, said that 100 doctors from various private hospitals participated in the initiative. “For the next two days, 200 more would be vaccinated. They will be ambassadors for vaccination as they can reach many patients,” he said. At Civil hospital, SVP hospital and other government hospitals, the turnout was good with nearly 100% participation of beneficiaries. Several heads of the departments and senior doctors were among those who got the vaccine. Orthopaedic surgeon Jyotindra Pandit, who got vaccinated on Thursday, said that factors like the impact of vaccination would be known after some months. “However, when we do not have any medicine against Covid-19, it’s the most effective way to get protection,” he said. Cardiologist Sanjay Shah, who got vaccinated, said that he did not report any adverse impact. “Sometimes it’s also about psychology, and not just physiology. Awareness about possible effects can play an important role,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/day-3-drive-picks-up-in-abad-guj/articleshow/80393546.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Let tourists see Rajabai Tower, minister urged||MUMBAI: Senate members from Mumbai University met tourism minister Aditya Thackeray with a proposal to make Rajabai Tower and the university's convocation hall a tourist attraction. Pradeep Sawant, a senate member, told TOI that there are many tourists who visit the campus, hoping to see the tower, the library and convocation hall, but are turned away from the gate. “We have, therefore, requested the minister to make it a tourist attraction,” he said. Another member said the university can generate some revenue from the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/let-tourists-see-rajabai-tower-minister-urged/articleshow/80372255.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Jaipur||Kair timber worth Rs 5 lakh seized in Chittor, 2 arrested||Udaipur: Chittorgarh police met a huge success on Thursday in seizing 82 quintal 70 kilogram of smuggled kair timber stocked in a field which was meant for illegal transportation. The smugglers had stocked the wood which was meant for supply to gutkha and pan masala making factories in Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. Police arrested Lakshman and Abu Shahid Khan and a case under section 379 of IPC and sections of the Forest Act has been registered. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kair-timber-worth-rs-5-lakh-seized-in-chittor-2-arrested/articleshow/80393543.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Agra||Kasganj farmer’s son, 10, abducted, killed over land row, 3 arrested||Agra: A property dispute cost a 10-year-old boy his life in Uttar Pradesh’s Kasganj district. The son of a farmer was allegedly kidnapped on Monday morning and later, killed. The following day, the kidnappers demanded Rs 40 lakh as ransom from the boy’s family. Three people were arrested on Thursday morning after an encounter, police said. On Wednesday night, the boy’s body was found in a field barely 200 metres from his village, Pithanpur, under Sidhpura police station, Kasganj district. He had been strangled. According to police, three local villagers -- Ajay Kumar, Amarpal and Raj Bahadur – were arrested following an early morning encounter. One of the accused was hit by a bullet in the leg. An illegal weapon, two cartridges and a motorcycle without a number plate were seized from them. Giving details, Aditya Verma, assistant superintendent of police, said one of the accused, Ajay Kumar, tried to evade arrest and suffered a gunshot injury in the leg. He has been admitted to hospital. During interrogation, they said the boy’s family had a property dispute with their neighbour, Raj Bahadur. The latter allegedly gave money to the other two for killing the boy, the ASP said. They had lured the boy to a field and strangled him there. They hid the body under a heap of foodgrain. To mislead police, they made a ransom call, the ASP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/kasganj-farmers-son-10-abducted-killed-over-land-row-3-arrested/articleshow/80391265.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||ACB sleuths nab VRO for taking Rs 2 lakh bribe||Hyderabad: ACB sleuths nabbed VRO of Dwarakapet village at a hotel in Habsiguda on Thursday when he took Rs 2 lakh bribe from a complainant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/acb-sleuths-nab-vro-for-taking-rs-2-lakh-bribe/articleshow/80393539.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Kolkata||Netaji book: BJP MP bats for TMC demand||Kolkata: BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta on Thursday backed his Rajya Sabha colleague and Trinamool Congress MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy’s appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to publish the book compiled by the defence ministry on the military operations by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and his Indian National Army (INA). The draft volume of the book — INA in Military Operation — is lying with the defence ministry since 1949. Dasgupta wrote on Twitter, “I fully endorse the demand by Sukhendu Sekhar Roy for the release of the defence ministry report. In 1999, I made inquiries and was told by a PMO official that Jawaharlal Nehru suppressed it because he felt the govt version would not be believed. Time to get the real story out.” “The book compiled by the history division of the defence ministry hasn’t seen the light of the day. It could be a fitting tribute to Netaji and the 26,000 soldiers of INA who laid down their lives for the country’s Independence,” Ray said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/netaji-book-bjp-mp-bats-for-tmc-demand/articleshow/80393545.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Agra||Aligarh: Locals complain of harassment after youth ‘elopes’ with interfaith girl||AGRA: Residents of Ghasipur village in Aligarh on Wednesday staged a protest outside the SSP office and accused the police of harassing them in connection with the alleged elopement of a local girl with a youth from the minority community two weeks ago. Talking to media persons, a local resident Muqeem said that three persons were picked up by the police and everyone from the community is being harassed, unnecessarily. He said, “Instead of questioning the man’s family, the police have been targeting locals.” Another resident Shabnam said, “Police forcefully entered our house at night and started abusing us. They accused us of helping the couple elope." Madrak police had registered an FIR under sections 363 and 366 of IPC on January 4 on a complaint filed by the girl’s family. The youth is a resident of Ghasipur and the girl hails from Madrak. SP (rural) Shubham Patel said that he has marked an inquiry into the matter after local residents complained about harassment. He, however, said it is normal for police to detain and question people. "If anyone is found guilty, action will be taken accordingly," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/locals-complain-of-harassment-after-youth-elopes-with-interfaith-girl/articleshow/80391281.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||2 die after consuming spurious liquor in ‘dry’ Gadchiroli||Nagpur: Two persons died and eight others fell critically ill after consuming spurious liquor at a village in Chamorshi taluka of Gadchiroli district, police said on Thursday. State government has banned sale and consumption of liquor in the district. This leads to production andconsumption of spurious liquor, which endangers the life of addicts, say experts. The incident took place at Laxmanpur on Wednesday, when a group of men consumed alcohol at an illicit liquor den and fell unconscious soon after, an official said. The men were admitted to a hospital. Two of them died during treatment. Eight others are in a critical condition at a rural hospital in Ashti, the official said. The deceased have been identified as Prakash Gaurkar (53) and Ramesh Dhoomne (52), both residents of Laxmanpur At least six persons have been detained by Ashti police so far. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-die-after-consuming-spurious-liquor-in-dry-gadchiroli/articleshow/80393586.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Man stabs wife to death||Hyderabad: Suspecting that his wife was in an illicit relationship, a kerosene dealer stabbed her to death in their house in Anjaiah Nagar of Gachibowli on Wednesday night. Police arrested the accused. The victim, Farhana Qureshi (28), a native of Islampura Colony, Kinwath village in Maharashtra married Md Mohsin Khan (31) of Bidar in Karnataka five months ago. Before marrying Mohsin, Farhana married twice and had three children. Recently, Mohsin started arguing with Farhana about her frequent visits to Karnataka to meet friends. “During an argument on Wednesday night, Mohsin stabbed Farhana in the stomach and throat, killing her on the spot,” Raidurgam inspector Ravinder said. Police arrested Mohsin under section 302 of the IPC and he confessed to having committed the crime. He will be produced before the court for judicial remand on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-stabs-wife-to-death/articleshow/80393555.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||NMC’s on-spot ‘tweak’ gets overwhelming response||Nagpur: By 1pm on Thursday, those manning Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s Covid inoculation centre, being operated from the first floor of Pachpaoli Women’s Hospital, were expecting it would be just another day with not more than one beneficiary at a time to deal with. Since morning, 34 beneficiaries had walked in to take the Covishield jab, spent 30 minutes under observation and left without having to wait at any level.A little after noon, the centre had a long queue of Asha workers, private doctors, nurses and non-clinical staff from hospitals lined up till its ground floor. For the next one hour, it took the medical team to streamline the rush, seen for the first time during Covid vaccination at any of the five centres in city. At 5pm, Pachpaoli topped the day’s vaccination chart with 102 taking the jab, though it had a curtailed list of 76 beneficiaries due to technical issues.Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said we were experimenting with the idea of adding registered private health care workers too through on-spot registration in the day's list of beneficiaries. A day before, spot registration was started to prevent vaccine dose wastage by letting all registered beneficiaries choose a suitable time instead of going by the serial order. Some private doctors reached on their own after reading about the move.Joshi said Asha workers too were motivated to come forward and take the jab.The NMC’s move came on a day when all seven rural Covid inoculation centres were shut to facilitate other regular immunization drives. The Covid drive is being held on alternate days in rural centres. Amravati division too took a break on Thursday. Officials at Pachpaoli centre said they could finalize list of only 76 beneficiaries because of some glitches on the portal. Daga Hospital too was part of the trial, but all private health workers received SMS asking them to report at Pachpaoli centre only. As the private health workers received the message alerts about their vaccination appointment at 1pm, they immediately rushed to the Pachpaoli centre. Indian Medical Association (IMA) president Dr Archana Kothari too was allotted this centre. Dr Kothari said after reading about daily dose wastage, she had contacted NMC medical team and requested if registered private health workers, who did Covid duties, can be accommodated in the on-spot method. “I provided an initial list and we got the calls immediately,” she said. Doctors and nurses from Nirmaya Clinic too reached the centre. The clueless front-line workers were worried as the list didn’t carry their names and later those were added manually. The unexpected rush led to some troubles for some doctors whose surgeries and consultations got held-up. A cardiologist from Lata Mangeshkar Hospital said he would have to rush back for an angioplasty at 3pm. “I assumed it would taken 30 to 40 minutes in all,” he said. However, all the beneficiaries reaching after 2pm had to wait for a longer duration and the immunization slowed down.Joshi said on-spot registration will be allowed for in-house staff of AIIMS, IGGMCH and GMCH as their numbers are pretty high. The civic body plans to restrict inoculation of private health care workers to its hospital and Daga Hospital.Considering the difficulties in locating Pachpaoli centre, the NMC is now planning to shift the inoculation centre to its Isolation Hospital in Imambada. The civic chief will take a call on this in a couple of days. Among rest of the four centres, AIIMS achieved 100% target, IGGMCH vaccinated 75 out of 100, Daga just 40 and GMCH mere 21. Nagpur city met 71% of the target with 338 taking the jab against the day’s target of 476. This took Vidarbha’s vaccination tally to 11,906. Nagpur City Centre -------------- Target ------------- V ---------------- %Pachpaoli* ------------ 76---------------- 102 -------------131 AIIMS ------------------100 ------------- 100 --------------- 100Daga ------------------100 ------------- 40 --------------- 40IGGMCH ------------ 100 ------------- 75 ---------------75GMCH ------------------100 ------------- 21 ------------- 21Total ------------------- 476---------------- 338------- 71(*Technical errors restricted target list. On-spot allowed Pachpaoli centre achieve higher %)Wastage of dosesCentre -------------- Used------------- W Pachpaoli ------------ 110---------------- 8 AIIMS ------------------110 ------------- 9 Daga ------------------40 ------------- 0 IGGMCH ------------ 80 ------------- 5GMCH ------------------30 ------------- 9 Total ------------------ 370 ------------- 31What HappenedNMC decides to add private health care workers in day’s beneficiaries through on-spot registrationFirst lot of private health care workers, who did Covid duties and had been enrolled by civic body, received SMS at 1pmIn the morning, NMC had also circulated awareness videos for Asha workersAsha workers reported after their work at 1.30pmThis clashed with arrival of private health care workers It was decided to send some private health care workers to Daga Hospital centreBut all landed up at Pachpaoli centre leading to chaos for some time||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmcs-on-spot-tweak-gets-overwhelming-response/articleshow/80392387.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 22, 2021||Chennai||Centre to Madras HC: Medical quota for govt students will affect merit||CHENNAI: Setting the stage for a fresh round of political slugfest, the BJP government at the Centre has opposed exclusive reservation for government school students in MBBS/BDS admissions under NEET. It will not “be desirable,” said the Union home ministry when a related case came up before the Madras high court for hearing. “Any artificial, horizontal reservation is likely to create abnormal incentives/disincentives affecting pre-medical education…” it said. Noting that NEET provided uniform national standards on the principle of one nation one merit list, the Centre said the proposal of the Puducherry administration to provide quota in medical courses for government school students diluted the merit principle. Such demands would undo merit-based admission reform, the Centre said. The Centre filed the counter in response to a plea moved by a student seeking a direction to the Union government to approve 10% horizontal reservation for students from government schools in Puducherry for admissions to medical courses. Counsel for petitioner senior advocate P Wilson, who took strong exception to it, said the central government was belittling the 7.5% reservation policy adopted by Tamil Nadu. The Centre, denying that it was sitting on the reference from the union territory, said the 7.5% reservation provided for government school students to medical admission in Tamil Nadu had been provided through state legislation and that no reference had been made to the Centre for information/concurrence in the matter. Asserting that such reservation may lead to similar or other demands from other states, it said After the Puducherry cabinet approved the exclusive reservation and forwarded the same to lieutenant-governor Kiran Bedi, she referred the matter to the central government on the ground that she differed with the view of the elected Puducherry government. Claiming that the Centre is sitting on the reference made on November 6, 2020 without taking a decision, the present plea was for a direction to the Centre to approve the reservation. When the plea came up for hearing before Justice B Pugalendhi on Thursday, a limited reply was filed by the Centre through Ravi Ranjan, deputy commandant, union ministry of home affairs. Denying that the reference is kept pending indefinitely, the reply said this ministry had acted promptly on the reference made by the LG and the CM of Puducherry and had sought inter-ministerial consultations for taking an informed decision. “It is pertinent to mention here that the ministry of health vide an office memorandum dated December 10, 2020 while disagreeing with the proposal for granting horizontal reservation to students from government schools in the state quota seats in admission to medical courses conveyed that medical education is under concurrent list,” the reply said. Since the Centre sought further time to take a decision on the reference made, the judge adjourned the hearing to February 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/centre-to-hc-med-quota-for-govt-students-will-affect-merit/articleshow/80394701.cms||Suresh Kumar
January 22, 2021||Goa||Goa: 1,400 to get Covid vaccine shot in two days||PANAJI: Goa’s second round of Covid vaccination will be conducted on Friday and Saturday at 14 centres. On each day, vaccination will take place at seven centres covering 700 beneficiaries. On Friday, it will be carried out at Goa Medical College (GMC), North Goa district hospital at Mapusa and urban health centre also at Mapusa, community health centres at Pernem and Valpoi, Vision Hospital at Mapusa and Victor Hospital in Margao. Each of the centres will vaccinate 100 beneficiaries. Saturday will see the drive being undertaken at Hospicio along with urban health centre at Margao, ESI Hospital, Grace Hospital in Margao, sub-district hospital at Ponda along with the primary health centre, community health centres at Curchorem and Canacona, sub-district hospital at Chicalim along urban health centre at Vasco, a directorate of health services official said. He said that beneficiary lists have been shared with all the centres with instructions that they will be able to have substitute candidates only against the beneficiaries listed for immunisation during the day and who fail to show up at the session sites. “Again, the centre will be able to inoculate substitute candidates between 3pm and 5pm and not after that. Also, the substitute candidates ought to be registered on the portal. The centres must try to vaccinate 100 candidates by 5pm,” the officer said. On the first day of the launch, most centres were unable to achieve 100% target as many beneficiaries on the list did not turn up for vaccination. This is being attributed to a delay in sharing the beneficiary list with the centres as health authorities were unable to access the Co-Win portal. The centres received the beneficiary list only late on Friday evening and were left with little time to contact the beneficiaries. The centres were allowed to bring in substitute beneficiaries, but the intimation of the same was given to them at 5pm on Saturday at the time when they were to conclude their programme. On the launch of the vaccination drive on Saturday, he said, a total of 470 candidates were vaccinated. “The names of 435 who received their first dose have been uploaded on the portal and 35 names are pending uploading,” he said. They are scheduled to receive their second dose on February 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/1400-in-state-to-get-vaccine-shot-in-two-days/articleshow/80394702.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||Relief for farmers as tur rates touch MSP in open market||Nagpur: Finally, rates of tur, one of the major crops grown by the region’s farmers, have touched the minimum support price (MSP) in the open market. For last two years, the rates during harvests had fallen below the MSP level. The tur crop now being harvested is fetching a price of up to Rs6,000 a quintal, which is equivalent to its MSP for the current season. But there is uncertainty over how long the prices will remain at this level. The rates are just at the MSP, and a slightest decline can bring it below. Farmers have already begun registering for government procurement. The rates were at a comfortable margin above the MSP before harvest, at Rs6,500. A couple of months ago it had crossed Rs7,500 a quintal. The rates have only come down as harvest has begun, finally settling at MSP. After major losses in soyabean coupled with low rates, even cotton prices were below the MSP of Rs5,800. Farmers say they have written off the soyabean crop and are depending on procurement at MSP by Cotton Corporation of India (CCI). Better rates for tur will only bring a small relief, they said. A lower output has increased the prices, said sources. The decline is not much but enough to have it impact on rates. Against an average of yield of 9 to 10 quintals in an acre, the output has reduced too around 7 to 8 quintals this year, said farmers. Sudhir Kothari from the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) at Hinganghat said at present the crop has moisture due to which the rates may be low. Once the dry lot arrives the markets price may improve. The rates slipped from the Rs7,500 a quintal level because the government began offloading the stock, which was purchased during earlier MSP procurement drives, in the open market. Vijay Jawandhia, a former Shetkari Sanghatana activist, said soon after the rates touched a high the government allowed import licences valid till December 31. This brought down the prices in local markets. Jawandhia said unless government procurement begins the rates may not stay at this level. On the other hand, farmers say they don’t have much to complain. The produce is down but they can manage at the current prices though the losses in other crops are much more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/relief-for-farmers-as-tur-rates-touch-msp-in-open-market/articleshow/80393611.cms||Shishir Arya
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Station masters go on hunger strike||Hyderabad: Nearly 30 railway station masters, affiliated to the All India Station Masters’ Association, went on a hunger strike in front of Rail Nilayam in Secunderabad on Thursday. Pressing for a charter of demands, including promotional opportunities, the protesting employees said that the night duty allowance that was being given to all Station Masters (SM) has been stopped in the last few months. Seniors are now losing around Rs 200 to Rs 250 night duty allowance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/station-masters-go-on-hunger-strike/articleshow/80393598.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Kolkata||National Lib modifies timings||Kolkata: National Library will remain shut to readers for half of Friday and the whole of Saturday due to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit on Saturday. The initial order barring any kind of movement by readers on the campus for two days, and asking those residing in the staff quarters not to enter or exit from 11am on Saturday, was changed after a reader, Saibal Chakravorty, wrote to the authorities to allow readers into the library on Friday. K K Kochukoshy, OSD, then issued a revised order saying that the offices and the central hall would remain open till 3.30pm on Friday. He said, “In the pandemic, the library is closed during the weekends. So, there won’t be any impact on readers if the premises remain out of bound to them that day, in view of the PM’s security.” Former bureaucrat Jawhar Sircar, who was in charge of National Library when he was Union culture secretary, said, “Bhasha Bhavan and Belvedere House can easily be segregated on the issue of PM’s security. The library is supposed to be a sacrosanct service that is kept open even on holidays.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/national-lib-modifies-timings/articleshow/80393595.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
January 22, 2021||Kolkata||After 6°C rise, mercury plunges by 4°C in 24 hrs||Kolkata: The mercury nosedived four degrees on Thursday to 15°C on a chilly Thursday, a day after it had slid up six degrees. The temperature fluctuation could continue with the Met office predicting that the mercury could drop further to 14°C on Friday. Kolkata recorded a maximum temperature of 27.2°C on Thursday. “It will continue to remain chilly as the northwesterly that had lost momentum has revived. It is again carrying in chill from the northwestern part of the country. The cloud cover that had formed on Wednesday receded, allowing the mercury to drop. It should remain cool and pleasant till the weekend,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director GK Das. While Kolkata had recorded a minimum temperature of 13.8°C on Tuesday, it spiralled to 19.2°C on Wednesday, five notches above normal. Along with a cloud cover that occasionally blocked out the sun on Wednesday, a layer of smog hung low over some parts of the city. The cloud cover cleared up on Thursday and the mercury plunged sharply, said the Met office. A confluence of warm, moisture-laden easterly winds and cool, dry westerly winds led to the mercury jump, according to Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director GK Das. “Moist, easterly winds from the sea pulled the temperature up and led to a cloud cover. Cool westerly winds, however, continued to flow into Kolkata,” said Das. The mercury may start crawling up early next week, said the RMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-6c-rise-mercury-plunges-by-4c-in-24-hrs/articleshow/80393612.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||20 civic work proposals approved in GHMC standing committee meeting||Hyderabad: GHMC standing committee on Thursday approved 20 proposals pertaining to civic works. Proposal to set up 700 traffic umbrellas in city was also approved by the committee. Eight works in the city have been taken up by companies as part of CSR. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/20-civic-work-proposals-approved-in-ghmc-standing-committee-meeting/articleshow/80393603.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Police launch DiLSeY for cybersecurity awareness||Hyderabad: Cyberabad police in collaboration with Society for Cyberabad Security Council (SCSC) launched the Digital Literacy to Secure Youth (DiLSeY) initiative to create awareness on cybersecurity among students and curb cyber crimes. As part of the initiative 100 volunteers, mostly from IT sector, will be trained in the first batch starting from February 6 and after the training they will conduct awareness programmes at colleges, schools and other places. Those who are interested in becoming a DiLSey volunteer may write to SCSC on email ID crm@scsc.in or dial: 9177283831. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-launch-dilsey-for-cybersecurity-awareness/articleshow/80393606.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Rajkot||Farmers seek subsidy to encourage dragon fruit cultivation||RAJKOT: After the state government decided to rename the dragon fruit grown in Kutch as ‘kamalam,’ the farmers have now requested for subsidy from the horticulture department to encourage more cultivation of this exotic variety. Vishal Gada, one of the pioneers of dragon fruit cultivation in Kutch said, “We are told that subsidy is not given for a foreign fruit and these don’t fall in the list of subsidy. “The cost of cultivation of dragon fruit in one acre is Rs five lakh which majority farmers can’t afford.” Farmers say all native fruits are eligible for one-time subsidy for plants, fencing, irrigation facility and others. Sagar Thakkar, another farmer said, “There is a huge capital investment is required to grow this crop. We appreciate the government remaning it as kamalam but we should get subsidy like all the other native fruits.” The Bhuj Chamber of Commerce and Industry has also represented the central government requesting subsidy for dragon fruit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/farmers-seek-subsidy-to-encourage-dragon-fruit-cultivation/articleshow/80392409.cms||---
January 22, 2021||India||CRPF mulls inducting its women warriors into anti-Naxal commando force||NEW DELHI: CRPF is “favourably considering” inducting its women warriors in the force’s elite CoBRA ‘commando’ battalions that specialise in anti-Maoist operations. The force, as part of its mantra ‘We don’t leave our men behind: Neither in battle, Nor in life”, is also working with the private sector to provide corporate jobs to the next of kin of its martyrs, besides training personnel who have suffered grievous injury or loss of limbs in the line of duty, to be cyber warriors. Sharing these initiatives with mediapersons here on Thursday, CRPF DG A P Maheshwari underlined the CRPF’s success in various theatres like J&K and left-wing extremism-hit areas in the past year. He said 215 terrorists were neutralised in J&K in a total of 254 engagements/encounters in 2020, while 251 terrorists were apprehended and 360 arms and 41 IEDs recovered. Among those killed were Hizbul Mujahideen top commander Riyaz Naikoo, who carried a Rs 12 lakh reward on his head and had been eluding security forces for long, and, more recently, three heavily-armed Jaish terrorists in Nagrota. In the counter-Naxal grid, CRPF killed 32 Maoists in the last one year with major successes in Jharkhand including the killing of Jidan Guriya, a Maoist carrying Rs 15 lakh reward, in Khunti. Maheshwari said CRPF has established 18 forward operating bases in interior regions of Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Odisha, and several more such bases were under consideration. Maheshwari said women warriors of the forces, currently deployed in most difficult theatres such as J&K and LWE areas and also doing well in Bastariya battalion deployed in ‘core’ areas of Chhattisgarh, had requested induction into CoBRA, which was being favourably considered. Importantly, the CRPF, always keen to look after its personnel and their families, has taken three important initiatives. Firstly, it has set up a National Centre for Divyang Empowerment for skilling and reskilling internal security warriors who are grievously injured with loss of limbs. The force is skilling divyang warriors in para-sports and re-skilling them in information technology to turn them into cyber warriors. Secondly, CRPF has got 54 next of kin and wards of its martyrs appointed across nine private sector companies including Wipro, Toyota and Dream Studio based in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Thirdly, thanks to CRPF’s intervention, Bharat ke Veer trust is providing Rs 10 lakh financial support to the parents of married warriors who have attained martyrdom on or after May 1, 2020. Also, Rs 10 lakh is being paid from Bharat ke Veer corpus to central forces personnel who are boarded out from service on account of injury or disability suffered in action. Among other interesting initiatives, Maheshwari told newspersons that three Indian dog breeds – Mudhol Hound, Mongrel and Kombai – had been inducted into the CRPF canine squad, as suggested by Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently in his programme ‘Mann ki Baat’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/crpf-mulls-inducting-its-women-warriors-into-anti-naxal-commando-force/articleshow/80396868.cms||Bharti Jain
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Fire at jewellery unit injures 13||Hyderabad: A fire that occurred due to a cylinder blast on Wednesday injured 13 people, out of which 10 received severe injuries. “Though the 10 people who received severe burn injuries are out of danger, no causalities have been reported in the fire accident,” said an official from Osmania General Hospital (OGH). All the 13 workers hail from West Bengal. The accident occurred in a jewellery melting unit located in Chowk Maidan, falling under Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) Charminar zone. The fire occurred due to a cylinder blast in the second floor of a four-storey building. Soon after the blast, the locals alerted the police. One fire tender, 10 staffers and an ambulance was pressed into service to douse the fire.“We are investigatng the reason for the cylinder blast. We were able to douse the fire within 20 minutes,” said V Papaiah, regional fire officer - central region. Following the blast, the building was filled with smoke and other people in the building rushed out to safer places. Mohammed Shafiullah, a resident staying near the building, said that they heard a loud noise around 11:30 pm and saw smoke emanating from the building.“There was a loud noise. By the time I rushed out, I saw people running out of the building, accompanied by police,” he said. Verification revealed the building is located in a congested area with hardly any safety measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fire-at-jewellery-unit-injures-13/articleshow/80393669.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Woman who accused Maharashtra minister Dhananjay Munde of rape backtracks||MUMBAI: A woman who had accused NCP leader and social justice minister Dhananjay Munde of rape has withdrawn her complaint, lodged on January 10. A senior IPS officer confirmed to TOI that while she has withdrawn her complaint, the investigating officer has asked her to submit her statement on affidavit and that it should be notarized. “She has made a statement before the investigating officer who has told her to say it on affidavit and get it notarized so that she will not be able to deny it at a later stage,’’ he said. In her statement to the investigating officer, she submitted that for a long time, relations between her elder sister and Munde were not cordial, due to which she was under mental pressure. Munde had admitted to a consensual relationship with the woman’s sister and to having two children outside marriage from her. After the news appeared in a section of the media, she found that rival political parties were making use of her complaint to settle political scores. “I am withdrawing my complaint against Dhananjay Munde. I have no complaint of rape,” she told the investigating officer. While opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis had taken a guarded stand, the entire BJP demanded Munde’s dismissal from the cabinet. The official said now that she has withdrawn her complaint, the probe will be wound up. “No offence was registered. We were probing her complaint. Now, with no complaint, the case stands closed automatically,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/woman-who-accused-min-of-rape-backtracks/articleshow/80393647.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
January 22, 2021||Chennai||Natarajan arrives home on a ‘chariot’, sees his baby daughter for the 1st time||SALEM: T Natarajan lived a dream in Australia over the past three months and his homecoming on Thursday seemed an extension of it. His village in Salem — Chinnappampatti — had prepared well in advance for their favourite son who made his Test, ODI and T20 debuts in Australia and once the 29-year-old returned from Brisbane via Dubai and Bengaluru, it was like a carnival. The left-arm pacer was welcomed by giant billboards as scores of fans gathered from nearby villages to give him a royal welcome. Scores of fans had gathered from nearby villages to give him a royal welcome. “I am elated. I cannot express my happiness in words. I never expected this kind of reception. I thank my fans, friends, relatives and villagers,” Natarajan said, soaking in the adulation as ‘chenda melam’ beats and firecrackers added to the festive spirit. Natarajan, who drove down from Bengaluru, stopped his car on the outskirts of his village on seeing the crowd that had gathered. His father Thangaraj, mother T Shantha and sister Thilagavathi were among the first to receive him. “We were so used to the notion that great achievements only came from big cities. But here we are witnessing someone so great from our own neighbourhood,” said Devayani, a college student from Chinnappampatti. There was a horse-drawn chariot waiting for Natarajan and the ‘King of Chinnappampatti’ on his royal vehicle took about two hours to cover the two kilometres back home wading through the lanes of his village, brimming with excited fans. Natarajan has to return to Chennai by January 28 to prepare for Test series against England.“Why is there such a crowd?” an elderly woman asked. And when told that a cricket player has returned, she shot back: “Is it Natarajan?” It indicated how deep an impression the mild-mannered boy who first played cricket with a leather ball at the age of 19, has made on the minds of his people. Natarajan hadn’t met his two-month-old girl so far as he went straight to Australia from the United Arab Emirates following the IPL. “He would often make video calls to wife Pavithra and see the baby. He was waiting for this day when he would meet his daughter for the first time,” said a neighbour. The emotional moment of the father seeing his baby, though, was kept private. The villagers had also put up a pandal at the village entrance, which was removed on the instructions of health officials. Upon his arrival, the health officials also asked Natarajan to undergo home isolation for the next few days. Natarajan, though, has to return to Chennai by January 28 to prepare for the Test series against England from February 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/salem-express-gets-a-royal-welcome/articleshow/80394763.cms||V Mayilvaganan
January 22, 2021||Salem||Natarajan arrives home on a ‘chariot’, sees his baby daughter for the 1st time||SALEM: T Natarajan lived a dream in Australia over the past three months and his homecoming on Thursday seemed an extension of it. His village in Salem — Chinnappampatti — had prepared well in advance for their favourite son who made his Test, ODI and T20 debuts in Australia and once the 29-year-old returned from Brisbane via Dubai and Bengaluru, it was like a carnival. The left-arm pacer was welcomed by giant billboards as scores of fans gathered from nearby villages to give him a royal welcome. Scores of fans had gathered from nearby villages to give him a royal welcome. “I am elated. I cannot express my happiness in words. I never expected this kind of reception. I thank my fans, friends, relatives and villagers,” Natarajan said, soaking in the adulation as ‘chenda melam’ beats and firecrackers added to the festive spirit. Natarajan, who drove down from Bengaluru, stopped his car on the outskirts of his village on seeing the crowd that had gathered. His father Thangaraj, mother T Shantha and sister Thilagavathi were among the first to receive him. “We were so used to the notion that great achievements only came from big cities. But here we are witnessing someone so great from our own neighbourhood,” said Devayani, a college student from Chinnappampatti. There was a horse-drawn chariot waiting for Natarajan and the ‘King of Chinnappampatti’ on his royal vehicle took about two hours to cover the two kilometres back home wading through the lanes of his village, brimming with excited fans. Natarajan has to return to Chennai by January 28 to prepare for Test series against England.“Why is there such a crowd?” an elderly woman asked. And when told that a cricket player has returned, she shot back: “Is it Natarajan?” It indicated how deep an impression the mild-mannered boy who first played cricket with a leather ball at the age of 19, has made on the minds of his people. Natarajan hadn’t met his two-month-old girl so far as he went straight to Australia from the United Arab Emirates following the IPL. “He would often make video calls to wife Pavithra and see the baby. He was waiting for this day when he would meet his daughter for the first time,” said a neighbour. The emotional moment of the father seeing his baby, though, was kept private. The villagers had also put up a pandal at the village entrance, which was removed on the instructions of health officials. Upon his arrival, the health officials also asked Natarajan to undergo home isolation for the next few days. Natarajan, though, has to return to Chennai by January 28 to prepare for the Test series against England from February 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/salem-express-gets-a-royal-welcome/articleshow/80405113.cms||V Mayilvaganan
January 22, 2021||Delhi||‘Farmers' stir in Delhi caused business loss of Rs 50,000 crore’||NEW DELHI: Farmers’ movement in Delhi and adjoining areas in the NCR has caused business losses of Rs 50,000 crore, Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) has claimed. Farmers have closed many roads leading to Delhi, because of which a majority of vehicles can’t enter the city, the traders’ body said on Thursday. “About 50,000 trucks, carrying goods from different states, were coming to Delhi and neighbouring cities every day and about 30,000 trucks were carrying goods from Delhi to other states. Due to the farmers’ movement, not only the inflow but outflow of goods has also been hampered to an extent. Small truckers are managing to take inner roads but huge vehicles can’t take the risk,” said CAIT secretary general Praveen Khandelwal. “In old Delhi, supply and transportation of at least 25% products have got affected. Due to restricted supply of raw material, production cycle has also been impacted in the region,” said Khandelwal. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farmer-stir-caused-biz-loss-of-rs-50000cr/articleshow/80393653.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Boss who got fake rail passes for staff gets pre-arrest bail||A sessions court recently granted anticipatory bail to a businessman who allegedly got fake identity cards and railway passes for his employees to commute as part of essential services staff. The matter came to light when one of his employees, Deepali Gaikwad, was caught by a TC at Mahalaxmiin October as he suspected that the BMC identity card she had was fake. Gaikwad was arrested and later granted bail. Granting relief to the businessman, Chintan Sanghvi, the court said his co-accused, the man from whom he allegedly got passes was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/boss-who-got-fake-rail-passes-for-staff-gets-pre-arrest-bail/articleshow/80394757.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Jaipur||Kidnapped businessman from Gujarat rescued from Sikar||JAIPUR: A businessman dealing with plywood in Gandhidham of Gujarat was rescued by a team of Rajasthan and Gujarat police on Wednesday evening from Laxmangarh of Sikar district, almost three days after he was kidnapped. Police have not ruled out the possibility of some deal between the kidnappers and family of the kidnapped businessman, that led the kidnappers to free the businessman. According to Gujarat police, the businessman, identified as Mukesh Agarwal, went missing on January 18. “It was found that the family got a ransom call of Rs 35 lakh. As we took up the case, we started following the location of the businessman and through technical surveillance we come to know that the location was moving towards Jodhpur followed by Jaipur and then Laxmangarh. Thus, we intimated Rajasthan police including those of Jodhpur, Jaipur and Sikar,” Mayur Patil, superintendent of police, Kutch (East) told TOI over phone from Gujarat on Thursday. While Sikar police initiated massive search and barricading, it was found that the kidnappers freed the businessman near Laxmangarh and fled. Even Sikar and Gujarat police were surprised to see the kidnappers freeing the businessman. “At this point of time we can’t rule out the possibility of some deal between the family of businessman and the kidnappers. We have lodged a case of kidnap and have initiated investigation,” the SP added. Meanwhile, when contacted, Kunwar Rastradeep, superintendent of police, Sikar, said, “Based on the inputs by Gujarat police, we initiated barricading and thereafter, we got to know that the kidnappers had left the businessman near a tea stall at Laxmangarh.” After rescuing the businessman, Sikar police handed him over to a team of Gujarat police. According to the primary investigation, Mukesh had asked the kidnappers that he wished to have some tea. “The kidnappers stopped the vehicle on the way near a dhaba situated at Laxmangarh. That was when the businessman showed some reluctance and the kidnappers left him there,” said a senior Gujarat police officer. After the kidnapped businessman arrives at Gandhidham, he would be interrogated. “One can’t rule out the possibility of some deal between the kidnappers and businessman’s family. That needs to be proved,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kidnapped-bizman-from-gujarat-rescued-from-sikar/articleshow/80393624.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Secunderabad Cantonment Board to pass resolution on free water scheme in February||SECUNDERABAD: The Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) plans to hold a special board meeting in the first week of February to pass a resolution on extending the free water scheme in the Secunderabad Cantonment areas. “Once the resolution is passed at the board meeting, it will be forwarded to the principal director, southern command, Pune for approval to implement the scheme in Cantonment,” SCB vice-president J Maheshwar Reddy told TOI. Meanwhile, over 40 resident welfare associations (RWA) met Cantonment MLA G Sayanna and submitted representations urging him to implement the free water scheme in the residential colonies too. Besides the RWAs, residents of 20 slums also urged the MLA to provide free water saying that they cannot afford high water tariffs. “There is huge demand for the scheme. In a day or two, I will meet CM K Chandrasekhar Rao and MAUD minister K Taraka Rama Rao and urge them to extend the free water scheme to Cantonment too. The representations by the RWAs will also be handed over to the CM,” said Sayanna. KTR had assured the board members that the decision to implement the scheme will be announced based on the demand, said the SCB vice-president. T Satish Gupta, president, Vasavi Nagar Welfare Association, who met MLA Sayanna regarding the scheme said, “Cantonment is part of Telangana and the scheme should be extended to it for the benefit of 90% of the population.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-to-pass-resolution-on-free-water-scheme-in-feb/articleshow/80393616.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Trans tales: Woman’s grit moves audience||Hyderabad: A mother’s grit and determination to send her transgender child to the US to ensure that the person grows up as an experienced doctor there without facing any discrimination moved the audience and the woman received huge applause when she said that her child is now pursuing PhD in medicine after completing PG in medicine in America. The woman was speaking at a sensitisation programme for transgender people organised by Hyderabad city civil court legal services authority. She said that it was society that needs sensitisation rather than the transgenders. She asked all parents of transgenders to be brave and understand their children and recognise that it was not a disease but only a biological disorder. Scores of transgenders narrated their woes explaining how difficult life is for them. K Murali Mohan, senior civil judge-cum-secretary, City Civil Court Legal Services Authority, who organised the meet, said that after the historical verdict pronounced by the Supreme Court, the Centre brought in the Transgenders (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019 and Rules, 2020. Meera Jasmine, secretary, TransEquality Society, pointed out various problems being faced by the transgenders. Priya Murthy, on behalf of Arthanaari Trust, spoke about free legal aid for the transgender community and requested legal aid to all transgenders on par with women, without insisting on income proof. Neethu Namapalli of Chetana explained that they need more support from government officials for implementation of welfare schemes and police for the protection of transgenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trans-tales-womans-grit-moves-audience/articleshow/80393673.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra tops 2 million Covid cases, last 2 lakh took 5 times longer than at peak||MUMBAI: Maharashtra crossed 2 million Covid-19 cases on Thursday, remaining the worst hit state. Its caseload of 20,00,878 is higher than the tallies of the second and the third most affected states of Karnataka (9,34,252) and AP (8,86,557) put together. Maharashtra, which accounts for every fifth patient in the country, has recorded 50,634 deaths. The second million cases came up in 132 days, while the first million took 187 days. Citing the daily cases, officials said the situation has changed drastically. The state continued to report more discharges than additions. A total of 3,980 people were discharged on Thursday, taking the total recovery to over 19 lakh. The state’s recovery rate was 95.1%. Maharashtra had reported the first two coronavirus cases on March 9 when a Pune couple, who were a part of a 40-member group that had gone on a Dubai tour, tested positive. Incidentally, the state will be completing a year of quarantining the first five foreign returnees on January 23. Tomorrow, anniv of 1st Covid quarantine case in the stateWhen Maharashtra hit the first million cases on September 11, the state was going through its peak. Incidentally, on that day, Maharashtra had a record single-day high of 24,886 cases. On Thursday, however, the state reported a total of 2,886 cases, including 527 from Mumbai. There were 57 deaths. In fact, for most of December and January, the daily detections have remained under 4,000 with Mumbai circle being the biggest contributor. Within Maharashtra, Pune district is the worst hit with 3.83 lakh cases, followed by Mumbai (3.04 lakh) and Thane (2.65 lakh). N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, said the state has consistently been reporting fewer than 4,000 cases daily of late. “The road ahead for Maharashtra is to continue masking and physical distancing as vaccination is not a replacement for either. There will be no let down in those campaigns,” he said, adding that the focus has now shifted to districts that have a higher positivity rate. At least seven districts in Maharashtra have a daily positivity rate higher than the state average of 5.5%. “Nandurbar, Nashik, Nagpur are some that continue to have higher positivity rates,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, the state’s surveillance officer, adding that international travel and influx of people continue to be at the root of transmission in these pockets. “With vaccination, we hope to see a further decline in the mortality rate, which is currently at 2%,” he said. State figures pointed out a further dip in active cases in the state and the city. There were 45,622 active cases in the state, of which 6,669 were in Mumbai. Mumbai added 527 fresh cases and 10 deaths on Thursday, taking the total caseload to 3,04,653 and deaths to 11,278. The city reported deaths in double digits after a gap of eight days. Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state Covid-19 task force, said that even though Maharashtra is in a far better position, the emphasis on testing cannot be undermined. “We have to keep testing, tracing and treating people. And, RT-PCR must be the primary mode of testing,” he said. Dr Awate added that 50,000 to 65,000 tests are being carried out daily, but a push will be given to districts with higher positivity rates now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/maha-tops-2m-covid-cases-last-2l-took-5-times-longer-than-at-peak/articleshow/80397470.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 22, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra tops 2 million Covid cases, last 2 lakh took 5 times longer than at peak||MUMBAI: Maharashtra crossed 2 million Covid-19 cases on Thursday, remaining the worst hit state. Its caseload of 20,00,878 is higher than the tallies of the second and the third most affected states of Karnataka (9,34,252) and AP (8,86,557) put together. Maharashtra, which accounts for every fifth patient in the country, has recorded 50,634 deaths. The second million cases came up in 132 days, while the first million took 187 days. Citing the daily cases, officials said the situation has changed drastically. The state continued to report more discharges than additions. A total of 3,980 people were discharged on Thursday, taking the total recovery to over 19 lakh. The state’s recovery rate was 95.1%. Maharashtra had reported the first two coronavirus cases on March 9 when a Pune couple, who were a part of a 40-member group that had gone on a Dubai tour, tested positive. Incidentally, the state will be completing a year of quarantining the first five foreign returnees on January 23. Tomorrow, anniv of 1st Covid quarantine case in the stateWhen Maharashtra hit the first million cases on September 11, the state was going through its peak. Incidentally, on that day, Maharashtra had a record single-day high of 24,886 cases. On Thursday, however, the state reported a total of 2,886 cases, including 527 from Mumbai. There were 57 deaths. In fact, for most of December and January, the daily detections have remained under 4,000 with Mumbai circle being the biggest contributor. Within Maharashtra, Pune district is the worst hit with 3.83 lakh cases, followed by Mumbai (3.04 lakh) and Thane (2.65 lakh). N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, said the state has consistently been reporting fewer than 4,000 cases daily of late. “The road ahead for Maharashtra is to continue masking and physical distancing as vaccination is not a replacement for either. There will be no let down in those campaigns,” he said, adding that the focus has now shifted to districts that have a higher positivity rate. At least seven districts in Maharashtra have a daily positivity rate higher than the state average of 5.5%. “Nandurbar, Nashik, Nagpur are some that continue to have higher positivity rates,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, the state’s surveillance officer, adding that international travel and influx of people continue to be at the root of transmission in these pockets. “With vaccination, we hope to see a further decline in the mortality rate, which is currently at 2%,” he said. State figures pointed out a further dip in active cases in the state and the city. There were 45,622 active cases in the state, of which 6,669 were in Mumbai. Mumbai added 527 fresh cases and 10 deaths on Thursday, taking the total caseload to 3,04,653 and deaths to 11,278. The city reported deaths in double digits after a gap of eight days. Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state Covid-19 task force, said that even though Maharashtra is in a far better position, the emphasis on testing cannot be undermined. “We have to keep testing, tracing and treating people. And, RT-PCR must be the primary mode of testing,” he said. Dr Awate added that 50,000 to 65,000 tests are being carried out daily, but a push will be given to districts with higher positivity rates now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maha-tops-2m-covid-cases-last-2l-took-5-times-longer-than-at-peak/articleshow/80397474.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra tops 2 million Covid cases, last 2 lakh took 5 times longer than at peak||MUMBAI: Maharashtra crossed 2 million Covid-19 cases on Thursday, remaining the worst hit state. Its caseload of 20,00,878 is higher than the tallies of the second and the third most affected states of Karnataka (9,34,252) and AP (8,86,557) put together. Maharashtra, which accounts for every fifth patient in the country, has recorded 50,634 deaths. The second million cases came up in 132 days, while the first million took 187 days. Citing the daily cases, officials said the situation has changed drastically. The state continued to report more discharges than additions. A total of 3,980 people were discharged on Thursday, taking the total recovery to over 19 lakh. The state’s recovery rate was 95.1%. Maharashtra had reported the first two coronavirus cases on March 9 when a Pune couple, who were a part of a 40-member group that had gone on a Dubai tour, tested positive. Incidentally, the state will be completing a year of quarantining the first five foreign returnees on January 23. Tomorrow, anniv of 1st Covid quarantine case in the stateWhen Maharashtra hit the first million cases on September 11, the state was going through its peak. Incidentally, on that day, Maharashtra had a record single-day high of 24,886 cases. On Thursday, however, the state reported a total of 2,886 cases, including 527 from Mumbai. There were 57 deaths. In fact, for most of December and January, the daily detections have remained under 4,000 with Mumbai circle being the biggest contributor. Within Maharashtra, Pune district is the worst hit with 3.83 lakh cases, followed by Mumbai (3.04 lakh) and Thane (2.65 lakh). N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, said the state has consistently been reporting fewer than 4,000 cases daily of late. “The road ahead for Maharashtra is to continue masking and physical distancing as vaccination is not a replacement for either. There will be no let down in those campaigns,” he said, adding that the focus has now shifted to districts that have a higher positivity rate. At least seven districts in Maharashtra have a daily positivity rate higher than the state average of 5.5%. “Nandurbar, Nashik, Nagpur are some that continue to have higher positivity rates,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, the state’s surveillance officer, adding that international travel and influx of people continue to be at the root of transmission in these pockets. “With vaccination, we hope to see a further decline in the mortality rate, which is currently at 2%,” he said. State figures pointed out a further dip in active cases in the state and the city. There were 45,622 active cases in the state, of which 6,669 were in Mumbai. Mumbai added 527 fresh cases and 10 deaths on Thursday, taking the total caseload to 3,04,653 and deaths to 11,278. The city reported deaths in double digits after a gap of eight days. Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state Covid-19 task force, said that even though Maharashtra is in a far better position, the emphasis on testing cannot be undermined. “We have to keep testing, tracing and treating people. And, RT-PCR must be the primary mode of testing,” he said. Dr Awate added that 50,000 to 65,000 tests are being carried out daily, but a push will be given to districts with higher positivity rates now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maha-tops-2m-covid-cases-last-2l-took-5-times-longer-than-at-peak/articleshow/80397469.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra tops 2 million Covid cases, last 2 lakh took 5 times longer than at peak||MUMBAI: Maharashtra crossed 2 million Covid-19 cases on Thursday, remaining the worst hit state. Its caseload of 20,00,878 is higher than the tallies of the second and the third most affected states of Karnataka (9,34,252) and AP (8,86,557) put together. Maharashtra, which accounts for every fifth patient in the country, has recorded 50,634 deaths. The second million cases came up in 132 days, while the first million took 187 days. Citing the daily cases, officials said the situation has changed drastically. The state continued to report more discharges than additions. A total of 3,980 people were discharged on Thursday, taking the total recovery to over 19 lakh. The state’s recovery rate was 95.1%. Maharashtra had reported the first two coronavirus cases on March 9 when a Pune couple, who were a part of a 40-member group that had gone on a Dubai tour, tested positive. Incidentally, the state will be completing a year of quarantining the first five foreign returnees on January 23. Tomorrow, anniv of 1st Covid quarantine case in the stateWhen Maharashtra hit the first million cases on September 11, the state was going through its peak. Incidentally, on that day, Maharashtra had a record single-day high of 24,886 cases. On Thursday, however, the state reported a total of 2,886 cases, including 527 from Mumbai. There were 57 deaths. In fact, for most of December and January, the daily detections have remained under 4,000 with Mumbai circle being the biggest contributor. Within Maharashtra, Pune district is the worst hit with 3.83 lakh cases, followed by Mumbai (3.04 lakh) and Thane (2.65 lakh). N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, said the state has consistently been reporting fewer than 4,000 cases daily of late. “The road ahead for Maharashtra is to continue masking and physical distancing as vaccination is not a replacement for either. There will be no let down in those campaigns,” he said, adding that the focus has now shifted to districts that have a higher positivity rate. At least seven districts in Maharashtra have a daily positivity rate higher than the state average of 5.5%. “Nandurbar, Nashik, Nagpur are some that continue to have higher positivity rates,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, the state’s surveillance officer, adding that international travel and influx of people continue to be at the root of transmission in these pockets. “With vaccination, we hope to see a further decline in the mortality rate, which is currently at 2%,” he said. State figures pointed out a further dip in active cases in the state and the city. There were 45,622 active cases in the state, of which 6,669 were in Mumbai. Mumbai added 527 fresh cases and 10 deaths on Thursday, taking the total caseload to 3,04,653 and deaths to 11,278. The city reported deaths in double digits after a gap of eight days. Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state Covid-19 task force, said that even though Maharashtra is in a far better position, the emphasis on testing cannot be undermined. “We have to keep testing, tracing and treating people. And, RT-PCR must be the primary mode of testing,” he said. Dr Awate added that 50,000 to 65,000 tests are being carried out daily, but a push will be given to districts with higher positivity rates now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-tops-2m-covid-cases-last-2l-took-5-times-longer-than-at-peak/articleshow/80396232.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Two eateries fined for flouting norms||Hyderabad: Surprise inspections by the GHMC on Thursday revealed that unstamped meat and unhygienic food is being served at hotels in the city. The GHMC officials inspected three hotels and found that all three hotels were flouting norms. While two of them were fined, one hotel was issued a warning. The hotels penalised include Bawarchi and Astoria, both located at RTC Crossroads and Cafe Bahar in Basheerbagh. “We have imposed a fine of Rs 25,000 on Bawarchi for using unstamped meat and Rs 20,000 fine on Astoria after we found that their kitchen was unhygienic. We have warned the management of Cafe Bahar for not storing meat and vegetables as per norms,” said GHMC assistant medical officer for health (Amberpet circle), Hema Latha. As per the norms, stores are allowed to sell meat procured only from notified slaughter houses. The same applies to hotels as well. The GHMC said stern action will be taken against hotels unsing unstamped meat. “After testing if the meat is safe for consumption, the GHMC grants or denies approval. For people’s safety, hotels and meat stores must procure only stamped meat,” said GHMC chief veterinary officer Dr Abdul Wakil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-eateries-fined-for-flouting-norms/articleshow/80393657.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||New refrigerators land in city for vaccine storage||Nagpur: 20 new ice-land refrigerators (ILRs) reached Nagpur on Thursday. They will be used for the storage of Covid-19 vaccines in the later phases of the vaccination drive. Sent by the health department of the state government, the ILRs were unloaded at Gondkhairi and will reach NMC's godown soon. ILRs have compartment temperature between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius for storing vaccine vials. They are designed for storage of vaccines, pharmaceutical products, blood bag and samples etc. They have a lining of ice packs, hence the name.At present, the NMC has 54 such refrigerators for vaccine storage. When Covid-19 vaccination was to start for doctors and health workers, the government sent 2 big ILRs with capacity of 225 litres each to the NMC. As per the ministry of health guidelines, an ILR of 100 litres can store 27,800 doses of Covid vaccine. The 20 refrigerators received on Thursday are of 45 litre capacity each. As the number of vaccination centres will increase in later phases, these ILRs will be handy for the storage of vaccines. Apart from health workers, security personnel and police will be administered vaccine in the next phase. Registrations for the third phase in which the senior citizens will be administered vaccine is expected to start in February. ILRs will be important addition in NMC’s cold chain capacity for next phases of vaccination. National cold chain data shows that Maharashtra will have 4,408 such ILRs along with 4,199 deep freezers and 3,257 cold chain points. The state vaccinates roughly 2 million children annually and has around 3,150 cold chain points which includes primary health centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-refrigerators-land-in-city-for-vaccine-storage/articleshow/80392436.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Mercury rises by 3-4 degree Celsius in city||Hyderabad: The temperature in the city has seen a marked rise of three to four degree Celsius from normal in the last few days in sharp contrast to the winter season. On Wednesday, Hyderabad recorded maximum temperature of 32.2 degree Celsius and minimum temperature of 16.2 degree Celsius. Usually, this time of the year records mercury levels below normal temperature. However, mainly due to low-level easterly and southeasterly winds blowing over Telangana, the weather conditions are much warmer this year. “Under the influence of these winds, which are warm and humid in nature, dry weather conditions are set to prevail for the next two to three days. While the minimum temperature is likely to be around 17-18 degree Celsius, the maximum temperature will be in the range of 30-32 degree Celsius,” said Naga Ratna, director in-charge, India Meteorological Department, Hyderabad. Meteorologists predict that fog and shallow mist will continue to prevail during morning hours in Hyderabad and surrounding areas. The condition is much the same in several districts with minimum temperature recorded in the range of 16-20 degree Celsius in Nizamabad, Adilabad, Nalgonda, Mahbubnagar, Khammam among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mercury-rises-by-3-4-degree-celsius-in-city/articleshow/80393668.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Thane||Maharashtra tops 2 million Covid cases, last 2 lakh took 5 times longer than at peak||MUMBAI: Maharashtra crossed 2 million Covid-19 cases on Thursday, remaining the worst hit state. Its caseload of 20,00,878 is higher than the tallies of the second and the third most affected states of Karnataka (9,34,252) and AP (8,86,557) put together. Maharashtra, which accounts for every fifth patient in the country, has recorded 50,634 deaths. The second million cases came up in 132 days, while the first million took 187 days. Citing the daily cases, officials said the situation has changed drastically. The state continued to report more discharges than additions. A total of 3,980 people were discharged on Thursday, taking the total recovery to over 19 lakh. The state’s recovery rate was 95.1%. Maharashtra had reported the first two coronavirus cases on March 9 when a Pune couple, who were a part of a 40-member group that had gone on a Dubai tour, tested positive. Incidentally, the state will be completing a year of quarantining the first five foreign returnees on January 23. Tomorrow, anniv of 1st Covid quarantine case in the stateWhen Maharashtra hit the first million cases on September 11, the state was going through its peak. Incidentally, on that day, Maharashtra had a record single-day high of 24,886 cases. On Thursday, however, the state reported a total of 2,886 cases, including 527 from Mumbai. There were 57 deaths. In fact, for most of December and January, the daily detections have remained under 4,000 with Mumbai circle being the biggest contributor. Within Maharashtra, Pune district is the worst hit with 3.83 lakh cases, followed by Mumbai (3.04 lakh) and Thane (2.65 lakh). N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, said the state has consistently been reporting fewer than 4,000 cases daily of late. “The road ahead for Maharashtra is to continue masking and physical distancing as vaccination is not a replacement for either. There will be no let down in those campaigns,” he said, adding that the focus has now shifted to districts that have a higher positivity rate. At least seven districts in Maharashtra have a daily positivity rate higher than the state average of 5.5%. “Nandurbar, Nashik, Nagpur are some that continue to have higher positivity rates,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, the state’s surveillance officer, adding that international travel and influx of people continue to be at the root of transmission in these pockets. “With vaccination, we hope to see a further decline in the mortality rate, which is currently at 2%,” he said. State figures pointed out a further dip in active cases in the state and the city. There were 45,622 active cases in the state, of which 6,669 were in Mumbai. Mumbai added 527 fresh cases and 10 deaths on Thursday, taking the total caseload to 3,04,653 and deaths to 11,278. The city reported deaths in double digits after a gap of eight days. Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state Covid-19 task force, said that even though Maharashtra is in a far better position, the emphasis on testing cannot be undermined. “We have to keep testing, tracing and treating people. And, RT-PCR must be the primary mode of testing,” he said. Dr Awate added that 50,000 to 65,000 tests are being carried out daily, but a push will be given to districts with higher positivity rates now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/maha-tops-2m-covid-cases-last-2l-took-5-times-longer-than-at-peak/articleshow/80397473.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 22, 2021||Kolhapur||Maharashtra tops 2 million Covid cases, last 2 lakh took 5 times longer than at peak||MUMBAI: Maharashtra crossed 2 million Covid-19 cases on Thursday, remaining the worst hit state. Its caseload of 20,00,878 is higher than the tallies of the second and the third most affected states of Karnataka (9,34,252) and AP (8,86,557) put together. Maharashtra, which accounts for every fifth patient in the country, has recorded 50,634 deaths. The second million cases came up in 132 days, while the first million took 187 days. Citing the daily cases, officials said the situation has changed drastically. The state continued to report more discharges than additions. A total of 3,980 people were discharged on Thursday, taking the total recovery to over 19 lakh. The state’s recovery rate was 95.1%. Maharashtra had reported the first two coronavirus cases on March 9 when a Pune couple, who were a part of a 40-member group that had gone on a Dubai tour, tested positive. Incidentally, the state will be completing a year of quarantining the first five foreign returnees on January 23. Tomorrow, anniv of 1st Covid quarantine case in the stateWhen Maharashtra hit the first million cases on September 11, the state was going through its peak. Incidentally, on that day, Maharashtra had a record single-day high of 24,886 cases. On Thursday, however, the state reported a total of 2,886 cases, including 527 from Mumbai. There were 57 deaths. In fact, for most of December and January, the daily detections have remained under 4,000 with Mumbai circle being the biggest contributor. Within Maharashtra, Pune district is the worst hit with 3.83 lakh cases, followed by Mumbai (3.04 lakh) and Thane (2.65 lakh). N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, said the state has consistently been reporting fewer than 4,000 cases daily of late. “The road ahead for Maharashtra is to continue masking and physical distancing as vaccination is not a replacement for either. There will be no let down in those campaigns,” he said, adding that the focus has now shifted to districts that have a higher positivity rate. At least seven districts in Maharashtra have a daily positivity rate higher than the state average of 5.5%. “Nandurbar, Nashik, Nagpur are some that continue to have higher positivity rates,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, the state’s surveillance officer, adding that international travel and influx of people continue to be at the root of transmission in these pockets. “With vaccination, we hope to see a further decline in the mortality rate, which is currently at 2%,” he said. State figures pointed out a further dip in active cases in the state and the city. There were 45,622 active cases in the state, of which 6,669 were in Mumbai. Mumbai added 527 fresh cases and 10 deaths on Thursday, taking the total caseload to 3,04,653 and deaths to 11,278. The city reported deaths in double digits after a gap of eight days. Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state Covid-19 task force, said that even though Maharashtra is in a far better position, the emphasis on testing cannot be undermined. “We have to keep testing, tracing and treating people. And, RT-PCR must be the primary mode of testing,” he said. Dr Awate added that 50,000 to 65,000 tests are being carried out daily, but a push will be given to districts with higher positivity rates now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/maha-tops-2m-covid-cases-last-2l-took-5-times-longer-than-at-peak/articleshow/80397466.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 22, 2021||Nashik||Maharashtra tops 2 million Covid cases, last 2 lakh took 5 times longer than at peak||MUMBAI: Maharashtra crossed 2 million Covid-19 cases on Thursday, remaining the worst hit state. Its caseload of 20,00,878 is higher than the tallies of the second and the third most affected states of Karnataka (9,34,252) and AP (8,86,557) put together. Maharashtra, which accounts for every fifth patient in the country, has recorded 50,634 deaths. The second million cases came up in 132 days, while the first million took 187 days. Citing the daily cases, officials said the situation has changed drastically. The state continued to report more discharges than additions. A total of 3,980 people were discharged on Thursday, taking the total recovery to over 19 lakh. The state’s recovery rate was 95.1%. Maharashtra had reported the first two coronavirus cases on March 9 when a Pune couple, who were a part of a 40-member group that had gone on a Dubai tour, tested positive. Incidentally, the state will be completing a year of quarantining the first five foreign returnees on January 23. Tomorrow, anniv of 1st Covid quarantine case in the stateWhen Maharashtra hit the first million cases on September 11, the state was going through its peak. Incidentally, on that day, Maharashtra had a record single-day high of 24,886 cases. On Thursday, however, the state reported a total of 2,886 cases, including 527 from Mumbai. There were 57 deaths. In fact, for most of December and January, the daily detections have remained under 4,000 with Mumbai circle being the biggest contributor. Within Maharashtra, Pune district is the worst hit with 3.83 lakh cases, followed by Mumbai (3.04 lakh) and Thane (2.65 lakh). N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, said the state has consistently been reporting fewer than 4,000 cases daily of late. “The road ahead for Maharashtra is to continue masking and physical distancing as vaccination is not a replacement for either. There will be no let down in those campaigns,” he said, adding that the focus has now shifted to districts that have a higher positivity rate. At least seven districts in Maharashtra have a daily positivity rate higher than the state average of 5.5%. “Nandurbar, Nashik, Nagpur are some that continue to have higher positivity rates,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, the state’s surveillance officer, adding that international travel and influx of people continue to be at the root of transmission in these pockets. “With vaccination, we hope to see a further decline in the mortality rate, which is currently at 2%,” he said. State figures pointed out a further dip in active cases in the state and the city. There were 45,622 active cases in the state, of which 6,669 were in Mumbai. Mumbai added 527 fresh cases and 10 deaths on Thursday, taking the total caseload to 3,04,653 and deaths to 11,278. The city reported deaths in double digits after a gap of eight days. Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state Covid-19 task force, said that even though Maharashtra is in a far better position, the emphasis on testing cannot be undermined. “We have to keep testing, tracing and treating people. And, RT-PCR must be the primary mode of testing,” he said. Dr Awate added that 50,000 to 65,000 tests are being carried out daily, but a push will be given to districts with higher positivity rates now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/maha-tops-2m-covid-cases-last-2l-took-5-times-longer-than-at-peak/articleshow/80397467.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 22, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Sporting events turn fundraisers for the families of ‘fallen’ farmers||NEW DELHI: On this large dusty ground, burly men could be seen clashing with each other while hundreds of people shouted in appreciation and joy. These weren’t gladiators in the Roman Colosseum, but wrestlers in a match under way at Singhu border where farmers have been sitting on a protest against the agri laws for the past two months. The tractor-trolleys had been turned into stands even as eight teams attempted to wrestle their way to victory in the live tournament. The second-most popular sporting event was the kabaddi tournament, the brainchild of a few farmers collecting funds for the families of their “fallen comrades”. Eight teams from Punjab and Haryana comprising over 160 players grappled on a makeshift ground prepared within just 4-5 days. The top prize was Rs 1 lakh. “It took us just 4-5 days to organise the tournament after the idea was conceived by a few of us who felt that we could use the kabaddi players among us. The players have been practising daily and maintaining their diet to be always match-ready. Through this tournament, we can collect funds from India and abroad for the families of our farmers who lost their lives during this struggle,” said Mandeep Singh from Kapurthala, a co-organiser of the event. His brother, Prabhjot Singh, said eight teams with 20 players each were participating in the event. The ground, just behind a petrol pump on the highway, saw a stage where family members of the deceased farmers were felicitated, including the wife of Tej Singh who passed away recently. She was felicitated with a shawl and promised financial support. Kaka Sheikh Daulat, the coach of Sher-e-Punjab club in Ludhiana, said while the ground was not an ideal spot for such an event, it was a good idea because it helped farmers’ families with financial support. “Also, many of our players can do with some practice. The prize money is a good encouragement for the players. They are happy to participate in the event and throw their bodies around,” he added. Deep Jabbal, a 24-year-old farmer sitting atop his tractor, said, “This is also a good source of entertainment. With this live tournament, many are feeling reinvigorated and passionate about the protest.” Harmanbir Singh from Patiala said, “This kind of a tournament has not been seen in Delhi and Haryana. There are some strong teams present here. Hopefully, people contribute enough money for the kin of our fellow protesters who lost their lives.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sporting-events-turn-fundraisers-for-the-families-of-fallen-farmers/articleshow/80393710.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
January 22, 2021||Ajmer||Civic elections in Ajmer: 382 candidates in fray for 80 seats||AJMER: As many as 382 candidates are in fray for elections to 80 seats of Ajmer Municipal Corporation (AMC) scheduled on January 28. High-pitched campaigning has begun with loudspeakers, banners and rallies across the city. According to sources, independents will play a key role in forming the board in AMC this time. In the last tenure, there were 60 wards, but the seats have increased to 80 after the delimitation process. As a result the number of candidates throwing their hats in the ring has increased. There are over 20 seats where independents, mostly dissidents from Congress and BJP, will play a crucial role in local elections. Shalendra Agarwal from ward number 1 is contesting as independent after he was unable to get a ticket from the Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/civic-elections-in-ajmer-382-candidates-in-fray-for-80-seats/articleshow/80393672.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Goa||Erratic water supply irks Mangor locals||VASCO: Residents of Mangor Hill, ward 17 of Mormugao Municipal Council, led a protest to the PWD water section at Baina complaining about low pressure of supply during odd timings. The residents handed over a memorandum to the junior engineer, PWD water section, Eknath Paste seeking a solution to problem. Rashmi Bicholkar, a resident, said, “For the past five years, the pattern of water supply has been erratic. The water comis released post midnight at any hour. We have to remain awake the entire night as the water arrives at any odd hour and lasts for only two hours. Many a times, the pressure is so low that we have to go to houses which have a steady supplyto fill water.” Another local, Siddhant Kaskar, said, “Those residing near the Ram temple suffer immensely. These are low-income group people and are helpless. Even if water tanks are brought, the houses are situated to far due to the haphazard system of the Mangor slums.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/erratic-water-supply-irks-mangor-locals/articleshow/80523812.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Kolkata||Civic engineers to study Udbodhan building’s damage in Bagbazar fire||Kolkata: A team of structural engineers will conduct an in-depth study of Udbodhan building at Bagbazar as some parts of the building were damaged by the devastating fire that had gutted the slum, Hazar Basti, eight days ago. According to Swami Nityamuktananda, the head of Mayer Bari and Udbodhan building, a team of engineers will start conducting a survey of the building from Saturday to ascertain the possibility of any damage that the fire might have caused to it. “We have contacted structural engineers who will conduct a survey of the building and suggest us what to do. We will then take a decision on the next course of action,” he said. Portions of the four-storey building, located close to the slum, suffered heavy damage. Several portions of the first floor of the building caught fire and thus were damage. Water supply lines were snapped while the internal drainage system also got choked. However, the RKM monks, who look after the maintenance of the building, are particularly worried over its structural safety as cracks have appeared on the building. Apart from the cracks, the fire might have also damaged the inner structure. So, the study should reveal the actual picture so that a comprehensive repair work can be undertaken to ensure structural safety of the building,” said a Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s structural engineer who was assigned to look after the restoration of city’s heritage buildings. According to the civic body’s structural engineer, unlike Mayer Bari, a century-old building, Udbodhan building, which was built in early sixties, carries less risk of getting damaged by fire due to the absence of wooden structures. The RKM authorities said they would conduct a thorough repair and renovation of Udbodhan building following the guidance of the structural engineers. However, a week after the devastating fire at Hazar Basti, monks returned to the building. “Our monks could return to Udbodhan building after restoration of the water supply and drainage lines that were damaged due to spread of fire from the slum to Udbodhan building,” Swami Nityamuktananda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/civic-engineers-to-study-udbodhan-buildings-damage-in-bagbazar-fire/articleshow/80393717.cms||Saikat Ray
January 22, 2021||Coimbatore||No objections if courts release Rajiv case convicts, says Alagiri||Coimbatore: The Congress has no objection to the release of Rajiv case convicts if due process of law was followed, Tamil Nadu Congress committee president K S Alagiri said.Talking to reporters in the city on Thursday, Alagiri said the party would accept any decision taken by courts on their release. “If courts order the release of seven convicts, we have no objection,” he said.However, Alagiri decried that there was politics surrounding the release of the seven convicts. Pointing out that there was a clamour demanding the release of the seven convicts citing them as Tamils, Alagiri questioned of the police personnel and others who died in the bomb blast along with Rajiv Gandhi were not Tamils.He said if the same yardstick was applied to all life convicts and their release was also demanded after they undergo a certain number of years in jail, then Congress would welcome it. But Congress doesn’t accept the politics surrounding the clamour for the release of seven convicts alone, citing their identity as Tamils was not right.On the release of V K Sasikala, Alagiri said her return from the prison would not bring any political change in TN. “There are reports that BJP is forcing AIADMK to take back Sasikala into that party, if those reports are true, then that is wrong. It has to be decided by AIADMK to include anyone in their party,’’ he said.Talking about assembly elections, Alagiri said that Congress party was not interested in a third front in Tamil Nadu. He said that a third front doesn't augur well for the state. Stating that DMK-Congress alliance was going to sweep the polls, Alagiri said that the party hoped to get the number of seats proportionate to its strength, through dialogue with DMK.Congress scion Rahul Gandhi's visit would boost the prospects of the alliance, he said. “Rahul’s visit is aimed at changing the corruption ridden AIADMK government and put in place a secular government. He is visiting not just to campaign but to interact and know first-hand the issues confronted by the public,’’ he said. Rahul would be landing in Coimbatore on January 23 and touring five districts- Coimbatore, Tirupur, Erode, Karur and Dindigul - campaigning at multiple spots, perhaps the longest and elaborate campaigns the leader had done in TN. Heating up the campaign scene further, EPS would also campaign in Coimbatore and Tirupur during the same time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/no-objections-if-courts-release-rajiv-case-convicts-says-alagiri/articleshow/80393702.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Kolkata||Septuagenarian loses Rs 11 lakh to KYC fraud in Salt Lake||KOLKATA: A 75-year-old resident of Salt Lake became the second victim of KYC fraud as he lost Rs 11 lakh in eight transactions in the past 48 hours. The victim was identified as Amit Kumar Mehra, a resident of BG block in Salt Lake. The Bidhannagar East police has registered a case in this regard. The first complaint pertaining to KYC fraud was lodged by Sandip Kumar Kar, a retired colonel and a resident of Rajarhat, who was duped of more than Rs 60,000. He was called to verify his Airtel landline number and the accused tricked him into using a fake app. The money was withdrawn in two attempts. Cops are probing the case. The joint commissioner of crime of Kolkata Police, Murlidhar Sharma, had earlier made people aware of such fraud on social media. “A new type of forgery is being attempted in the name of Airtel KYC. People should stay alert and report all such phone numbers to the anti-bank fraud helpline at 8585063104,” the detective department chief tweeted. An Airtel spokesperson said, “We have proactively communicated via SMS to our existing customer base across the state to create awareness and have also notified TRAI and DOT on the situation, requesting appropriate and necessary action.” The customer communication from Airtel states: “Fraud Alert: Airtel never asks you to share your eKYC details/Aadhaar number, download any app or call any mobile number for verification of your Airtel number. Please stay alert of such calls/SMS as these can result in financial frauds - Team Airtel.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/septuagenarian-loses-rs-11l-to-kyc-fraud-in-salt-lake/articleshow/80393677.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 22, 2021||Trichy||TN governor will decide Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict Perarivalan’s release in 3-4 days: Centre to SC||NEW DELHI: Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit will take a decision on the remission plea of A G Perarivalan in three to four days, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Thursday. The state government had sent a recommendation in 2018 to the governor to release all seven convicts, including Perarivalan, in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta’s assurance to a bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer and Indu Malhotra came after the apex court expressed concern over the delay in taking decision and decided to examine whether it could intervene to pass direction. The court was hearing a plea filed by Perarivalan who is serving a life term. Death penalty awarded to Perarivalan in 1991 for his involvement in the conspiracy to assassinate former PM Rajiv Gandhi was commuted to life imprisonment by the top court in February 2014. He was charged with providing a 9-volt battery to co-conspirator Sivarasan for the explosive device which was used to kill Gandhi. After he spent 20 years on death row, the Supreme Court commuted Perarivalan’s death penalty to life imprisonment in February, 2014. As a Constitution Bench, in a majority decision, had held in 2015 that states cannot unilaterally remit the sentences of life convicts in cases investigated by a central agency under a central law, the Tamil Nadu government had written to the Centre in 2016 proposing the grant of remission to the convicts. The Centre, however, in April 2018, rejected the state’s proposal to release the convicts on remission, saying this was “an unparalleled act in the annals of crimes committed in this country”. Perarivalan had also applied to the governor for pardon in December 2015 and the Supreme Court in September 2018 asked the governor to decide the pardon plea “as he deemed fit”. The state government in the same month had recommended to the governor to remit the sentence of all the seven convicts. The governor, however, didn’t decide on the TN cabinet recommendation and the matter remained pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-guv-will-decide-perarivalans-release-in-3-4-days-centre-to-sc/articleshow/80402628.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Coimbatore||TN governor will decide Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict Perarivalan’s release in 3-4 days: Centre to SC||NEW DELHI: Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit will take a decision on the remission plea of A G Perarivalan in three to four days, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Thursday. The state government had sent a recommendation in 2018 to the governor to release all seven convicts, including Perarivalan, in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta’s assurance to a bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer and Indu Malhotra came after the apex court expressed concern over the delay in taking decision and decided to examine whether it could intervene to pass direction. The court was hearing a plea filed by Perarivalan who is serving a life term. Death penalty awarded to Perarivalan in 1991 for his involvement in the conspiracy to assassinate former PM Rajiv Gandhi was commuted to life imprisonment by the top court in February 2014. He was charged with providing a 9-volt battery to co-conspirator Sivarasan for the explosive device which was used to kill Gandhi. After he spent 20 years on death row, the Supreme Court commuted Perarivalan’s death penalty to life imprisonment in February, 2014. As a Constitution Bench, in a majority decision, had held in 2015 that states cannot unilaterally remit the sentences of life convicts in cases investigated by a central agency under a central law, the Tamil Nadu government had written to the Centre in 2016 proposing the grant of remission to the convicts. The Centre, however, in April 2018, rejected the state’s proposal to release the convicts on remission, saying this was “an unparalleled act in the annals of crimes committed in this country”. Perarivalan had also applied to the governor for pardon in December 2015 and the Supreme Court in September 2018 asked the governor to decide the pardon plea “as he deemed fit”. The state government in the same month had recommended to the governor to remit the sentence of all the seven convicts. The governor, however, didn’t decide on the TN cabinet recommendation and the matter remained pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tn-guv-will-decide-perarivalans-release-in-3-4-days-centre-to-sc/articleshow/80402623.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Salem||TN governor will decide Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict Perarivalan’s release in 3-4 days: Centre to SC||NEW DELHI: Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit will take a decision on the remission plea of A G Perarivalan in three to four days, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Thursday. The state government had sent a recommendation in 2018 to the governor to release all seven convicts, including Perarivalan, in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta’s assurance to a bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer and Indu Malhotra came after the apex court expressed concern over the delay in taking decision and decided to examine whether it could intervene to pass direction. The court was hearing a plea filed by Perarivalan who is serving a life term. Death penalty awarded to Perarivalan in 1991 for his involvement in the conspiracy to assassinate former PM Rajiv Gandhi was commuted to life imprisonment by the top court in February 2014. He was charged with providing a 9-volt battery to co-conspirator Sivarasan for the explosive device which was used to kill Gandhi. After he spent 20 years on death row, the Supreme Court commuted Perarivalan’s death penalty to life imprisonment in February, 2014. As a Constitution Bench, in a majority decision, had held in 2015 that states cannot unilaterally remit the sentences of life convicts in cases investigated by a central agency under a central law, the Tamil Nadu government had written to the Centre in 2016 proposing the grant of remission to the convicts. The Centre, however, in April 2018, rejected the state’s proposal to release the convicts on remission, saying this was “an unparalleled act in the annals of crimes committed in this country”. Perarivalan had also applied to the governor for pardon in December 2015 and the Supreme Court in September 2018 asked the governor to decide the pardon plea “as he deemed fit”. The state government in the same month had recommended to the governor to remit the sentence of all the seven convicts. The governor, however, didn’t decide on the TN cabinet recommendation and the matter remained pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tn-guv-will-decide-perarivalans-release-in-3-4-days-centre-to-sc/articleshow/80402631.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Madurai||TN governor will decide Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict Perarivalan’s release in 3-4 days: Centre to SC||NEW DELHI: Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit will take a decision on the remission plea of A G Perarivalan in three to four days, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Thursday. The state government had sent a recommendation in 2018 to the governor to release all seven convicts, including Perarivalan, in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta’s assurance to a bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer and Indu Malhotra came after the apex court expressed concern over the delay in taking decision and decided to examine whether it could intervene to pass direction. The court was hearing a plea filed by Perarivalan who is serving a life term. Death penalty awarded to Perarivalan in 1991 for his involvement in the conspiracy to assassinate former PM Rajiv Gandhi was commuted to life imprisonment by the top court in February 2014. He was charged with providing a 9-volt battery to co-conspirator Sivarasan for the explosive device which was used to kill Gandhi. After he spent 20 years on death row, the Supreme Court commuted Perarivalan’s death penalty to life imprisonment in February, 2014. As a Constitution Bench, in a majority decision, had held in 2015 that states cannot unilaterally remit the sentences of life convicts in cases investigated by a central agency under a central law, the Tamil Nadu government had written to the Centre in 2016 proposing the grant of remission to the convicts. The Centre, however, in April 2018, rejected the state’s proposal to release the convicts on remission, saying this was “an unparalleled act in the annals of crimes committed in this country”. Perarivalan had also applied to the governor for pardon in December 2015 and the Supreme Court in September 2018 asked the governor to decide the pardon plea “as he deemed fit”. The state government in the same month had recommended to the governor to remit the sentence of all the seven convicts. The governor, however, didn’t decide on the TN cabinet recommendation and the matter remained pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-guv-will-decide-perarivalans-release-in-3-4-days-centre-to-sc/articleshow/80402625.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Bareilly||Two men on bike cross closed railway crossing, get run over by train||Bareilly: Two people on a motorbike were fatally run over by a speeding train at the Akka Dilar railway crossing under Mundha Pandey police station in Moradabad late night on Wednesday, when they crossed the downed barrier at the railway crossing in order to escape a vehicle checking drive being conducted by police. Police said the duo tried to escape from the police checking and crossed the barrier onto the railway tracks when they were hit by the train and died on the spot. The bodies have been sent for postmortem, police said. The deceased have been identified as Faheem (35) and Zafeer (40), both residents of Pipalsana village in Moradabad. Locals told police the duo was returning from Faheem’s sister’s house. A relative of one of the deceased, Atiq Ahmed, said, “Faheem and Zafeer had gone to see Faheem’s relatives in Jaitvada, and were returning when they met with the accident.” Pramod Kumar, railway employee deputed at the railway crossing, said, “There was a vehicle checking drive in the area being conducted by local police. The duo perhaps wanted to escape police attention and crossed the closed barrier just when a train was about to cross and got run over.” Soon after the incident, government railway police (GRP) reached the spot and sent the bodies for postmortem. Senior divisional commercial manager (DCM), Moradabad railway division, Rekha Sharma, said, “The unfortunate incident took place as the men flouted law and entered the closed railway crossing when a train was expected to cross. They tried to escape from police and when their vehicle probably got stuck in the tracks, leading to the fatal accident. People are advised to go by rules and not try to enter railway crossings once it is closed.” Police said the victims were the sole breadwinners of their families. Their bodies have been sent for postmortem, following which they will be handed over to their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-men-on-bike-cross-closed-railway-crossing-get-run-over-by-train/articleshow/80391314.cms||Maria Khan
January 22, 2021||Coimbatore||17-year-old boy arrested for sexually abusing girl||Coimbatore: A 17-year-old boy was arrested under the charges of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act by the city (east) all-woman police on Thursday.Police said the boy was studying first year ITI as well as working in his uncle’s tea shop in the city. He often visited a nearby fancy store to supply tea and snacks where he met a 13-year-old girl, a Class VIII student. Both exchanged their mobile numbers a few months ago and often spoke with each other. On January 5, the girl eloped with the boy and they were traced in Pudukottai on Wednesday. A police team brought the two minors to the police station on Thursday morning. The boy was booked under section 5(l) read with 6 of the Pocso Act. He was produced before the juvenile justice board and later sent to the observation home for juveniles at Lakshmi Mills junction here.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/17-year-old-boy-arrested-for-sexually-abusing-girl/articleshow/80393678.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Erode||TN governor will decide Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict Perarivalan’s release in 3-4 days: Centre to SC||NEW DELHI: Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit will take a decision on the remission plea of A G Perarivalan in three to four days, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Thursday. The state government had sent a recommendation in 2018 to the governor to release all seven convicts, including Perarivalan, in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta’s assurance to a bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer and Indu Malhotra came after the apex court expressed concern over the delay in taking decision and decided to examine whether it could intervene to pass direction. The court was hearing a plea filed by Perarivalan who is serving a life term. Death penalty awarded to Perarivalan in 1991 for his involvement in the conspiracy to assassinate former PM Rajiv Gandhi was commuted to life imprisonment by the top court in February 2014. He was charged with providing a 9-volt battery to co-conspirator Sivarasan for the explosive device which was used to kill Gandhi. After he spent 20 years on death row, the Supreme Court commuted Perarivalan’s death penalty to life imprisonment in February, 2014. As a Constitution Bench, in a majority decision, had held in 2015 that states cannot unilaterally remit the sentences of life convicts in cases investigated by a central agency under a central law, the Tamil Nadu government had written to the Centre in 2016 proposing the grant of remission to the convicts. The Centre, however, in April 2018, rejected the state’s proposal to release the convicts on remission, saying this was “an unparalleled act in the annals of crimes committed in this country”. Perarivalan had also applied to the governor for pardon in December 2015 and the Supreme Court in September 2018 asked the governor to decide the pardon plea “as he deemed fit”. The state government in the same month had recommended to the governor to remit the sentence of all the seven convicts. The governor, however, didn’t decide on the TN cabinet recommendation and the matter remained pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tn-guv-will-decide-perarivalans-release-in-3-4-days-centre-to-sc/articleshow/80402624.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Chennai||TN governor will decide Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict Perarivalan’s release in 3-4 days: Centre to SC||NEW DELHI: Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit will take a decision on the remission plea of A G Perarivalan in three to four days, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Thursday. The state government had sent a recommendation in 2018 to the governor to release all seven convicts, including Perarivalan, in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta’s assurance to a bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer and Indu Malhotra came after the apex court expressed concern over the delay in taking decision and decided to examine whether it could intervene to pass direction. The court was hearing a plea filed by Perarivalan who is serving a life term. Death penalty awarded to Perarivalan in 1991 for his involvement in the conspiracy to assassinate former PM Rajiv Gandhi was commuted to life imprisonment by the top court in February 2014. He was charged with providing a 9-volt battery to co-conspirator Sivarasan for the explosive device which was used to kill Gandhi. After he spent 20 years on death row, the Supreme Court commuted Perarivalan’s death penalty to life imprisonment in February, 2014. As a Constitution Bench, in a majority decision, had held in 2015 that states cannot unilaterally remit the sentences of life convicts in cases investigated by a central agency under a central law, the Tamil Nadu government had written to the Centre in 2016 proposing the grant of remission to the convicts. The Centre, however, in April 2018, rejected the state’s proposal to release the convicts on remission, saying this was “an unparalleled act in the annals of crimes committed in this country”. Perarivalan had also applied to the governor for pardon in December 2015 and the Supreme Court in September 2018 asked the governor to decide the pardon plea “as he deemed fit”. The state government in the same month had recommended to the governor to remit the sentence of all the seven convicts. The governor, however, didn’t decide on the TN cabinet recommendation and the matter remained pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-guv-will-decide-perarivalans-release-in-3-4-days-centre-to-sc/articleshow/80394798.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Mumbai SIM swapping gang busted, 5 held by Cyberabad police||HYDERABAD: Five members of a Mumbai-based gang indulging in SIM swap fraud have been arrested by Cyberabad police. The gang members were reportedly operating on the instructions of Nigeria-based fraudster, James. On June 29, 2020, cyber crime police of Cyberabad received a complaint from a victim stating that offenders had obtained a duplicate SIM card with his mobile number (SIM swapping), logged into his internet banking account and transferred Rs 4.25 lakh through three IMPS transactions without his knowledge. Subsequently on October 29, cyber crime police received another complaint from a victim stating that Rs 6.75 lakh was siphoned off from his bank account by unknown fraudsters, who had obtained a duplicate SIM card with his mobile number. A Cyberabad police team arrested Chandrakant Siddhanth Kamble, Zameer Ahmed Munir Sayyed, Adil Hassan Ali Sayyed, Junaid Ahmed Shaik and Ashwin Narayana Sharegar of Mira Road, Mumbai on Tuesday for working on the instructions of James and obtaining duplicate SIM cards in the name of victims after preparing fake ID cards, including Aadhaar cards. Police seized 40 fake Aadhaar cards from their possession, indicating that victims could be from other states too. “James, operating from Nigeria, is the mastermind behind the SIM swap fraud. James sends a phishing email to victims making it look like income tax department mail pertaining to IT returns. A victim’s internet banking details, email details and phone number are obtained through the phishing mail,” Cyberabad police commissiner V C Sajjanar said. Once having access to email, internet banking account of the victim, James, searches the email of the victim for stored ID cards and passes on the information to the gang operating from Mira Road. They prepare ID cards by replacing victim’s photo with one of their gang members, Junaid Ahmed Shaik. Using the forged ID cards, Junaid Ahmed approached customer service centre of telephone service provider of the victims and applies for replacement of SIM. “If one service centre refuses to issue SIM card, Junaid visits other centres till he gets the duplicate SIM. This SIM obtaining process, the gang starts on Saturday afternoon and evening hours so that the victim will not have enough time to approach customer care service as Sunday is a holiday,” cyber crime inspector K Srinivas said. After obtaining duplicate SIM, the gang informs James and he initiates the process of third party transfer of funds from victims’ bank accounts.. “The Mumbai gang and another gang in Kolkata, would take their share of 50% and send James the remaining amount ,” the commissioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mumbai-sim-swapping-gang-busted-5-held/articleshow/80393704.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Udaipur||Udaipur: Thousands bid tearful adieu to MLA Gajendra Singh Shaktawat in Vallabhnagar||UDAIPUR: Hundreds of people from various walks of life attended the cremation of Vallabhnagar MLA Gajendra Singh Shaktawat (48) at Bhinder town in Udaipur district on Thursday. Shaktawat, fondly known as 'Bunty Banna', died after prolonged illness at a hospital in New Delhi on Wednesday. Shops and markets remained closed in Bhinder town as a mark of respect as people mourned for their leader who was quite popular among the mass. Apart from eminent personalities, cabinet minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, health minister Raghu Sharma, former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, legislator Mahendrajit Singh Malviya, former MP Raghuveer Singh Meena were among the top Congress leaders who attended the ceremony. Bureaucrats, including Udaipur collector Chetan Ram Deora and senior officials of the administration, too were present on the occasion. The cremation was held as per the corona protocols, although Shaktawat had recovered from it. The family members donned PPE kits to perform the rituals. Shaktawat's son Vindhyaraj Singh lit the pyre. His body was brought to his residence at Udaipur early morning and later the final procession was taken out for his ancestral home in Bhinder. The caravan grew longer as it passed through the main streets of Udaipur city to Bhinder via Dabok, Daroli, Bhatewar, Kharsan, Kheroda, Amarpura, Bansda. Traffic moved at a snail pace and policemen had a tough time in clearing the path for the procession to move ahead. Many people showered flowers from the terraces of buildings while at many places the hearse paused when men came ahead to pay tributes. Shaktawat's wife Preeti and daughters Hiteshi and Gauravi paid their respects and later others, including senior congressmen, party workers and supporters, gave floral tributes to him. Shaktawat is the third prominent leader from South Rajasthan to have died in the past three months after Rajsamand legislator Kiran Maheshwari death in November and former MP Mahaveer Bhagora who died on January 16 due to Covid. Shaktwat's father Gulab Singh, known as 'Bapu' of Mewar, too had been quite popular and had been the home minister in the erstwhile Congress government during 1998-2003. Shaktawat was first elected to the state legislature in 2008. He lost his second election in 2013 and won again in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/thousands-bid-tearful-adieu-to-shaktawat-in-vallabhnagar/articleshow/80393711.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Vijayawada||DIG: Old incidents being shared on social media to incite||Vijayawada: Deputy inspector general G Palaraju on Thursday said the accused in nine temple vandalism cases have political affiliations. “We have the necessary evidence to prove that these accused do have political affiliations,” Palaraju told reporters, while expressing concern over the rising false propaganda of ‘temple attacks’ in the state to incite communal hatred. “Despite putting forth the facts, we are seeing unverified facts circulating on social media. For example, there was an idol vandalism case in West Godavari in 2014 which was detected, the accused was arrested and even served a sentence of eight months. Now the image of this case is being circulated as a fresh incident, mentioning that it took place two days ago,” Palaraju said, showing a printout of the tweet. The DIG also shared a few other examples, like incidents in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka being falsely shown as desecration incidents in Andhra Pradesh. Police have studied the pattern of these tweets and concluded that there is a ‘political purpose’ and ‘defaming attempt against the police’ behind the false propaganda on social media, Palaraju said. On January 16, DGP D Gautam Sawang had released a list of nine cases pertaining to alleged temple attacks and stated that 21 of the accused persons had connections with the TDP and BJP. The DGP also said that most of the cases registered against the accused pertain to false propaganda initiated by them. On police denying permission to TDP’s proposed ‘Dharma Parirakshana Yatra’ for upholding the sanctity and serenity of Tirupati-Tirumala, DIG (law & order) SV Rajasekhar Babu said they initially accorded permission to TDP under the condition that not more than 100 people would be present and no motorcycle rally should take place. “Contrary to those conditions, we received information that over 1,000 people were gathering and a motorcycle rally was also being planned,” Babu said. The yatra was scheduled to start from Tirupati on Thursday and cover seven assembly segments in Nellore and Chittoor districts. Tension prevailed after cops stopped TDP state president K Atchannaidu and Panabaka Lakshmi, the party’s candidate for Tirupati by-election, and other party functionaries from Nellore and Chittoor districts at a private hotel where they were forcefully confined. Meanwhile, TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu condemned the arrest of TDP leaders by the police. Criticising the government for not granting permission for its ‘Dharma Parirakshana Yatra’ in Tirupati, he said the permission was cancelled a few hours after being granted due to pressure from the top.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dig-old-incidents-being-shared-on-social-media-to-incite/articleshow/80393427.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
January 22, 2021||Vijayawada||AP to complete 5 crore man days in next four months||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has provided 22.44 crore man days during the current financial year against the allocated man days of 25.25 crore under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MG NREGS), said Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development. Inaugurating the two-day workshop for the district water management agency (DWMA) project directors (PDs) at Tadepalli on Thursday, Ramachandra Reddy said that the state government had set the target of completing five crore man days to wage seekers in the next four months. He said that the state government is targeting at getting 30 crore man days for 2021-22 financial year and wanted the project directors to reach the target. The minister also said that chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has written to the central government to increase the total working hours for each wage seeker from 150 a year to 200. He expressed confidence that the central government would consider the request and increase the hours to benefit the poor wage seekers. The minister wanted the officials to complete all government building works under the MNREGS taking the material component from the scheme and utilise the workers under the wages component. He said that the central government had provided Rs 4,000 crore worth works under material component. This would be increased to Rs 5 crore in the next financial year, said. The minister congratulated the officers for completing construction of 1418 village secretariat buildings out of the total sanctioned buildings of 10,929. He wanted the officials to complete the balance buildings at the earliest. These buildings would cost over Rs 4,158 crore, he added. The minister also wanted the project directors to complete the construction of YSR Clinics, Raithu Bharosa Kendras, by March 31. He also reviewed the progress of the compound walls construction for the schools and hospitals across the state. Though the school and hospital buildings were taken up for renovation under Nadu-Nedu scheme, the compound walls are provided under the MNREGS, the minister said. The minister asked officials to give priority for laying roads to the agriculture fields across the state. He said most farmers were asking for approach roads to fields and wanted officials to include these works under the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-to-complete-5-cr-man-days-in-next-four-months/articleshow/80393365.cms||Gopi Dara
January 22, 2021||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh asks KRMB to release 108 tmc water for rabi season||AMARAVATI: The state government has requested Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) to allot 108 tmc water for rabi season needs under different canals. The government has provided the details of the quantum of water required for different regions under Krishna river ayucut for the ongoing season. Although farmers were managing the situation with the existing waters in the canals and sufficient ground water available in the Krishna basin, the irrigation department is anticipating that farmers might require water to wet crops in the coming months. Farmers completed sowing operations in about 49 lakh acres during the Rabi season in all the three regions while 75 to 80 per cent of the cropped areas are in Krishna basin. While paddy is cultivated in about 15 lakh acres, pulses including red gram and black gram are cultivated in about 24 lakh acres. Oilseeds are mainly cultivated in Rayalaseema region which falls under the Krishna basin. “In fact, oilseeds cultivation has dipped by nearly 25 per cent due to shortage of water in some of the upland areas in Prakasam, Nellore, Kurnool and Anantapur districts,” said a senior agriculture official. Keeping the farmers’ needs into consideration, the irrigation department requested KRMB to grant approval for release of 108 tmc water from Krishna projects-Srisailam and Nagarjuna Sagar. Sources said that Nagarjuna Sagar Right Canal (NSRC) requirement itself has been put at 60 tmc. Around 14 lakh acres are cultivated under Nagarjuna Sagar ayucut in Prakasam and Guntur Similarly, the irrigation department estimated that ayucut under Nagarjuna Sagar Left Canal (NSRC) mainly in Krishna and West Godavari districts would require 14.6tmc of water. The department had also explained that farmers under Pothireddypady head regulator would require 9.3 tmc and ayucut under different canals fed by Handree-Neeva Sujala Sravanti (HNSS) would require another 24.6 tmc. Thanks to the abundant rains and floods received in Krishna river, Srisailam project is still left with about 150 tmc of water. Similarly, about 248 tmc of water is available in Nagarjuna Sagar reservoir. It means that nearly 400 tmc of water is available in both the projects. Sources said that the Telangana government is also expected to send its requisition for allocation of nearly 100 tmc water for rabi season needs in their state. The river management board is likely to take a call after analysing the requests from both the states. The KRMB has to manage the drinking water needs in both the states till the arrival of next monsoon with the available reserves in the projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/andhra-asks-krmb-to-release-108-tmc-water-for-rabi-season/articleshow/80393347.cms||Samdani MN
January 22, 2021||Coimbatore||853 people take Covid vaccine, nurses take lead||Coimbatore: As many as 853 people took the vaccine against Covid-19 in the district on Thursday. Unlike previous days, the number of nurses and supervisors who took the shot increased noticeably. The percentage of nurses taking the vaccine, which was hardly 16% on Monday, saw the figure rising to 30%. More private doctors arrived to take the shot at the 16-odd places where it is administered. Health department is now trying to get more private hospital staff to come forward.Data with the health department shows that 254 nurses took the Covishield vaccine on Thursday, which is almost 100 people more than the 151 nurses, who took it on Wednesday. The figures were even less in the beginning of the drive. “Compared to a time when doctors formed 60% of the beneficiaries, and hardly 15% to 20% of the beneficiaries were nurses, the number of nurses is increasing,” said a health department official.On Thursday, 455 of them took the shot at CMCH, followed by 245 at Karamadai PHC, 77 in Mettupalayam GH and 70 in Pollachi GH. They now hope to get all private hospital staff members to take the vaccine. “Private hospitals may choose to take the vaccine in this phase, because it is free, compared to having to buy it for Rs Rs 1,000 a dose in the market after three months,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/853-people-take-covid-vaccine-nurses-take-lead/articleshow/80393719.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Chennai||Cannot order reopening of all schools, says HC||Chennai: The Madras high court has refused to entertain a plea seeking direction to the state government to reopen all schools immediately. “Courts cannot interfere in such decisions of the state. It would not be right to pressure the state government in opening schools for all classes and it is the state that is appropriate to make such decisions,” the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said on Thursday. The bench made the observation on a public interest writ petition filed by Chengalpattu District Private Schools Association. According to the petitioner-association, closure of the schools in view of the pandemic had led to several children undergoing severe mental stress. Since the state has taken a decision to open schools for higher classes, a phased opening of all the other classes should also be carried out. Classes can be held in two shifts with capacity being reduced by 50% in each of the shifts, the association said. Refusing to grant any relief, the court, however, granted liberty to the petitioner to approach the court once again if the situation persists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cannot-order-reopening-of-all-schools-says-hc/articleshow/80393720.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Vijayawada||Parida takes charge as PCB chairman||Vijayawada: Ashwini Kumar Parida (AK Parida), a 1980 batch IAS (retired) officer, took charge as chairman, Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board on Thursday. Earlier this month, the state government had issued the order appointing Parida as the new chairman. Parida said: “I feel very privileged to take on this role and thank chief minister of Andhra Pradesh for giving me this opportunity. The needs of APPCB’s clients, people, regulators, and other stakeholders will be handled in thoughtful and innovative ways which will benefit the state and the board stakeholders. I look forward to working closely with the board and the state government to continue to ensure a positive impact for all stakeholders, including our people, and society”. Parida retired as special chief secretary in 2017. He had served as special chief secretary for environment, forests, science & technology department and director general of Environment Protection Training and Research Institute (EPTRI) in the erstwhile united Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/parida-takes-charge-as-pcb-chairman/articleshow/80393420.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: BJP alleges scam in DJB, wants assembly session||NEW DELHI: Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and the leader of the opposition, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, on Thursday alleged a “scam of Rs 26,000 crore in Delhi Jal Board.” They claimed at a press conference that “in the past five years, the Delhi government gave a loan of Rs 41,000 crore to the DJB, out of which Rs 26,000 crore is not accounted for.” Gupta, who flashed a report of the “Economic classification of the budgetary transactions of Delhi Jal Board”, alleged that, “Rs 26,000 crore was transferred from the Delhi government's account to DJB’s accounts in the last five years” but no one was ready to give any account of this amount. The Delhi BJP chief added that the condition of sewerage plants in the city was very poor. “Out of an estimated 1,800 unauthorized colonies in Delhi, only 561 colonies have sewerage plants and even their condition is pathetic. This fact is mentioned in the Delhi government's own report” he said. “The amount of water that used to be potable in 2015 is the same even after six years and has not increased even by 5%. The population of Delhi has increased in the past six years but the manner of working of DJB has not changed,” said Gupta. The chief minister claims that Delhiites will be able to drink water from Yamuna directly but Yamuna has become more poisonous than before, he said. Bidhuri demanded that chief minister Arvind Kejriwal should convene a two-day session of Delhi assembly to investigate and discuss the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-alleges-scam-in-djbwants-assembly-session/articleshow/80393749.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Amaravati||AP: Staff to be hired for school toilet maintenance||AMARAVATI: The state government has decided to appoint aayas to maintain washrooms in government schools. The government directed the school education department to appoint aayas in all schools in consultation with parents’ committees to manage toilets. The directives came following chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy’s instructions that toilets in schools should be maintained properly keeping in view of the fact that many girls were skipping schools due to untidy washrooms. Aayas will be appointed on a contract-basis depending on the strength of children in schools. The state government has set up a Toilet Maintenance Fund (TMF) by deducting Rs.1000 from each Amma Vodi beneficiary. The fund would be utilized to pay wages to aayas, purchase of material and also for maintenance of the newly constructed toilets in the schools. Aayas will be appointed in all the government schools including residential schools and junior colleges. “Aaya will be positioned for the purpose of cleaning and up-keep of the toilets to set standards. This shall be completed by the end of January,” said a senior official of education department. While one aaya would be appointed for about 400 students, two aayas would be appointed in case the student strength is between 400-800. Permission has been granted for appointment of three aayas in case the student strength is more than 800. Interestingly, the school education commissioner asked the DEOs to appoint only women as aayas in the schools and preferably from SC, ST, BC and minority communities. The parents committee would pay Rs.6000 as monthly honorarium for the aayas for taking up the job. Rs.3000 would be paid if the student strength is less than 50 in a particular school. While asking all the existing aaayas to continue in the work, the government directed the DEOs to give preference to one of the mothers of the students if they were willing to take up the job. The aaya should be school from 8 am to 11.30am and 2-4 pm for primary schools and 8.45 am-11.45 am and 2-4 pm in high schools. The material required for the cleaning of toilets would be purchased by the state-level and district-level committees through tenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/staff-to-be-hired-for-school-toilet-maintenance/articleshow/80393375.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Agra||Supreme Court issues notice to 25 high courts for not providing online RTI facility||Agra: The Supreme Court has issued a notice to all the 25 high courts in the country for not implementing online RTI facility even after 15 years of introduction of the Right to Information Act. The notice was issued by SC while taking cognizance of a PIL filed by Agra-based lawyer and RTI activist KC Jain in November. Besides the high courts, the SC bench comprising Justices Nageshwara Rao, Indu Malhotra and Vineet Saran after hearing a writ petition on January 13 also issued a notice to the central government seeking its response in the matter. The next hearing is scheduled to take place on March 1. In his plea, Agra-based lawyer KC Jain maintained that anyone seeking any information under the RTI Act from any HC or any other court has to make a physical application at present and obtain a postal order or bank draft to pay the requisite fee.Significantly, section 6(1) of the RTI Act enables a person to make a request for information in writing or “through electronic means”, Jain added.“The establishment of RTI portals by the high courts and their subordinate courts will bring a sea change in the RTI regime, as the use of technology would be convenient, economic, speedy and transparent, which would take the transparency law to next level,” the petitioner said.Most high courts in the country, let alone other courts, are yet to have their RTI portals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/supreme-court-issues-notice-to-25-high-courts-for-not-providing-online-rti-facility/articleshow/80391316.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 22, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP reports 139 new Covid cases, no deaths||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 139 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,86,557. For the fourth time in the last three weeks, the state recorded zero deaths due to the virus. Meanwhile, 254 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,77,893. A total of 49,483 samples were tested in the last 24 hours out of which 139 returned positive, translating to a case positivity rate of 0.28 per cent. Nine districts reported under 10 cases each, with the lowest (3 cases) emerging from Srikakulam. The highest number of new cases were reported from Krishna district (35), followed by Chittoor (20), Guntur (17), and East Godavari (13). The active cases have come down to 1,522, with six districts having less than 100 active cases each. Chittoor has reported the highest number of fatalities (846), with Vizianagaram (238) reporting the lowest number of deaths. Over 1.27 crore tests have been conducted in the state so far, with a total of 8,86,557 positives at a positivity rate of 6.96 per cent. The mortality rate remains stable at 0.8%. Meanwhile, the state health department administrated Covid-19 vaccine to 23,338 people on Thursday, with no reports of any adverse effect. In all, 3,880 healthcare workers got vaccinated in Krishna district, followed by Nellore (3,072), East Godavari (2,330), Visakhapatnam (2,061) and Srikakulam (1,921). The vaccine was given in 616 sessions, including 16 sessions of Covaxin. As many as 1,524 people received Covaxin doses in Krishna district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-139-new-covid-cases-no-deaths/articleshow/80393388.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Bizman held for Rs 122cr GST fraud||Mumbai: Directorate of Central Goods and Services (CGST) on Thursday arrested a 64-year-old businessman for an alleged fraud of Rs 122 crore. Daulat Samirmal Mehta is the director of Twinstar Industries Ltd and Originet Technologies Ltd. Sources said his companies fraudulently availed of and utilized ineligible input tax credit (ITC) of Rs 122.6 crore based on bogus invoices, without actual receipt of goods or services. Mehta has passed on ITC to Al Fara’s group infra-project and under investigation are shell companies with no genuine business activities. Officials said Mehta interfered and conducted nefarious business activities of six bogus companies he formed to avail of ITC. Twinstar Industries, Originet Technologies, Boost Metric Solutions, Vintage Comtrade, Stuti Comtrade and Kala Exports connived with Al Fara’s group of companies for receipts of bogus invoices without actual supply of goods or services. Advocate Ravi Hirani for Mehta said, “My client cooperated with the agency and went whenever he was called for investigations. He has been made a scapegoat.” Officials said they were looking for Nitesh Motilal Gangarmani, who conspired and perpetrated the ITC fraud with Mehta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bizman-held-for-rs-122cr-gst-fraud/articleshow/80393951.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 22, 2021||Vadodara||Trial against rape accused to begin soon||Vadodara: Dr Prashant Upadhyay, the priest of Shri Baglamukhi Brahmastra Vidyamandir temple, will soon face trial in the rape case where he is an accused. A judicial magistrate’s court passed an order on January 19 to commit the case in the sessions court as the investigation is over and police have submitted the chargesheet. While taking up the hearing over the submission of chargesheet, Upadhyay informed the court that he would like to hire a lawyer and face the trial. The sessions court will now fix a date for hearing after registering a sessions case. Upadhyay was booked at Gotri police station in March last year as one of his followers’ wife had given complaint. The 28-year-old woman had alleged that Upadhyay had raped her several times at his home in Gotri several times since November 2016. The woman had started attending Upadhyay’s sermons in 2016 as her husband was his follower. During the sermons, she had started sharing her household issues like conflicts with husband and mother-in-law with Upadhyay. The priest told the woman that she will attain a form of ‘devi’ but will have to make some sacrifices for that state. Upadhyay used to call the woman at his home and rape her in his bedroom and then threaten to not tell anyone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/trial-against-rape-accused-to-begin-soon/articleshow/80391713.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Jaipur||Indo-French exercise ‘Desert Knight’ kicks off in Jodhpur||Jaisalmer: Jet fighters roared the skies from Jodhpur to the forward areas western border as the Indo-French Joint Exercise Desert Knight 2021 kicked off on Wednesday. The exercise will culminate on January 24. The bilateral war exercise between Indian Air Force and French Air And Space Force is being termed strategically important in the backdrop of Chinese aggression.IAF has assigned its Mirage 2000, Rafale, Su-30 MKI, IL-78 Flight Refuelling Aircraft, AWACS and AEW&C aircraft for the war exercise, while the French air force has sent Rafale, A-400M Tactical Transport aircraft, Airbus A-330 Multi-Role Tanker Transport, and over 150 of its personnel to take part in the Desert Knight war games.Rafale fighter jets of both the countries took off on Thursday followed by Sukhoi and Mirage. According to official sources, the fighter planes from both the countries reached the Jodhpur airbase on Wednesday. As part of the war game, both the teams fired dummy missiles, attacking and dodging as they moved ahead. After testing their capacity for around two hours, both teams returned to the air base and shared the experiences. The aircraft from both the countries also tried various formations in the sky. They will also practise night exercises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/indo-french-exercise-desert-knight-kicks-off-in-jodhpur/articleshow/80393721.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Coimbatore||37-yr-old man arrested for cheating people of Rs 2.6 cr||COIMBATORE: The district crime branch police arrested a 37-year-old man, who cheated several people of Rs 2.60 crore, from Nagercoil on Wednesday. The arrested person was identified as J Jagadeesh of Anna Nagar in Palani. An MBA graduate, he was working for CRI Pumps at Saravanampatti in Coimbatore. R Sivakumar, 30, of Nanjundapuram near Kallipalayam lodged a complaint with the district crime branch police on Tuesday. “Jagadeesh befriended me while I was working for CRI Pumps in 2015. He told me that he was earning lakhs of rupees from online trading and encouraged me to invest in his business. Believing his words, my friends and I gave him Rs 2.60 crore between October 2018 and December 2019. But he failed to return the money,” he said. DCB police registered an FIR against Jagadeesh and formed a special team to nab him. The team found out that Jagadeesh had cheated several people in Chennai, Madurai, Dindigul and Coimbatore to the tune of Rs 50 crore. His family had lodged a man missing complaint in 2019. The team learned that Jagadeesh had admitted his children in a private school in Nagarcoil in Kanyakumari district. He had used his mobile number for the admission process. The team rushed to Nagarcoil and came to know that Jagadeesh was staying in a rented house with his family. “We detained him from his house and found out that he was a bald-headed person. We had photos he had posted on his Facebook page and from the people he cheated, which showed a man with lush hair. He told us that he stopped using wigs to hide his identity,” a police officer said. “We received two more complaints on Thursday from people who were cheated of 1.20 crore. Those who were cheated by Jagadeesh should lodge complaint with the DCB police.” Jagadeesh had spent Rs 70 lakh to renovate his house in Palani and had bought lands in Madurai, the officer added. He was booked under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 506 (i) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, and was remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/37-yr-old-man-arrested-for-cheating-people-of-rs-2-6-cr/articleshow/80393716.cms||A Subburaj
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 10-year-old boy set ablaze by his father succumbs||HYDERABAD: After battling for life for three days, 10-year-old R Charan, who had suffered 90% burns when his father set him ablaze for returning home late from an errand on January 17, succumbed while undergoing treatment at Gandhi Hospital on Wednesday night. Charan, a class 6 student, along with his parents and three siblings was staying at a hut on Road Number 2 in KPHB Colony. On January 17 night, Charan’s father, Balu, a labourer, sent him out to get beedis. According to police, the boy returned with beedis later than expected, and his father, who was already upset about the boy not paying attention to studies, thrashed him for not studying well and missing his tuitions. Charan’s mother tried to intervene, but Balu did not listen to her and he doused Charan with turpentine oil and set him ablaze after lighting his beedi. Engulfed in flames, the boy ran from the hut and fell in a nearby ditch. Locals along with family members, put out the flames using water and rushed the boy to Gandhi Hospital. According to police, Charan was in the past forced into child labour by Balu and was rescued by women and child welfare department officials when he was found working as a helper at a mechanic shop. “On Wednesday night, Charan succumbed to burns while undergoing treatment at Gandhi Hospital and after post-mortem examination, we handed over the body of the boy to his family,” KPHB inspector S Laxmi Narayana said. The accused, Balu, 50, was arrested and remanded in judicial custody on January 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/10-yr-old-boy-set-ablaze-by-his-father-succumbs/articleshow/80393718.cms||---
January 22, 2021||India||Minor girl stabbed to death in front of 4-year-old niece in Patna||PATNA: An unidentified youth brutally murdered a 14-year-old girl by stabbing her multiple times in the neck after barging into her home in Patna on Thursday. The incident came to light when people found the minor girl’s four-year-old niece crying in a narrow bylane outside their house, police said. The victim was identified as Anshu Kumari, a Class X student of a school at Nagarnausa in Nalanda. Police said Anshu was attacked between 10am and 10.30am while she was with her elder brother’s daughter Vaishanavi in the house. Five more rooms are on the ground floor in which six youths live on rent. The neighbours told police that none of them heard any screams when the attack took place. “The killer seems to be known to the victim. We have some leads and footage of a suspect captured in a CCTV camera,” Jitendra Kumar, city SP (east), said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/minor-girl-stabbed-to-death-in-front-of-4-year-old-niece-in-patna/articleshow/80396869.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 22, 2021||Coimbatore||Newborn with heart defect gets new lease of life||COIMBATORE: A three-day old baby was brought to city-based PSG Hospitals by her parents on January 11. The baby was delivered in a hospital in Palakkad, where doctors noticed severe breathing difficulty. They suspected a severe heart defect and referred her to the private multispecialty hospital. At PSG Hospitals, cardiologist Dr Vinoth Doraisamy diagnosed a rare and serious heart condition named Interrupted aortic arch combined with aorto-pulmonary window. “It is a condition in which the blood vessel supplying pure blood is incompletely formed and as a result, the upper body was receiving pure blood and lower body was receiving impure blood. In addition, there was a large hole between the two major blood vessels in the heart. This led to significant hypertension in the lungs. This is a life-threatening condition which can be fatal if not operated at the earliest,” he said. “We decided to operate immediately as the child was very sick,” said Dr C Ananthanarayanan, senior consultant cardiothoracic and vascular surgeon. “Operating on a three-day old baby is challenging because the heart is just the size of a lemon and the margin of error in such a complex procedure is practically nil”. The doctors had to reconnect the lower body blood vessel to the upper body blood vessel and close the big hole between the main blood vessels of the heart. The traditional way of conducting the operation involves draining blood and stopping circulation temporarily to perform the procedure. They ensured continuous blood supply to the brain. The procedure took six hours. The child recovered well and was discharged on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/newborn-with-heart-defect-gets-new-lease-of-life/articleshow/80393723.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Coimbatore||Cops identify gang involved in highway robbery||COIMBATORE: The rural police have identified the four-member gang that stole a car containing Rs 10 lakh from Marappalam in Madukkarai here last week. Police collected 200 CCTV footage from Coimbatore till Thrissur in Kerala to find the Alappuzha-based gang, police superintendent Ara Arularasu said. G Mohammed Mustafa, 34, a cab driver from Mannarkkad in Palakkad district, lodged a complaint with the Madukkarai police on Tuesday. He had come to Oppanakkara Street in Coimbatore along with his friend Sharjah Hussain to receive Rs 10 lakh from Kumar on January 11. The duo was returning to Mannarkkad with the money in a call taxi. When they reached Marappalam around 9pm, a four-member gang waylaid the car and broke open the glass. They forced the duo out and drove away the vehicle, which was later abandoned in Kanyakumari. The gang used to waylay vehicles to steal hawala money, said Arularasu. “The gang members came to Coimbatore in a multi-purpose vehicle. Two special teams are following the miscreants and will nab them soon,” he said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cops-identify-gang-involved-in-highway-robbery/articleshow/80393726.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Pune||Pune techie duped of Rs 3 lakh by crook posing as US friend||PUNE: A 41-year-old software professional from Wakad was duped of Rs3 lakh by a cybercrook, who posed as a friend from the US and sought money for a relative’s treatment in India. The incident occurred on Tuesday. The techie approached the Wakad police on Wednesday. Police said the fraudster used the friend’s social media photograph as the display picture on WhatsApp. As per the complaint, on Tuesday, the complainant — who was at work — received a WhatsApp call from an unknown US-based number. The caller ID on the phone showed his friend’s photograph. Before the techie could answer, the call got disconnected. His “friend” then started texting him. “My ‘friend’ suddenly asked me for Rs3 lakh for his relative’s medical treatment in India,” the techie told TOI. “I did not have any problem giving the money. I told him to make a video call, but he said he could not. He then gave me a bank account number to transfer the money,” he added. He said he was busy with work, so he transferred the money to that account. “After finishing work, I called my friend’s brother, who lives in Pune. I was shocked when he told me no one from their family was undergoing any treatment. Moreover, he also told me that the number from which I received the call did not belong to his brother,” he said. The techie said he called the suspect on the same number. “He promised to return the money and asked me not to go to the police. The suspect told me to search for an ‘angadia’ (unofficial banking courier service) as transferring money directly was not safe,” he said. “I decided to go to the Wakad police station and lodge a complaint,” instead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/techie-duped-of-rs-3-lakh-by-crook-posing-as-us-friend/articleshow/80393708.cms||Mihir Tanksale
January 22, 2021||Pune||25 private hospitals ready to chip in as vaccination hubs in Pune Metropolitan Region||PUNE: As many as 25 private hospitals equipped with intensive care units expressed their willingness to participate in the healthcare workers’ Covid-19 vaccination drive in the Pune Metropolitan Region in a meeting held with the Indian Medical Association’s Hospital Board of India on Wednesday. “We need to expedite the vaccination of the healthcare workers who have already registered their names. For this, we need to increase the number of vaccination centres in the PMR (Pune Metropolitan Region),” said gynaecologist Aarti Nimkar, the president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Pune branch. “If health officials in the district and the state allow, quite a few private hospitals in the PMR are ready to contribute as vaccination centres. All the officials have to do is to recognise their centres and create their log-in ID (identity) on the centralised CoWIN app,” said Sanjay Patil, the president of the city chapter of the IMA’s Hospital Board of India (HBI). As a mandate, a vaccination centre needs to be equipped with an intensive care unit to function as a vaccination centre. “A total of 25 private hospitals are currently ready to chip in as vaccination centres if they are allowed. We have communicated our willingness and waiting for the civic health officials to take a call,” Patil said. Confirming the development, Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Pune Zilla Parishad, said, “Quite a few private healthcare providers have approached us with plans to expedite the Covid vaccination in Pune district.” A total of 31 Covid vaccination centres are there in the PMR at present. Currently, only five private hospitals — Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, Bharati Hospital, Noble Hospital, Ruby Hall Clinic and Symbiosis Medical College and Hospitals — are designated as Covid vaccination centres in the PMR. Of them, three hospitals could not participate in the drive because of log-in related issues in the last two days. Jitendra Oswal, the deputy medical director of Bharati Hospital, said, “We are ready to increase daily vaccination of willing and registered healthcare staffers, if we are allowed. The number is currently restricted to 100 every day. The log-in related issues deterred us from participating in the vaccination drive for the last two days. It is high time that the officials sort out the CoWIN-related glitches and rope in more private hospitals to expedite the vaccination across the PMR.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/25-private-hospitals-ready-to-chip-in-as-vaccination-hubs/articleshow/80393725.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 22, 2021||Coimbatore||Aspire for double digit share, Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu tells apparel exporters||Indian apparel exporters should aspire for a double-digit share of the world apparel market, from the current level of 5-6%, Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu said on Thursday. Speaking at the inauguration of the Apparel Export Promotion Council’s (AEPC) 24x7x365 virtual exhibition platform, Naidu said he was confident that the efforts, along with textile ministry’s support, would boost apparel exports. “We should soon aspire to reach double-digit share in export of fabrics along with proper encouragement and branding,” he said quoting the popularity of Modi jackets among youngsters. Naidu said that though India is the leading producer and exporter of cotton, jute, silk and manmade fibre (MMF) yarns, it lacks the competitive edge in fabrics and apparels when compared to Bangladesh and China. “They are the biggest buyers of Indian yarn. They add value to it and sell the fabrics and apparels at a lower cost than India. This is largely because the weaving sector is unorganized and dispersed,” he said. Small-scale companies need handholding to help them scale up, which will help them improve quality enough to match global competitors, Naidu said and encouraged companies to use their ideas and technology, and combine it with the creativity of women. Textile industry should upskill workers to get an edge over Bangladesh and Vietnam, which have a cheaper labour force, the vice-president said and urged the industry to look at a diverse portfolio of products to tap new markets. “The private sector, along with the government, should innovate to improve competitiveness even in new areas such as manmade fabrics and technical textiles. The global market for technical textiles is $ 220 billion and India has huge potential to tap this sector. The government has come out with a production-linked incentive scheme for technical textiles. Apparel manufacturers should aim for double digit share in the global market.” Textiles minister Smriti Irani hoped the new platform would also give space to those who innovate, who belong to small and medium enterprises and startups, as young innovators need a supporting hand. The virtual platform will allow exporters to display their products in a 360 view. Product catalogues and contact details will be displayed. The platform also allows buyers to have video chats with company representatives. Considering the travel restrictions due to Covid-19 pandemic, the platform is seen as a better alternative in terms of both economy and convenience.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/aspire-for-double-digit-share-naidu-tells-apparel-exporters/articleshow/80393734.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Kolkata||Hindi must for 3-language option||Kolkata: The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination on Thursday clarified that if a student appearing for ICSE (Class-X examination) opts for two additional languages, one of them has to be Hindi compulsorily. English is the first language at ICSE schools. “At present, most schools offer only two languages at ICSE, English and another language. In Kolkata, students usually opt for only two languages in ICSE, English and either Bengali or Hindi. The third language is offered between Class-VI and Class-VIII. However, if a school offers a choice of two additional languages, one of them has to be Hindi,”said a school principal. In some schools, students are allowed to opt for a foreign language like French or German in addition to English and an Indian language like Bengali or Hindi. Following the clarification, a student who had planned to take Bengali and a foreign language at ICSE will have to drop the latter as Hindi is required to be one of three languages that a student opts for at the exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hindi-must-for-3-language-option/articleshow/80393727.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Kolkata||Cancer hospital adds new unit||Kolkata: A cancer hospital in Kolkata will flag off its new bone marrow transplant (BMT) unit by conducting a procedure on a patient from Contai on Friday. Urban development minister Firhad Hakim will inaugurate the unit at Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Cancer Hospital at Nayabad on Friday and dedicate the unit to Ashis Mukhopadhyay, its late founder. Forty-four-year-old Rezaul Hossain from Contai — who suffers from multiple myeloma — will undergo an autologous BMT, said medical oncologist Tanmoy Mandal, who will conduct the procedure along with Sudip Das, another medical oncologist. The hospital has decided to waive bed charges and doctor’s fees for the procedure. “We decided to open the unit on the 58th birth anniversary of our founder and start the procedure with poor patients as he believed in quality care being extended to them,” said Soma Mukhopadhyay, managing trustee of the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cancer-hospital-adds-new-unit/articleshow/80393738.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||FIR against firm for Rs 3.8cr GST fraud||Mumbai: Nirmal Nagar police registered an FIR against a company for criminal breach of trust and cheating after submitting fake GST invoices and obtaining Rs 3.8 crore from government. Shruti Enterprises allegedly obtained GST registration, issued fake invoices of goods and services and passed on ineligible input tax credit (ITC) accrued from bogus invoices to clients for a commission, who used it to make GST payments, causing a loss to government. A police officer said they are probing a case had been registered on January 18. “Tax officials said the use of fake invoices to wrongfully avail ITC credit has been gradually increasing and has become a concern for government, especially as revenue collection has declined,” said the officer. Inspector Sanjay Chavan said they were collecting details on the modus operandi. A GST officer said the company submitted fake documents from May 2018 to June 2019 to claim GST after claiming that it dealt with clients in import and export. A case under Indian Penal Code sections for breach of trust, cheating and forgery, and under Maharashtra Goods and Services Tax Act was filed against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fir-against-firm-for-rs-3-8cr-gst-fraud/articleshow/80393952.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 22, 2021||Pune||Visually-challenged writers aim to share their stories||Pune: The Ekansh Trust has organized a story-writing competition for the visually-challenged. The NGO works towards inclusion and empowerment of persons with disabilities.“The Harry Potter series has been published in Braille but the books fail to capture the interest of the visually-challenged because everything in it is so visual like people disappearing into the wall, stairs that change direction, and magical beasts. Even in Shakespeare’s plays, there are a lot of visual elements involved, like how the stage is lit, shadow play, and so on. This competition will encourage visually-challenged people to write their own stories based on their interactions with the world,” said Ekansh Trust founder Anita Iyer. Although there have been many great visually-challenged writers throughout history, such as Hellen Keller, Homer, even John Milton, yet there haven’t been many such writers in popular contemporary literature. The competition, called Readiscovery, is open to visually-challenged adults across India. “Entries should be original stories from any genre, in a concise, concentrated format in English ranging between 1,000-3,000 words, to be submitted in DOC/PDF format and emailed to the NGO. The assistance of a scribe or translator is allowed. The last date for submission is February 20,” said Iyer. The stories will be judged by a panel of visually-challenged readers and mythology-fiction author Kavita Kane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/visually-challenged-writers-aim-to-share-their-stories/articleshow/80393685.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Pune||IMA extends support to ‘on the spot jabs’ move in PMR||Pune: The Indian Medical Association has extended its support to increase the vaccination of private healthcare workers after the state government allowed “on the spot” inoculation of pre-registered healthcare workers.“We have communicated the IMA’s support to the health officials. Now it is their call. We have a list of our members who we know have registered for Covid vaccination. We can alert and send them if we know which centres are unable to meet the day’s vaccination of 100 healthcare workers. Those who find it feasible can go and take the shot, depending upon their whereabouts and the day’s routine,” said gynaecologist Aarti Nimkar, the president of IMA, Pune branch.Every designated centre is currently allowed to carry out vaccination of 100 registered healthcare workers, randomly selected and alerted a day prior to the vaccination or early in the day.“There are 31 hospitals spread across the PMR (Pune Metropolitan Region) which are currently designated centres for Covid vaccination. If we come to know about the low turnout at these centres, we can send our members residing or practising close to those vaccination centres,” said Sanjay Patil, the chairman of the IMA’s Hospital Board of India (HBI).The state government on Wednesday allowed on the spot vaccination of registered but unscheduled healthcare workers. It means a healthcare worker whose name is already in the CoWIN database will now eligible for the on the spot vaccination even if it is not his or her turn that day.The state decided to open up the vaccination drives after the Union government allowed site administrators to inoculate unscheduled beneficiaries.“For this, a healthcare worker's name should be registered in the CoWIN app. On the spot vaccination of registered healthcare workers is allowed but not on the spot registration,” said state immunisation officer Dilip Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ima-extends-support-to-on-the-spot-jabs-move-in-pmr/articleshow/80393745.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 22, 2021||Jaipur||BSF begins efforts to bring back youth who strayed to Pak||Jaisalmer: A 19-year-old youth in Beenjrad police station area in Barmer district around 2.5 months ago had illegally crossed over to Pakistan. His family members had lodged a report after he went missing, following which information was received that the youth is in the custody of Sindh police. It is not clear as to how the youth reached Pakistan but BSF has started efforts to bring him back to India. His relatives had lodged a missing person’s report at Beenjrad police station on November 16. SP Anand Sharma on Thursday writing a letter to BSF DIG has requested to be hold a flag meeting with Pak rangers and take action to bring the youth back. On November 5, Gemra Ram Meghwal, a resident of Kumharon ka Tibba near the international border went missing from home after he was upset over some issue. Family members tried to search for him and claiming to see his footprints going towards the border, they lodged a missing person’s report at Beenjrad police station on November 16. Police station SHO wrote a letter to Barmer BSF to search for the missing youth. SP Sharma on Thursday once again wrote a letter to BSF DIG. Pak rangers on January 5 confirmed that the youth was in custody of Sindh police in Pakistan and will be handed over back to BSF after completion of legal formalities. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-begins-efforts-to-bring-back-youth-who-strayed-to-pak/articleshow/80393746.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Three booked for forging documents to usurp Rs 150 crore Bandra bungalow||MUMBAI: The city police have begun a probe into an attempt to usurp a Rs 150-crore bungalow property, Dhondi House, at Bandra Bandstand. A cheating case has been filed against three persons and it has been transferred to EOW. The 8,100 sqft bungalow is located near superstar Shahrukh Khan’s home Mannat. One Shapoor Irani, realty consultant Mahesh Alimchandani and J K Nathani have been named in the FIR. Alimchandani, who the police said is an expert at forging documents, is under arrest in other cheating cases. This is the second time a cheating and land grab case has been registered for the same bungalow. The fresh case pertains to forged documents to grab the property. The place belonged to Dr Farokh Dondhi who died in 2006, leaving a will with his lawyer, Vijay Desai, that the property be made a hospital for the poor through a trust. Desai, also a good friend of Dondhi, lodged an FIR, stating that in 2002 Dondhi made his will with Hoshang Baria, Krushi Gandhi and Shahrukh Engineer as executors. In 2004, it was registered. In 2010, Dondhi's solicitor filed a probate suit after which one Shapoor Irani filed a petition, claiming to be executor of the will. The petitions are pending in Bombay high court. Desai told the police that Irani submitted a bogus death certificate and will of Dondhi and challenged the real will. Police said Irani submitted that Dondhi died on December 7, 2004. Desai also learnt that Irani had submitted some forged letters to the charity commissioner. Desai said alterations were made to entries of Dondhi’s documents in the register of the charity commissioner. It strengthened his belief that they were fake. Desai’s complaint says Irani submitted bogus documents, through his lawyer JK Nathani. In 2014, Irani through his lawyers allegedly put pressure on Desai’s lawyer and made her a (monetary) offer to drop the case. One of Irani’s lawyers spilled the beans on Irani and Alimchandani. The police said she confessed that Alimchandani had forged Dondhi’s documents for Irani. “We’ve just begun the probe,’’ said an EOW officer. In 2014, one Farooq Motiwala had also falsely claimed that he bought the bungalow from Dondhi’s siblings. He was arrested in 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3-booked-for-forging-documents-to-usurp-rs-150cr-bandra-bungalow/articleshow/80392685.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 22, 2021||India||Soldier killed as Pak violates ceasefire in Poonch||JAMMU: A soldier was killed on Thursday as Pakistan resorted to heavy cross-border shelling during the ongoing ceasefire violation at the LoC in Jammu & Kashmir’s Poonch district. Havildar Nirmal Singh, of infantry regiment Jammu & Kashmir Rifles, was critically injured in the firing and later succumbed to his injuries, becoming the second Indian casualty of cross-border firing along the LoC since January 1. “The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” Udhampur-based defence spokesperson Lt Col Abhinav Navneet said. On January 1, a Naib Subedar was killed when Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire twice along the LoC in Nowshera sector of Rajouri district. Highest number of ceasefire violations by Pakistan — over 5,000 incidents — were recorded in 2020. In comparison, there were only 3,289 ceasefire violations by Pakistan in 2019. Watch Pakistan violates ceasefire in J&K's Poonch, soldier killed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/soldier-killed-as-pak-violates-ceasefire-in-poonch/articleshow/80396870.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
January 22, 2021||Pune||After lone shot, Kasarwadi site eyes awareness push||Pimpri Chinchwad: Civic health officials are likely to hold awareness sessions to push vaccination numbers at the Kasarwadi hospital, which recorded inoculation of just one beneficiary against a daily target of 100 on Wednesday. Govind Narake, medical officer in-charge at the Kasarwadi hospital, said better awareness among the beneficiaries and fewer technical snags should help improve the numbers. “We are aiming at better response, but again the staffers should realise that there is no harm in taking the vaccine. Many of us have already taken Covishield and there has been no side-effect as such,” he said. Narake admitted there was apprehension and hesitancy among the staff members. A staff member from the hospital said those with comorbidities were more apprehensive about the vaccine. “They fear severe side-effect if they are vaccinated,” he said. Pavan Salve, additional health chief, PCMC, said, “The apprehension is going to stay. We cannot do much about it. People are adopting the ‘wait and watch’ policy and they want to be absolutely sure before taking the shot. It is safe no doubt, but social media has played a key role in creating the hesitancy. I am quite sure that the number will surge in the first week of February, two weeks after the vaccination drive launch.” Mayor Usha Dhore said she would direct Salve to conduct awareness sessions across the eight designated vaccination sites in the PCMC limits to bust myths or misconceptions about the vaccine. Experts said officials should reach out to beneficiaries and clear their misconceptions or doubts to push up the numbers during the mega vaccination drive, which started on January 16. “Seniors should come forward and take the shots to encourage other medical staffers and their juniors to shed their apprehensions,” an expert said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/after-lone-shot-kasarwadi-site-eyes-awareness-push/articleshow/80393761.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Chennai||Man tries to sell property with forged papers, held||Chennai: A 51-year-old man from Bengaluru was arrested for attempting to sell and register a property worth Rs 14crore to a woman using forged documents at the Saidapet sub-registrar office (SRO) on Wednesday. The arrest was made after the SRO Sujatha swiftly acted and asked the original owner of the property, Palanivel Rathina Sabapathy, to visit the property site. During questioning, Sabapathy claimed he was the sole owner of the property and he never tried to sale it. Following this, Sujatha alerted the Saidapet police station and a team of police led by Saidapet crime police inspector Deivanayagi visited the SRO office and nabbed the man who was later identified as Velu, 51, a native of Bengaluru. During investigation, it was found that Velu had submitted fake documents and tried to sell the property to a woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-tries-to-sell-property-with-forged-papers-held/articleshow/80393753.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Jaipur||Jodhpur: Man tries to kill self over toilet grant delay||JODHPUR: A person attempted to immolate himself at the office of Block Development Officer in Shergarh of Jodhpur on Thursday accusing the officer and sarpanch of delaying his grant for toilet. He was caught by the staff and the BDO himself while pouring petrol on himself before he could strike the matchbox and handed him over to police. SDM (Shergarh) Manoj Khemada said that a detailed report of the matter has been sought from the BDO. According to information, Gulab Singh, a resident of Chaba village, reached the BDO office on Thursday morning and met BDO Deepak Kumar with an application for the grant of funds for a toilet at his house||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-tries-to-kill-self-over-toilet-grant-delay/articleshow/80393759.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Dehradun||No SSP in US Nagar could complete 2 years in office, says RTI||RUDRAPUR: A right to information (RTI) query has revealed that no senior superintendent of police (SSP) in Udham Singh Nagar district has completed a two-year tenure in past thirteen years, despite a Supreme Court order of 2007 that said that the term of the SSP in any district should be two years and that of the police officer posted as in-charge in a police station be one year. However, the order remained ineffective in US Nagar with 68 SHOs of different police stations in the district being changed in the past four years. RTI activist Nadeemuddin, a resident of Kashipur, had sought information about the issue from the SSP office. The information sent by the district's additional superintendent of police (ASP), revealed that of the 68 SHOs transferred from various police stations in the district, 3 SHOs got transferred each from Jaspur PS, Rudrapur PS and Pantnagar PS, while six were transferred each from Bazpur PS, Nanakmatta and Jhankaiya, five each from ITI and Sitarganj PS, four each from Kashipur, Kichha, Khatima, Kunda, Gadarpur, Dineshpur and Kelakheda police stations, two from Pulbhatta and one SHO from Transit Camp police station. As far as the district’s SSPs are concerned, in April 2008, the then SSP, PVK Prasad was transferred after holding office for ten months. His successor DJ Ghildiyal lasted in office till April 2009, followed by GN Goswami who stayed as the district's SSP for 14 months. In June 2010, Ajay Rautela took over as SSP and was transferred after working for 14 months in August 2011. The next SSP, GS Martoliya, was in the post for only two months. Pushpak Jyoti was made SSP in November 2011, but was transferred after five months. NA Bharne took the charge in April 2012 but he also got transferred after serving for only seven months. AS Takwale who joined after NA Bharne remained in office for six months. Subsequently, Ridhim Agrawal, the first female SSP of the district, had a 17-month term in the district before she got transferred in October 2014. NA Bharne was again appointed to the post and his term this time was for one year. In October 2015, Kewal Khurana was posted as SSP and remained for five months. In March 2015, Takwale got a second term in the district but only for two months. In May 2016, Krishna Kumar VK got transferred just after one month of assuming the office. Takwale started his third innings as the district's SSP in May 2016 but was transferred after four months. Senthil AK joined the office in September 2016 and held the post for six months. Sadanand Date, succeeding Senthil in March 2017, helmed the district's law and order for 19 months. Krishna Kumar VK joined again as SSP in October 2018 but got promoted as DIG after two months, which paved the way for Barniderjit Singh to join as SSP. He was in office for 19 months and after he left in July 2020, DS Kunwar was named the SSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-ssp-in-us-nagar-could-complete-2-yrs-in-office-says-rti/articleshow/80391348.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 22, 2021||Meerut||Ahead of R Day, M’nagar farmers take out tractor rally as show of strength||Muzaffarnagar: Days after farmers of Shamli took out a massive tractor rally to the Haryana border, Muzaffarnagar farmers took out a tractor rally of their own, with hundreds of tractors flying the Indian tricolor. According to sources, the rally was organised by Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD).On Thursday, hundreds of farmers on tractors paraded on NH-58 (Delhi-Dehradun NH) in Muzaffarnagar’s Mansoorpur police station area. Farmers from many villages of Mansoorpur were seen rehearsing their moves ahead of their tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day. Regional secretary of RLD, Vikas Balian, said, “Today we were rehearsing how thousands of Muzaffarnagar farmers will join the January 26 parade after they reach Delhi.”Later, the farmers rallied through neighbouring villages to drum support for their January 26 tractor parade.Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) has been mobilising farmers of UP to participate in their Republic Day tractor parade in Delhi to demand withdrawal of the three controversial farm laws. So far, talks between farmers’ representatives and the central government have been locked in a stalemate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ahead-of-r-day-mnagar-farmers-take-out-tractor-rally-as-show-of-strength/articleshow/80392659.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 22, 2021||Pune||District all set to get two more vax sites||Pune: Pune district is set to get two more vaccination sites at Sassoon General Hospital to cater to its registered beneficiaries. Deputy director of health services, Pune region, Sanjay Deshmukh, said authorities will now stop the session sites at three private hospitals — Deenanath Mangeshkar, Bharati and Noble. All three units have been having trouble with the CoWIN app this week. On Tuesday and Wednesday, session administrators at the hospitals were unable to login to the digital database and generate a proper list of beneficiaries. An issue with a key search option, officials said, remains unresolved. The addition of two vaccination sites ensures there are 31 centres for sessions scheduled on Friday and Saturday. Officials said they are hoping to boost turnout among beneficiaries. On Thursday, authorities generated data for 245 sites across the state to ensure drives on Friday are trouble free. All verifications have to be via CoWIN.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/district-all-set-to-get-two-more-vax-sites/articleshow/80393757.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 22, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Time Bank ready, now serve needy for free & get credits||BHOPAL: In a first, modern day barter system — time bank — just like a real bank is all set to get started from Bhopal. A time bank is where you render voluntary service to earn credit hours and get repaid the same way. The free-of-cost service would have time users and time volunteers. Besides, there would be time managers who would work like bank managers and act as a bridge between time users and volunteers. The mobile app is ready and is on a trial run since January 18. It will be available for the users from next month. Mobile app I-TIMBA is created by a social organisation — Initiation of Inner Change Center — run by former and serving bureaucrats. Former Chief Election Commissioner of India O P Rawat is its patron while former secretary in MP government, Manohar Dubey is its member. Senior IPS officer, Rajeev Tandon would help the organisation with security issues, as the time bank will grow from Bhopal to different districts of MP and outside. Dubey said an interactive session was conducted with students of SGSITS, Indore earlier this month to seek their suggestions and to know whether students would be interested in getting associated with time bank to help others. The response was overwhelming and the students also offered suggestions that are into consideration, he added. The App has an e-passbook that would maintain a record of the service offered and availed by a person. The App has different sections including offer service, need help, KYC, past activities, special service setting and introduction. A person would also get option to set notifications for every three hours, four hours, six hours, eight hours or daily and can have numbers of people to be contacted in an emergency. The services offered are limitless — from school and colleges lessons, music to hospital, emergency service and driving. It will be of immense help to senior citizens, with the 60-plus segment expected to account for 25% of MP’s population in the next 30 years, said organisation members. The time bank concept has been around for nearly 200 years, but the first such bank was established in the US in 1995. By 2015, 32 countries had adopted it and there are hundreds of time banks across the world. MP became the first in the country to have a ‘time bank’, where people can offer voluntary service to earn credit hours and get repaid the same way. The ‘adhyatm’ (spirituality) department started it in November 2019. District collectors were to act as facilitators and Rajya Anand Sansthan was to spread awareness and help people form such banks. The time bank in question is not associated with the government and is working independently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/time-bank-ready-now-serve-needy-for-free-get-credits/articleshow/80393794.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Chennai||Health min takes Covid jab in bid to discourage hesitancy||Chennai: Tamil Nadu health minister C Vijayabaskar was among the 8,704 people vaccinated in the state of Friday. He took a dose of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital here in a bid to counter vaccine hesitancy.  “I took the vaccine not as a minister but as a doctor,” he told reporters. “And I chose Covaxin for two reasons. Firstly, it is a vaccine that is completely made in India. Secondly, only 907 people in the state have opted for this vaccine. I am the 908th person in the state to receive the vaccine. I wanted to convey the message to all healthcare providers that the vaccine is safe,” he said. Against the day’s vaccination target of 17,300 people at 166 sites, the state covered 8,704 healthcare providers. In the last seven days, the state has inoculated 51,651 beneficiaries (43%) against the week’s target of 1,18,900 people. Records show 8,544 beneficiaries received Covishield vaccine, a little more than half of the targeted 16,700 healthcare providers, till 7pm on Friday. But the attendance at the six session sites for Covaxin was just 160 (26%) of the targeted 600 healthcare providers on Friday.  The state, which had received 20,000 doses of Covaxin, received 1.69 lakh more doses of it on Friday. The state has received more than 10.45 lakh doses of Covishield, the minister said. The attendance in vaccine clinics across the state was less than 20% on the first two days because many healthcare workers had been away for Pongal holidays, he said. “The attendance is improving, but we do see some amount of hesitancy. I urge all healthcare providers to take the vaccine to stop the virus. Be a hero,” the minister said. The healthcare workers group covers doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, students, health administrators and all hospital staff. They can get their vaccine after showing their identity cards even if their names are not registered in the Cowin portal, joint director immunisation Dr Vinay Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/health-min-takes-covid-jab-in-bid-to-discourage-hesitancy/articleshow/80413260.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Delhi||Have your say on revamp of Rajpath by January 29||NEW DELHI: Racing against time to start the redevelopment of Rajpath, which is also known as Central Vista Avenue, soon after the Republic Day celebration, the Centre has invited suggestions and objections from the public for the proposed project by January 29. While the move has raised eyebrows considering that the work has already been awarded, officials said as per the rule they need to get the approval of Heritage Conservation Committee (HCC) before the actual start of work. Sources in the housing and urban affairs ministry said the Delhi Building Bylaws lists this site as “grade-1 heritage precincts” and, hence for getting the HCC nod, they need to go through the process. “Since there will be minor construction activities such as stepped garden, which can also be used as ampithatres, and toilet blocks around India Gate, we need to follow the due process. It was also followed for the War Memorial project,” said an official. TOI has learnt that the government wanted the work on ground to start early next month and complete it in 10-11 months. The Centre has announced to hold the Republic Day parade of 2022 on the redeveloped Rajpath, marking India’s 75th year of independence. The other two components of the Central Vista Redevelopment project — New Parliament Building and the Common Central Secretariat — are likely to be completed by December 2022 and in 2026, respectively. “Going by the past experience and practices followed by the government, the public consultation looks like another exercise in futility, wasting everybody’s time and precious resources when everything is predetermined,” said Anil Sood of Chetna, who had earlier submitted objections against land use change for redevelopment projects. Activists had raised questions over the HCC’s approval of the New Parliament Building. However, officials said the HCC had followed the due process for the New Parliament Building and there was no need for public consultation as per the law since the plot on which the new structure would come up didn’t fall under the “grade-1 heritage precincts” category. The panel, while approving the application, had observed that the new project was not impacting the existing Parliament and was also in sync with the skyline of the Central Vista.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/have-your-say-on-revamp-of-rajpath-by-january-29/articleshow/80393827.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 22, 2021||Allahabad||Stiff contest for PhD seats at AU & constituent colleges||PRAYAGRAJ: Bagging admission in doctoral research programmes (PhD) at Allahabad University (AU) and its constituent colleges promises to be an uphill task for the aspirants this time around. This is because of the fact that a whopping 7,200 candidates have applied for pursuing PhD against 625 seats available at AU and its constituent colleges. Among the available seats, 203 seats are available at AU’s main campus while the rest 422 seats are divided among eight colleges against a total of 11 constituent colleges of AU. However, the number of PhD seats varies in different colleges and in different subjects. Among these there are many departments at AU where there is zero seat for PhD course. Getting admission in PhD course at AU or in different constituent colleges would be tougher owing to the fact that for these 625 seats, there are around 1200 candidates who have qualified the eligibility for Junior Research Fellowship of University Grants Commission (UGC) wherein the candidate gets a monthly fellowship of Rs 35960 after he or she gets enrolled under any teaching faculty member. Once a candidate clears the merit for JRF, through the National Eligibility Test (NET), he or she has to get enrolled under a faculty member within a period of three years. Now, among the 7200 applicants, who are in the race this year, around 63% had appeared in the Combined Research Entrance Examination (CRET) 2020 which was held in offline mode on January 17. This being the qualifying exam, candidates of general and other backward classes (OBC) have to score 45% or more marks and Schedule Caste and Schedule Tribe candidates have to score 40% or more marks. The candidates who would clear CRET would face competition from around 1200 JRF eligible candidates in Level-2 (interview round) who have also applied directly for admission in PhD. There are twice as many JRF candidates than the number of seats available for research in various subjects of the university and constituent colleges. Obviously, getting admission in research for even JRF candidates will prove to be tough as they too have to face a stiff challenge with the CRET qualified candidates as CRET is just a qualifying exam. The final performance, which would decide the merit of the candidate would be the Level-2 exam wherein marks would be awarded on various aspects including way of presentation of the topic which he or she intends to pursue, subject knowledge etc. Among the JRF eligible candidates who have applied for PhD, chunk of candidates have applied for pursuing PhD in Hindi subject. 120 JRF candidates have applied against 19 seats available at the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/stiff-contest-for-phd-seats-at-au-constituent-colleges/articleshow/80394978.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Pune||Registration of frontline workers closes in 4 days, 1.13L names in division so far||Pune: The registration for frontline workers, who are part of phase 2 of Covid vaccinations, is set to close by January 25 midnight. Pune division — comprising Pune, Satara, Solapur, Sangli and Kolhapur districts — has so far registered 1.13 lakh names on the CoWIN app. Division officials said they are currently waiting for employee data from the revenue department. Key frontline workers are next in line for Covid inoculations after patient-facing healthcare staffers who are currently being vaccinated as part of Phase 1. Frontline personnel include members of police units, armed forces, disaster management teams and municipal bodies. Deputy director of health services, Pune region, Sanjay Deshmukh confirmed the last date for uploading details of frontline workers is January 25. Pune district currently has the highest number of frontline workers with just over 74,000 names. “The numbers can go up,” Deshmukh said.  Officials said they are expecting an extension to the deadline, considering that data from the entire revenue department is yet to be uploaded. It’s also still unclear when phase 2 is expected to start as dates have not yet been announced by central or state authorities. But it will only commence once vaccination of enroled health workers is completed. The Centre has said the process may not be sequential, but health department officials here said that decision depends on availability of doses. The state has received its full allocation of Covishield doses required to vaccinate its eight lakh healthcare workers. It had first received 9.63 lakh Covishield doses and 20,000 Covaxin doses. In the state, Pune and Mumbai are likely to have the most frontline workers. The districts of Nashik and Nagpur look set to follow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/registration-of-frontline-workers-closes-in-4-days-1-13l-names-in-division-so-far/articleshow/80393791.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||KTR will be a one-year CM: BJP||Hyderabad: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has instructed officials to expedite works on Sitarama lift irrigation project, which will turn the Khammam district into a fertile region. He said it should be treated and viewed as an important project as it will provide water to 10 lakh acres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-will-be-a-one-year-cm-bjp/articleshow/80393779.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Pune||Over 1k swab samples await testing in Pimpri Chinchwad||Pimpri Chinchwad: Over 1,000 swab samples are pending with the health department of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) to check for Covid-19 infection, a report by the civic department stated on Thursday.As per the report, as many as 1,031 swab samples were yet to be tested. The pendency stood at 3,248 on Wednesday.Laxman Gophane, assistant medical officer, PCMC health department, said on January 20, the pendency seemed high as the war room team did not update the data in the daily Covid-19 bulletin. “We reviewed the situation and found out that the actual pendency is not much,” he said.Gophane said the health department focused more on the rapid antigen testing at the ward-level centres and those testing negative were then re-tested via RT-PCR. “We now perform the RT-PCR tests solely at the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) hospital. During the peak, we used to send it to the National Institute of Virology as well as BJ Medical College.”YCM hospital dean Rajendra Wabale told TOI, “We currently check around 450-500 swab samples via RT-PCR every day. Our laboratory is understaffed. So, there are restrictions on testing the number of samples. Our staff is working in two shifts and if the additional manpower is provided, our capacity would increase to 800 samples per day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-1k-swab-samples-await-testing-in-pimpri-chinchwad/articleshow/80393803.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 22, 2021||Amritsar||Republic Day: Farmers, police meeting on rally remains inconclusive||PATIALA/AMRITSAR: The second round of meeting between the Delhi Police and farm unions regarding the proposed January 26 tractor rally by farmers on the Outer Ring Road of the national capital remained inconclusive on Thursday. While police officers cited security reasons for disallowing, the farmers, who are protesting against the agri-marketing laws, stuck to their demand of doing it on Delhi’s busy road. Farm union leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said: “The government is adamant on opposing our ‘kisan parade’ and we are firm on carrying it out.” Sources said police officers tried to convince the protesting farm unions to hold their tractor rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway instead of the Outer Ring Road, but in vain. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Dakaunda) Punjab president Buta Singh Burjgill said, “Unwilling to let us hold a peaceful tractor parade inside Delhi, police have told us to take it to the national highways outside the national capital. They expect the issue to be resolved in a day or so.” Despite the Union government’s proposal to suspend three agri bills for a year and a half to two years. Stating that they had decided to not brief media about what transpired at the meeting, a leader of Sanyukta Kisan Morcha informed on the condition of anonymity that over two dozen farmers bodies of Punjab had given their consent to the Centre’s proposal while the rest of them were still adamant on their stand of complete repeal of the laws. “These issues are being deliberated in the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha meeting being held now,” he said. He added that farmers are determined to take out the January 26 tractor rally on the Outer Ring Road, as against Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway as was being advised by the Delhi Police. State general secretary of Kisan Mazdur Sangarash Committee, Sarwan Singh Pandher said thousands of tractor trolleys were already on their way to Delhi. The committee had appealed to the farmers to convert their trolley into a tableau to showcase various aspects of farming for the January 26 rally. Meanwhile, the president of Sikh Sangathan, Uttarakhand and UP, Jasvir Singh Virk, informed that farmer jathas would start leaving for Delhi from both the states from Friday. “It’s a matter of our livelihood and we can’t allow the government to play with our future,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farmers-police-meeting-on-rally-ends-inconclusively/articleshow/80393814.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Rallies in Punjab mobilise farmers for tractor parade||Bathinda: Despite Central government ministers proposing to stay implementation of farm laws for 18 months and Delhi police refusing to give permission for the farmers’ tractor parade on January 26, mobilisation for the parade continued in Punjab on Thursday. Tractor marches were taken out in many districts of Punjab’s Malwa region ahead of farmers’ journey towards Delhi borders. Many farmers are expected to start heading out from Punjab in tractors from January 22 if the farmer organisations do not withdraw the proposed parade. A tractor march was carried out in villages adjoining Bhagsar in Muktsar district and in Jaito in Faridkot, which passed through 10 villages. Two tractor marches were taken out in Talwandi Sabo and Maur areas of Bathinda district, which passed through over a dozen villages. “We held tractor march in villages of Bathinda district to mobilise and prepare farmers for the proposed tractor parade. Farmers were very enthusiastic about it,” said BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) Bathinda district general secretary, Harjinder Singh Baggi. “As the central government is testing our patience, we are ready for a bigger fight with the government to ensure the safety of our rights. Farmers are determined to take out the parade on January 26,” said BKU (Ekta Dakonda) leader Chamkaur Singh. Meanwhile, activists of Youth Akali Dal (YAD) burned the effigy of the Central government at the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Muktsar against the National Investigative Agency (NIA) sending notices to persons supporting the farmers’ protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rallies-in-punjab-mobilise-farmers-for-tractor-parade/articleshow/80393817.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Ludhiana||Republic Day: Farmers, police meeting on rally remains inconclusive||PATIALA/AMRITSAR: The second round of meeting between the Delhi Police and farm unions regarding the proposed January 26 tractor rally by farmers on the Outer Ring Road of the national capital remained inconclusive on Thursday. While police officers cited security reasons for disallowing, the farmers, who are protesting against the agri-marketing laws, stuck to their demand of doing it on Delhi’s busy road. Farm union leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said: “The government is adamant on opposing our ‘kisan parade’ and we are firm on carrying it out.” Sources said police officers tried to convince the protesting farm unions to hold their tractor rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway instead of the Outer Ring Road, but in vain. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Dakaunda) Punjab president Buta Singh Burjgill said, “Unwilling to let us hold a peaceful tractor parade inside Delhi, police have told us to take it to the national highways outside the national capital. They expect the issue to be resolved in a day or so.” Despite the Union government’s proposal to suspend three agri bills for a year and a half to two years. Stating that they had decided to not brief media about what transpired at the meeting, a leader of Sanyukta Kisan Morcha informed on the condition of anonymity that over two dozen farmers bodies of Punjab had given their consent to the Centre’s proposal while the rest of them were still adamant on their stand of complete repeal of the laws. “These issues are being deliberated in the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha meeting being held now,” he said. He added that farmers are determined to take out the January 26 tractor rally on the Outer Ring Road, as against Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway as was being advised by the Delhi Police. State general secretary of Kisan Mazdur Sangarash Committee, Sarwan Singh Pandher said thousands of tractor trolleys were already on their way to Delhi. The committee had appealed to the farmers to convert their trolley into a tableau to showcase various aspects of farming for the January 26 rally. Meanwhile, the president of Sikh Sangathan, Uttarakhand and UP, Jasvir Singh Virk, informed that farmer jathas would start leaving for Delhi from both the states from Friday. “It’s a matter of our livelihood and we can’t allow the government to play with our future,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farmers-police-meeting-on-rally-ends-inconclusively/articleshow/80397588.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Chennai||Island Grounds set to come alive with craft expo||CHENNAI: The famed Island Grounds is set to come alive next month, with the Union minority affairs ministry’s ‘Hunar Haat’ likely to be the first big event to be hosted there. The 29-acre property in the vicinity of the Marina had been largely inactive for nearly a year since the outbreak of Covid-19 in March 2020 and missed the annual India Tourist and Industrial Trade Fair. Now, with things limping back to normal, the tourism department plans to cash in on the popularity of the ground that used to host open air exhibitions in the past. ‘Hunar Haat,’ an initiative to provide a platform for artisans and craftsmen to showcase their expertise, is scheduled to be held during the second half of February, a state tourism department official said. Except for the mandatory annual firecrackers fair conducted on the eve of Diwali in November, Island Grounds had largely remained unoccupied through 2020. Now, tourism department sources said, steps are being explored to generate revenue from the spacious plot by allowing mega events. “However, events can be organised only by following all the prescribed Covid-19 norms,” the official said, adding that permission for conducting events after the model code of conduct for the state assembly election comes into effect will be based on directions of the Election Commission. There is a precedence of the facility being used to organise events depending on the season to attract tourists. In September 2019, for instance, the state government had conducted ‘Madrasapattinam Virundhu’, a three-day food festival offering a range of cuisines from the hinterland of the state. N Ravi, a former official with the Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation, said that Island Grounds was an asset for hosting tourism events and could help in a big way particularly in the present situation. “About 20,000 people can assemble here at any given time by adhering to Covid-19 protocols including maintaining social distancing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/island-grounds-set-to-come-alive-with-craft-expo/articleshow/80393809.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
January 22, 2021||Pune||Recoveries top infections, seven succumb to nCoV||Pune: The number of Covid-19 recoveries increased to 619 in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday, while its tally of new cases dropped to 456. The Pune municipal and rural areas reported more recoveries than new infections in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of recoveries have risen above 3.61 lakh in PMR, the caseload has reached beyond 3.74 lakh. The PMC areas reported the highest recoveries (304) in the last 24 hours in PMR, followed by the rural areas (219) and the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits (96). The region recorded seven deaths due to Covid-19 on Thursday. Of these, the PMC areas reported five, while two patients succumbed to the infection in the rural parts of PMR. No death was reported in the PCMC limits due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. This is the second consecutive day that the Pimpri Chinchwad areas have not reported any Covid-19 death. With this, the region’s death tally reached 8,987, which included 4,896 deaths from the PMC limits, followed by rural areas (2,301) and the PCMC limits (1,790). The region’s active caseload dropped to 4,869 on Thursday evening. These included 3,004 patients in home isolation and 1,865 patients being treated at various hospitals. The PMC areas had 2,173 active patients, of whom 897 were in hospital isolation, while 1,276 patients in home quarantine. A report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that the rural and cantonment areas together had 1,192 active cases, the lowest in the region. The active caseload in the PCMC areas stood at 1,504 on Thursday evening. The report stated that tally of sample testing increased to 20.33 lakh on Thursday, with 7,683 tests being conducted in the last 24 hours. On the vaccination drive, experts advised utmost caution by people taking the vaccine. “Taking the vaccine doesn’t mean one doesn’t need to exercise caution. People should continue to wear masks and maintain social distance to keep the contagion at bay,” a health expert said, adding that positivity rate in PMR was consistently dropping.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recoveries-top-infections-seven-succumb-to-ncov/articleshow/80393820.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 22, 2021||Surat||Woman to get Rs 75K for injury during delivery||SURAT: The consumer court in Navsari has ordered a local gynaecologist to pay Rs 75,000 compensation to a 28-year-old woman who suffered rectovaginal fistula during the normal delivery around four years ago. The Navsari District Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission observed that the woman’s medical condition was a result of the hospital’s negligence and she was discharged without proper medical advice. The woman, Reshma Khariwala (name changed), a resident of Surat city, had lodged a complaint against Dr Jignesh Ghadiyali and his ‘Ma’ Hospital in Navsari town with the consumer court demanding compensation. She had been consulting him for her pregnancy. On December11, 2016, she had labour pain and was rushed to hospital at 4am. While Dr Ghadiyali was not present, the nurse gave her an injection and informed that that it would take a week for the delivery. However, as the pain did not subside, Reshma contacted the doctor who told her to get admitted the same day. The nurse meanwhile told her mother that the delivery will have to be done in 10 minutes. After taking advice from the doctor, the nurse performed normal delivery. Reshma continued to suffer pain but the doctor said it was due to stitches and prescribed her medicines. She was discharged on December 13 though she was in severe pain. The next day, she started having trouble attending nature’s call. The doctor then took three stitches in three days but she got no relief. Reshma finally consulted a doctor in Surat who diagnosed a hole in the rectum due to a deep cut during the delivery procedure. The doctor’s advocate argued that puncture in rectum during normal delivery is a known complication. Moreover, when infection occurs in episiotomy or it opens, there are chances of rectovagial fistula. Going by the records, the court ruled that the cut was deep inside which resulted in puncture in the rectum. Moreover, doctors did not treat it immediately and instead gave her medicine and discharged her. Later, the doctor took stitches and closed the rectum but it was not done in time and the stitches were taken repeatedly. In this case, the nurse made the cut during the delivery in absence of the doctor and records prove that when the patient was brought, the doctor was not present. “The hospital could not prove that the patient did not take medicine. If the patient was feeling good, then she would not have been admitted to another hospital. She was admitted to a hospital in Surat and got operated for rectum vaginal fistula which was caused due to negligence by the doctor at Ma Hospital,” the court observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/woman-to-get-rs-75k-for-injury-during-delivery/articleshow/80391381.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
January 22, 2021||Dehradun||Ex-IAF airman now leading a hermit’s life in Mussoorie hills||MUSSOORIE: A former airman in the Indian Air Force (IAF) who was responsible for maintenance of aircrafts like Mirage and Jaguar is now taking care of stray dogs and cows. Mohammad Shoeb Alam, who was an airman with the IAF till 1996 when a posting in Siachen caused him “snow blindness” and forced him to quit the services, is now living the life of a hermit, looking after stray animals. “I used to repair and maintain a fleet of Mirage and Jaguars during my stint in the IAF from 1988 to 1996,” Alam told TOI. He said that during his posting at Siachen, he suffered from “snow blindness” causing temporary loss of eyesight and as a result forced him to quit the IAF. “I do not regret losing my job. I always wanted to live a free life in the mountains, amidst nature and in solitude,” he added. Alam also worked as an outdoor learning and paragliding instructor before shifting to a campsite at Mussoorie’s Hathipaon area in 2015. “I barely earn enough to meet my requirements but I am happy,” he said, adding that much of his happiness is derived from stray animals who “live with me and are a part of my family.” “I have six dogs and their numbers keep fluctuating. Sometimes tourists visit and if they are interested in adopting, I give them a puppy. The numbers of dogs increase to 15 and even 20 when sheep herders descend from the hills and give me the pups which they cannot provide for,” he said. Around 20 stray cows, deserted in the forest by their owners, also find a home near his tent at Hathipaon. Alam adds that with the number of animals growing, his aim now is “to try and build an animal shelter where strays can spend the cold nights.” “If I am able to do that, it will be a big help for my four-legged friends.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/former-iaf-airman-now-leading-a-hermits-life-in-mussoorie-hills-looking-after-stray-cows-and-dogs/articleshow/80391391.cms||Anmol Jain
January 22, 2021||Pune||Prior reminders & morning calls boost numbers in rural centres||Pune: A better plan and the appointment of coordinators to follow up with the selected healthcare workers yielded good results during the vaccination drive in the rural areas. The urban vaccination centres registered less enthusiastic response from the healthcare workers, but those in Jejuri, Baramati and Junnar achieved between 90% and 100% vaccination on Wednesday. The three-day average worked out to 80% and more. Medical superintendents at the rural vaccination centres said they had appointed coordinators and supervisors for each group of health workers coming for vaccination on the given day. These coordinators called every beneficiary and followed up with them on the day of the vaccination. The rural centres have a mixed profile of beneficiaries including anganwadi workers, ASHA workers, staff at primary health centres, rural and districts hospitals who were motivated after their seniors took the shots and participated without hesitation.On January 20, the third day of the vaccination drive, Baramati Women's Hospital and Sangvi primary health centre had 100% vaccination whereas Junnar rural hospital had 92% and Kanhe Phata rural hospital recorded 94%. Medical superintendent at Kanha Phata Rural Hospital, Jayashree Davale, said they have appointed four coordinators for the 100 beneficiaries. All beneficiaries were ladies and most of them were anganwadi and Asha health workers. We achieved 94% vaccination, The coordinators were proactive in calling them up a day before and also on the morning of the vaccination day. This way, they were reminded and they remained present for the vaccination.”Davale said even the block facilitators and project officers were involved in coordinating with beneficiaries. At the Junnar rural hospital, medical superintendent Yogesh Agam, said, "Health workers are closely knit and they look at each other for motivation. So, most of the hospital staff, PHC staff, anganwadi workers who are beneficiaries of the vaccine at our centre confirmed willingness to get the shots when the coordinators called them a day in advance. That has helped a lot."Chief executive officer of Pune zilla parishad Ayush Prasad said they were targeting a 90% threshold in all the 15 vaccination centres in Pune rural in the coming days. A meeting of various associations of healthcare workers such as ward boys, nurses and vaccinators is being planned where the beneficiaries will be made aware about vaccination and any doubts would be cleared so that there is no hesitancy. Prasad said, "The vaccination centres have proactive doctors and administration who share their positive vaccination experiences in their internal social media groups and become motivators for others. There is an inherent trust when the health workers see colleagues taking jabs without reluctance which is a boost."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/prior-reminders-morning-calls-boost-numbers-in-rural-centres/articleshow/80393831.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Will oppose BJP-JJP leaders at R-Day event, farmers tell DC||Rohtak: A delegation of farm unions met Rohtak deputy commissioner Capt Manoj Kumar and senior superintendent of police Rahul Sharma on Thursday to raise their concerns regarding the Republic Day function and presence of MLAs and ministers at the event. Agriculture minister J P Dalal is expected to hoist the Tricolour in Rohtak on Republic Day. BKU member Anil Nandal said farmers were angry with the BJP-JJP coalition government in the state due to its apathetic attitude towards the ongoing protest against the three agriculture laws. “The senior administrative officials have been apprised of our concern and told that farmers will not hesitate from opposing the presence of any MLA from JJP or BJP and ministers at the Republic Day function venues,” he said. All India Kisan Sabha district president Preet Singh added, “We told the DC and the SSP that any district administration official - be it a peon or an IAS officer - can hoist the flag on January 26, but we will not allow any minister or MLA of coalition regime in state to hoist the falg.” The SSP said a joint meeting of district farm unions was called in view of the security arrangements ahead of January 26 celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/will-oppose-bjp-jjp-leaders-at-r-day-event-farmers-tell-dc/articleshow/80393829.cms||Sat Singh
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||Bhandara hosp fire: CS, MO suspended, 3 terminated||Nagpur: Acting swiftly on a report submitted by an eight-member committee inquiring into the Bhandara district general hospital fire that killed 10 premature babies, the state government on Thursday suspended civil surgeon Dr Pramod Khandate, medical officer Dr Archana Meshram and in-charge sister Jyoti Bharaskar. The government also transferred additional civil surgeon Dr Sunita Badhe to a non-functional post beside terminating paediatrician Dr Sushil Ambade and in charge sisters Smita Ambilduke and Shubhangi Satawane.The panel indicted all of them for dereliction of duty. All the three terminated health staffers were working on contract basis. Addressing the media in Mumbai, state public health minister Rajesh Tope said that the panel found that the fire broke out between 1am to 1.30am following a spark in the controller panel of radiant warmers in the hospital’s Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) on January 9. “Inflammable material such as insulation, plastic material, cotton beds, wires were kept between two baby warmers. The temperature also rose. Some babies were on oxygen which fuelled the fire. The room was also closed. The fire died down but the smoke spread filled the SNCU,” said Tope. Tope further said forensic report stated that three babies died of shock due to burns while seven of them passed away due to suffocation from smoke. Casualties were from outborn section only while seven babies from inborn section were rescued by Ambilduke and Sathawane along with others. The health minister said the on-duty nurses were expected to be at the nursing station to have a view of both outborn and inborn sections but they were not there. “They were outside, making some reports after feeding the babies. Suddenly they heard sounds and found smoke. Yet, they failed in their duties,” said Tope.Tope said the report was submitted late on Wednesday evening following which the stringent action came to be taken against all the staff including civil surgeon, who was the overall administrative and supervising in charge of the hospital. He attributed the spark in radiant warmers to a couple of factors. “Voltage fluctuation, wear and tear of diode and triode could be the reasons,” he said, adding that biomedical engineers have been strictly told to ensure proper functioning of radiant warmers in government hospital’s across the state. On the day of the tragedy, people had complained that voltage fluctuation was a common complaint at the hospital’s SNCU. The government has also disbursed Rs1 crore for restoration of the SNCU which will have new ACs, electrical fittings, interiors. Based on the report, Tope sought to blame the previous Devendra Fadnavis led state government for rushing with inauguration of the SNCU building in 2015. “It was constructed by PWD but before taking possession, it was not ensured that the building had all fire safety equipment as per norms,” he said. The health minister said an action plan has been readied and health commissioner N Ramaswami-led panel will submit a report on fire safety in all government hospitals in next two weeks. Surprisingly, the government is yet to initiate any criminal proceedings while the Bhandara police is investigating accidental case under CrPC. TOI had reported that the panel led by divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar submitted its report on Tuesday, January 19. Other members of the panel comprise fire director Prabhat Rahangdale, health director Dr Sadhana Tayade, GMCH paediatric head Dr Dipty Jain, PWD superintendent engineer (electrical) Hemant Patil, deputy chief fire officer (Mumbai) Rajendra Choudhary, and additional collector of Bhandara. SPARK BEHIND THE FIRE* Radiant baby warmers control panel spark led to the fire which left the 10 babies dead* Insulation, plastic material, cotton beds, wires and other inflammable material made matter worse* Two baby warmers burned completely* Some babies were on oxygen which fuelled the fire* Special ward filled with smoke * Three babies died of shock due to burn, 7 suffocated to death, as per forensic report * Staffers against whom action taken found guilty of dereliction of duty||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bhandara-hosp-fire-cs-mo-suspended-3-terminated/articleshow/80393822.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 22, 2021||Chandigarh||SAD workers to join ‘kisan parade’||Chandigarh: SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal has directed his party workers to join the Republic Day ‘kisan parade’ on January 26. Sukhbir said here on Thursday: “There is great enthusiasm among the Akali workers for the farmers’ Republic Day march to Delhi. We’ll join this peaceful and democratic protest in full strength. The Akali workers have started reaching Delhi in large numbers but the senior and the ailing who can’t make it will hold small parades wherever they happen to be.” He said: “The Union government’s insensitivity to the legitimate demand of revoking anti-farmer acts has forced the farmers to organise this ‘Republic Day march’.  The SAD tried its best to persuade the government to change its attitude, showed great patience and reasoned that these laws were unacceptable to those for whom these were designed. When we found the government irrational and adamant, we decided to walk out it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-workers-to-join-kisan-parade/articleshow/80393841.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Pune||Schools get 3 days to send plans for reopening to PMC||Pune: Schools will face challenges like managing classes with multiple divisions, preventing overcrowding, staggered timing and transporting students once they reopen for standards V to VIII from January 27.A review meeting with principals and education officers was held by additional municipal commissioner of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) Suresh Jagtap on Thursday to decide about reopening of 1,150 schools within its jurisdiction.Jagtap said principals have been told to come up with a plan for each school after which a review and inspection would be done by the civic body before allowing to reopen.“We told all schools to take parents’ consent. Without the consent form, no student will be allowed to enter the school. The next step is whether the school is prepared for reopening. This includes temperature checks,” Jagtap said. The RT PCR tests of all staff is a must before reopening. “Then comes the sanitisation of the school and other things while the school is in session. A team of education department officials have reviewed the school management committees and given their feedback,” Jagtap said. Some challenges that schools, especially the big ones face, are related to managing a large number of students. “There are schools with 6-7 divisions in each class. Classes for standards IX and XII are underway. The standard operating procedures say that at any given time only 50% of the students must be present. But 50% is a large number. Such schools need to come up with a plan with staggered timing so that students do not crowd when they reopen for standards V to VIII,” Jagtap added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/schools-get-3-days-to-send-plans-for-reopening-to-pmc/articleshow/80393840.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 22, 2021||Bhopal||In lockdown, Bhopal reports rise in murder cases, 6 per month||BHOPAL: Every month in 2020, the state capital saw an average of six murder cases — this despite the fact that the country was in a strict lockdown for almost three months, and corona curbs continued even after that. Bhopal recorded a rise in the number of murder cases in 2020 — with 67 cases, against 59 in 2019, and 64 in 2018. What’s more surprising is that murders were committeed over petty disputes. Cops maintained that most of the cases were crimes of passion— in response to provocation. In September, four murder cases were reported in which the prime accused were women. Three minor girls including two newborns were allegedly murdered by their either mothers or relatives in the city. In one such shocking case reported to Khajuri police on September 16, a woman killed her 31-day old baby girl and left her in a 50-litre water tanker. Two days later on September 18, the body of a 9-month-old baby girl was recovered from Upper Lake near Gauhar Mahal in Talaiya. During investigations police found that the girl’s 21-year-old mother threw her in the lake as she wanted to elope with her paramour. In another murder case of a newborn reported in the city at Ayodhya Nagar police station, the body of a baby girl was recovered wrapped in a shawl, lying beside a temple in the morning on September 28. Her body had around 100 stab wounds and the horrific murder was committed by the baby’s maternal grandmother . There are cases in which the accused killed their parents as reported from Chhola, Piplani and Hanumanganj. The rivalry among neighbours worsened during lockdown and murders took place over petty disputes. In a gruesome incident reported during the lockdown on April 23, a school van driver was allegedly attacked and stabbed near his house by five accused including a man, his two sons and two nephews in Habibganj locality over old rivalry. Another such case was reported in Kamla Nagar where a group of neighbours assaulted and murdered a 53-year-old man. Domestic violence cases also rose during lockdown few lead to murders. In one such case, a 35-year-old woman was allegedly set ablaze by her husband after a dispute in Berasia.  A 50-year-old man allegedly smashed his 35-year-old wife’s head with a stick in front of minor 16-year-old son suspecting her of infidelity in Berasia locality. Consultant Psychiatrist Dr Satyakant Trivedi said, people lost jobs in lockdown, the pandemic left them hig and dry. This adversely affected their mental health and resulted in rise of overall crimes. Watching crime serials over social media, OTT platforms triggered impulsiveness in people. During this period, cases of mental illness jumped by 30-40 percent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/in-lockdown-city-reports-rise-in-murder-cases-6-per-month/articleshow/80393843.cms||Sudeept Mishra
January 22, 2021||Surat||PSI suicide case: Court refuses bail to her in-laws||SURAT: The Surat district and sessions court on Thursday refused to grant bail to in-laws of the female police sub-inspector Amita Joshi who had ended life by suicide in December 2020. The court rejected the bail plea of Joshi’s mother-in-law Harsha Vyas (56) and father-in-law Jitesh Vyas (64) who were arrested for allegedly abating the cop’s suicide. It prima facie appears that Harsha and Jitesh are involved in abating suicide of Joshi, the court observed. “It appears on the record, there was cruelty on the side of the accused (in-laws) and their son towards deceased Amita Joshi. No allegation is made regarding demand of dowry against the in-laws of the deceased, which itself reveals that complainant has not filed a false complaint with an ulterior motive,” the court observed while refusing bail. Joshi, who was then posted at the Udhna police station had shot herself to death with her service revolver at her residence in Falsawadi police colony in Surat on December 5, 2020. Joshi was alone as her family had gone to Bhavnagar to attend a marriage function. She was survived by a four-year-old son and husband Vaibhav Vyas, who is a police constable. Seven days after Joshi’s death, her father Babu Joshi lodged a complaint against her husband Vaibhav, her in-laws following which Harsha, Jitesh and their daughters — Manisha and Ankita — were booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code including 306 (suicide abatement) and 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty). All the accused were arrested post the FIR. Manisha and Ankita were granted bail on December 23 last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/psi-suicide-case-court-refuses-bail-to-her-in-laws/articleshow/80391435.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Pune||14-day quarantine, isolation rooms & doctors in pvt varsities’ hostels||Pune: Many private or deemed universities have a plan to keep only one or two students per room in their hostels as colleges prepare to reopen. Symbiosis University, which started its medical college for women this year, called its students to the campus on January 15 and quarantined them for the next 14 days so that their classes can begin on February 1. Mangesh Karad, executive president and vice-chancellor of MIT ADT University, said they will allowing two students per room when the college and hostel reopens. There are over 16,000 students at MIT World Peace University and over 9,000 in MIT ADT university. But hostel facilities would be available for about 40% students. ‘We will keep isolation rooms inside the hostel so that if any student shows symptoms such as a cough or fever he/she can be immediately moved to isolation and then to the hospital if needed. Sanitisation of the hostel will be done regularly while masks will be compulsory all times for the students. Mess timings would be staggered and the place will be sanitized after every batch. For all this, a 5-10% fee may increase,” he said. Vishwakarma University authorities said they will make the RT- PCR test compulsory for hostel students while a doctor-on-call facility will be available with an isolation room. “The occupancy in the respective rooms will be reduced to not more than two students, respecting social distancing norms. The pantry/ dining area will be sanitized before and after meals, and the seating arrangements will follow the norms of social distancing. The rectors will take care that the students do not gather in numbers for any activity on the hostels’ premises. Students will be motivated to get vaccinated whenever possible and report to the rector. Outside visitors will be regulated and minimized. Else prior intimation will be necessary as will following of all norms. The use of masks will be made compulsory for all,” Siddharth Jabade, vice-chancellor Vishwakarma University, said. M M Salunkhe, vice-chancellor of Bharati Vidyapeeth deemed-to-be university, said they would follow all guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission. “We will issue the guidelines once the state government gives a go-ahead for reopening of the institutes,” Salunkhe said. Vidya Yeravdekar, principal director of Symbiosis Society, said the RT-PCR test has been made compulsory 72 hours before reaching the campus and once they come, a 14-day quarantine is being mandated. “Each campus has a dedicated medical centre and an administrator who makes sure that all Covid-19 protocols are adhered to. We have large rooms which can easily accommodate two students while maintaining all social distancing norms. The challenge would be to monitor students living outside the campus, but even then, wearing masks and sanitisation would be strictly adhered to,” Yeravdekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/14-day-quarantine-isolation-rooms-doctors-in-pvt-varsities-hostels/articleshow/80393849.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 22, 2021||Chennai||Chennai woman hires men to murder abusive son-in-law, held||CHENNAI: Police arrested a 42-year-old Triplicane resident on Thursday, more than a year after the three men she hired murdered her son-in-law near Avadi for sexually abusing herself and her younger daughter.  While Kumar and Aravind were arrested a day after the killing, Karthik, who did the slaying, was arrested on Wednesday and sent to prison along with Shakunthala who was booked on conspiracy charges. Police said Prakash, 31, of VR Pillai Street, Triplicane was found murdered in an open playground at Kattur near Avadi on October 10, 2019. A day later, after established his identity, police nabbed Kumar, 30 and Aravind, 24 of Perambur. The two said they merely accompanied Karthik to the playground where he hacked Prakash to death with a machete and warned them against telling anybody about the incident. Police, who were not able to find out the motive as Karthik had gone absconding, managed to nab him on Wednesday. He told investigators that Shakunthala had asked him to eliminate Prakash and to rope in some of his friends if possible. During questioning, Shakunthala told investigators that she had come to know of Prakash through a common friend and got him married to her elder daughter. But things went wrong soon, she said, Prakash, who remained jobless for long, came home drunk and ill-treated his wife and her mother. On many occasions, he tried to sexually assault Shakunthala and her younger daughter, an officer said.  Though Shakunthala had warned him on several occasions, his behaviour didn’t change. Unable to bear the torture, she decided to kill him and hired Karthik, .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/woman-hires-men-to-murder-abusive-son-in-law-held/articleshow/80393844.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||IIM-A student’s last rites carried out||Ahmedabad: Drishti Raj Kahnani’s family had been eagerly waiting for March so that they could meet her and celebrate her 26th birthday. However, this was not fated to be. Instead, her family arrived in Ahmedabad and performed her last rites on Thursday. The MBA-PGP student had killed herself in her dorm room on Indian Institute of Management- Ahmedabad (IIM-A) campus on Wednesday. An officer of Satellite police said that her parents had come from their native place Muzaffarpur in Bihar and performed the rituals with heavy heart. “As they were in immense shock, we did not question them much about the incident. On the other hand, we have recorded statements from students and security personnel in the institute but the reason behind her suicide could not be known,” said an officer of Satellite police. Police have also sent her cellphone to the forensic science laboratory but it is yet to be unlocked, so the cops have no clue why Drishti took the extreme step, said an officer. The second-year PGP student, who stayed in dorm number 8 on the old IIM-A campus, had been shut in her room since morning. When she did not emerge for lunch, her friends visited her room around 2.30 pm on Wednesday. When she did not respond to their knocks and calls, they broke the door and found her hanging from the ceiling fan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/iim-a-students-last-rites-carried-out/articleshow/80393857.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Can’t stop CA from going abroad, court tells CBI||MUMBAI: Observing that once a court gives its nod to a person to travel aboard, the investigating agency or immigration department cannot create impediments, a special CBI court recently granted interim anticipatory bail to a 65-year-old Dubai-based Indian CA, named in a fraud case involving Winsome Diamonds promoter, Jatin Mehta. Last October, the court had allowed Vasant Lad to travel to Dubai for medical treatment and resuming his job. It had directed Lad to visit India once in two months and intimate CBI and it. Earlier this month, Lad’s lawyer moved court, saying he was innocent but was apprehending he could be falsely roped into the case. The lawyer said Lad was being unreasonably harassed by the investigating agency and immigration department. He contended that despite the court order permitting him to travel, they created hurdles. The lawyer said the last time Lad was stranded at the airport and even after informing the immigration department that the court had permitted him to travel abroad, he was harassed. The court, granting him interim relief, said every time he travelled back to Dubai, he was compelled to wait for CBI clearance, which was not required. “When the court has passed an order and allowed him to travel abroad with strict conditions, the investigating agency or immigration department cannot put impediments for exercising his rights. These factors cumulatively indicate he needs to be protected from arrest by a positive order,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cant-stop-ca-from-going-abroad-court-tells-cbi/articleshow/80393944.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Surat||More vehicle loan rackets tumble out in open||Surat: Police registered two more separate offences of borrowing loans on fake vehicles in the last two days. Earlier, an offence of Rs 8.64 crore fraud with Yes Bank was registered by Detection of Crime Branch (DCB) on January 15 after which, FIR in other similar cases were registered in different police stations. Police booked 24 accused in Athwa police station on Tuesday for an alleged fraud of Rs 5.68 crore with Tata Motor Finance Solution. The accused borrowed 14 loans for the purchase of heavy vehicles. Among the accused 14 are borrowers of the loans, while 10 are employees and service providers working for TATA Motors Finance Solutions. They borrowed loans for 32 vehicles between 2017 to 2018. In another complaint, police booked 10 accused in Salabatpura police station on Wednesday for borrowing Rs 97 lakh loan from Indusind Bank from 2018 to 2019. The loans were borrowed to purchase six vehicles. Police investigation so far revealed that Irshad Pathan and his brother Imran are masterminds of the racket. Irshad has borrowed over 50 loans using the same method. The accused prepared forged papers of purchase of trucks and buses of manufacturers TATA and Ashok Leyland. They also prepared forged general insurance papers of these vehicles and got it registered in Arunachal Pradesh (AP) regional transport offices. Preliminary probe revealed that crooks took advantage of the fact that it was not required to take the vehicle physically to the RTO for registration. They used to obtain the original registration certificate (RC) of vehicles that do not exist. Using the RC the accused applied for a loan. “The accused approached the financer that they want to buy a used vehicle and received loan money for it,” said police. After generating a vehicle registration certificate (RC) on forged papers the accused used it to show a resale in Gujarat. “Police have identified a man from Botad in Saurashtra who arranged the RCs from AP. After arranging RC and other documents Pathans used to contact persons who were ready to become a party in the racket for a share,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/more-vehicle-loan-rackets-tumble-out-in-open/articleshow/80391478.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Women holding village meets to garner support||Jind: Women in Haryana are preparing to participate in the proposed tractor parade in Delhi on January 26 by campaigning at village level. They are holding meetings with other women and encouraging them to join the protest. At toll plazas, they can be seen addressing the gathering, assuring their male counterparts of their active support. Preparations are on in Kaithal, Jind, Hisar and many other districts. Sunita, a resident of Khatkar village of Haryana’s Jind district, said, “I have been driving a tractor for the past 15 years. It will be for the first time that I will drive to a protest site ferrying other women from the village. We will register a major presence in the protest to get the three farm laws repealed. We will continue our agitation till the end.” Sikkim Devi Nain, a woman protester in Jind said, “We are holding meetings at the village level, ensuring presence of women at protest sites and taking them to Delhi on January 26. Women are keen to go to Delhi. Even women from rural areas are stepping out of home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/women-holding-village-meets-to-garner-support/articleshow/80393845.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Rhododendron yet again blooms early, sparks worry||DEHRADUN: For successive years in a row now, various species of flowers growing in the Uttarakhand hills including the ubiquitous rhododendron (buransh) — which is known for the refreshing juice produced from its flowers — are blooming much earlier than they should have been. While the floral beauty has left tourists happy, scientists are worried. “The main factor for pre-flowering is increased temperature,” Hukum Singh, scientist at the Doon-based Forest Research Institute (FRI), told TOI. “The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) in its report sometime back had stated that the northern Himalayas are warming up more than the western Himalayas. Perhaps that is why, Uttarakhand which is in the northern Himalayas is seeing early blooming of flowers due to increased temperature,” he added. Singh further said that the change has been observed by researchers on the ground as well. “We have put together a scientific paper based on the observations, due to be published soon in a journal, regarding this worrying trend of early blooming of flowers in northern Himalayas.” Scientists at the GB Pant National Institute of Himalayan Environment (GBPNIHE) in Almora also expressed similar sentiments. “These instances are being reported over the years by several people. And it is time that the pre-blooming be studied scientifically with large sample sizes and a proper strategy be evolved,” said RS Rawal, director, GB Pant National Institute of Himalayan Environment (GBPNIHE). He added that “the early blooming impact would be felt not just on the flowers but on various wildlife species like butterflies, bumble-bees, insects and birds which thrive on these flowers for food, pollination, birthing etc.” “If the butterflies and bees come for food in March and April and find nothing on the trees, then their entire health and reproductive cycle will be impacted or they might change their location for food. So all these minute factors need to be studied for collating a bigger picture regarding local as well as global variables for early blooming of flowers in the northern Himalayas,” added Rawal. Doon-based environmentalist and Padma Bhushan recipient, Anil Prakash Joshi, linked the early blooming to shifting meteorological patterns. “Uttarakhand had almost no post-monsoon rains and absolutely negligible snow this year and therefore, the winters have been dry. The plants, too, are reacting to the environment around them and flowering accordingly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rhododendron-yet-again-blooms-early-in-january-rather-than-in-spring-worrying-experts/articleshow/80391460.cms||Shivani Azad
January 22, 2021||Chennai||Woman deposits Rs 26K in fake notes, police launch probe||Chennai: Police have launched an investigation into the case about a woman depositing fake currency notes with a face value of Rs 26,800 at a private bank in Red Hills on Wednesday. The notes were in the denomination of Rs 200. The incident came to light after the bank staff scrutinised the day’s collection and lodged a complaint. Police said that HDFC bank officials verified and confirmed that the fake notes were deposited at their branch by one of their customers, Vijayalakshmi, a resident of Thiruvottiyur. The bank staff enclosed a CCTV camera footage in support of their claim, the customer's address and other personal details to police along with the complaint. Police have sent samples of the notes deposited to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for further verification. An investigating officer said that the notes resembling genuine ones might have been smuggled from Pakistan into the country through porous Indo-Bangladesh borders. The officer of the Red Hills police station said, “As this case needs proper investigation, we are transferring the case to the anti-bank fraud unit at the central crime branch of the city police.” He said that the woman would be questioned about the source of the fake notes. During priliminary investigation, police found the woman had deposited Rs 3lakh in cash in her savings bank account. Of the amount, Rs 26,800 was in fake notes. “We can come to a conclusion only after inquiring with the woman. As the scope of the inquiry should be wider, the CCB would be apt to handle the case,” said another police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/woman-deposits-rs-26k-in-fake-notes-police-launch-probe/articleshow/80393859.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||DJ arrested by NCB as search continues for aide of don’s kin||Mumbai: Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday arrested Rahul Verma, a DJ and rapper, and Zakir Shaikh, an associate of underworld don, the late Karim Lala’s grandson Chinku Pathan, for manufacturing and selling narcotic drugs. NCB had arrested Pathan on Tuesday. NCB, in two days’ raids in Mumbai and Navi Mumbai, seized drugs, weapons, two high-end cars and Rs 2.1 crore. It launched a manhunt for Pathan’s key accomplice, Arif Bhujwala, from whose house officials seized 5.7kg of mephedrone, 1kg methamphetamine and 6.1kg ephedrine. Officials found a ‘laboratory’ below Bhujwala’s house, where a huge stash of packaging material, utensils, weighing machines and other apparatus used to manufacture the contraband, were found. “Pathan and Bhujwala used to mix drugs, pack them in small packets and paste stickers declaring them as sugar. We suspect the accused hid drugs among other material and export it mis-declaring it,” said an official. NCB also seized 3gm heroin and 52gm mephedrone from Shaikh’s residence in Dongri. On a tip-off the team led by zonal director Sameer Wankhede raided Pathan’s house in Ghansoli, Navi Mumbai, and arrested him and recovered a pistol. “Rahul Verma is suspected to be a supplier of MD for Pathan. Later, we conducted raids at his associate Bhujwala’s residence at Noor Manzil building, Dongri. It led to the recovery of an automatic blank revolver, unaccounted cash (Rs 2.1 crore), believed to be sale proceeds from illegal drug-trafficking,’’said an official. NCB is likely to initiate action against Bhujwala’s family as they allowed him to flee. Sources said on Wednesday, when the team reached there, family members did not open the door for long time. He jumped out of the window, an official said. Pathan, Verma and Shaikh were produced before a Navi Mumbai court which remanded them to NCB custody for six days. They have been charged under sections of NDPS Act for producing, manufacturing, possessing, selling, purchasing, transporting, consuming, importing/exporting narcotic drugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dj-arrested-by-ncb-as-search-continues-for-aide-of-dons-kin/articleshow/80393947.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 22, 2021||Aurangabad||Seniors take vaccine shots to instil confidence among beneficiaries||Aurangabad/Nashik: Senior health officials and medical professionals are now voluntarily taking the Covid vaccine jabs first to set an example for other frontline healthcare workers and instil confidence in them about the safety of the vaccines. This has helped improve the vaccination turnout figures at some places. Health officer of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) Dr Neeta Padalkar said that she, along with other senior health officials, will get vaccinated on Friday so that other frontline workers do not hesitate to take the shots. Latur division’s deputy director of health Dr Eknath Male has not only taken the vaccine dose himself, but has also asked his subordinate medical officers to do the same. He told TOI, “The Class-III and IV health workers were wondering why they were listed, and not senior medicos, to take the vaccine. To clear all doubts and fear, I took the vaccine.” Hingoli district, which achieved 0100% vaccination target on day one, followed suit. Collector Ruchesh Jaywanshi said, “We got the district civil surgeon and the district’s senior-most private medical practitioner to take the jab. Right after that, all the other beneficiaries were ready to take the vaccine.” Meanwhile, in the Nashik division — comprising Nashik, Dhule, Nandurbar, Ahmednagar and Jalgaon districts — seven of the 40 vaccination centres registered 100% beneficiary turnout on Wednesday. Interestingly, Wednesday also witnessed the highest number of vaccinations — 2,839 out of a possible 4,000 beneficiaries in a day. Of all the districts in the division, Dhule has registered the best turnout figures over three days. While Dhule’s average turnout has been 89%, the district saw 100% turnout at two centres on the first day and another two centres on January 20. Vishal Patil, the Covid-19 coordinator of Dhule, said: “Counselling sessions focussing on possible vaccine reactions and treatment helped generate a better response.” The numbers of beneficiaries in Nashik district rose from 745 on the first day to 932 out of the possible 1,300 on Wednesday. The district registered 100% turnout at Niphad sub-district Hospital and Soygaon urban PHC in Malegaon registered 93% turnout. “Since Tuesday, we started the practice of calling all the beneficiaries listed for that day and asking one of the senior persons to take the shot in front of them. After waiting for an hour, we asked all the beneficiaries to give their opinion. Only a handful of them refused. But we managed to achieve the 100% vaccination buy roping in beneficiaries from the private sector,” district health officer Kapil Aher said. Similarly, Jalgaon and Nandurbar districts also recorded better turnouts on Wednesday. According to Raghunath Bhoye, civil surgeon of Nandurbar, “The number of beneficiaries is likely to increase from Friday given that the administration has now been allowed to vaccinate people who are registered though they may not be listed for the day.” Health authorities have expressed concerns over the misuse of social media to spread rumours about the vaccine “reactions”. Aurangabad division’s deputy director (health) Dr Swapnil Lale said mild symptoms including fever, pain or swelling at the vaccination site, chills, vomiting are evidence that the vaccination has started working.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/seniors-take-vaccine-shots-to-instil-confidence-among-beneficiaries/articleshow/80392797.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||MU PhD entrance test on Feb 28||Mumbai University’s PhD entrance test (PET) will be held on February 28, after a year’s delay. The university had invited applications till March 31, 2020, and around 6,500 aspirants had registered. The university has now give a week’s extension for interested students to apply till January 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mu-phd-entrance-test-on-feb-28/articleshow/80395194.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: To avoid jab, health workers give work a miss||HYDERABAD: To avoid getting the vaccine, 10 per cent to 15 per cent of healthcare staff haven’t returned to work since the roll-out started, some doing the vanishing act on the day they are listed for taking the jab, said health department sources. The trend has been seen across primary health centres (PHCs), urban primary health centres (UPHCs), area hospitals and major hospitals. “A few employees have been on leave since the day the vaccine was launched. Some others did not come on the day they were scheduled to take the vaccine. Since a few centres had asked for a written explanation for not taking the jab during the initial days, staff members have been hesitant to come to work,” said a vaccination session in-charge at a UPHC. Admitting that the number of beneficiaries on Thursday were lower than that on Tuesday at the Osmania General Hospital, superintendent Dr B Nagender said there was some hesitancy among staff. “We are not forcing anybody and have not asked for any explanation. Taking the vaccine is meant to be voluntary. There is no need for the staff to disappear. We are trying to motivate them. In fact, a few people who had earlier refused to take the vaccine, came today and took it.” He also attributed the lesser turnout on Thursday to software glitches. While beneficiaries have proceeded on sudden leave citing emergency and personal reasons, agencies managing outsourcing staff as well as in-charge officers at hospitals are finding it difficult to get through to staffers. “Drivers, patient attendants and volunteers registered for vaccination have refused to come to work, more so after hearing about side effects,” said an in-charge volunteer from an NGO working in a city hospital. With growing mistrust, the vaccination coverage at several centres saw a further drop on Thursday. As per official data, 27,682 beneficiaries were vaccinated on on Thursday across Telangana against a target of 48,447. This accounted for 57% of the target. “Although we had called beneficiaries who were on evening duty on Wednesday to come today, we could vaccinate only 20 people due to the software glitch. Around five per cent of the staff are hesitant and have adopted the wait and watch policy,” said Dr Mahabub Khan, superintendent, Chest Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/to-avoid-jab-health-workers-give-work-a-miss/articleshow/80393865.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 22, 2021||Nashik||‘Make drive in Malegaon a success’||Nashik: State health minister Rajesh Tope has instructed the Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) to go all out and make the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination programme in the textile town a success. Tope had also also appealed to the beneficiaries in Malegaon to take the vaccine shots without any fear. “I have told Malegaon civic authorities that they must be pro-active in making the vaccination programme a success. The authorities should reach out to those who are hesitant to take the jab and convince them about the need to get inoculated,” Tope told TOI. According to him, Malegaon is densely-populated and, hence, the beneficiaries must take the vaccine to be on the safer side vis-a-vis Covid infection. The track record of the participation of a section of Malegaon’s population in some of the previous immunization programmes was not up to the mark. Apparently, the state health minister’s appeal to the healthcare workers of Malegaon is to ensure the present vaccination programme gets cent percent response. So far, in the three rounds of vaccination, the footfall in the five session sites in Malegaon, including four which are under MMC, is 53.8%. Nashik: The state health minister, Rajesh Tope, has instructed Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) to go all out to make the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination programme in the textile town a success. Tope had also also appealed to the beneficiaries of Malegaon to take the vaccine shots without any fear. “I have told the Malegaon civic authorities that they must be pro-active to make the vaccination programme a success. The authorities should reach out to those who are hesitant to take the jab and convince them about the need to get inoculated,” Tope told TOI. According to him Malegaon is thickly populated and hence the beneficiaries must take the vaccine to be on the safer side vis a vis Covid infection. The track record of the participation of a section of Malegaon’s population in some of the previous immunization programmes were not up to the mark. Apparently the state health minister’s appeal to the healthcare workers of Malegaon is to see to it the present vaccination programme gets cent percent response. So far in the three rounds of vaccination the footfalls in the five session sites in Malegaon, including four which are under MMC, is 53.8%. There are around 1960 healthcare workers in textile town who have to vaccinated. MMC sources said that of the five session sites, the turnouts of beneficiaries at two of them--Ramjanpura and Nima--are low. Of the 300 beneficiaries who were supposed to turn up at these two sites in the previous three rounds of vaccination, only 111 took the shot at Ramjanpura and 99 at Nima session sites. The chief of the health department, Sapna Thackeray, said that the civic authorities are putting their cent percent efforts to increase the footfalls at the session sites. “We are sure that the footfalls would swell in the upcoming rounds of vaccination,” added Thackeray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/make-drive-in-malegaon-a-success/articleshow/80392830.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
January 22, 2021||Pune||Startup ecosystem thriving: MCCIA||Pune: Participants at a monthly meeting of MCCIA’s startup incubation cell said their real-life solutions had already shown results, especially during peak lockdown last year. “One startup we mentored launched the ‘Third Eye’ application, which was used to implement the e-pass system during the pandemic. The Pune police also use the application to scan QR codes placed across the city to help with beats policing,” Anil Sharma, head of the entrepreneurship programme at Digital Impact Square — an initiative of the TCS Foundation — which works in Pune and Nashik, among other places in Maharashtra. KPIT’s Sparkle incubation system is aimed at mentoring students, who retain the intellectual property rights for their ideas. “Our initiative connects students to the startup ecosystem, and we also holds an annual event in which their ideas are taken through the cycle of identification, training, connecting with partners, and deployment of the full product,” Rahul Uplap, from Sparkle said. “We have a dedicated programme for startups across the country. Regionally, we have seen a number of hubs for startups — Aurangabad, Nagpur, and Nashik, etc.” Parimal Ramaiya, vice-president of HDFC Bank, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/startup-ecosystem-thriving-mccia/articleshow/80393877.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad woman alleges death threat by her father||AHMEDABAD: The ongoing Popular Builders’ legal imbroglio took a curious turn on Thursday when the daughter-in-law of the owner, Raman Patel, alleged that her father had threatened to kill her. Vastrapur police filed a complaint of criminal intimidation in this connection on Thursday. She had earlier filed a case of attempted murder and molestation against Raman Patel and his son Monang Patel in August 2020. In her complaint, the woman, 32, the mother of an eight-year-old girl and resident of Bodakdev, stated that her father, who had on August 1 provoked her husband Monang Patel, father-in-law Raman Patel and mother-in-law Mayurika Patel to beat her, was also booked by police along with her husband and in-laws in August 2020. Later, her father, 60, a resident of Navrangpura, obtained an anticipatory bail in the case whereas others including Raman Patel and Monang Patel remained behind bars in the case filed by her and subsequent cases of extortion and cheating filed at different police stations. Finally, Monang Patel obtained bail from a local court on January 15. As she feared threat to her and her mother’s life from the accused, she had demanded police protection after which DCP (Zone-1) Ravindra Patel, deployed cops at her home, she stated in the FIR. “As my father could not come to my home due to police protection, he had on Wednesday at around 6am sent a message in which he states, ‘I am going to kill tomorrow’. This means he wants to kill me,” the FIR mentioned. She said that she was scared after receiving the message and met the DCP and later approached Vastrapur police to file a complaint. She alleged in the FIR that her father in connivance with her in-laws sent the message in which he used the word “kill” to give her death threat. She produced a screenshot of the message before police after which a complaint was filed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-alleges-death-threat-by-her-father/articleshow/80393894.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu CM Palaniswami promises concrete houses for all||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Thursday announced that the AIADMK would construct concrete houses for the homeless poor, farmers and farm labourers. “Our sole aim is to create a society, where there is no poverty,” the chief minister said while campaigning in Chengalpet. During his day-long campaign in the district, the chief minister targeted DMK president M K Stalin, accusing him of indulging in false propaganda against the AIADMK. “The poor and the weaker sections get benefits only in the AIADMK dispensation and not during the DMK regime. How was the DMK regime of 2006-11 and the AIADMK during 2011-2021? Let people be the judge and deliver justice,” Palaniswami said, reeling out the achievements of his government and the awards and laurels it received for various sectors like industries, power, agriculture and water resources. Palaniswami described Stalin’s remarks that he had rushed to New Delhi last week “nervous about V K Sasikala’s release and to safeguard his government” as canards. Former DMK chief M Karunanidhi visited Delhi “only to get plum portfolios for his family members in the cabinet, and not to resolve the Cauvery dispute or to seek schemes and funds”, he charged. “Whereas, former CM J Jayalalithaa had visited Delhi to resolve the Cauvery dispute, and to ask for projects for the people. I also urged PM for relief for farmers and sought clearances and funds for new projects. That is the difference between the AIADMK and the DMK,” the CM said. The DMK he said was like a corporate firm, with Stalin and his family members all directors. Palaniswami said he was saddened by Stalin prompting a woman to speak against deputy CM O Panneerselvam during his Makkal Gram Sabha meeting in Theni. He said his deputy had helped transport 400 Muslims from Delhi to Chennai by train during Covid lockdown using his own funds and getting them medical treatment besides providing food. “Stalin is making baseless accusations against the deputy CM. No political leader will give false information to a woman and make her speak to enact drama. But Stalin does it for political gains,” said EPS, adding, “The AIADMK is a fortress. If you collide with it, you will end up only hurting yourself.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/palaniswami-promises-concrete-houses-for-all/articleshow/80393907.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||BEST panel rejects Rs 4 crore proposal to ‘outsource’ power supply work||MUMBAI: BEST panel rejected a Rs 4-crore proposal by the administration to outsource electric supply division work by appointing manpower from private agencies for laying electric cables in island city. “After wet-leasing buses with conductors and drivers, they want to introduce privatisation in the electric supply wing. We will not allow this,” said BEST panel member Sunil Ganacharya (BJP), adding that these were ‘anti-worker’ policies and many staff were upset. BMC Opposition leader and BEST panel member Ravi Raja said the administration was ‘misleading’ the committee. “On one hand, they bring this huge proposal which gets rejected unanimously. On the other hand, we know the management can clear proposals within Rs 50 lakh and it has already sanctioned a Rs 48-lakh project for outsourcing work of repairing cable faults in the island city,” he said. A senior BEST official said no staff were being removed. He said jobs were outsourced to ensure “efficiency of service” for the cash-strapped undertaking. “Our goal is to repair the fault as early as possible. Our manpower will continue to repair. This is additional repairs so that customers benefit,” he said Meanwhile, BEST panel alleged that additional general manager Rajendra Madne, whose tenure ended last September was illegally continuing. “How can the management forget his tenure expired and he should be deputed back to the state government,” said panel member Sunil Ganacharya. Raja demanded a probe and said BEST should not pay him a salary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/best-panel-rejects-rs-4cr-proposal-to-outsource-power-supply-work/articleshow/80393948.cms||Somit Sen
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Two docs collapse due to anxiety||Hyderabad: Two senior doctors, including a head of department, at the Osmania General Hospital (OGH) collapsed minutes after they took the vaccine on Thursday. While the duo was put up in respiratory intensive care unit (RICU), they had fainted due to anxiety. “They were kept under observation for just two hours for boosting their confidence. They are fine. They were anxious and their BP had gone up,” said Dr B Nagender, superintendent OGH. Several other cases of mild side effects were reported by healthcare workers. At Chest Hospital, 20% to 25% of beneficiaries developed mild side effects. “In all cases these were fever and headache which subsided after taking a paracetamol. There are no serious side effects. In fact, staffers who had developed minor side effects are on duty,” said Dr Mahabub Khan, superintendent, Chest Hospital. A source at Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and Research said, “We had three cases of doctors complaining of fever hours after taking the shot. Another two had a severe headache which subsided with paracetamol.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-docs-collapse-due-to-anxiety/articleshow/80393892.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Dy speaker wishes ‘CM KTR’ in advance||Hyderabad: With several ministers and MLAs voicing their support to TRS working president and minister KT Rama Rao as a future chief minister, Secunderabad MLA and deputy speaker T Padma Rao went a step further and congratulated KTR as CM at a function on Thursday. KTR was on the same dais where the deputy speaker made these remarks. “I congratulate KTR on behalf of the legislators and railway employees. I wish KTR will protect the interests of railway employees after becoming the CM,” Padma Rao said at the South Central Railway Employees’ Sangh division office inauguration. The meeting was also attended by ministers Puvvada Ajay Kumar and V Srinivas Goud. Embarrassed by the comments of Padma Rao, KTR was seen rubbing his forehead. Though some of the ministers expressed their wish of seeing KTR in the shoes of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao soon and said that KTR has all capabilities to become CM for the last few days, the remarks were made when KTR was not around. But, Padma Rao made his remarks in the presence of KTR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dy-speaker-wishes-cm-ktr-in-advance/articleshow/80393889.cms||Koride Mahesh
January 22, 2021||Nashik||City bus service put off, awaits transport dept nod||CLEARED SKHER Nashik: The trial runs of the city buses are in progress but the service cannot be started from January 26 as declared earlier, said civic chief Kailas Jadhav. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is yet to get permission from the state transport department for the service. “We are yet to get the ‘consent to operate’ from the transport department of the state government. We are already in touch with the department and we are expecting the permission shortly,” Jadhav said. He added, “We will start the city bus service in February and the launch date will be announced shortly, after we receive the approval from the state transport department.” The civic body is for the first time taking over the bus service from the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC). The city bus service is expected to prove beneficial for the school and college-going children. The NMC has already hired two contractors to operate the city bus service. These two contractors have already purchased 250 buses, including 200 CNG and 50 diesel buses. The buses are to be operated, maintained and managed by them. NMC will be paying these contractors on a per kilometer basis. Initially, the plan was deploy 50 diesel buses in the first phase from January 26 and increase the number of buses in phases after seeing the response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/city-bus-service-put-off-awaits-transport-dept-nod/articleshow/80392877.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||Nine years on, accused in fake visa scam arrested by Gujarat ATS||AHMEDABAD: An accused in a fake visa scam was arrested from Malad in Mumbai on Thursday, nine years after the Gujarat ATS busted the racket. ATS officials said that while two of the accused had been arrested, Dharmendra alias Dharmesh Bhagat, a 43-year-old resident of Malad, had been absconding for the past nine years. "Following a tip-off, we carried out electronic surveillance and traced Bhagat to his house in Malad. We arrested him on Thursday morning and sent him for pre- arrest Covid-19 test," said an ATS official. Gujarat ATS had busted a racket in which accused Bhagat, Niranjan Malviya, and Prakash Malaviya of Mumbai sent people abroad to countries including the US on forged documents. The cops arrested the Malaviyas who were later released on bail in January 2012. A top ATS official said that during Bhagat’s primary interrogation, it came to light that he had already sent 15 people abroad after taking Rs 15 lakh from each of them. "Once we get his custody, we will try to dig how many more he has sent abroad during the time he was absconding," added an official. ATS sources said, "The other two accused used to contact people from Unjha and Mehsana who wanted to go abroad and put them in touch with Bhagat. He would, in turn, contact one Amarjeet of Delhi who would forge documents for the customers to go abroad." The source added, "When ATS busted the racket, they had recovered cash and other forged stamps as well as a car with the fake number plate of a top official of Maharashtra totalling Rs 9.29 lakh."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nine-years-on-accused-in-fake-visa-scam-arrested/articleshow/80393940.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Salem||Class XII student tests positive for Covid-19||Salem: A Class XII girl student tested positive for Covid-19 at Melvallam near Karumandurai on Wednesday. Following this, the health department officials collected swab samples from 76 people, including her classmates and teachers. Her contacts have been quarantined for 15 days. The 17-year-old student from Melvallam is studying in a tribal model school at Periyakrishnapuram near Attur. She was staying in the hostel. "The girl gave her swab samples to the health department at her village on January 19. It was confirmed only on Thursday," deputy director of health services Dr R Selvakumar said. He said the school was closed soon after the girl tested positive. The health department officials quarantined teachers, non-teaching staff and students of the schools. "We have quarantined 36 students in the school hostel while 25 day-scholars and 15 teachers and hotel wardens have been quarantined in their respective houses after collecting test samples," he added. The DD said the girls’ father and her brother recently went to Erode as part of their work. There are only four families in the village and the health department officials have collected swab samples from 11 villagers including the girl’s family members.The DD hoped that the test results would arrive on Friday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/class-xii-student-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/80393938.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Cancel NIOS exams or hold them online: Parents to rights body||MUMBAI: Parents of students studying in the National Institute of Open Schooling have appealed to the national human rights commission demanding that class X and XII exams next month be cancelled or held online. They claimed that while the board was conducting exams following rules, it was extremely difficult for them to travel to exam centres, find writers or get children to wear masks for the exams. The mother of a class XII student said, “The board earlier said that in the absence of writers, parents could help wards write papers, but no notification has been issued. Exam centres given to us also are far despite authorities assuring us that due to Covid-19 they would give us centres close to home. We have to travel from Andheri to Mumbai Central and Cuffe Parade.” Parents said many students have decided not to appear for exams this year. “Our children are suffering from anxiety, depression, and fear, adding to their existing disabilities. Wearing a mask for three hours of exams is difficult. Many students decided not to appear as they have not got writers,” said another parent. The parents have been demanding that the board hold exams online or cancel tests and instead promote all students. NIOS authorities had earlier said it would not be possible as the education ministry has allowed board exams across the country. BMC too has permitted board exams according to a circular on January 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cancel-nios-exams-of-hold-them-online-parents-to-rights-body/articleshow/80398146.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 22, 2021||Nashik||NMC reeling under severe shortage of MBBS doctors||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is reeling under severe shortage of MBBS doctors to cater to the patients at its two hospitals and 30 Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs). While there are only two MBBS doctors to look after Covid-19 patients, there are no MBBS doctors in any of the UPHCs. The civic body had recruited five MBBS doctors during the initial stage of the pandemic on temporary basis, but relieved three of them after completion of their contract. The term of the remaining two doctors is also on the verge of completion. The issue of shortage of MBBS doctors was discussed at length during the standing committee meeting held on Thursday wherein panel chief Ganesh Gite asked the health officials why the health department was not taking proactive steps to recruit doctors on a long-term contract. The current contract period being offered by the NMC is for three and six months. “The pandemic is not yet over and there is apprehension of a second wave. Moreover, non-Covid patients are also getting admitted for treatment,” Gite said. He also directed medical superintending officer Bapusaheb Nagargoje to submit a detailed report about the status of the doctors in all medical and urban primary health centres. Earlier, Nagargoje said that they did not receive good response during the recruitment of MBBS doctors for Covid patients on a temporary basis. “We wanted 50 MBBS doctors, but received only five applications. The doctors are not willing to join even after the salary bracket was increased. Even the private hospitals are not getting the doctors.” he said. Currently, over 2,000 of the total 7,050 approved posts are lying vacant in the municipal corporation. Higher administrative cost of municipal corporation was the major reason that the NMC could not conduct recruitment drives in the past. As per government norms, the administrative cost of any civic body should be below 35%. But NMC’s administrative cost had touched 38% in the past few years. Around a year back, the civic body had sent a proposal to the state government to recruit 116 people for its health and fire bridge departments, including 50 MBBS doctors and 66 staff from fire brigade department as part of essential services. However, the proposal is still pending with the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-reeling-under-severe-shortage-of-mbbs-doctors/articleshow/80392847.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana second in supplying tap water||HYDERABAD: Telangana stood second in the country in implementation Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), aimed at providing tap water to 100% households and initiated by the department of drinking water & sanitation working under ministry of jal shakti. According to the survey report released by the JJM on ‘functional household tap connection’ (FHTC) in every rural home under ‘Har Ghar Jal’ programme, in Telangana, a total of 54,06,070 households have been benefited by the water supply initiative. “This is the fifth consecutive year that Telangana has achieved this record. The state government has spent Rs 32,000 crore to provide potable water to every household in rural areas under the Mission Bhagiratha scheme,” Krupakar Reddy, engineer-in-chief, Mission Bhagiratha, told TOI. The scheme was aimed to provide safe drinking water for every village and city household in Telangana , he said. Our main drinking water sources are Godavari and Krishna, and supplying a total of 3,000 million litres of potable water per day (MLD) to the beneficiaries through 19 intake wells, covering entire rural areas in the state. Recently, we have been providing mineral water bottles with Mission Bhagiratha stickers after purification in water treatment plants, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-second-in-supplying-tap-water/articleshow/80393933.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Chandigarh||17-yr-old youth gets 20-yr jail for impregnating minor||CHANDIGARH: A Chandigarh district court, on Thursday, sentenced a 17-year-old youth to 20-year jail for raping and impregnating a minor in 2018. The court has also imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 on the convict. In August 2018, the 15-year-old survivor said in her police complaint that the accused, who was her neighbour, had been raping her for the past five years. “He sexually assaulted me when my parents were not at home,” she had said. Police had then arrested the accused and sent him to a juvenile home. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/17-yr-old-youth-gets-20-yr-jail-for-impregnating-minor/articleshow/80392869.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Chandigarh||4 men rob cab at knifepoint in Lalru||TNNMohali: The police have booked four unidentified miscreants for allegedly robbing a man of his cab at knifepoint in Lalru on Wednesday. The victim has been identified as cab driver Gaurav Saini, a resident of Lalru. The robbery spot is about 500 metres from the area’s police station.Victim’s brother, Ashok, said the incident took place around 1am on Wednesday when Gaurav was coming back home from Derabassi. “The four miscreants waved at him and asked him to drop them in New Delhi. My brother told them that he was not going to New Delhi, but to his house in Lalru. The miscreants asked him to drop them at Ambala railway station, to which he agreed.”He said when they reached near the electricity grid in Lalru, the miscreants told him to stop the car as they wanted to relieve themselves. “All the miscreants then got out and my brother was inside the car. They then kept a knife on his neck, snatched the keys after a tussle and fled with the car. His mobile phone was inside the car and he immediately ran towards the police station to inform the cops,” Ashok added.A case under sections 379-B and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Lalru police station. SHO inspector Sukhveer Singh said, “No arrests have been made so far.”In the last week of December, too, four miscreants had fled with a taxi after pushing out the driver in Lalru. The case was solved after four days with the arrest of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-men-rob-cab-at-knifepoint-in-lalru/articleshow/80392908.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Nashik||NSS program officer awarded for his services||Nashik: Nashik district co-ordinator for National Social Service (NSS) and program officer of Maratha Vidya Prasarak Samaj’s Karmaveer Shantarambapu Kondaji Wavre (KSKW) Arts Commerce and Science college, Nashik, Ravindra Ahire has been recognised for his services in the sector by the state government. Ahire has been awarded for his contribution in training and volunteering NSS students of various sectors, including disaster management as well as Covid-19 relief workers. “This is an achievement for Nashik and we are proud of him,” said co-ordinator of Nashik sub-centre of Savitribai Phule Pune University Prashant Tope. According to Ahire, he was rewarded for the number of activities done between 2017 and 2020. The most important of them were related to disaster management and Covid-19 relief measures. “Among various things that we have achieved, the most important ones were the Chancellor’s Brigade of Disaster Management Camp programme in 2017 and leading the NSS squad of Maharashtra during the Republic Day parade in 2019,” Ahire pointed out. As part of Covid-19 relief measures carried out by the NSS, the students were encouraged to help in making face masks and distributing them in villages adopted by the NSS. “This was one of the biggest challenges first — encouraging the children to make masks, travel to various villages and distribute it among the villagers and, thirdly, raising awareness among the citizens related to Covid-19,” Ahire noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nss-program-officer-awarded-for-his-services/articleshow/80392905.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Nagpur||‘No proper legal framework has weakened surrogacy stake’||Nagpur: No proper legal framework in India has weakened the genuine childless couple to have child through surrogacy, said Aneesh V Pillai, assistant professor (law) in School of Legal Studies, Cochin University of Science and Technology, Kerala. Pillai said the words while delivering the keynote address in a webinar on ‘Surrogacy Laws in India: Current Perspectives’, organized by Symbiosis Law School (SLS) on Thursday. Shilpa Sharma, moderator of the webinar, introduced and welcomed the guest on behalf of the director Sukhvinder Singh Dari and the entire staff of SLS, Nagpur. Pillai, in his immaculate style, highlighted the current perspectives of surrogacy laws in India. In his lecture, he briefly touched the ambit of surrogacy laws and the pendency of surrogacy bill in Rajya Sabha. He also emphasized on the ICMR guidelines issued in 2005 and their relevance in contemporary times with regard to surrogacy. He cited various landmark judgements of the Supreme Court to safeguard the child born out of surrogacy. The issues and challenges involved in the process of assisted reproductive technology were also mentioned during his lecture. The surrogacy agreement and its ramifications were also deliberated in the webinar. The lecture ended with a question-answer session. Assistant professor Sharma proposed a vote of thanks. The webinar befitted 162 students of SLS, Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-proper-legal-framework-has-weakened-surrogacy-stake/articleshow/80390786.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sukhna Lake gets solar-powered e-carts for disabled, elderly||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration will introduce ecarts at Sukhna Lake for elderly, pregnant women and the disabled from Friday. “The facility will be inaugurated by UT adviser Manoj Parida”, UT chief conservator of forests (CCF) Debendra Dalai said. The facility will be provided free of cost and preference will be given to senior citizens and the disabled. The ecarts will take people from Sukhna Lake main entry, near police post, to the regulator end. Passengers will also be taken to Sukhna Lake nature trail, where UT forest and wildlife department has made arrangements for migratory bird watching through binoculars. The department employees have also been deployed there for assistance. The UT plans to run this facility from 10am to 5pm. As per plan, there will be two solar-powered carts, each with a seating capacity of eight. The vehicles will be available at the main entry and exit points of the lake. Passengers can alight or take the ride from any spot on the track around the lake. About a year ago, the administration had launched battery-operated carts to take visitors, for free, around the Sector 17 market. Nearly 10 carts were made available, which were equipped with GPS tracking, LED screens, speakers and magazine holder. The carts have safety features such as a fire extinguisher, a first-aid kit and a speed governor to regulate the speed to less than 20 kmph to ensure safety of pedestrians as well as the riders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/e-carts-at-sukhna-for-disabled-and-elderly/articleshow/80392901.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
January 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sukhna natives at mercy of aggressive American turtles||CHANDIGARH: Invaders typically occupy land, hound the natives, chase the females and annex niche spots for establishing a new breeding lineage. So it is with one of the globe’s 100 most invasive species, the American red-eared slider (RES) turtle, which has popped up at the Sukhna Lake and successfully established breeding colonies at the expense of native turtles. The RES can be observed occupying prime basking spots in the deep winter at the Sukhna. Usurping basking sites from native species such as the brown roofed and flap-shelled turtles is only one of the ways invader turtles disrupt the ecology of indigenous species that have gone through the pains of establishing their breeding colonies. Though native to the Central and Eastern United States, RES has infiltrated wetlands in many nations because they are a cheap and popular source for the global pet trade. There are two ways in which RES pets land up outside homes in India: (i) people release them in wetlands when they cannot take care of them or due to religious beliefs (ii) government agencies free them not realising that RES are exotics and cannot be introduced into habitats where they can out compete the natives. At the Sukhna, the RES is the most visible of the turtles as they bask along the shores of the northern jungles and the regulator end. While the danger the RES posed to native species was brought to the notice of the forests and wildlife department in May 2015 along with photographic evidence, little headway has been made since then in removing the RES and isolating them from native fauna. The RES poses a long-term threat to the Sukna like the proliferating lotus weed that has over-run the regulator end. “The WWF-India is drafting a management plan for the Sukhna. We shall ask the WWF-India to cater for the threat posed by the RES. We shall also consult specialist organisations dealing with turtles such as the Turtle Survival Alliance to neutralise the threat of this invasive species,” said chief wildlife warden Debendra Dalai. What are the qualities which render the RES so potent in out competing native species? “The RES is a very aggressive species. It frequently bites other species and chases away their females. Its claws are exceptional, more lethal than what native turtles possess and can inflict damage in territorial fights with the natives. The RES is a super-generalist species, which means it adapts well to varied habitats and eats just about anything. Native turtles are specialist species and cannot adapt as well to changes in their habitat such as shortage of food as compared to RES. The RES is a carnivore and poses a threat to grass-eating native fishes which it eats,” Dr Shailendra Singh, director, Turtle Survival Alliance, India, told the TOI. Dr Singh recommends that the RES be manually removed from the Sukhna and kept in isolation in zoos where they can serve the function of showcasing turtles to the general public. “The RES is creating a global problem. It is reported that the European pond turtle has reached a critical stage due to RES. Under preventative measures, the European Union banned import of sub-species of RES,” Dr Singh added. Underscoring the threat posed by the RES to both man and beast, the International Union for Conservation of Nature stated, “The RES competitive advantages may include lower age at maturity, higher fecundity, and larger adult body size. Turtles may compete for food, egg-laying sites or basking places. Continuous releasing of exotic pet turtles in natural ecosystems increases risk of parasite transmission to native species. The RES is known to carry nematodes. Reptiles, including turtles, are well-recognised reservoirs for salmonella and a source of human salmonellosis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sukhna-natives-at-mercy-of-aggressive-american-turtles/articleshow/80392916.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Coimbatore||Drive to rope in small tea growers to practise organic farming launched in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: To rope in small tea growers to practise organic farming, the district administration launched a drive, ‘Scope Certification’, at the Kinnakorai industrial cooperative (Indco) tea factory on Thursday. As the district counts for more acreage and more number of farmers cultivating tea, the district administration has launched the programme in association with the Indcoserve, the apex body of the 16 Indco tea factories in the district, and the horticulture department.Indcoserve CEO Supriya Sahu inaugurated the programme in the presence of collector J Innocent Divya and senior officials from the horticulture department. “The district leads in the number of farmers practising organic farming in the state. As many as 4,800 farmers in the district were issued Scope certificate for the first year conversion by the Tamil Nadu organic certification department under the collective farming scheme,” said Shiva Subramaniam Samraj, a joint director in the horticulture department.The farmers belong to 48 ‘farmer producers’ groups’ (FPG) with 100 in each group cultivating vegetables such as potato, carrot, cabbage, beetroot, among others.At least 800 small tea growers are attached to the Kinnakoari Indco tea factory with a total acreage of around 600 acres. Other small tea farmers attached to other Indco factories will also be brought under the programme, Samraj said. Meanwhile, the horticulture department has been developing a mobile app, Organic Nilgiris, to help farmers understand organic farming practices. Farmers can access information about organic production of hilly vegetables, preparation of various bio-inputs at farm level, organic certification procedures, among others.Presently, organic vegetable cultivation has been carried out in 2,370 hectares in the district. Further, complete organic tea cultivation is being taken up in 2,865 hectares by several large tea growers. Besides, 560 hectares of coffee and other hill crops plantations have been practising organic farming from this financial year.After continuously practising organic farming for three years, farmers will receive ‘Organic Certificate’ for their produce. In a bid to make farming in the hill district completely organic, the district administration has formed a core committee with the collector as the chairperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/drive-to-rope-in-small-tea-growers-to-practise-organic-farming-launched-in-nilgiris/articleshow/80393955.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Culling of poultry birds to start in Punjab's Derabassi today||MOHALI: The Centre has given a nod for culling of poultry birds at two farms in Derabassi and training of 25 teams constituted for the purpose has been completed. This was stated by VK Janjua, additional chief secretary of the animal husbandry, dairy development & fisheries department, Punjab. The 10km radius around the two affected poultry farms has been declared a containment zone. Janjua said, “After receiving the Central government’s approval, directions were issued to the district administration.” Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said culling to stop the spread of the virus would commence at the two poultry farms on Friday after National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, gave confirmation of bird flu strain in the tissue samples sent to it. Twenty-five teams, comprising five members each, would conduct the culling operation at Alfa and Royal poultry farms in Derabassi. Culling of over 50,000 birds is expected to be undertaken at the affected epicentre, he said. Requisite safety gear, including PPE kits and face shields, and JCB machines have been provided to the teams and adequate quarantine arrangement is also in place. “The 10km radius declared containment zone will be watched for any commercial poultry farming activity,” said Dayalan. Surveillance and sampling have been stepped up and two rapid response teams (RRTs) have been deployed to keep a tab on any deaths of birds in the district. Dayalan said, “The avian influenza virus is zoonotic. The pathogen can be transmitted from animals to humans. So, to detect symptoms of plausible infection in humans, the bird handlers in affected poultry farms will be examined by the doctors.” He added that the process of taking samples of poultry birds from other farms and meat shops was on and reports were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/centre-gives-approval-poultry-birds-culling-to-start-in-derabassi-today/articleshow/80392911.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Nashik||40 hens dead in Malegaon, not bird flu||CLEARED SKHER Nashik: The Malegaon taluka authorities reported the deaths of as many as 40 hens since January 17 but the samples have tested negative for avian influenza. Authorities have assured that citizens need not panic. Assistant commissioner of animal husbandry (Nashik) G R Patil said, “About 15 hens in the backyard poultry of a farmer in Malegaon taluka had died on January 17. The samples were sent to Disease Investigation Agency (DAI) Pune to check if the birds were infected with avian influenza virus.” The next day, a few more birds in the same poultry died and those birds were disposed off using scientific measures keeping in mind the chances of bird flu infection, Patil said. “We have received the reports today and they are negative. The district administration as well as the farmers have heaved a sigh of relief,” Patil added. The officer said that the reason for the death of the birds would be established and the local veterinary doctors would take the necessary measures and initiate the corrective treatment to ensure that the mortality is brought down. Patil said that birds of an area die because of various reasons and not necessarily just avian influenza. “The citizens should not panic over such instances. They should wait for the government authorities to do their duty and find out the truth,” the officer said. Officials assured that the district authorities always ensure that all steps are taken to avoid the spread of the disease and they are closely monitoring any cases coming up across the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/40-hens-dead-in-malegaon-not-bird-flu/articleshow/80392915.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 22, 2021||Chennai||Why so hasty with PWD’s Rs 2,855 crore tenders, asks Stalin||Chennai: DMK president M K Stalin on Thursday questioned chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for the urgency being shown in floating tenders worth Rs 2,855 crore by the public works department (PWD) in the past three months. “With notification for the assembly election expected in about a month, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has been showing undue haste to get the PWD to float several tenders in the months of November and December 2020 and in January 2021,” Stalin said in a statement. Stalin warned officials and other staff, who are assisting in the process, of action once the DMK returns to power. “Once we come to power, we will cancel all these tenders and bring to book those involved in the irregularities,” Stalin said. The state government has been citing lack of funds for timely payment of old age pensions and for workers under the rural employment guarantee scheme, said Stalin. “But how come the government has enough money to undertake civil construction work in water bodies, including check dams, and float tenders for them?” he asked. Meanwhile, in a social media post, Stalin condemned the state government’s order asking students of a medical college near Chidambaram, taken over the government, to vacate their hostel rooms by Thursday evening. The students have been protesting for the past 43 days against high fees being charged by the college, even though it is now being run by the government. “I have raised this issue and asked the state government to collect fee on a par with other government run medical colleges and not as a private institution. But the state government has not acted on my request,” Stalin said, while asking the government to ensure the safety of the students in the wake of the hostel being closed forcibly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-so-hasty-with-pwds-rs-2855-crore-tenders-asks-stalin/articleshow/80393950.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Goa||Goa fire dept unveils mobile apps, VR simulator for training citizens||PANAJI: In an attempt to prepare citizens for real-life scenarios arising out of fire-related incidents and natural calamaties, the directorate of fire and emergency services has conceptualised interactive mobile simulation applications that provides tips for taking corrective measures. The department has also launched a Fire Safety Virtual Reality Simulator that comprises disaster preparedness scenarios like floods and earthquakes and general fire safety tips. The activities are motion activated to allow for self-guided programming with the addition of a robust tablet control system. “In today’s technological environment, people learn differently. There’s a need to engage and inspire people to learn, and that can be a challenge. This is where the mobile simulation application comes in, as it truly brings education to life in a fun, hands-on, immersive and technologically advanced learning environment,” said director of fire and emergency services Ashok Menon. Menon said that the virtual reality simulator is aimed at training the workforce with an integrated user behaviour analysis in a multi-sensory virtual scenario. To ensure interest, participation and engagement within students and the rural community, the virtual reality simulator will be deployed with the state-of-the-art fire and safety education van, which has been operating successfully across panchayats and residential areas to educate and train the public on disaster preparedness and basic fire safety. The training modules consist of various virtual fire safety scenarios such as safety while cooking, fire safety for children, evacuation – rules of conduct when you hear a fire alarm and how to operate different types of first aid portable fire extinguisher, etc. Menon said the department website has been revamped as per latest design responsive-content that adjusts according to the screen size and is accessible on multiple types of devices. The navigation is thoughtfully designed and organised such that content is accessible in one click, he said. He also said that the department has been proactively updating the website. However, now data is automatically updated in real-time, thus allowing citizens to access information of the categories of incidents occurring across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fire-dept-unveils-mobile-apps-vr-simulator-for-training-citizens/articleshow/80393961.cms||---
January 22, 2021||India||Eight killed in Karnataka as truck with gelatin sticks explodes||SHIVAMOGGA: Eight quarry workers were charred to death after gelatin sticks loaded on a truck exploded near Hunsodu, 7km from Shivamogga late on Thursday night. Many more are feared to have died; police are yet to enter the site as the earth is scorched around it. Pained by the loss of lives in Shivamogga. Condolences to the bereaved families. Praying that the injured recover s… https://t.co/i8mAmmbnvu— PMO India (@PMOIndia) 1611279634000According to reports from the site, the truck was transporting gelatin sticks or stone-blasting material to a quarry. The truck is believed to have been parked at the time and the labourers were resting. Such was its impact that windowpanes were shattered and buildings damaged in a 30km radius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/eight-killed-in-karnataka-as-truck-with-gelatin-sticks-explodes/articleshow/80396903.cms||Lawrence Milton
January 22, 2021||Coimbatore||Fire breaks out at warehouse of furniture firm||Coimbatore: A fire broke out at the warehouse of a furniture company at Lakshmi Nagar on Thondamuthur Road near Vadvalli on Thursday. The warehouse belonged to R Mohan where raw materials to manufacture furniture were stocked. Fire tenders from Coimbatore South, North, Ganapathy and Thondamuthur reached the spot and put out the fire at 3pm. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. The Vadavalli police registered a case and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fire-breaks-out-at-warehouse-of-furniture-firm/articleshow/80393972.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Nashik||Nashik city records 11.4 degrees Celsius, lowest in state||Nashik: Nashikites experienced winter chill over the last two days after a gap of almost three weeks. The city recorded minimum temperature of 11.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the lowest in the state, followed by Jalgaon at 12 degrees and Mahabaleshwar at 13.4 degrees. The minimum temperature of the city dropped by 3.3 degrees Celsius as against 14.6 degrees Celsius recorded on Wednesday and 15.2 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. The maximum temperature of the city was recorded at 31.2 degrees Celsius. According to data sourced from the India Meteorological Department, the minimum temperature in the city is expected to drop further by 10 degrees Celsius in a day or two but, thereafter, there will be a marginal rise in minimum temperature due to partly cloudy weather. On December 22 last year, the city had recorded the minimum temperature at 8.4 degrees Celsius, but the minimum temperature increased later due to cloudy weather conditions. Prior to that, the city had recorded minimum temperature of 11.8 degrees Celsius on December 30 and then continued to increase further gradually up to 20 degrees Celsius on January 9. Niphad, which is the major grape growing belt, recorded minimum temperature of 10.2 degrees Celsius on Thursday as against 12.5 degrees on Wednesday and 15.4 degrees on Tuesday. According to the weather station at the Agricultural Research Centre of Rahuri’s Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth (MPKV) located in Niphad, the minimum temperature had dropped to 6.5 degrees Celsius on December 22. Nashik: January 21 2021 The winter chill has again returned back to Nashik city during the last two days after the gap of almost three weeks. Nashik city on Thursday recorded the minimum temperature in the state at 11.4 degree C, followed by Jalgaon at 12 degree C and Mahabaleshwar at 13.4 degree C. The minimum temperature in Nashik city on Thursday dipped by 3.3 degree C to 11.4 degree C, against 14.6 degree C on Wednesday and 15.2 degree C on Tuesday. According to IMD sources, the minimum temperature in the city is expected to drop further by 10 degree C in a day or two, but thereafter there will be a marginal rise in minimum temperature due to partly cloudy weather. The Nashik city had recorded the minimum temperature at 8.4 degree C on December 22 last year, but the minimum temperature had again started increasing thereafter due to cloudy weather conditions. The city had recorded a minimum temperature of 11.8 degree C on December 30 last year and then continued to increase further gradually up to 20 degree C on January 9. The maximum temperature of the city was recorded at 31.2 degree C on Thursday, with departure of 1 degree from the normal.  Niphad, which is the major grape growing belt, recorded a minimum temperature at 10.2 degree C on Thursday, against 12.5 degree C recorded on Wednesday and 15.4 degree C on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-city-records-11-4-degrees-celsius-lowest-in-state/articleshow/80392923.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 22, 2021||Nashik||Active cases in Nashik city drop to 1,298 in 2 weeks||Nashik: The number of active Covid patients in Nashik district has dropped from 1,703 to 1,298 in the last two weeks due to drop in new cases and rise in recoveries. Moreover, the recovery rate of Covid patients in the district has also crossed the 97% mark. Of the total 1,14,313 confirmed Covid-19 patients in the district, 1,10,979 have recovered while 2,036 have succumbed to the contagion. In Nashik city, the number of active patients has reduced from 1,006 to 762 so far. “There has been a drop in the number of new cases during the last few days while the recoveries have also increased. This is the reason the number of active patients has dropped at large,” said medical superintending officer of Nashik Municipal Corporation Bapusaheb Nagargoje. Meanwhile, the number of new cases in the city has dropped below 130 per day in the last one week. Besides, the Covid death rate in the city has also dropped to 1.34%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/active-cases-in-nashik-city-drop-to-1298-in-2-weeks/articleshow/80392930.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Probe corruption, Bhatti tells BJP||Hyderabad: Congress Legislature party leader (CLP) Bhatti Vikramarka on Thursday asked BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar to act and not just talk. Addressing a press conference, he said, “Sanjay keeps boasting that corruption in Kaleswaram project would be investigated. If they have the courage they should order a probe into that.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/probe-corruption-bhatti-tells-bjp/articleshow/80393960.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Chandigarh||South bins not cleared for 3 days, collectors on strike||Chandigarh: The door-to-door garbage collectors aren't coming to the southern sectors for three days because of their confrontation with the municipal corporation over source segregation.Waste piled up outside homes, people had to do self-service. The garbage collectors sit outside the MC office in Sector 17, raising slogans, while the sanitation committee has got no success with the talks. The suffering continues.The MC's new twin-bin trucks for the northern sectors came in the second phase of source segregation. The system couldn't come to the south because of a stalemate with the collectors who use bicycle carts (rehris), and then they stopped coming. Federation of Sector Welfare Associations of Chandigarh (Foswac) president Baljinder Singh Bittu said: “The situation has gone from bad to worse. I get more than two dozen calls a day from the complaining resident welfare associations. People pay the cost of MC's failure."Chandigarh Residents' Associations Welfare Federation (Crawfed) president Hitesh Puri said: “It is disturbing that homes are filled with garbage. Even I had to go to Sehaj Safai Kendra to dump my kitchen waste. I have told the collectors as well as the civic authorities to resovlve this issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/south-bins-not-cleared-for-3-days-collectors-on-strike/articleshow/80392920.cms||Deepak Yadav
January 22, 2021||Goa||One death, 55 new cases reported on Thursday||Panaji: The state saw one Covid death of an 85-year-old woman from Raia, Salcete, on Thursday, taking the toll to 758. The woman was undergoing treatment at the Goa Medical College and Hospital, Bambolim. Meanwhile, with 55 more people testing positive and 54 recoveries on Thursday, the tally of state’s active cases was at 864. The case positivity rate dropped to 3% and recovery rate remained steady at 97%. The day saw 22 hospital admissions and 77 patients were home isolated. Urban health centres at Panaji, Mapusa and Margao did not report any new cases while Mapusa had a total of 37 fresh cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/one-death-55-new-cases-reported-on-thursday/articleshow/80393978.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Bhopal||301 new Covid cases in state||Bhopal: 301 cases of Covid-19 were diagnosed across Madhya Pradesh on Thursday. Covid-19 tally rose to 2,52,767 on Thursday. 704 people recovered from the infection, according to health department daily bulletin. Six more deaths were attributed to infection taking the death toll to 3,776. Of the new fatalities, two patients died in Indore and one each in Bhopal, Gwalior, Khargone and Damoh. A total of 704 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery count to 2,44,392. Of the 301 new cases, Bhopal accounted for 64 and Indore 50. The number of cases in Indore rose to 57,185, including 923 deaths, while Bhopal’s case tally stood at 41,831 with 601 fatalities. With 24,779 new coronavirus tests conducted in the state in the last 24 hours, the number of samples examined so far rose to 51,59,595.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/301-new-covid-cases-in-state/articleshow/80393974.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Kolkata||Diversions ahead: Kolkata braces for weekend traffic restrictions||KOLKATA: The central security agencies, along with Kolkata Police, have planned a foolproof security arrangement to avoid any untoward incident during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s one-day visit to the city on Saturday to commemorate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. The visit coincides with a rally by chief minister Mamata Banerjee around noon from Shyambazar crossing to Red Road. Traffic police has asked Kolkatans to be prepared for traffic diversions on Saturday. PM Narendra Modi is scheduled to arrive a little after 3pm and will be here in the city for another four-and-a-half hours, with engagements at National Library and Victoria Memorial. “While Alipore Road, Belvedere Road, DL Khan Road along with a portion of AJC Bose Road will remain out of bounds for traffic at different points of time, CR Avenue will see limited restrictions on need basis in both north and central Kolkata due to the rally. Restrictions are likely on Bhupendra Bose Avenue and Jatindra Mohan Avenue a little after noon. “CM Mamata Banerjee will pay her tribute to Netaji at Shyambazar around 12.15pm,” a police officer said. With the final-day rehearsals for Republic Day scheduled on Friday, there will be a security blanket around Maidan and Race Course from Friday morning itself. “With the R-Day parade on Red Road on Tuesday, we will keep a presence in the area even on Sunday and Monday. The police briefing assigning roles to each officer during the VIP programmes will be held on Friday after the rehearsals. There will be considerable security cover at Netaji Bhavan on Saturday and the area is likely to witness some temporary restrictions in traffic movement if required,” said an officer. Police sources said that with Saturday being a holiday, they are not expecting too many hiccups in traffic movement. “It is, however, advisable to ascertain the route diversions and traffic pressure before venturing to central Kolkata on January 23 and R-Day,” said an officer at Lalbazar. The police personnel will be placing the barricades well ahead of the programmes, a Lalbazar source said. “Adequate security arrangements will be made for the PM’s scheduled visit to the city. There will be barricades along the roads wherever he travels. An extra security cover will be put in place alongside roads to keep a check on possible protesters,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/diversions-ahead-city-braces-for-weekend-traffic-restrictions/articleshow/80392919.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 22, 2021||Indore||Vaccination drive in full swing: Over 62% turnout in Madhya Pradesh on Day 4||BHOPAL: As many as 922 people were administered the coronavirus vaccine in the state capital, on the fourth day of the drive on Thursday. While 1,541 people were called for the vaccination, 59.83% turned up. The higher percentage was also attributed to one less vaccination site on Thursday when only 11 centres were administering the vaccine instead of 12 the previous day. Some health workers arrived for the vaccination even before 9 am on Thursday. The scheduled time of dose administration is from 9 am to 5 pm. Much of the rush was seen after lunch. Higher numbers in queues were seen between 1 pm and 2 pm. Only 393 health workers were vaccinated at all 11 centres till 1 pm. The figure reached 561 an hour later. Around 168 doses were distributed per hour after lunch across most session sites. It has been observed that most health workers reach vaccination centres after OPD hours. Interestingly, instead of a targeted 100 doses, the GMC site vaccinated 119 people. Dr Neelesh Mehrotra of Gandhi Medical College (GMC) said, “Vaccination has to be administered. There were no second thoughts about it. It should hold true for my other colleagues.” Dr Mehrotra is a senior resident in the medical college and associated with Hamidia hospital. A number of postgraduate and senior residents were also administered the dose on Thursday. “There are no apprehensions in getting coronavirus vaccination. I got a phone call and went to the vaccination site to get the first dose on Thursday,” said GMC department of medicine, senior resident, Dr Paras Satyadev. GMC’s department of medicine caters to critical COVID-19 care patients. More than 3,000 such patients have been treated in the tertiary care hospital since April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/60-turn-up-at-11-centres-in-bhopal-to-get-the-jab/articleshow/80398107.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Bhopal||Vaccination drive in full swing: Over 62% turnout in Madhya Pradesh on Day 4||BHOPAL: As many as 922 people were administered the coronavirus vaccine in the state capital, on the fourth day of the drive on Thursday. While 1,541 people were called for the vaccination, 59.83% turned up. The higher percentage was also attributed to one less vaccination site on Thursday when only 11 centres were administering the vaccine instead of 12 the previous day. Some health workers arrived for the vaccination even before 9 am on Thursday. The scheduled time of dose administration is from 9 am to 5 pm. Much of the rush was seen after lunch. Higher numbers in queues were seen between 1 pm and 2 pm. Only 393 health workers were vaccinated at all 11 centres till 1 pm. The figure reached 561 an hour later. Around 168 doses were distributed per hour after lunch across most session sites. It has been observed that most health workers reach vaccination centres after OPD hours. Interestingly, instead of a targeted 100 doses, the GMC site vaccinated 119 people. Dr Neelesh Mehrotra of Gandhi Medical College (GMC) said, “Vaccination has to be administered. There were no second thoughts about it. It should hold true for my other colleagues.” Dr Mehrotra is a senior resident in the medical college and associated with Hamidia hospital. A number of postgraduate and senior residents were also administered the dose on Thursday. “There are no apprehensions in getting coronavirus vaccination. I got a phone call and went to the vaccination site to get the first dose on Thursday,” said GMC department of medicine, senior resident, Dr Paras Satyadev. GMC’s department of medicine caters to critical COVID-19 care patients. More than 3,000 such patients have been treated in the tertiary care hospital since April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/60-turn-up-at-11-centres-in-bhopal-to-get-the-jab/articleshow/80393971.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Coimbatore||Man arrested for uploading morphed photo of minister in Facebook||COIMBATORE: A DMK functionary was arrested by the Pollachi (west) police on Thursday for defaming municipal administration minister SP Velumany by uploading morphed photographs of the minister on Facebook. The arrested person has been identified as R Navaneetha Krishnan, 40, of Mahalingapuram in Pollachi. The DMK youth wing’s south district deputy organizer was booked under sections 294 (b), 323, 417, 504, 505 (1) (2) and 506 (ii) of the Indian Penal Code. R Selvaraj, 52, a member of AIADMK from Pollachi, lodged a complaint with the Pollachi (west) police station on Wednesday. In his complaint, Selvaraj said morphed photographs of minister SP Velumani and women were uploaded by Krishnan on Facebook with the intention of defaming the minister. Selvaraj went to Mahalingapuram on Wednesday night and questioned Krishnan for defaming the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-uploading-morphed-photo-of-minister-in-fb/articleshow/80393981.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Surat||Surat cop rescues textile businessman trying to jump off 4th floor||SURAT: Had PSI Daksha Rohit and police constable Ranchhod Rabari delayed their decision, it would have been a different tale for 46-year-old textile businessman, Mahendra Utigar. However, the cops’ quick action and a little push from providence saved the financially-harassed Bhatar resident from jumping off the fourth floor of Shree Mahavir Textile Market on Puna Kumbhariya road on Wednesday night. PSI Rohit and her team reached the spot within seven minutes. Upset with a shop owner delaying payment of Rs 4 lakh for the past few months, Utigar decided to take kill himself from a window ledge, cops said. The poolice control room received a call from security staff of SMTM at around 9.19 pm that a man is hanging from a window and refusing to get in. When security guards tried to force Utigar to leave the building, he took a scissor from the shop and went out of the window. The incident, which was captured on CCTV camera, shows how he was standing on narrow space out of a window on the fourth floor of Utigar was holding the window frame with one hand and a scissor in another to attack anyone if they attempt to rescue him. Rohit was not in uniform and that helped her get close to Utigar to discuss the issue. Utigar did not allow other cops in uniform to come closer to him. While she diverting Utigar’s attention, she held on to his hand when Rabari and their colleague, Kana Vaja, pulled him in. Utigar told the police that he came to the market to inquire about the pending Rs 4 lakh from Rajni Vasoya of Best One Creation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cop-rescues-textile-bizman-trying-to-jump-off-4th-floor/articleshow/80391669.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Witnesses feted by the police||Hyderabad: East Zone joint CP M Ramesh Reddy felicitated Abdul Aijaz, Md Zahid and Md Imran whose statements as witnesses in a murder case led to life conviction of the accused recently. The witnesses have told police that each of them were offered Rs 1 lakh to favour the accused. But the trio refused the offer saying they want justice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/witnesses-feted-by-the-police/articleshow/80393979.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to hold HSC exams from April 23 & SSC from April 29||MUMBAI: Ending uncertainty for scores of students, school education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Thursday announced that HSC (Class XII) examinations in the state will be held from April 23-May 29, while SSC (Class X) exams will be held from April 29-May 31. While HSC exam results are expected by the last week of July, SSC results are likely to be out in the last week of August.  Speaking to the media, Gaikwad said practical exams for HSC students have been scheduled between April 1 and April 22, and for SSC between April 9 and April 28.  The offline written exams are being permitted subject to all Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Centre and the state public health department being strictly followed, said the minister. If students are required to be quarantined during that period, they can appear for re-examination, which will be held after the main board exam, she said. The minister had earlier said the latest the board examinations can be held is the first week of May, as the monsoon would then set in. Schools were allowed to resume physical sessions for classes IX to XII from November 23. “As on January 4, attendance of about 15.7 lakh students was registered in 19,524 schools, which increased to 21.7 lakh students in 21,287 schools, on January 18. So, 76% students are attending schools,” the minister said. With the board exam dates now announced, Mumbai schools, too, want their students to have at least a few days of physical classes. “Many students don’t have access to e-learning and mobile phones. They are losing out on academics. If they have to be prepared for their board exams in April, they must have at least a few months in the classroom,” said the principal of a Kandivali school. Cambridge International schools which begin board exams later this month have also demanded they be allowed to reopen. The BMC has, however, asked schools to remain shut till further notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-to-hold-hsc-exams-from-april-23-ssc-from-april-29/articleshow/80394054.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC dismisses Sonu Sood’s plea against notice in Juhu building case||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Thursday dismissed an appeal filed by actor Sonu Sood for interim relief against a notice issued by the Mumbai civic corporation over alleged illegal alterations by him to a Juhu residential building to run it as a commercial hotel. Sood had filed an appeal against the dismissal of his plea by the city civil court on December 19, 2020, for protection from a demolition notice issued last October by the corporation. The city court said “illegality has been detected and crystallised” by the BMC officer and hence the notice was proper. Justice Prithviraj Chavan of the HC declined a plea by the actor’s lawyer Amogh Singh for restraining the BMC from taking any further action based on the notice. The actor wanted 10 weeks to comply with the notice and sought a stay on the notice, which the HC declined, saying “the ball” was in the civic administration’s office. The judge said on Sood’s request for a stay, “You are too late. The law gives ample opportunity and you have to be diligent.” Singh had argued that Sood was being “singled out” by the BMC and denied any illegal construction in violation of permissions. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), through senior counsel Anil Sakhare, had sought dismissal of his plea and submitted that Sood’s plea for protection against demolition of his Juhu property was a “mala fide attempt and an abuse of process” to protect “an ex-facie illegal commercial hotel which has been constructed and modified” by him contrary to the sanctioned building plan. The hotel is in “violation of the provisions of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning (MRTP) Act and the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act and is operating in absence of any licence,” the BMC had stated in an affidavit filed before the high court in response to his appeal and interim application for relief against civic action in the matter. It had issued the actor a Section 53(1) notice under the MRTP Act (power to seek removal of unauthorised development) which allows for 30 days to the owner to comply with the notice before passing an order. The muncipal corporation had also said that the actor had made “baseless allegations of harassment and malafides” against it. The BMC said the actor moved court in haste as a “strategy” and was a “habitual offender” and has been unable to show any documents to prove permission. Sood had “not disputed that there is no permission of change of user and that there is no licence to run the commercial hotel” in Shakti Sagar building of six floors, the BMC had argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-dismisses-sonu-soods-plea-against-notice-in-juhu-bldg-case/articleshow/80394000.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Accountant dupes co of Rs 1 crore, booked||Police on Tuesday registered an FIR against a senior accountant of an Andheri-based pharma company for allegedly siphoning off Rs 1.4 crore from the company’s account from 2014 to 2019. Sunil Lande made a fake ledger entry that showed money being paid to different travel companies that did not exist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/accountant-dupes-co-of-rs-1cr-booked/articleshow/80395390.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 22, 2021||Goa||Unite in House to oppose coal imports, Alemao urges MLAs||Margao: Reiterating his anti-coal stance, Benaulim MLA Churchill Alemao on Thursday called for a unanimous resolution in the Goa legislative assembly by all 40 MLAs opposing any increase in coal imports into Goa. Alemao said that as Goa is the world-renowned tourist destination, coal pollution would have adverse effect on the state’s tourism industry. “Opposition leader Digambar Kamat is against coal imports, and so is Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai. Chief minister Pramod Sawant has assured the House that the coal handling (in Goa) would be reduced by 50%. So, I urge all the parties and all MLAs to take an unanimous resolution to the effect that no coal would be imported into Goa in addition to the current import figures, as otherwise, Goa’s tourism will be doomed,” he said, while addressing media persons. Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) currently handles 10-12 million tonnes per annum (MTPA). Under the master plan report for Goa, MPT is envisaged as a coal/coke import hub with a projected capacity of 51 MTPA by 2035 to cater to existing and proposed steel plants in and around Karnataka’s hinterland. In November, Sawant had said that it is difficult to halt coal transportation since there were 2,500 families and 4,500 pensioners, who were dependent on the activity for their livelihood. Goa has been rocked by protests over the double-tracking of South Western Railway line to Vasco. Protesters have alleged that these projects are undertaken to help the coal handling companies transport their cargo from MPT. Alemao urged all the MLAs to sink their differences and come together over the coal issue by supporting the resolution which, he said, he would move in the upcoming assembly session. If the Bill is passed unanimously in the House, Alemao said, “it will be binding upon the government at the Centre, whichever party may be in power, to honour the resolution,” and that thus the coal issue of Goa would be resolved. Referring to questions raised from certain quarters over his absence from the recent public meeting at Lohia maidan, Margao, where the opposition parties slammed the government over the three proposed linear projects, the lone NCP MLA said he was not invited for the meeting. “Had I been invited, I would have expressed my views,” he said. NCP state president Jose Philip D’Souza, however, had attended the public meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/unite-in-house-to-oppose-coal-imports-alemao-urges-mlas/articleshow/80394031.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Nashik||Petrol price rise hurts people’s spending||Nashik: The rise in petrol prices has hit consumers hard as though they are shelling out same amount of money, they are getting lesser fuel in the tanks. The quantity of petrol sold in the city has gone down, by 2 to 3%, in the past few days as the fuel rates touched all-time high. Vijay Thakre, vice-president, federation of all Maharashtra petrol dealers’ association (FAMPEDA), said, “People are spending the same amount of money for buying petrol as they used to earlier when the price was lesser. But the quantity they are getting has reduced due to rising prices. This is being reflected in the sale of this month,” said Thakre. Bhushan Bholse, president of Nashik district petrol dealers' association, said that the sale of petrol and diesel had been affected during the last nine months due to Covid pandemic. “People have already reduced their outings and tourism has also been affected. Now, the rise in fuel prices has also affected the petrol sale,” said Bholse. On Thursday, the petrol and diesel prices remained the same in the city as they were on Wednesday. While the petrol is being sold at Rs 92.26 per litre, diesel is being sold at Rs 81.34 per litre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/petrol-price-rise-hurts-peoples-spending/articleshow/80392948.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||KTR will be a one-year CM: BJP||Hyderabad: Telangana BJP vice president NVSS Prabhakar on Thursday said TRS working president KT Rama Rao, if anointed as chief minister, will remain in office only for a year. He alleged that large-scale corruption was taking place in land allotment to industries. TNNAlleging that large-scale corruption is taking place in land allotments to industries, Prabhakar urged governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to take note of this and question KTR||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-will-be-a-one-year-cm-bjp/articleshow/80393983.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: After slow start, 73% turnout gives vaccination-drive a booster shot||NEW DELHI: There was a dramatic rise in the turnout of healthcare workers for Covid-19 vaccination in Delhi on Thursday. Over 73% of those listed for the injection turned up at the 81 vaccination centres, an optimistic about-turn from the dismal attendance in the three earlier rounds. Altogether 5,942 people of the 8,100 scheduled received the jab. Many people not listed for vaccination on the day also opted for the prick after the government allowed walk-in vaccination. Only 24 recipients of the vaccine reported minor reactions. Three of them had to be hospitalised. According to a government report, two of the 274 people administered Covaxin at six centres complained of side-effects and were hospitalised, while 22 of 5,668 people given Covishield at 75 centres did the same, and one required hospitalisation. A Lok Nayak Hospital official said one individual admitted in the hospital was stable. A Delhi government health department official said most of those vaccinated had resumed work as normal and the percentage of people reporting adverse events was very low. Efforts are under way to persuade more healthcare workers to get the shots and officials believe the turnout will increase in the coming days. A government official, “We hadn’t been trained to handle walk-in vaccination candidates. Many arrived and Thursday’s turnout was high.” At Lok Nayak Hospital, all 100 of the 100 listed for the procedure got the shot. Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, the inoculated healthcare workers included 18 walk-ins. “We have been encouraging the workers to accept the vaccine because it is totally safe,” said Kumar. The fourth day of the vaccination drive saw a good turnout in the hospitals where staff of government dispensaries and aaganwadi and Asha workers and prison staff had to report for the injection. At DDU Hospital, Manoj Jakhad, a municipal corporation dispensary staff, brightly reported, “I am happy at being vaccinated because I have to work with people on the ground.” Mukesh Kumar and his four colleagues reached Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya Hospital around noon after receiving a phone call informing them of their turn in the vaccination booth. “Either today or another day, we have to take the vaccine,” said Kumar. Friend Sulekha added, “Our chance to get vaccinated came early. At least, now if we get more Covid-related duties, we can work without feeling scared.” Dr Chhavi Gupta, outsourcing head at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, walked in to be jabbed and claimed that many healthcare workers were willing to get the shot but their names were not being selected by the Co-WIN app. They plan now to walk in for the injections, she said. Abhishek Mishra, senior resident, orthopaedic department, Lok Nayak Hospital, also volunteered for the vaccination on Thursday. “It’s better to get vaccinated for our own safety. The process is easy and comfortable,” he said. Dr Raman Grover, 64, medical officer in charge of the maternal and childcare centre at Katra Neel in Chandni Chowk, went to Lok Nayak Hospital for his chance at protection. She said, “We have faith in the system and vaccine. If we don’t take the shot, people will think we are evading the vaccine. We have to set an example for others.” AAP MLA Raghav Chadha reviewed the programme at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. “As CM Arvind Kejriwal has said, we must believe when the experts say the vaccine is safe to use,” Chadha said. “It would serve everyone well to not fall in the trap of rumour mongers.” Watch Delhi: 73% turnout of healthcare workers for vaccination drive||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-slow-start-73-turnout-gives-v-drive-a-booster-shot/articleshow/80394023.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Coimbatore||16.5kg gold seized in Coimbatore airport in 2020||COIMBATORE: The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence has seized 16.5kg of gold worth about Rs 8.65 crore smuggled through the Coimbatore International Airport from gulf countries last year. Of the 21 passengers arrested, 15 became smugglers as they didn’t have enough money to buy flight tickets to reach India. “These 15 passengers were either working or travelling with tourist visa in gulf countries. The Covid-19 pandemic forced them to return to India, but they didn’t have enough money to buy tickets. Knowing this, the passengers were approached by gold smugglers who offered to bear their travel expenses if they accepted to carry gold,” a senior official said. People who visit foreign countries on tourist visa cannot carry gold ornaments into the country. If they stay for more than six months, they can bring a few sovereigns of gold from abroad. However, the carriers floated all the rules and often travelled abroad and returned with smuggled gold. In 2018, DRI officials arrested 12 people and seized 15.4kg of smuggled gold worth Rs 4.96 crore and six were arrested with 11.2kg smuggled gold worth Rs 4.43 crore in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/16-5kg-gold-seized-in-city-airport-in-2020/articleshow/80393986.cms||A Subburaj
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Sixteen illegal immigrants held||Sixteen foreign nationals were arrested from Nalasopara for staying in India months after their visas expired. Three police teams raided three residential buildings in Nalasopara (E), where illegal immigrants from Nigeria, Uganda and other African countries were found. Owners of the buildings have been summoned by police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sixteen-illegal-immigrants-held/articleshow/80395461.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata municipal corporation experts to help New Town get rid of mosquitoes||KOLKATA: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) is taking up mosquito-control measures in New Town and surrounding areas, including Sector V. Recently, a meeting was held with entomologists of Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) to find out ways to control the menace in the township. It was decided in the meeting that the agency that has been engaged by NKDA for fogging and spraying larvicide across New Town will consult the entomologists in presence of NKDA officials to work out on the plan. The KMC’s team of entomologists will visit New Town soon to look into problems and come up with solutions. The fluctuation in temperature is helping mosquitoes to grow in numbers, an NKDA official said. It has been decided that mosquito magnet traps will be installed in Sector V, where the mosquito menace seems to have increased in leaps and bounds. NKDA had earlier installed these magnets at four places in New Town — Eco Park, the open air theatre of Nazrul Tirtha, the open lawn of Rabindra Tirtha and Eco Urban Village — to trap mosquitoes. TimesViewAny measure that can minimise the mosquito menace is welcome. This and the sudden changes in weather have added to the disease worries of a city already dealing with the coronavirus.NKDA officials said they were optimising larvicide spraying and fogging across the township, with special attention on larvae killing on the canal banks. “A green drive will be taken on the canal banks to remove weeds and other biomass accumulation that are potential mosquito-breeding sources,” an official said. Moreover, mosquito nets will be used at construction sites and guppy fish will be released in water bodies on a weekly basis. Entomologist Gautam Chandra, whom NKDA authorities had earlier consulted, said that mosquito that could be seen now is mostly of Culex species that breeds in unclean water during this season. “This mosquito heavily breeds during this time and can fly up to 5km,” he said. Residents of the township have already grown tired of the mosquito menace. People are finding it difficult to even stand for a few minutes on the streets. “The situation has become unbearable. We cannot stand or sit in the open. Fogging seems to be the only way to somewhat control the situation,” said Swapan Kumar Ghosh, a resident of New Town Action Area 1. “Vacant plots and under-construction buildings have turned into breeding grounds for mosquitoes. Precautionary measures need to be taken at these sites,” said Samaresh Das, chairperson of New Town Forum and News (NTFN), a local NGO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-experts-to-help-new-town-get-rid-of-mosquitoes/articleshow/80392928.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 22, 2021||Surat||SCET labs gets NABL accreditation||Surat: Sarvajanik College of Engineering and Technology (SCET) has obtained accreditation from National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) for its laboratories.“This recent accreditation is as per ISO IEC 17025: 2017 standards, which are the most recent and improved standards over the previous standards. With these standards, our laboratory becomes one of few in the city to have such accreditation,” said the quality manager of the laboratory, professor Himanshu Padhya.“With increasing awareness towards the conservation of the environment, such laboratories with high standards are the need of the day. Such facilities are constantly in demand for rapidly developing urban areas like Surat,” said Kamlesh Yagnik, chairman, Sarvajanik Education Society. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/scet-labs-gets-nabl-accreditation/articleshow/80391720.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Nashik||Standing panel calls for meeting of all 6 divisional officials||Nashik: All six divisional officers (DO) of the Nashik Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) will have a meeting with the standing committee as the panel members have accused the DOs of ignoring the recommendations made by them for development activities in their wards. Congress corporator Rahul Diwe raised the issue during the standing committee meeting on Thursday, saying many corporators are unhappy with the way these DOs are functioning. Taking cognizance of this, chairman of the standing committee Ganesh Gite has called a meeting of all six divisional officers of the civic body on Monday. The six DOs from Nashik East, Nashik West, Panchavati, Satpur, Nashik Road and Cidco divisions will now attend the meeting together for the first time. “There have been many issues like encroachment, water connection, levy of property tax, water leakages, gardens, among others. Moreover, they also have power to spend up to Rs 50,000 on maintenance works,” Diwe said. “We have received complaints from some corproators against the divisional officers regarding the way they are responding to development works in their wards. Hence, we asked standing committee chairman to call a meeting of all the six DOs,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/standing-panel-calls-for-meeting-of-all-6-divisional-officials/articleshow/80392989.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 22, 2021||Pune||Residents blame bypass work delay for Undri traffic troubles||PUNE: Residents are peeved at the traffic bottleneck and snarls at Undri Chowk during peak hours due to the long delay in the concreting of the six-lane Katraj-Kondhwa bypass. Illegal constructions and encroachments are only adding to residents’ commute woes along the bypass from Khadi Machine Chowk to Mantarwadi Phata passing through Undri. Businessman Ramchandra Agarwal said, “Driving between Undri Chowk and Pisoli is a nightmare. It sometimes takes an hour to cover the stretch, less than a kilometre long, because of the pathetic road condition.” Agarwal said he could recollect at least five-to-six fatal accidents on the bypass in the past three years. “One cannot drive at a speed beyond 10km per hour. The heavy vehicles are a threat. Motorcycle riders are most at risk. A couple of years ago, a woman skidded off her two-wheeler and came straight under the wheels of a truck.” Amit Shah, also a businessman, said, “ There is no space to park vehicles. There are no signals and speed breakers. Breakdown of heavy vehicles, tyre burst, digging of roads to lay drainage and water pipelines, encroachments and illegal hawkers trigger traffic congestion.” Activist Rajendra Bhintade said, “The public works department has served notices to remove encroachments for widening of the road. We had staged agitations to decongest the junction, but nothing happened. I had to spend money to fix the potholes after a businessman recently died in an accident.” Local resident Sitaram More suggested, “Traffic congestion between Undri and Kadanagar chowks can be curbed if dividers are installed and more policemen are deployed” Assistant inspector Lekhaji Shinde from Kondhwa traffic police said, “The road concreting project between Mantarwadi Phata and Khadi Machine has resumed. Once the work is over by April-end, traffic is likely to be smooth.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/residents-blame-bypass-work-delay-for-undri-traffic-troubles/articleshow/80394049.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||CoWin glitches mar vax drive, target goes for a toss||HYDERABAD: The Covid-19 vaccination drive was either delayed or slowed down at several vaccination centers across the city as glitches in the CoWin app persisted on Thursday. TOI’s visit to Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) at Panjagutta and Government Chest Hospital at S R Nagar on Thursday revealed that authorities had to either wait until the server problem was resolved or shift from one place to another until they could find a signal. At the vaccination session centre set up at the first floor of Millenium block at NIMS, one of the staff nurses on duty had informed that they had to wait nearly two hours to start the vaccination programme. “This is the only room in which the vaccination officials are able to get the signal for the CoWin app. We had to shift from one to room to another to check if the server connectivity was working. Beneficiaries came on time but they had to wait for nearly two hours before vaccination process started,” the staff nurse told TOI, on condition of anonymity. Similarly, at another vaccination session centre at the hospital’s Integrated Wellness Centre, staff nurses who were waiting in a queue in front of the vaccination room said that there was a delay in starting the vaccination process because they were trying to update the details of the beneficiaries directly on the app instead of taking down details manually. “The initial delay was due to a problem in connectivity of the CoWin app. It is working fine now,” said Dr Kranthi Kumar, vaccination officer at NIMS Integrated Wellness Center. Meanwhile, at the Government Chest Hospital, the vaccination staff who were seen attending beneficiaries without a gap on the first three days of the vaccination drive were seen sitting idle on Thursday. Most beneficiaries who showed up at the centre early in the morning had to go back without getting the shot due to the server problem, officials said. “While our target was to vaccinate 100 beneficiaries today, we could vaccinate only 20 due to the delay in starting the vaccination process. The delay was due to the technical glitches in the app. We started the process at 1 pm today (Thursday), instead of 9.30 am,” said Dr Mahboob Khan, adding that they are expecting an increase in beneficiaries from Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cowin-glitches-mar-vax-drive-target-goes-for-a-toss/articleshow/80394051.cms||Moulika.KV
January 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Will raise mining mafia issue in assembly session: Cheema||Patiala: Leader of opposition (LoP) in the Punjab Legislative Assembly, Harpal Singh Cheema, said Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) would take up the issue of the mining mafia in the forthcoming assembly session. He also said the party would “expose chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh as the kingpin of all mafias.” On Thursday, he visited some illegal mining sites in the villages of Ghanaur constituency in Patiala district with state treasurer Neena Mittal and other party workers. Slamming Captain Amarinder Singh, Cheema said the liquor mafia, mining mafia and other types of mafia ran under the patronage of Amarinder at his wife Preneet Kaur's constituency in Patiala. “Captain, his ministers and MLAs are responsible for all kinds of ‘mafias’ flourishing in Punjab, in which he also has his share,” said Cheema. He said the administration looked the other way as illegal mining was done in villages, where there were 30 to 30 feet deep pits. The opposition leader alleged that a few village residents told him that police registered false cases against them and put them behind bars if they tried to oppose the mining mafia. Introducing two children whose father was allegedly booked and lodged in jail for calling out the mining mafia, Cheema said the issue would be raised with the DGP. “Captain is now pushing the mining mafia model started by Sukhbir Singh Badal. Earlier, the Badal family used to take big money from the mafia and now Capt Amarinder is filling his pockets,” he asserted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/will-raise-mining-mafia-issue-in-assembly-session-cheema/articleshow/80394036.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Pune||Pune: Five die in fire at Serum plant, Covishield unit not affected||PUNE: Five workers were killed in a major fire that broke out at Serum Institute of India’s (SII) vaccine manufacturing plant at Manjari near Hadapsar here around 2.30pm on Thursday. Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta told TOI, “Five charred bodies were found at the site. We are investigating the matter.” Police said preliminary information revealed that the five were among workers hired by a contractor for some civil work, including electrical and pipe fitting jobs, on the sixth and topmost floor of the facility. After the fire brigade put off the blaze, the contractor reported that some of his men were missing and their bodies were found during a search. SII announced Rs 25 lakh each to the families of the victims. State health minister Rajesh Tope, who took an update of the incident from district collector Rajesh Deshmukh, told TOI, “Prima facie, welding work at the plant firing up installation material has been ascertained as the cause of the fire. I want to reiterate that the Covishield vaccine plant is far away from the site that caught fire. There are absolutely no losses of the Covid vaccine.” Adar Poonawalla, owner and chief executive officer of SII, posted on his official Twitter handle: “We have just received some distressing updates; upon further investigation we have learnt that there has unfortunately been some loss of life at the incident. We are deeply saddened and offer our deepest condolences to the family members of the departed.” Poonawalla later told TOI, “The Rotavirus vaccine facility, where the fire broke out, was an additional manufacturing unit that got damaged in the blaze. Covishield production will not get affected, as our plant has multiple manufacturing units.” Rotaviruses are the most common cause of diarrhoeal disease among infants and young children. Cyrus Poonawalla, chairman and managing director of SII, said in a statement: “Today (Thursday) is an extremely sorrowful day for all of us at SII. Regrettably, there were losses of lives in the fire that broke out in our under-installation facility situated at the special economic zone at Manjari.” He said, “We are deeply saddened and offer our condolences to the families of the departed. In this regard, we will be offering a compesation of Rs25 lakh to each of the (victims) family, in addition to the mandated amount as per the norms. We would like to extend our gratitude to everyone for their concern and prayers in these distressing times.” On Thursday evening, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, who is also Pune’s district guardian minister, visited SII. “The Pune police commissioner has been told to conduct a thorough inquiry into the fire incident,” he said. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also took an update about the incident from Poonawalla and would visit the fire-hit plant on Friday, a release issued by the former’s office said. The blaze engulfed the building from the third to sixth floor. There were conflicting versions about whether the fire started from the third floor or the sixth. The authorities were verifying details, apart from the cause of the fire. A crowd of local residents and onlookers gathered around the facility, as plumes of thick smoke billowed out of the blaze-hit building. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol told reporters at the site, “The charred bodies were found on the sixth floor during a search operation after the fire brigade personnel put off the blaze (following over two hours of struggle).” Factory manager Vivek Pradhan said the fire broke out at the Rotavirus laboratory located on the third floor where a stock of BCG vaccine was stored. He said, “Some electrical and pipe fitting work was in progress. At least four workers engaged by a civil contractor, who were stuck on the terrace, were rescued by fire brigade personnel.” Prashant Ranpise, chief fire officer of the Pune Municipal Commission, told TOI, “Most of the BCG vaccines were kept in an airtight glass cabin on the third floor. Our firemen found it tough to bring the blaze under control.” District collector Rajesh Deshmukh took an update about the fire from SII executive director Suresh Jadhav. SII is manufacturing Covishield in India. The vaccine is developed by UK’s Oxford University and British-Swedish multinational pharmaceutical AstraZeneca. Covishield is among the only two vaccines granted emergency use approvals in India for a country-wide vaccination drive that was launched on January 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5-die-in-fire-at-serum-plant-covishield-unit-not-affected/articleshow/80394034.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||DJ and rapper arrested by NCB as raids continue, search on for aide of don’s kin||Mumbai: Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday arrested Rahul Verma, a DJ and rapper, and Zakir Shaikh, an associate of underworld don, the late Karim Lala’s grandson Chinku Pathan, for manufacturing and selling narcotic drugs. NCB had arrested Pathan on Tuesday. NCB, in two days’ raids in Mumbai and Navi Mumbai, seized drugs, weapons, two high-end cars and Rs 2.1 crore. It launched a manhunt for Pathan’s key accomplice, Arif Bhujwala, from whose house officials seized 5.7kg of mephedrone, 1kg methamphetamine and 6.1kg ephedrine. Officials found a ‘laboratory’ below Bhujwala’s house, where a huge stash of packaging material, utensils, weighing machines and other apparatus used to manufacture the contraband, were found. “Pathan and Bhujwala used to mix drugs, pack them in small packets and paste stickers declaring them as sugar. We suspect the accused hid drugs among other material and export it mis-declaring it,” said an official. NCB also seized 3gm heroin and 52gm mephedrone from Shaikh’s residence in Dongri. On a tip-off the team led by zonal director Sameer Wankhede raided Pathan’s house in Ghansoli, Navi Mumbai, and arrested him and recovered a pistol. “Rahul Verma is suspected to be a supplier of MD for Pathan. Later, we conducted raids at his associate Bhujwala’s residence at Noor Manzil building, Dongri. It led to the recovery of an automatic blank revolver, unaccounted cash (Rs 2.1 crore), believed to be sale proceeds from illegal drug-trafficking,’’said an official. NCB is likely to initiate action against Bhujwala’s family as they allowed him to flee. Sources said on Wednesday, when the team reached there, family members did not open the door for long time. He jumped out of the window, an official said. Pathan, Verma and Shaikh were produced before a Navi Mumbai court which remanded them to NCB custody for six days. They have been charged under sections of NDPS Act for producing, manufacturing, possessing, selling, purchasing, transporting, consuming, importing/exporting narcotic drugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dj-and-rapper-arrested-by-ncb-as-raids-continue-search-on-for-aide-of-dons-kin/articleshow/80394062.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 22, 2021||Ludhiana||Frontline workers during pandemic honoured||Ludhiana: The district administration on Thursday honoured frontline workers who had worked hard and wholeheartedly during the peak of Covid-19 pandemic in the district. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma was the chief guest on the occasion. A brief function in this regard was organised in the mini-hall of Guru Nanak Bhavan here. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal, ADC (development) Sandeep Kumar, ADC (general) Amarjit Bains, Prem Gupta and Dr Bishav Mohan from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Sachit Jain from Vardhman Steels, besides a large number of senior government officials were present on the occasion. The DC specially appreciated the role of Ludhiana police in the distribution of langar and essential commodities, along with maintaining law and order. He also appreciated the role of ADC (D) Sandeep Kumar for keeping a liaison with the private hospitals and it was due to his dedicated efforts that the number of beds in private hospitals rose from 120 to 1,200 after he joined. He also thanked the members of Sanjeevani group for providing much needed medical advice related to treatment at that point in time. Sharma also thanked the NGOs for playing a pro-active role in all aspects of controlling the pandemic. ADC (D) Sandeep Kumar, who is also the nodal officer for Covid-19 for the district, said that it was a matter of great pride that maximum number of testing was done in the district as compared to all other districts of the state. Agrawal said that out of around 4,500 police personnel under police commissionerate, Ludhiana, around 450 got affected by Covid-19 and two of their officials died while performing their duties at that time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/frontline-workers-during-pandemic-honoured/articleshow/80392990.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Delhi||Vaccine numbers shoot up as Delhi govt allows walk-ins||NEW DELHI: Many healthcare workers queued up at Covid-19 vaccination centres to receive the protective jab even when their names weren’t on the scheduled list of beneficiaries on Thursday after Delhi government permitted walk-in vaccinations. Several hospitals said this led to an increase in the turnout and assured minimum wastage of opened vaccine vials. Health minister Satyendar Jain said the government has allowed walk-in vaccinations to improve the turnout and to ensure all health workers got protection from the viral scourge. On Tuesday, only 48.7% of the healthcare workers scheduled to get the shot turned up at the vaccination centres. A low turnout leads to wastage of vaccine because once a vial is opened, all the 10 doses it holds must be used within a few hours. Without the required number of people to vaccinate, the leftover doses in the vials go waste. Eighteen healthcare workers lined up at Lok Nayak Hospital for the injection though their names were on the scheduled list for the day. Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak, explained, “The 18 people said they wanted to get the Covid shot, so the person managing the Co-WIN application located and listed their names in the app. Their identities were verified and when their credentials were all found to be true, they were permitted to receive the vaccine shots.” Kumar said that since 82 others also turned up for the vaccination, the hospital fully achieved the 100 shots target for the day. Dr Chhabi Gupta, outsourcing head at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, too was a walk-in volunteer. “New Covid cases are declining, but the threat persists and so, it is important to get inoculated. I took the shot voluntarily to encourage those working under me.” At Delhi State Cancer Institute, nodal officer for vaccination Dr Pragya Shukla reported 10 walk-ins on Thursday. “The healthcare workers were eager to get the shots, but their names hadn’t figured in the list produced by the Co-WIN app. Since the healthcare workers learned that the government had allowed people to walk in and get the jab, many are excited to proceed,” said Shukla. The daily list is produced by the Co-WIN app after randomly selecting healthcare workers from the master list of those enrolled by the state government. The list is sent to the hospitals from the district magistrates’ office 24 hours in advance and the hospitals call the scheduled people about their appointment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vax-numbers-shoot-up-as-govt-allows-walk-ins/articleshow/80394081.cms||AlokKNMishra
January 22, 2021||Amritsar||Punjab to come up with 2nd Jallianwala memorial||AMRITSAR: Over 100 years after the Jallianwala Bagh massacre, the Punjab government is going to lay the foundation stone for another memorial to those killed in firing by British troops on April 13 1919, at Amritsar’s Anand Amrit Park on January 25. The existing memorial at the massacre site has already undergone major revamp. The existing memorial was set up by the Government of India in 1951 to commemorate the killing of peaceful celebrators, including unarmed women and children, on the occasion of Baisakhi on April 13, 1919. It houses a museum, gallery and a number of memorial structures. TimesViewThe memorial at the massacre site is a testimony in stone to the killing of hundreds of unarmed people, which set off events that shaped India’s history. There cannot be another memorial like it. However, passage of time has also thrown up new information on the happenings. If a centenary monument is to be built, it could be a functional memorial like a library or research institute.For the new memorial, the Amritsar administration has asked the kin of martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh massacre to bring soil from their houses and native villages for mixing in the construction material of the memorial. "It will be the centenary memorial and its basic design has been conceptualized. It will be a separate one altogether," said Shivdular Singh Dhillon, adviser (tourism and cultural), while talking to TOI on Thursday. On whether there was any need to erect another memorial, he said, "The original Jallianwala Bagh is in the heart of the city. As a century has passed, it’s a kind of milestone in terms of history." The idea of erecting another memorial to Jallianwala Bagh, however, has not gone down well with many. Tarlochan Singh, one of the trustees of Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, said, "It’s a ridiculous idea that will only belittle the significance of the Jallianwala Bagh martyrs." Pointing out that a memorial is always erected at the place of occurrence of an event, he said the very idea of erecting a parallel memorial was "of those people who wanted cheap publicity". He added that they had preserved the narrow street through which British police had entered the park, there was a historical well into which people had jumped. "Everything is there, why do we need another memorial," he asked. However, Mahesh Behal, president of Jallianwala Bagh Shaheed Parivar Samiti, said there was no harm in erecting another memorial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-to-come-up-with-2nd-jallianwala-memorial/articleshow/80394024.cms||Yudhvir Rana
January 22, 2021||Goa||Activists urge SC panel to stop rail expansion project in Goa||PANAJI: Activists from the Village Action Committee against Double-Tracking (VACAD) have appealed to the Supreme Court’s Central Empowered Committee (CEC) to intervene and stop South Western Railway’s (SWR) Margao-Vasco double tracking project. VACAD, along with the Heritage Action Group, has conducted a study in the four villages of Arrosim, Velsao, Cansaulim and Pale. The activists also alleged that SWR and the Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd, which is executing the double tracking project, are harassing the locals by blocking access routes, gates and roads. “We requested for an opportunity to meet the CEC, but we got no response. It is our submission to them that not just the forests, but our villages and homes will be destroyed by this project,” Velsao resident Max de Souza said. Chairperson of Goa Heritage Action Group Heta Pandit said that the SWR’s double tracking project is based on a survey conducted by the Indian Railways in 1968. “This government has not addressed the concerns of the people. These heritage homes have structural cracks because of the existing rail track and the vibrations,” said Pandit. “People’s homes are blocked by keeping sleepers in front of their gates. SWRL is blocking homes, pathways and gates to harass people.” Architect Dean D’Cruz said that a significant part of the existing single track was within 500m of the high tide line and a part passes through no-development slopes notified in the Regional Plan 2021 which is important for agriculture, traditional fishing and tourism.” Mollem resident Krishna Zore said that no study has been done to evaluate the impact of the existing railway track on the forests. On January 22, the CEC team will conduct a site inspection of the proposed doubling of railway line from Tinaghat to Kulem by rail inspection car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/activists-urge-sc-panel-to-stop-rail-expansion-project/articleshow/80394085.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 22, 2021||Ludhiana||MC seizes 4 quintal of plastic carry bags, challans 80||Ludhiana: The municipal corporation officials once again started a drive against banned plastic carry bags in the city and on Thursday, issued as many as 80 challans to the violators in various markets. Around 4 quintal of plastic carry bags were also seized from the spot. It was under a 15-day-long swachhta programme that the officials launched this drive, where two teams were formed in each zone for carrying out the special drive. The drive was carried out in vegetable markets, shops and nearby markets, where plastic carry bags had been kept by shopkeepers. The officials claimed that they would destroy these carry bags in a systematic manner. The team in zone A issued 20 challans and seized 1.5 quintal of plastic carry bags, teams from zone B issued 10 challans after seizing 10 kgs of plastic carry bags. In zone C, 33 challans were issued and 80 kg of plastic carry bags were also seized and in zone D, 17 challans were issued to the violators and 1.6 quintal of plastic carry bags were seized. Before Covid-19, the regular drive of the MC was going on against plastic carry bags, but during the lockdown the drive came to a halt and people again started using the plastic carry bags without any check. Now, it will be seen whether this time the drive will be conducted on regular basis or it will be done only for a few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-seizes-4-quintal-of-plastic-carry-bags-challans-80/articleshow/80392995.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Pune||Autorickshaws start plying by the meter in PCMC limits||Pune: Autorickshaw drivers in Pimpri Chinchwad have finally started charging passengers by the meter. The move comes as a huge relief to residents and authorities alike. For the past 14 years, the traffic police had been negotiating with the autorickshaw drivers’ union to install meters on their vehicles. This was formalized at a programme held on Thursday at Babasaheb Ambedkar Chowk in Pimpri. Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash switched on the meter of an autorickshaw at the function and also took a short ride in the vehicle. Additional commissioner Ramnath Pokale, deputy commissioner (traffic) Sudhir Hiremath, assistant commissioner of police Shrikant Disale, deputy regional transport officer Atul Aade and Baba Kamble, president of the Maharashtra Riksha Panchayat, an autorickshaw drivers’ union, were present for the event. “Due to the scattered population and little to no guarantee of a return fare, we were not ready to charge passengers by the meter. The authorities had been urging us to switch to metered fare since 2006, but for various reasons, we refused to budge from our stand until now,” Kamble told TOI on Thursday.Kamble said the realization that Pimpri Chinchwad was fast turning into a metro city spurred the union to change its stance. “We had to move with the times and agree to charging as per the meter,” Kamble said.Kamble said they now expected the authorities to do more for the benefit of the autorickshaw drivers in the twin township.“Firstly, we have asked the authorities to make arrangements for more autorickshaw stands in Pimpri Chinchwad. Secondly, due to the Covid-induced lockdown, our autorickshaws were off the streets for a couple of months. This hurt our business, but banks and financial institutions continued to harass drivers for loan instalments. The police should look into the matter and help the drivers,” Kamble said.Commissioner Prakash said they would be writing to banks and financial institutions about the dire financial situation of the drivers. At the same time, the police chief said, the autorickshaw drivers must also follow the rules.The commissioner said passengers or drivers can register complaints, if any, on the traffic police’s social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, from January 26. ACP Disale said the process to convince the drivers to start plying as per the meter was not an easy one. “We had more than three rounds of meetings, besides holding talks at the level of each traffic zone,” Disale said.He said the drivers also sought action against autorickshaws plying illegally. “We are in talks with the authorities concerned to make space for autorickshaw stands,” Disale added. “We have taken action against 150 autorickshaws plying illegally in Pimpri Chinchwad; our action will continue,” Prakash said.Deputy RTO Aade said they had helped autorickshaw drivers get QR codes to set up digital wallets. “They can now accept their fares online,” Aade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/autorickshaws-start-plying-by-the-meter-in-pcmc-limits/articleshow/80394058.cms||Mihir Tanksale
January 22, 2021||Trichy||NHAI fills potholes on Trichy-Karur NH||Trichy:A day after Times of India highlighted the bad shape of the Trichy-Karur national highway (NH) 81 peppered with potholes, concessionaire appointed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) started maintenance work on Wednesday by filling the potholes.Pointing out the bad condition of the road, commuters have been demanding a waiver in the toll fee. TOI carried a report on January 19 titled “Motorists want toll cut as holes galore on NH 81 & 83’. Following the report, the concessionaire managing the NH on behalf of Trichy project implementation unit (PIU) carried out maintenance work on one-kilometre stretch between Thindukkarai and Andanallur, which is an accident-prone zone. The sides of the road were filled with gravel and soil as part of levelling them to the surface, while potholes were filled with bitumen. Commuters welcomed the move, but they demanded a permanent solution to the problem such as relaying of the road. NHAI sources said that a flyover is planned on the stretch. “As part of the semi-ring road project, a flyover will come up near Thindukkarai connecting the Karur NH with Dindigul, Madurai, Pudukkottai and Thanjavur NHs. We will relay the road if the civil work on the flyover gets delayed,” an official source at the toll plaza said. The official also added that they delayed the maintenance work hoping that the flyover work will commence soon. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nhai-fills-potholes-on-trichy-karur-nh/articleshow/80396413.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Surat||ED files chargesheet against Sarma in cheating, forgery case||Surat: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed chargesheet against former income tax commissioner and city BJP leader PVS Sarma and others in connection with the money laundering offence registered against his firm Sanket Media Pvt Ltd.The chargesheet was filed in a special PMLA court in Ahmedabad.On January 4, a provisional attachment order was issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on identification of proceeds of crime totaling Rs 2.70 crores held in the name of Sanket Media, Sarma and his family members.ED initiated investigation under PMLA on the basis of FIR registered Umra police station of Surat under sections 465,468,471,420 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code 1860. This was after an investigation conducted by the income tax department.Investigation under PMLA revealed that Sanket Media is involved in printing and publishing the newspaper Satyam Times in both Gujarati and English language. Though the circulation of the newspapers was shown at 23,500 and 6,000-6300 copies daily for the Gujarati and English editions respectively, in reality it was only around 300-600 and 0-290 respectively. The inflated figures were shown so as to attract more advertising agencies including Directorate of Advertisement and Visual Publicity and other private advertising companies to publish their advertisements.Sarma indulged in conspiracy and cheated the government and private advertisers and received Rs 2.70 crores as advertisement. He also showed bogus purchase of raw materials and made false entries in the books of accounts from fake companies.Earlier on November 26 last year, ED had arrested Sarma under PMLA. He is in judicial custody.Sarma had created a flutter by alleging money laundering post-demonetization and claime that he had documents to prove the involvement of some Surat companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ed-files-chargesheet-against-sarma-in-cheating-forgery-case/articleshow/80391739.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Pune||Deputy CM directs audit of SII facility in Manjari after blaze||Pune: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday ordered an “elaborate audit” of the Serum Institute of India’s (SII) vaccine manufacturing unit at Manjari to find out the cause of the fire that claimed five lives. “There are various theories going around about what led to the fire. Only an apt inquiry will bring out the cause,” Pawar told reporters at the accident site on Thursday night. “Separate teams have been formed for inspecting each floor of the multi-storied Serum facility and audit various aspects to ascertain the cause of the fire,” Pawar said. “The facility had sprinklers all over the place. But the intensity of fire was too much for the sprinklers to put off the blaze. The fire brigade personnel had to break windows at several points to bring the blaze under control,” he added. “As the facility is located in a special economic zone (SEZ), we will examine if all norms related to an SEZ firm, workers’ safety and Covid-19 regulations were being followed,” he said. Till late Thursday night, the identity of the five victims could not be established. “We are taking help of the contractor and the victims’ co-workers and relatives to identify them. Body samples will be sent to DNA and forensic experts for conclusively establishing identity of the deceased,” DCP (zone V) Namrata Patil told TOI. Patil said the police were for now registering a case of accidental fire and would continue with the investigation. TOI managed to speak to two workers, Sudhanshu Kumar (19) and Avinash Kumar (23), both from Pratapgarh in Uttar Pradesh, who were at the facility when the fire broke out. “I was busy with insulation of wiring for the centralized air conditioning system when I saw some other workers running a helter skelter. I realized that a fire had broken out,” said Sudhanshu. “Eight of us were engaged in insulation and other works. Two workers were not found,” he added.Avinash said, “Black smoke covered the place and I had a burning sensation in my eyes. Though I managed to run out of the building, some of my colleagues got trapped inside.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/deputy-cm-directs-audit-of-sii-facility-in-manjari-after-blaze/articleshow/80394056.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 22, 2021||Ludhiana||SAD, Cong join chorus against NIA notices to farmers’ supporters||Ludhiana: As the supporters of farmers are getting notices from the National Investigation Agency for explanation, political parties have condemned the move and alleged that since the BJP has failed to tackle the farmers’ issue, and now such tactics are being used by them. The central government is only trying to create pressure on those people who are supporting this protest, so that farmers should end it. However, the BJP leaders denied these allegations. Akali Dal district president Ranjit Dhillon said, “The BJP has failed to budge the farmers from their protest and that is why now it is using agencies to create fear among the supporters of the protest.” He said on one hand regular meetings were being organised with farmer leaders and side by side NIA notices were being sent to the supporters. Dhillon said the government was only trying to break this protest by any means. He said on January 26 when the tractor march would be carried out in Delhi, the government would get to know about the strength of farmers. Meanwhile, Congress district president Ashwani Sharma said, “Farmers have been sitting peacefully on protest for the past so many days and BJP leaders are giving them names like Khalistanis. Besides, national agencies like NIA and CBI are like puppets in the hands of government is a known fact.” He said the NIA notices were being issued only to suppress the supporters of farmers protest nothing else. He added that the Congress leaders were also in support of farmers and were supporting this protest at their level. However, BJP state vice-president Parveen Bansal said, “The BJP has never used the central agencies for political motives and whether it is NIA or CBI, these are independent agencies and if the NIA had served notices to anybody, then they might had some clue about international funding in these protests.” He said if BJP government was not serious about farmers’ welfare, then 10 meetings would not have taken place. He added that even now the government was open to every possible solution that could be best for farmers, but there are certain people who do not want farmers should get benefits, so they were trying to take advantage of their protests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sad-cong-join-chorus-against-nia-notices-to-farmers-supporters/articleshow/80393008.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Pune||4 in vehicle rob man of cellphone||Pune: An autorickshaw driver, along with his three accomplices, hit the arm of a 33-year-old man with a stick and fled with his cellphone worth Rs8,000 in the early hours of Wednesday. The man, Sharad Jadhav of Malegaon in Nashik district, suffered fractures on his left arm. He lodged a complaint with the Bhosari police after receiving treatment later on Wednesday. The robbery occurred in Phugewadi around 4.15am when Jadhav was on his way to his brother’s house after deborading a bus. “An autorickshaw driver stopped his vehicle and offered Jadhav a drop. There were three other men in the autorickshaw,” inspector Jitendra Kadam of the Bhosari police told TOI. The officer said Jadhav refused the autorickshaw driver’s offer and continued walking. “The vehicle followed Jadhav and stopped near him. One of the men in the atorickshaw hit Jadhav’s arm with a stick, while another man snatched his cellphone. The vehicle then hurriedly drove away from the spot,” Kadam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-in-vehicle-rob-man-of-cellphone/articleshow/80394076.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Pune||Ahmedabad financier booked in cheating case||PUNE: The Swargate police on Wednesday booked the proprietor of an Ahmedabad-based finance company and its agent in a cheating case. A Kothrud businessman lodged a complaint, alleging that the duo had cheated him and his partner to the tune of more than Rs17 lakh since October 1, 2020. The suspects had promised the complainant a Rs5 crore business loan. Sub-inspector Ganesh More on Thursday said the complainant, Suraj Suryavanshi, and his partner were introduced to the financier by an agent, whom they met through an acquaintance. “After a series of meetings in Pune and Ahmedabad, we decided to take a loan and completed the necessary formalities, but never got the loan,” the complaint read. More said Survyavanshi and his partner had each paid the suspects Rs25,000 as processing fees. “The suspects then told them to purchase cryptocurrency to secure the loan,” More said. “The suspects guided Suryavanshi and his partner in purchasing cryptocurrency worth Rs8.5 lakh each online, but they never got the loan. The suspects switched off their cellphones and their whereabouts were not known. Realizing they had been cheated, Suryavanshi registered an FIR,” More said. On the progress in the investigation, More said, “Suryavanshi has given us the names, office address and mobile numbers of the suspects. We will verify the information given by them.” More added, “We have booked the dup under the relevant sections of the IPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ahmedabad-financier-booked-in-cheating-case/articleshow/80394083.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Pune||Pune: RTO says pending licence, registration clearance soon||PUNE: Officials of the city’s Regional Transport Office (RTO) on Thursday claimed that the shortage of plain cards, used for printing driving licences and registration certificates, was being dealt with and all backlog would be cleared within a couple of days. Some RTOs in the Pune region, including the head office, has been facing a shortage of the cards, in turn, delaying the printing of driving licences and registration certificates. “Earlier this week there was a shortage but things have worked out and new cards are on their way to the vendors. The backlog will be cleared within a couple of days,” Ajit Shinde, the regional transport officer of Pune, told TOI. Another RTO officer said the backlog of April, May and June were cleared in November and December, which had triggered the card shortage. “Little to no activities happened in the RTO offices for some months because of the lockdown, creating a substantial backlog. We worked on war footing in the last two months of 2020 to clear it. However, the issue is almost resolved now and the remaining backlog will also be cleared very soon,” the official said. The Pune region has three RTOs — in Pune city, Pimpri Chinchwad and Baramati. An official with the Baramati RTO office said, “While we had enough cards to print registration certificates, till Wednesday evening, only 25 cards were left with us for printing driving licences.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rto-says-pending-licence-registration-clearance-soon/articleshow/80394068.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Covid-hit nurse says vaccine shot is an early birthday gift||HYDERABAD: A staff nurse at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), who had tested positive for Covid-19 last year, said the vaccine shot on Thursday felt like an early birthday present. B Swapna Kumari, 39, who works in the hospital’s Covid-19 isolation ward is more prone to contracting the virus and was therefore inoculated in the first week of the roll out. “I suffered with breathlessness, high blood pressure, low saturation levels and anxiety for more than a month when the report came positive in July,” said Kumari, who is going to celebrate her birthday in two months from now. “Getting a shot of this vaccine now, after going through all that, feels like an early birthday present,” she added. “While it is still important that I take all the necessary precautions while working in the Covid-19 isolation ward, I don’t have to worry so much about putting my family at risk every day after I go back home,” she said. Kumari, who has been working as a staff nurse for almost a decade at NIMS lives in the city with her husband and two children. The Covid-19 survivor, who returned to the hospital to discharge her duties immediately after she recovered from the virus has been hailed as a hero by her colleagues who were waiting for her to join them in the observation room where vaccine beneficiaries are checked for any adverse reactions. Sunita Yeruva, another staff nurse who was waiting with Kumari in the observation room, said, “It was really inspiring to see how she came back to serve Covid-19 positive patients in the isolation ward despite contracting the virus. We now look up to her as our role model.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-hit-nurse-says-vaccine-shot-is-an-early-birthday-gift/articleshow/80394072.cms||Moulika.KV
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||BJP demands leader of opposition post in BMC, SC sends mayor notice||NEW DELHI: Deciding which party, based on its numerical strength, should get the post of leader of opposition (LoP) is not difficult, but the question engaged the Supreme Court’s attention as the changed equation between Shiv Sena and BJP in Maharashtra found reverberations in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). After the 2019 assembly elections, Sena broke away from BJP and formed the MVA government with NCP and Congress. BJP sought to get back the post of LoP in the BMC from Congress. But mayor Kishori Pednekar refused and ruled that once the post was given up voluntarily, it could not be given back. The Bombay high court agreed. BJP corporator Prabhakar Shinde then moved the SC. Representing Shinde, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi told a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian that it was unthinkable under the Constitution that a party with the second highest number of corporators was denied the LoP post, which was given to Congress that came third in the 2017 BMC elections. The bench said, “But you chose not to take the LoP post.” Rohatgi explained, “That was because at that time there was a tie-up between the two parties at the national and state level. Now it has soured. So, the party wants to claim back the LoP post, which is legitimately due to it.” Rohatgi added, “It would be a travesty of the constitutional scheme of governance if the LoP post remains with Congress, which is part of the ruling coalition led by Sena at the state level. How can such an incongruous thing happen that makes a mockery of democracy?” The bench told senior advocate C A Sundaram, appearing for the mayor, to file a response within 15 days. “There appears to be incongruence in the situation... We will decide this issue on the next date of hearing and will not grant adjournment...We want you to address us on the issue—whether mayor is barred from exercising her powers afresh to determine who should be the LoP if she had already made a decision on it in the past,” the SC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-demands-lop-post-in-bmc-sc-sends-mayor-notice/articleshow/80395545.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 22, 2021||Surat||Two youths drown in Tapi River boat capsize||SURAT: In a tragic incident, two youths drowned in the Tapi river after their boat capsized near Uttaran area in Surat city on Thursday afternoon. Three others, however, managed to swim ashore. According to Fire and Emergency department officials, the deceased were identified as Rahul Marathi (20) and Ajay Rathod (35), both residents of Ahmednagar on Ved Road in Surat city. “Three other youths Hitesh Rathod, Alfas Sheikh and Sonu Sheikh managed to swim to the riverbank and survived. Fire brigade personnel fished out the two bodies,’ said a fire official. “Five young men had gone for a boat ride after attending the engagement ceremony of Ajay Rathod’s brother when the incident occurred,” an official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-youths-drown-in-tapi-river-boat-capsize/articleshow/80391804.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Trichy||Remains of 12th C temple on Kollidam banks unearthed||Trichy: Archaeology enthusiasts have identified 12th century stone inscriptions considered to be remains of a Chola era temple that once existed on the banks of Kollidam river between present day Ariyalur and Thanjavur districts. Retired senior officials of the state archaeology department decoded the inscriptions on the stone pillars which explain the irrigation canals and cultivable land parcels gifted to the temple during the rule of Kulottunga Chola I. The team lead by archaeology enthusiast Gramalaya S Damodaran, while exploring the campus of Mundanar temple at Thirumanur in Ariyalur district, stumbled upon two stone pillars each measuring 6 feet. They shared their finding with two retired state archaeology department officials, Dr S Rajagopal and K Sridharan, for further study. The archaeologists recognised the pillars as door jambs of Sri Kailasam alias Sri Rajendra Chola Eswaramudaiyar temple that once existed on the northern banks of Kollidam. According to the Tamil inscription having 45 lines, the village was formerly called Tyagavalli Valanadu. A mandapam named Sankara Narayanan was situated in front of the temple and influential people gathering there had decided to waive off the tax for tanks, garden and land belonging to the temple. Revenue from the properties was used for managing the temple. “The most fascinating aspect is the detailed documentation of boundaries of the cultivable lands donated to the temple. Canals flowing past the temple were mentioned as Mathuranthakan canal and Arinjaya canal, named after Chola kings,” Sridharan told TOI. The stone inscriptions were safely moved inside the Mundanar temple in Thirumanur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/remains-of-12th-c-temple-on-kollidam-banks-unearthed/articleshow/80396415.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 22, 2021||Trichy||AIADMK govt betrayed people, says Dayanidhi Maran||TIRUVARUR:Chennai Central DMK MP Dayanidhi Maran alleged that the ruling AIADMK government has betrayed the people of Tamil Nadu for the last ten years. Addressing a gathering at Alangudi on the first day of the four-day election campaign, ‘Vidiyalai Nokki Stalinin Kural’ (Stalin’s voice for a new dawn), in Tiruvarur district on Thursday, Dayanidhi Maran alleged that Rs2,500 was not given for Pongal festival, but for vote. “We pay GST for all goods including petrol and gas. They receive our money by way of tax and disburse it to the people as a Pongal gift,” he said. He criticized both the Union and state governments for implementing NEET in the state. The BJP-led government has betrayed the common people by giving reservation to the upper castes. While opposing the farm acts, he alleged that farmers will not get the minimum support price (MSP) once the act was implemented. “The ruling AIADMK government has been supporting the laws only out of fear that they would lose their office if it opposes the centre,” he said. He also addressed meetings at Nannilam, Kudavasal, and Kollumangudi in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/aiadmk-govt-betrayed-people-says-dayanidhi/articleshow/80396416.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Kozhikode||AIE flight crash: Probe panel term extended by two months||Kozhikode: Union civil aviation ministry has extended the tenure of the committee, constituted to inquire into the Air India Express flight crash at Calicut International Airport on August 7, by two months. The ministry cited delay in getting test reports of components due to Covid pandemic as the reason for the extension. “Due to Covid pandemic, there is a delay being experienced in the test reports of components and an extension of two months has been granted for submission of draft final report of investigation into VT AXH accident,” said the communique issued by the ministry. Aircraft accident investigation board (AAIB) had on August 13 constituted a five-member panel to investigate and determine the probable causes and contributory factors leading to the accident and make recommendations to avoid such accidents in the future. Captain S S Chahar, a former DGCA-designated examiner for pilots of B737NG aircraft, is the investigator-in-charge and was to submit its report preferably within five months which ended on January 13, 2021. The other members of the team included operations expert Ved Prakash, senior aircraft maintenance engineer (B737) Mukul Bhardwaj, aviation medicine expert Y S Dahiya and AAIB deputy director Jasbir Singh Larhga. The Air India Express flight (IX-1344) with 190 persons on board as part of Vande Bharat Mission flight from Dubai had overshot the runway and fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two pieces. As many as 21 persons, including both pilots, were killed in the accident involving the B737 aircraft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/aie-flight-crash-probe-panel-term-extended-by-two-months/articleshow/80393043.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Trichy||Row over ‘Chola era’ wall at smart city site near Big Temple in Thanjavur||THANJAVUR: Archaeological enthusiasts have objected to the construction of a commercial complex-cum-movie hall under smart cities mission by Thanjavur corporation near the iconic Big Temple (Thanjavur Peruvudaiyar temple) following the unearthing of a linear wall which they claimed to be centuries old. They sought the suspension of construction activity saying the structure was the sidewall of a Chola-era moat. Thanjavur corporation had embarked on the modern commercial complex project at a cost of Rs 43.6 crore on South Rampart street six months ago after demolishing the Thiruvalluvar theatre-cum-commercial complex there. The smart cities mission project on 0.70 acres was undergoing foundation work when a linear wall, believed to be of Chola era moat, surfaced in the southern boundary of the site situated about 700 metres from Peruvudaiyar temple, a Unesco world heritage site. The wall, which was about 50 metres long, is visible at about 10 feet from the ground level abutting the backyards of commercial establishments on Raja Mirasudar Hospital road. It appears to have multiple decks including two layers of stones. “Post-Independence, the moat must have been encroached and buildings raised over it due to ignorance. We want the site to be handed over to Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) for excavation and research,” Dr S Udhayashankar, president, Great Cholas historical research group, said. The enthusiasts urged Thanjavur corporation to relocate the project elsewhere. As literary evidence, the group cited a verse appearing in Thiruvisaippa, the devotional Tamil poem written by Karuvur Thevar, that hails the moat infrastructure of Thanjavur, the erstwhile capital of Chola kingdom. Following the outcry, sources said ASI Trichy circle officials on Thursday inspected the site for preliminary study. Owing to the inspection, Thanjavur corporation suspended the civil work for the day. “We will wait for the report from ASI to decide our further move,” P Janaki Raveendran, commissioner, Thanjavur corporation, said. As the foundation work is almost complete, the civic body hinted that relocating the project is almost impossible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/row-over-chola-era-wall-at-smart-city-site-near-big-temple/articleshow/80396414.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 22, 2021||Dehradun||Nainital gets air quality monitoring system||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand Pollution Control Board (PCB) has set up the first air quality monitoring system in Nainital town to measure the pollution level in one of the most famous tourist destinations in the state. The officials have said that the system will be installed at the municipal council office in Mallital, and soon, similar systems will also be installed in Almora, Bageshwar, Pithoragarh and Champawat. Till now, only one air quality monitoring system was functioning in Kumaon — Haldwani. The PCB officials, however, said that for now even the device in Nainital will be operated by the Haldwani team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nainital-gets-air-quality-monitoring-system/articleshow/80391752.cms||Prashant Jha
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Police must register FIR for illegal construction: BMC||MUMBAI: With the HC dismissing Sonu Sood’s appeal and an interim application filed by the actor against a civic notice over allegedly illegally converting a residential building in Juhu into a hotel, BMC officials said the police must register an FIR against the actor and prosecute him. The BMC had on January 4 filed a police complaint against Sood for allegedly converting a six-storey residential building in Juhu into a hotel without the required permissions. The BMC asked the Juhu police to take cognisance of the offence committed by Sood under the Maharashtra Region and Town Planning (MRTP) Act for unauthorised additions, alterations and change of user. “We had made sure that our stand in the HC was clear and all the paperwork was in place. We didn’t not want any kind of rap from the HC like it happened in cases where other celebrities were involved. So our affidavit was drafted with all the relevant facts in place. We have already filed a written complaint, and the police must now register an FIR under the MRTP Act. They will then have to take prosecution action against Sood,” said a senior civic official. Activist Ganesh Kusmulu, who had filed a complaint with the Lokayukta in the matter, also said that the police must register an FIR against Sood. “The BMC and the police have tried to delay the matter for a long time. Now the HC has refused to give any relief to Sood, so an FIR must be filed immediately and the illegal construction must be demolished,” Kusmulu said. In January the Lokayukta had directed BMC to file report on why action should not be taken against civic officers for dereliction of duties. “We have already given a written complaint to the police. So they have to take action as per procedure and as per the HC order,” said Vishwas Mote, assistant municipal commissioner, K-West ward. The BMC had urged HC to dismiss Sood’s petition seeking to restrain the civic body from carrying out demolition at his property. The actor moved HC after the Dindoshi city civil court refused to restrain the civic body from taking action against alleged unauthorized alterations at the building on Juhu’s AB Nair Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-police-must-register-fir-for-illegal-construction/articleshow/80394094.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||HC seeks serosurveillance report, steps on Covid-19 mitigation in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Thursday directed the state government to furnish it with details of serosurveillance it had conducted in the last six months along with the aspects found in the survey and steps taken to contain the coronavirus spread in the areas identified in the survey. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this direction while hearing the batch of PILs filed on Covid-19. According to scientific experts, serosurveillance provides estimates of antibody levels against infectious diseases and is considered the gold standard for measuring population immunity due to past infection or vaccination. With constant directions issued by the high court and the government showing compliance the situation has improved here, the judges said. “The number of cases has come down to below 500. With the arrival of vaccines now, it is bound to be better in future,” the judges said.  On the 50,000 tests per day, Justice Kohli said the government must know that the more it tests, the more safe its public would be. “Even in a city-state like Delhi, 40,000 tests are done per day,” she told the state counsel. Responding to a query from the bench, advocate general BS Prasad said that they have always strived to implement every direction of the court. On the new strain of the virus from the UK, he said the state machinery had identified four persons, traced them and took all the measures to ensure that the strain did not spread from them. The bench directed the government to record the results of the tests for two weeks from January 25 and furnish it by the next date of hearing. “Your (government) report must indicate number of tests, type of tests, turnaround time in conveying the result of the tests to people, etc,” the bench said. The bench, however, did not take kindly to doubts about efficacy of the vaccine expressed by a counsel and said: “If you do not want to take (the vaccine), don’t take it. Nobody is putting a gun on your head to take it. Let us first see how the vaccine is working. It is too premature to discuss it now. This is not adversarial litigation. This is only to assist the state to do its best.” The bench later closed scores of petitions that had similar prayers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-seeks-serosurveillance-report-steps-on-covid-19-mitigation-in-state/articleshow/80394078.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Pune||Activists seek govt action on vacant posts||Pune: Citizens group Sajag Nagrik Manch has urged chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to initiate immediate steps to fill vacant posts in the fire department of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The organization has said that regulatory guidelines to fill the posts of the fire departments at municipal corporations, municipal councils and nagar panchayats are awaiting the state government’s nod. This has stalled the process of filling the vacant posts. Vivek Velankar of the group said, “Of 910 posts in PMC’s fire department, 510 are vacant. It is not advisable to keep the posts vacant for a long period considering the city’s extended boundaries, increased population and commercial activities. Also, strengthening the fire department is crucial after the fire at the Bhandara government hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/activists-seek-govt-action-on-vacant-posts/articleshow/80394092.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Trichy||CUTN VC: Panel sends shortlist to education ministry||Trichy: The announcement on the appointment of the next vice-chancellor of Central University of Tamil Nadu (CUTN), Tiruvarur is expected any time as the names of five shortlisted candidates have been sent to the ministry of education. The ministry will forward the list to President Ramnath Kovind who will appoint one of the candidates.The ministry had initiated the selection process in June before the end of A P Dash’s tenure as VC in August last. “As many as 343 applications were shortlisted during the initial scrutiny. Of them, 17 were called for interview on January 8,” said N Gopalaswami, chancellor of National Sanskrit University, Tirupati, who headed the five-member selection committee. A total 16 candidates appeared for the interview at the Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical University and the committee proposed five names last week, he said.“The ministry may suggest one candidate or more than one candidate and leave it to the President to make the appointment,” said another member of the committee. CUTN has more than 2,133 students on its rolls and offers a total of 62 programmes across streams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cutn-vc-panel-sends-shortlist-to-education-ministry/articleshow/80396419.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Parents allege schools flouting norms on reopening; education department orders probe||DEHRADUN: After a few schools were reported of flouting government guidelines and reopening schools even for non-board classes, the state’s education department has issued an order to conduct a probe into the matter. The schools, which are based in Dehradun, have maintained that the students were coming for tuition classes after obtaining a written consent from their parents. Despite their claims, the district education department has maintained that the students of non-board classes can’t be called to the school even for availing tuitions. After the completion of enquiry, the department is going to take action according to the issued guidelines. It is also alleged that a few government schools in Dehradun have mismanaged the mid-day meal compensation for students. The district magistrate office has ordered the education department to conduct an enquiry in the matter and submit a report in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/parents-allege-schools-flouting-norms-on-reopening-edu-dept-orders-probe/articleshow/80391772.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 22, 2021||Trichy||Uncertainty over arrears leaves students in a spot||TRICHY: Students who completed their degree courses last year have been left on tenterhooks as they are yet to get their consolidated marksheets owing to uncertainty over arrear papers. While many students who opted for jobs are unable to join without consolidated mark statements, those who got provisionally admitted for higher studies in colleges have been asked for consolidated mark statement to confirm their seats. Speaking to TOI, BDU registrar G Gopinath said that they have kept the mark statements ready but are awaiting nod from the state government. Once it comes, students will be issue their mark statement. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had in August last year cancelled arrear papers for all except final year students who appeared for end semester examination online in September. S Sangeetha, a 2017-20 batch undergraduate student from an autonomous arts and science college in Trichy, couldn’t appear for two papers in fifth semester exam due to health issues. While she was provisionally admitted to a college in Thanjavur for BEd programme, the college is insisting for consolidated mark statement which her previous college is refusing saying that Bharathidasan University has withheld issuing mark statements for those who have arrears. “I may have to appear for the arrear exams which will be conducted in another few weeks. I could have cleared the papers if I was given a chance to appear for it along with the end semester exam. But a political decision has been making us run from pillar to post,” she said. “42,000 students appeared for the end semester exam last September, but 14,000 of them are yet to be given consolidated mark sheets as decision was not taken on arrear papers,” said S Srinivasaragavan, controller of examination of BDU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/uncertainty-over-arrears-leaves-students-in-a-spot/articleshow/80396420.cms||Sampath Kumar
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Health worker died of heart attack||Hyderabad: The healthcare worker, who developed a sudden chest pain, early Wednesday after being vaccinated on Tuesday afternoon died due myocardial infraction (heart attack). A post-mortem report confirmed the same. Samples of the Nirmal healthcare worker Vittal are being sent to National Institute of Virology, Pune. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/health-worker-died-of-heart-attack/articleshow/80394091.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||220 fresh cases, one death in state||Hyderabad: Telangana on Thursday recorded 226 new cases of Covid-19 and one death, taking the total count of cases so far in the state to 2,92,621. The death toll rose to 1,584 and a total of 2,87,117 patients have so far recovered. The GHMC recorded 39 new cases on Thursday, Karimnagar and Medchal Malkajgiri recorded 16 each, Ranga Reddy recorded 15 while all other districts recorded between 1 and 10 new cases. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/220-fresh-cases-one-death-in-state/articleshow/80394087.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Pune||First winter rotation of water release from Khadakwasla ends||Pune: The first winter rotation of water release from the Khadakwasla reservoir ended on Thursday. Irrigation department officials said they stopped the discharge after meeting the demand of the rural areas. Since December 20, when discharge started at 1,000 cusec, around 2.7 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) of water was released into the Mutha canal from the dam — 3 TMC less than originally estimated.Officials attributed the decreased release this year to better availability of water in some rural pockets of the district, thanks to last year’s extended monsoon.V P Patil, executive engineer of Khadakwasla irrigation circle, said the department had received demand for water from rural areas in December. Most of the demand has been met now, which prompted them to halt the water discharge, Patil said.In the first rotation, the irrigation department released water into various ponds in Haveli, Daund and Indapur tehsils. Most water bodies are filled to capacity, Patil said.The next release is expected to begin a month later, based on the demand. “We don’t expect to begin the next release before mid-February. As per rough estimates, 3 TMC of water will be released during the next rotation,” an irrigation department official said.“Our strategy is to release water from the reservoir only after the demand letters are received. This will help us save water, which can be utilized during the summer,” Patil said.A department official said stopping water release into the canal will not affect Pune’s water availability. The city will continue to receive water through the pipeline. The city’s dependency on the canal water has completely reduced since last year, an official said. Canal committee likely to meet todayThe canal committee is expected to meet on Friday to discuss the water release from Khadakwasla dam for winter and summer. Deputy chief minister and district guardian minister Ajit Pawar will chair the meeting. The officials will take stock of water availability and will chalk out plans for the future, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/first-winter-rotation-of-water-release-from-khadakwasla-ends/articleshow/80394089.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Rescue operation by Indian Navy onboard ship||MUMBAI: The Western Naval Command of Indian Navy carried out a medical evacuation onboard Singapore merchant vessel MV Eagle Tampa on Thursday after it received an emergency call around 6am. A spokesperson said the ship, which was 18 nautical miles off the coast of Mumbai, reported that a 34-year-old Malaysian citizen, Geetha Selvaraja, was having breathing difficulty. An Indian Naval Seaking helicopter from INS Shikra picked up the patient from the ship. She was later transferred to Saifee Hospital by a private ambulance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rescue-op-by-indian-navy-onboard-ship/articleshow/80394095.cms||V Narayan
January 22, 2021||Goa||Goa will opt for fewer charges under new motor rules: Mauvin Godinho||PANAJI: After deferring the implementation of the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act and Rules 2019 yet again, transport minister Mauvin Godinho said that the government will try to implement the bare minimum in the Act based on what the Centre has recommended. Godinho said that by implementing the Act, a lot of issues pertaining to vehicular movement will be streamlined. On January 20, the state cabinet refrained from taking a decision on the implementation of new Motor Vehicle (MV) Rules in Goa, stating that a decision will be taken only after detailed discussions are held with stakeholders. This is the fourth time that the law and its associated rules were brought up for approval. “We are now trying to go to the minimum of the minimum. So we are going to go with the minimum charges that are permitted by the Center. Once that is done, we will go to the cabinet and it will be implemented,” said Godinho. The minister did not specify a timeline to complete the process of rationalizing the rates, charges and fines under the new law which is imposes steep penalties for traffic violations and infringement of motor vehicle rules. Godinho also said that the state transport department is examining recent reports that a ride hailing app, Uber Moto, has started functioning in Goa without requisite permissions from the state government. “We are examining this, and we will take action,” said Godinho. When asked about the norms surrounding the use of taxis and private vehicles to advertise casino, Godinho said that the new MV Act addresses all these issues. “We are in the process of streamlining all the things. I want things duly organised. All this is in the new motor vehicles act,” said the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mauvin-goa-will-opt-for-fewer-charges-under-new-motor-rules/articleshow/80394106.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Trichy||Officials asked to report on crop damage by January 29||Trichy: Agriculture production commissioner and principal secretary Gagandeep Singh Bedi has said that revenue and agriculture officials have been asked to complete the ongoing crop loss assessment and submit a report before January 29. “Based on the field joint operation done by the officials of departments of agriculture, horticulture and revenue it has come to light that farmers have been largely affected,” he told reporters in Thanjavur on Thursday. “The teams will submit their reports to the commissioner of revenue administration and directors of agriculture and horticulture. Based on the report compensation will be announced,” Bedi said. Asked about the percentage of loss going to be taken into consideration by insurance companies to calculate relief, he said, “We have asked the joint director of agriculture, horticulture and the respective insurance companies to prepone the crop cutting experiment – the process of assessing the extent of crop loss - so that farmers who lost crops can get compensation from the insurance companies immediately. So, the ultimate aim of the government is to help the distressed farmers in some way.” Officials will stand by the affected farmers and will do their best to get maximum compensation, he added. He also inspected the functioning of mobile paddy dryer put in use at Ponnapur direct procurement centre. Expressing satisfaction at its usefulness to farmers, he said the district administration will procure two more such dryers through the agriculture engineering department for the sake of the farmers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/officials-asked-to-report-on-crop-damage-by-january-29/articleshow/80396417.cms||---
January 22, 2021||India||Tamil Nadu governor to decide on Rajiv killer’s release in 4 weeks: Govt to Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: The Tamil Nadu governor will take a decision within four weeks on the remission plea of A G Perarivalan, who is serving life term in Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, the Supreme Court was informed on Thursday. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told a bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nzeer and Indu Malhotra that governor Banwarilal Purohit will take a decision soon on the 2018 recommendation of the state government which favoured release of seven convicts, including Perarivalan, in the case. After hearing Mehta’s submission that the application filed by the petitioner under Article 161 of the Constitution will be considered within four weeks, the bench asked the hearing to be listed thereafter. The assurance came after SC expressed concern over the delay in taking decision and decided to examine whether it could intervene to pass direction. The court was hearing a plea filed by Perarivalan. Perarivalan was awarded the death penalty in 1991 for his involvement in the conspiracy to assassinate former PM Rajiv Gandhi. He was charged for providing a 9-volt battery to co-conspirator Sivarasan for the explosive device which was used to kill the PM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tamil-nadu-governor-to-decide-on-rajiv-killers-release-in-4-weeks-govt-to-supreme-court/articleshow/80396909.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Mediapersons, visitors allowed in secretariat||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand government on Thursday revoked the order which had prohibited the entry of mediapersons and visitors in the secretariat premises in September last year in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. All the persons entering the secretariat premises would now have to maintain all the Covid-19 norms. No one would be allowed to enter without a mask. The pass for visitors would be for a two-hour period and visitors would not be allowed to go to any other section of the secretariat, other than the department mentioned in the pass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mediapersons-visitors-allowed-in-secretariat/articleshow/80391790.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 22, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Recovery agent held for taking bribe||AURANGABAD: The Central Bureau of Investigation has arrested a recovery agent for demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 20,000 from a farmer. The accused has been identified as Pradeep Sable.As per the release by the CBI, “A case was registered against the accused claiming to be the recovery officer of Bank of Baroda, Chalisgaon, in Jalgaon district, on the allegations of demanding undue advantage of Rs 20,000 from the complainant to finalise the matter regarding One Time Settlement (OTS) of the unpaid tractor loan availed by the complainant from Dena bank (since merged with Bank of Baroda).” The accused had already got Rs 10,000 from the complainant under threat of seizing the tractor and demanded Rs 20,000 more to settle the matter. CBI caught the accused while he was accepting the bribe. It was revealed that the accused is a recovery agent-based in Aurangabad. Searches were conducted at the premises of the accused at Aurangabad, which led to the recovery of incriminating documents. The accused was produced before the special judge at Jalgaon and remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/recovery-agent-held-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/80391769.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Panchayati Raj Act: Amendment to limit seat quota for SC candidates under HC lens||Chandigarh: The Haryana government decision to amend the Haryana Panchayati Raj (second amendment) Act 2020, putting limitations on the reservation of seats for scheduled caste (SC) candidates, has come under the scanner of Punjab and Haryana high court. The HC has been informed that the representation of SCs as provided in the Haryana Panchayati Raj Act 1994 has been taken away through the new amendment. The matter reached the HC in the wake of a petition filed by Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar Dalit Samaj Vikas Samiti Ferozepur Jhirka, Nuh district, through its president Dal Chand. The petitioner challenged the Haryana Panchayati Raj (second amendment) Act 2020 for being contrary to the spirit of reservation as provided in the Constitution. According to the petitioner body, if the amended Act is not quashed and declared illegal and ultra vires as position would emerge that seats in panchayat polls would be reserved for SC candidates only where their population is more than 10% . However, in areas where population of SCs is less than 10%, there will be no reservation for such (SC) candidates. “The spirit of reservation was to uplift the SC, which is being taken away by the amended Act,” the petition has submitted. It has sought directions to quash the Haryana Panchayati Raj (second amendment) Act 2020 and to conduct the panchayat elections as per the Haryana Panchayati Raj Act 1994. The matter has been fixed for April 20 for further hearing, when the petition challenging the new criteria related to women candidates would come up for hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-panchayati-raj-act-amendment-to-limit-seat-quota-for-sc-candidates-under-hc-lens/articleshow/80394100.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: New MTDC resorts to open near Sinhagad fort and at Akkalkot||PUNE: The Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) plans to open two new resorts at Sinhagad fort and Akkalkot. “There was a resort at Sinhagad fort that we had given on lease. After the lease expired, it was shut for a year. Now, we have renovated that place and we are opening our own resort. It will be ready in 15 days as 95% of the work has been completed. Once all the finishing touches are done, we will open within a month,” said Deepak Harne, regional manager (Pune), MTDC. “We have three suites and two dormitories with eight beds each for men and women. Sinhagad fort is a popular destination for trekkers, the dormitories provide group accommodation for them,” he said. The Akkalkot resort is an important launch for MTDC. Many devotees of Swami Samarth Maharaj reach the city every year. The Khwaja Daud Dargah also gets many visitors. It is a place of religious significance for Hindus and Muslims. “The destination needs a state-run resort and we have been planning to launch one there for some time. The construction is almost complete and we will be launching the resort within a month and it will be open for everyone to make their bookings. It is located 1.5 kms away from the Swami Samarth Maharaj temple. Though most of the visitors prefer to eat the mahaprasad at the temple, we will also be providing a canteen for meals at the resort. The capacity of the Akkalkot resort is 21-25 guests,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-mtdc-resorts-to-open-near-sinhagad-fort-and-at-akkalkot/articleshow/80394098.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Private hospitals in Mumbai want vaccination drive on own premises for easy and quick access||MUMBAI: Major private hospitals in the city have requested civic authorities to decentralise the Covid-19 vaccination drive that is currently limited to 10 public centres. Hospital managements say a higher number of beneficiaries could be covered within a shorter span if the drive is allowed to be held within their own premises. In the first three days of vaccination, merely 5,254 health workers took the vaccine out of the targeted 10,500. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani had previously told TOI the slow start to the drive could stretch the first phase to over a month. More than 1.2 lakh health workers from Mumbai are meant to be covered in the first round. Major private hospitals have more than 2,000 employees while centres such as Tata Hospital have over 4,000. At Powai’s LH Hiranandani Hospital, just 14 health workers have taken the vaccine out 50 who were selected by BMC on the launch day. “One of the major reasons for low turnout is having to go out and spend time on travel to the notified BMC centre,” said Dr Sujit Chatterjee, CEO of Hiranandani Hospital. In his opinion, a solution could be to rope in major hospitals for immunisation of staff within their premises “under supervision of one BMC personnel”. The Association of Hospitals, a body of the city’s trust-run hospitals, plans to discuss it during an internal meeting before officially approaching the authorities. Dr V Ravishankar, COO of Lilavati Hospital, said nearly all big hospitals have more than 2,000 employees. “There are shift and timing adjustments that have to be done for them to visit the centre. It would be convenient to hold it in our own premises,” he said, adding most hospitals can take care of their staff for post-immunisation complications. Dr Chatterjee said such flexibility would boost the turnout from 25% to 75%-80%. Dr Gautam Bhansali of Bombay Hospital said the matter has been brought to the attention of civic commissioner IS Chahal. “All of us have well-equipped ICUs and doctors to handle any adverse events. It will certainly speed up the drive,” he said. BMC’s executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare, though, said the approval for vaccination centres has been given by the state. “Depending on how numbers pick up, we will see if there is a need for an arrangement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pvt-hospitals-want-vax-drive-on-own-premises-for-easy-and-quick-access/articleshow/80393056.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 22, 2021||Aurangabad||Rent agreement no more address proof||Aurangabad: Amid mounting complaints of bogus rental agreements being submitted by a section of parents during admissions under the provisions of the RTE Act 2009, the education department has decided not to consider leave and license agreements as a primary proof of address. In an official notification, the education department has warned of stern action, including cancellation of admission and invoking criminal action, in case bogus rent agreements are submitted in future. The enrolment process for schools under RTE Act for academic year 2021-22 began on Thursday and is scheduled to last till January 30, followed by registration of parents. For academic year 2021-22, the list of valid address proofs include ration card, driving license, electricity/phone bill, payment receipt of property tax, LPG card, bank passbook, Aadhaar card, passport or election card. In case one of these address proof has shortcomings or deficiencies, then only leave and license agreement will be considered as supporting document. Primary education officer with Aurangabad Zilla Parishad, S P Jaiswal, said parents should strictly avoid producing bogus rental agreements. “Parents should note that they could face criminal action for producing bogus documents,” he said. The RTE Act 2009 defines the limits of neighbourhood schools as one km walking distance from the habitation of a child at the primary level. ToI in past had highlighted how the parents living outside the stipulated range claim the reputed school as their neighbourhood school by producing bogus rental agreements. Educational activist Prashant Sathe, who had lodged a complaint with the chief minister’s office against alleged bogus rental agreements produced last year, said the education department, the police and the income tax departments must jointly carry out scrutiny of rental agreements produced for claiming seats of reputed schools. “Very stern action is needed against parents who produce bogus rental agreements as they snatch educational rights of other deserving candidates,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rent-agreement-no-more-address-proof/articleshow/80391795.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Suspended constable kills self||Hyderabad: A 45-year-old Telangana State Special Police (TSSP) constable committed suicide at his house in Borabanda due to financial problems on Wednesday night. The deceased M Rajeshwar, 45, was a constable of TSSP Battalion at Yousufguda. Sanathnagar police said Rajeswar was suspended two months ago for poor attendance due to alcohol addiction. He was staying at home at Rama Rao Nagar, Borabanda with his wife and two children. For Sankranti, Rajeshwar’s wife and children went to their native place in Nagarkurnool. Around 9pm, Rajeshwar called his wife and said he wanted to commit suicide. Rajeshwar’s wife requested their landlord to check on her husband. “The house owner along with others went to check. They peeped from the window and found the constable hanging from the ceiling fan in the hall. In the suicide note, he said he decided to end his life due to debt and asked family members to take care of his children,” Sanathnagar SI Paidi Naidu said. Police said Rajeshwar ended up in debts due to alcohol addiction. A case was registered under Section 174 (Suspicious death) of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/suspended-constable-kills-self/articleshow/80394104.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Meet PM Narendra Modi on Maratha quota, Metro car shed: Maharashtra CM to MPs||MUMBAI: Ahead of the Union budget session, CM Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday held a meeting with the MPs representing the state in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha and urged them to garner the Centre’s support on various issues, including Maratha quota, Metro car shed at Kanjurmarg and Maharashtra-Karnataka border dispute. Thackeray asked them to meet PM Narendra Modi as an all-party delegation on the Maratha quota issue as the Centre too will have to take a stand before the Supreme Court. The CM also explained to the MPs the need for the Metro car shed at Kanjurmarg instead of Aarey and said the state will soon make a detailed presentation. “The issue is related to the general public in larger interest. So, there is no point in a verbal fight between the state and Centre...” said the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/meet-modi-on-maratha-quota-metro-car-shed/articleshow/80395553.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 22, 2021||Bareilly||UP man, 52, who married 10 times murdered over property||BAREILLY: A 52-year-old man, who had married at least 10 times, was allegedly murdered by unidentified persons over property in Bhojipura area of UP's Bareilly district on Wednesday night. Jaganlal Yadav was a farmer who inherited ancestral property worth a few crores and he was about to transfer its ownership to a 24-year-old man who used to live with him and believed to be his adopted son. His elder brother was said to be unhappy with the decision, sources said. Jaganlal first married in the early 90s. Five of his wives had reportedly died of illness and three "left him for other men". He is now survived by his two wives - aged 35 and 40 - from West Bengal. Police said that they were unaware of his marital life. Jaganlal's body was found in a crop field. He was strangled to death with a muffler. Police suspect that Jaganlal was killed because of his property. Bhojipura SHO Mano Kumar Tyagi told TOI, “An FIR has been registered under the section of murder and the autopsy has confirmed that Jaganlal died of strangulation. There were visible injuries on his head which suggests that he was hit with a blunt object." "We suspect that he was killed for his property which is near the main road and holds good market value. Local villagers told us that he was getting married again and again, but didn’t have any children. A young man lives with him who was born of his wife’s first husband.” “During investigation, we also came to know that Jaganlal’s father had detached him from his property since he got married multiple times and had transferred the ownership of entire 70 bigha land under his elder brother’s name. However, his elder brother had transferred 14 bigha land to Jaganlal on Panchayat’s order while resolving the family dispute in 1999," the SHO said. Statements of all the relatives have been recorded. "We are using a surveillance report to verify the statements of suspects, including relatives. There is a high possibility of a relative behind the murder.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-man-52-who-married-10-times-murdered-over-property/articleshow/80390926.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 22, 2021||Mumbai||Activists in Goregaon want justice for run over stray dog||MUMBAI: Local animal activists in Goregaon have demanded ‘Justice for Motu’, after local community dog Motu was recently run over by a film producer’s luxury car inside the Imperial Heights building complex. An FIR was lodged against the producer Shaailesh Singh, a resident of Imperial Heights. However, local animal lovers demanded the body of the dog be recovered so a proper post-mortem can be done. “The incident occurred early on January 18, when the car driven by Singh hit the female dog, Motu, and dragged her for a few feet before stopping. The night watchman, who saw the incident, later told the residents that Motu was injured but alive. He called Singh so the dog could be taken for treatment,” said local Bhavna Soni. Instead of taking him to be treated, the producer’s driver dumped the dog in Lokhandwala, presuming it was dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/activists-want-justice-for-run-over-stray-dog/articleshow/80394116.cms||Vijay Singh
January 22, 2021||Kozhikode||Pantheerankavu: One more held||Kozhikode: National Investigation Agency (NIA) has taken one more person into custody in the case related to the arrest of Thwaha Fasal and Allan Shuhaib, who were picked up for their alleged connection with Maoists at Pantheerankavu on Nov 1, 2019. Vijith Vijayan (27), who hails from Padinjarathara in Wayanad, was summoned for questioning by NIA at its camp office in Kalpetta on Wednesday and after interrogation he was arrested. Earlier in May 2020, he was interrogated thrice by the agency in connection with the case. Police had then recovered some materials from his rented home at Cherukulam in Kozhikode. The engineering graduate from Calicut University runs a tuition centre in Kozhikode. It is alleged that Vijith was instrumental in attracting Thwaha and Allan into Maoist movement. Police say he was the leader of a student organisation of CPI (Maoist) and recruited the youths in 2015 or 2016. More arrests are likely in the case as NIA has collected the details of persons who had handled the youths after Vijith was given another charge by the party. Some of them were summoned for questioning, while others are on NIA’s watch list. Earlier, the NIA court had granted bail to Thwaha and Allan in Sept 2020, but high court later withdrew Thwaha’s bail while Allan is still out on bail. Thwaha had then surrendered before the court and is now lodged in prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/pantheerankavu-one-more-held/articleshow/80393067.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Former MLA passes away||Shimla: Former MLA Onkar Chand, who was member in-charge of Servants of the People Society, Chandigarh branch for many years, passed away on Wednesday. He was born at Chanuata village in Kangra in 1930. He had a brief stint in politics and was elected to the Himachal Pradesh Assembly in 1972, where he remained an MLA till 1977. He served on the Assurances Committee and Public Accounts Committee of the Assembly. He was also member from Himachal Pradesh on the Delimitation of Constituencies Commission of India. Under the inspiration of freedom fighter and Gandhian, Lala Achint Ram, he joined the Bhoodan Movement in July 1954 and was member secretary of the Punjab Bhoodan Yajna Board for more than five years. Later, he joined Servants of the People Society in 1959.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/former-mla-passes-away/articleshow/80394107.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Delhi||Selfie conscious: Idea clicks with beneficiaries in Delhi||NEW DELHI: S K Singh, sanitation supervisor at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, took a photograph of himself at the selfie point created in the hospital after receiving the Covid-19 vaccine on Thursday. “I feel privileged that my turn for vaccination came so early. After I shared my photographs on Facebook, I received a lot of congratulations from friends,” the 38-year-old beamed. Vanity can be a great motivator, and the selfie points, wisely created at the vaccination observation centres following a low turnout of priority recipients, are becoming rallying points to call for greater acceptance of the protective injection. The photo points have ego-boosting boards saying ‘I got my Covid-19 vaccine’, ‘I am proud I got vaccinated today for Covid-19' and ‘#gotthedose’, giving health workers willing to roll up their sleeves a special moment in their lives, a moment they are sharing on social media through selfies. Dr Prachi Bagarhatta, 25, who clicked herself at Lok Nayak Hospital, said, “After my vaccination, I uploaded my hospital selfie as my WhatsApp status fully believing that sharing such selfies on social media will impact others, just as seeing the pictures of my friends who were vaccinated in the US and UK encouraged me that there were no side-effects.” It’s not just the young and trendy who are lining up at the selfie points. Dr Vijay Arora, head of surgery at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, may be 74 years old, but he has decided to record this vaccination experience on social media. “I want to set an example for others by telling them about how I felt after taking the jab and showing them my photos,” said Arora. The selfie spot at Lok Nayak Hospital has been set up in the observation room where recipients have to spend 30 minutes of their post-vaccination period, according to Dr Amit Gupta, nodal officer for vaccination. At Ganga Ram, Dr Shalini Chawla, nodal officer, said the selfie site was installed on Monday and included a photographer who can click pictures of vaccine recipients. Bhanu Pratap,28, a security guard, posed for a photo with his vaccination certificate at Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya Hospital. “This is a recognition for the work we have done during the pandemic,” he smiled. The hospital began handing over certificates to those receiving the vaccine from Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/selfie-conscious-idea-clicks-with-beneficiaries/articleshow/80394127.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Siraj has made every Hyderabadi feel proud’||HYDERABAD: Indian speedster, Md Siraj has won hearts across the world, but in his home turf in Hyderabad, the Charminar express is an absolute hero and a toast for youngsters. Local residents of the old city and many old-timers distributed sweets and raised slogans of “Siraj zindabad” with many saying that the fast bowler, who scalped 13 Australians in the test series will reignite the passion for the game among many youngsters living in the city. With the Covid-19 protocols in place, the celebration was low key and many respecting the wishes of Indian cricket’s new poster boy as he went to the graveyard to pray at his father’s grave.  “Siraj’s performance has made all of us proud and once again a Hyderabadi cricketer is reminding us of the golden days of former Indian Captain Md Azharuddin and VVS Laxman,” quipped Khaja Yousufuddin Siddiqui, a local resident of Mahboob Chowk.  “The sports fraternity should recognize such hidden talent and focus on nurturing sports among the kids. There is so much of raw talent waiting to be tapped,”’ Mohammed Sahil Akber, another resident said. Many women and children lined up to see Mohammed Siraj when he finally reached his Toli Chowki home. Wearing dark glasses and a blue mask, Siraj had to make his way through a swelling crowd, many among them were the waiting media.  “The efforts and dedication during the series is worthy of praise. It was Siraj who set up India’s victory with key wickets,” murmured one in the crowd. Some even suggested that the selection committee should pick talented youngsters and not go by past records. “The selectors in Indian cricket board should pay attention towards talented and enthusiastic players to help Team India win,’’ said Mohammed Haji Mastan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/siraj-has-made-every-hyderabadi-feel-proud/articleshow/80394113.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana to have 10% EWS quota for upper castes, says CM K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: Two years after the Centre had announced 10% reservation to economically weaker sections (EWS) in the government educational institutions and recruitments, Telangana government has decided to implement it in state institutions and jobs. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Thursday said that a high-level meeting would be convened in the next two to three days to discuss the issue and orders would be issued. With the 10% EWS quota, reservations for various categories in the state will go up to 60%. The state government has already been implementing 50% quota for SCs, STs, BCs and Muslims under the BC category. “There is a need to implement 10% reservation in jobs and educational institutions to the economically weaker classes. We have decided to implement 10% EWS reservation while continuing the quota to those who have already been enjoying the benefit as it is,” KCR said. The announcement came after some upper caste communities including Brahmins, Velamas, Kammas and Reddys set a deadline of January 30, failing which they had threatened to launch an agitation. The TRS government’s latest decision comes close on the heels of it deciding to implement Ayushman Bharat, Centre’s health scheme, by linking it with the state’s Aarogyasri scheme. The state government had steadfastly refused to implement the central scheme on the grounds that the state government’s scheme was way better than Ayushman Bharat. Besides, the government had already made a climbdown on the Centre’s farm laws by announcing that it would do away with regulated farming and winding up purchase centres in the villages. The CM is likely to take a call on how to implement 60% quota as there is a cap of 50% fixed by the Supreme Court. Some states such as Tamil Nadu have been implementing 69% quota by way of a constitutional amendment. Telangana state assembly had passed resolutions for enhancement of reservation to 10% from 6% for STs and 12% to Mulsims from 4% but the proposal is pending with the Centre. Official sources said since admissions into various courses such as engineering, medical and other professional courses are over, those with EWS quota waiting to get into government’s jobs are likely to benefit. The government has announced recruitment of posts vacant in various government departments. Telangana Brahmin Samkshema Parishad member MVR Sharma has welcomed the CM’s decision. “Though it was delayed, the EWS quota will help many poor people in upper castes, especially Brahmins,” he told TOI. EWS Federation chairman Malladi Pavan while welcoming the government’s decision, however, said they would continue their fight till a GO is issued. “The TRS government has promised a lot for teachers and employees, but many of them have not been fulfilled,” he said. He said they are planning to hold a public meeting in Warangal on January 31. “The agitation has been going on for the last two months. We will withdraw it the moment the government issues an order on EWS quota,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-have-10-ews-quota-for-upper-castes-says-kcr/articleshow/80395558.cms||Koride Mahesh
January 22, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||K-Rail work will begin after Centre’s nod: Kerala CM||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in the assembly that social impact study for K-Rail project will be conducted. The environmental impact study has been done and a detailed project report (DPR) has been prepared. DPR has been submitted to Centre for final approval. The work will begin once central approval is obtained, said Vijayan while replying to a notice, seeking leave for an adjournment motion to discuss the project. However, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged that Centre had denied sanction for the project and the state government was going ahead with land acquisition. He alleged that the project would pull the state into a deep financial crisis and over 50,000 buildings would be affected. But, the chief minister said as per DPR, only 9,314 buildings will be affected in 11 districts through the K-Rail. The total length of the rail project is 530km of which 220km line will be parallel to the existing tracks. The project has been designed protecting paddy, cultivable lands. In greenfield areas, track will be constructed on elevated pillars. Among the 115km rail stretch through agri land, the line along 88km stretch are being constructed in this fashion. All waterbodies have been protected and there will be no adverse impact on the environment. This has been ensured, said Vijayan. On the allegation that the project will be financial liability for Kerala, the chief minister said K-Rail project should be seen as a development of infrastructure and this would attract investments. The economy of the state will also have a corresponding boost, he added. The semi high-speed rail corridor, which was envisaged earlier by the previous government, would have pulled state into a deep financial liability since the estimated cost of that project was Rs 66,000 crore. It is double the cost of what we will have to spend for K-Rail, he said. K-Rail is being implemented through Kerala Rail Development Corporation. The government will have 51% share in this company and the remaining 49% share will be of Union railway ministry. It has been decided to source funds from international agencies at lower interest rate, said the chief minister. Based on CM’s explanation, the speaker denied permission for the adjournment motion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/k-rail-work-will-begin-after-centres-approval-cm/articleshow/80393087.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Goa||Goa transport min calls for decongesting state capital, shifting casino offices||PANAJI: In order to resolve Panaji’s traffic congestion, transport minister Mauvin Godinho on Thursday said offices of the offshore casinos need to be moved away from the city centre and closer to the multi-level parking facility. Godinho also expressed concern over the quality of public transport in Panaji and offered to provide city shuttle buses for the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP). Godinho also said that more traffic signals can also address the traffic congestion in Panaji. “A very important step that needs to be taken to decongest the city. There is major congestion near the casinos because of parking of taxis and other vehicles. All the offices of the casinos should be compulsorily moved to one place, maybe the jetty. Those who want to go to the casinos will automatically land there and they must park at the multi-level parking facility, whether you come in a luxury car or in an another vehicle or buses,” said Godinho. The transport minister said that he had already spoken to CCP mayor Uday Madkaikar, who assured him that the civic body is working on a plan to shift the casino offices. Godinho was speaking after inaugurating the traffic signals in Panaji. The signals have been donated by Mhadav Prasad Birla Group to CCP. Godinho said that casino staff and customers should utilise the multi-story parking which will help reduce congestion in Panaji.  “I also appeal to the casinos to operate small shuttle buses so that people are picked up and dropped to the casinos. If the council asks for it, from the department, I will be forthcoming to give the shuttle buses so that congestion in Panaji is resolved. The haphazard parking has to stop,” he said. Godinho said that the department plans to get additional electric buses. He also decried the slow pace of the city buses in Panaji and said that the issue needs to be tackled in order to improve public transport in the capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/transport-min-calls-for-decongesting-state-capital-shifting-casino-offices/articleshow/80394177.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Dehradun||Dehradun: Three, including retired serviceman, held in fake jobs scam||DEHRADUN: Blowing the lid off a major employment fraud, the Uttarakhand Special Task Force (STF) in a joint operation with Military Intelligence arrested three persons from Dehradun on the charges of helping people get jobs in countries like Afghanistan and Pakistan by showing them as retired defence personnel with the help of fake documents. Several rubber stamps, letter pads, discharge books and documents related to the Army were seized from them. The gang, which was headed by Raghuveer Singh Pal, an ex-defence personnel, had prepared the fake documents for various posts in combat and non-combat roles and used to charge Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000 per client. According to officials, over 100 people have got jobs, out of which the majority were Nepalese citizens. The gang had been operating in Dehradun for several years. Sharing further information, SP (STF) Ajay Singh told TOI, “The Military Intelligence team had informed us about the scam. Our team worked on the case for around 12 days and traced the people involved in the racket.”Working on the initial clues, the joint team held a raid in late-night hours of Wednesday and arrested Vikki Thapa from Doodhli Road in Mothrowala area. Some Army-related documents were also seized from his possession. During the interrogation of Thapa, the team got to know about Pal, a resident of Johri village, running the fake job racket.“We arrested Pal and he revealed that all the fake documents were prepared in a printing press in the Banjarawala area. The press owner was also arrested,” he said. “During the raid, we found 100 Army discharge book, 135 certificates, 20 stamps of various army officers, two letter pads, four mobile phones and a computer from them,” he added. Explaining the modus operandi of the gang, the STF officer said, “They were always on the lookout for people who are seeking jobs in foreign countries. Since retired defence personnel are preferred for security-related jobs in foreign countries, Pal helped his clients get jobs in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Dubai, Iraq and other countries.” The probe team has collected information on three placement agencies of Afghanistan who had hired people on the basis of fake documents prepared by the gang. The joint team is also probing whether the gang prepared fake passports as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-including-retired-serviceman-held-in-fake-jobs-scam/articleshow/80391817.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Two lawyers among 3 held for selling HSVP land||CHANDIGARH: Haryana police has arrested three persons, including two advocates, who sold two acres of ‘acquired’ land by fraudulent means in Gurugramdistrict to a private company, causing loss worth crores of rupees to the state exchequer. Manoj Yadava , director general of police (DGP) Haryana, said the land of Islampur village, which was acquired by the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) in 1993, was sold to a private company at Rs 2 crore with fake and forged documents and witnesses. Accused Rohit Thakaran of Jharsa village and Ajay Choudhry, a resident of Islampur village got the land transferred in the name of Ajay by showing fake witnesses impersonating Murti Devi, Lakshmi Devi and Bala Devi, who were original owners of the two acres of ancestral property. Both the main accused has been arrested. Witnesses Chaman Lal Arora and Subhash Chand Arora (both advocates), who identified three original owners, have also been arrested. The fraud came to light when one of the original owners — Murti Devi, a resident of Gupta Colony in Gurugram— filed a complaint in this regard. Based on the complaint, state crime branch (Gurugramunit) had arrested the three accused. The probe also revealed that mastermind Thakran had learnt privately the work of Patwari and was fully aware of the acquired land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fraudsters-sell-2-acre-of-hsvp-land-in-gurgaon-arrested/articleshow/80394114.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Guwahati||Ulfa(I) releases video of hostages of Delhi oil company, demands Rs 20 crore||GUWAHATI/PATNA: Assam and Bihar on Thursday moved to secure the safe return of two kidnapped oil company executives — one each from either state — after the Paresh Baruah-led Ulfa(I) released videos purportedly showing the duo appealing to chief ministers Sarbananda Sonowal and Nitish Kumar to do what it takes to get them back home. Pranab Kumar Gogoi (51) of Assam and Ram Kumar (35) from Bihar are employees of the Delhi-based drilling services firm Quippo Oil and Gas Infrastructure Ltd. They were apparently kidnapped by Ulfa(I) and an NSCN(K) faction from the Kumchaikha drilling site in Changlang district of Arunachal Pradesh, bordering Myanmar, on December 21 last year. Ulfa(I) has demanded Rs 20 crore in ransom from the company, sources said. An Assam government official said CM Sonowal called Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan and his Arunachal Pradesh counterpart Pema Khandu, seeking a concerted effort to free the hostages. Bihar additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani said the state government would do everything possible to save Kumar. His wife Bina Kumari told TOI on Thursday that she last spoke to her husband on December 21. Their five-year-old son was diagnosed with blood cancer 10 months ago and is undergoing treatment at AIIMS-Patna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/ulfai-releases-video-of-hostages-of-delhi-oil-company-demands-rs-20-crore/articleshow/80396911.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Chandigarh||HSSC paper leak bid: 2 more arrests raise tally to 21||Karnal: Panipat police have arrested two more persons for their alleged involvement in attempt to leak the question papers of gram sachiv examination conducted by Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) on January 9 and 10. The accused have been identified as Deepak Kumar of Delhi and Deshbandhu of Dikadla village in Panipat district. Panipat SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said the accused were produced before the court and ordered police remand. He added that 21 persons, including the owner of a private school, his wife and son, had been arrested in this connection so far. Further investigations are still going on, he said. HSSC has cancelled the written exams held on January 9 and 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hssc-paper-leak-bid-2-more-arrests-raise-tally-to-21/articleshow/80394137.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Rajkot||Virtual push to Sanskrit for ease of learning||Rajkot: Sanskrit, the base of all modern Indian languages, though highly revered is generally avoided as curriculum subject, especially by the next gen students. The reluctance mainly stems from the tough pronunciation of Shlokas and nuances of its rigid grammar. However, teachers for ages have been trying to help ease the process of its learning. Taking a step forward in this direction, four teachers of various parts of Gujarat also took the ancient language to the digital platform. They completed a mammoth task of putting all the study material of Sanskrit on a mobile application for students from Class VI to X. Their zeal was also lauded by the district education committee when the innovation secured the first rank at its educational innovation festival at Amreli district. It will now be sent for state-level competition. Nirav Jani, who teaches Sanskrit in a government school of Rajula in Amreli district had started a YouTube channel for Sanskrit subject which he displayed at the state innovation program exhibition in 2018. After this channel started revenue making, he decided to create a mobile application with the money wherein all chapters of textbooks, animated videos of story prepared under state government’s Gyankunj programme, Shloka in video form sung by the Sanskrit teachers with correct pronunciations among many more. Jani was helped by three other Sanskrit teachers including Deepka Rathod of Ahmedabad, Abhishek Dave of Rajkot and Viraj Joshi of Jamnagar in his education mission. “There was no online material available for Sanskrit study. It’s our novel attempt to put Sanskrit study material in an innovative way so as to create interest of students in the ancient learning. This mobile application is free for download and will help students and teachers especially from Class VI to X.” Jani told TOI. Jani, who is also part of the state-level committee that selects study material for text books, said that keeping in mind that the app is meant for students’ usage, the pages consume very less data while the download files too have been kept small.Deepika Rathod who prepared grammar videos for Class X said, “There is dearth of digital study material for Sanskrit. Students are afraid of Sanskrit grammar and therefore they opt for Hindi as a subject in Class X. If we teach the language in an innovative manner it will surely attract them and many may prefer to study it even further.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/virtual-push-to-sanskrit-for-ease-of-learning/articleshow/80391859.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
January 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Rape victim denied treatment: Punjab minister seeks report in 3 days||CHANDIGARH: Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Thursday directed the civil surgeon of Gurdaspur to submit the report within three days in an incident in which senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Chetna and medical officers in civil hospital Gurdaspur allegedly refused to examine the rape victim. Taking serious note of the incident, while presiding over the civil surgeons review meeting, Sidhu said there is no issue of jurisdictional limits in the examination of rape case at hospitals. He said it is also the responsibility of civil surgeons to ensure the implementation of guidelines in all such serious incidents. The health minister also assured that strict departmental action will be taken against the erring officers on the behalf of the report to be submitted by the civil surgeon. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/denying-to-treat-rape-victim-pb-health-min-asks-gurdaspur-civil-surgeon-for-report/articleshow/80394141.cms||---
January 22, 2021||Delhi||Covid vaccine: Delhi doctors’ prescription... we can, so should you||NEW DELHI: Alka Gujral, a gynaecologist at Max Hospital, Saket, claimed to have had no apprehensions about receiving the Covid-19 vaccine on Thursday. The 60-year-old doctor’s message was clear, “It is better to get the vaccine than to live with the fear of the coronavirus.” Her daughter and son-in-law too got inoculated in the United States. Vineet Bajaj, 34, assistant professor of orthopedics at Lok Nayak Hospital, also bared his arm for the injection on Thursday. His name wasn’t listed, but he volunteered for early vaccination. “With the out-patients department and in-patient services resuming in the hospital, we need the jab for self-protection,” he said. Both Gujral and Bajaj, of course, were also heeding the call for seniors to opt for the vaccine to allay worries about adverse reactions and the efficacy of the two vaccines being used in India. As Dr Deepak Gupta, professor of neurosurgery at AIIMS, put it, “Unless the senior faculty members come forward, the juniors will not budge. We need to lead from the front.” Gupta opted for the vaccine on Thursday and publicised it on the faculty WhatsApp group, inspiring some others too to walk to the vaccination booth. “Doctors have been working tirelessly to treat Covid patients for almost a year. It’s time now for doctors also to create society’s trust in India-manufactured vaccines,” added Gupta, who lost his mother to the insidious coronavirus recently. Dr Santosh Pandey and Dr Wasim, both senior paediatricians at Deen Dayal Upadhayay Hospital, queued up for the shot on Thursday. “It was Dr Wasim who motivated me to come here,” admitted Pandey, waiting patiently in the rear row at their hospital’s vaccination centre. Wasim himself said, “We are around 65 doctors in our department and only if we take the lead will the others shed their inhibitions and follow suit. We all need to ignore the negative news floating around.” Apart from the two, Dr Jasmeet Kaur, 57, head of ENT, and Dr Maninder Kaur Chhabra, 52, senior surgery specialist, also had their arms pricked at DDU — and then posted the news on their departmental social media group to inspire those who were more circumspect. The turnout at the premier AIIMS has been lower than in many hospitals. The seniors there have already played the exemplary role. In a well-highlighted procedure on the first day of vaccinations on January 16, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria looked on as a nurse jabbed his arm. “I haven’t suffered any side-effects,” he said. Dr Y K Misra, chief of clinical services and head of cardiac sciences at Manipal Hospital, has been similarly treated. “It’s been two days since I received the injection and haven’t had any serious symptoms,” said Misra, who is not only a vulnerable 67 years old, but is also a diabetic. Many others are taking the cue from these doctors. At Guru Gobind Singh Hospital, gynaecologist Huma Ali arrived on time for the vaccination despite having spent the night on duty in the hospital. “The government is giving us this advantage as priority recipients, and all health workers must participate. After facing Covid together, we must together avail of the protection provided by the vaccine,” said Dr Ali. Dr Ashish Dey, 42, of the general and laparoscopic surgery department at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital too decided to become a role model. “I feel this is social responsibility,” he said. At Max Saket, 58-year-old Balbir Singh was one of the senior doctors to voluntarily get inoculated. Afterwards, the cardiologist posted this optimistic message on social media: “Hopefully this is the beginning of the end of Covid-19”. He added that if doctors themselves were reluctant to accept the vaccine, they couldn’t expect the general public to do so. Singh is, in fact, eagerly waiting to get his 84-year-old mother vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/doctors-prescription-we-can-so-should-you/articleshow/80394160.cms||---
