January 23, 2021||Goa||Told coach Stimac I will fight for my place in national team: Seriton||Seriton Fernandes was nervous when national coach Igor Stimac dialled his number last year and summoned him for a meeting. The FC Goa right-back was regularly making heads turn. He was flying up and down, and his performance could no longer be ignored. The national coach watched him closely, and during his visit to Goa, decided to have a word. “I met the coach and he told me how he expects me to play (for the national team). He explained how I need to defend, how to go forward. He told me everything,” Seriton revealed to TOI during an online interaction on Friday. It was his first meeting with the national coach and he listened to every word that the Croatian World Cup bronze medallist had to say. “He said there are lot of people fighting for that spot and you will have to fight. I told him I’ll fight for my place and, if selected, will give my best for the national team,” disclosed Seriton. The Goa right-back was definitely in Stimac’s plans for the World Cup qualifiers. He was named among the probables for the World Cup 2022 qualifier against Qatar. But the coronavirus pandemic meant the national team has been robbed of international football. And Seriton has had to wait for his chance to impress. Since making his debut for FC Goa in 2017, he has been knocking hard on the doors of the Indian team. He’s been consistent. His attacking prowess was never in doubt; after all, he was an established winger before Derrick Pereira converted him into a full-back at Churchill Brothers. Since his debut against Mohun Bagan in the I-League, he hasn’t looked back. “I have played all matches right now (for Goa), and I will do whatever the team wants of me. My aim is to always put my best foot forward,” he said. Ferrando has fielded Seriton in each of the 12 games so far. Even in the previous two seasons, he missed just one game due to a red card. Those tackles that got him into trouble have now been controlled. Stimac, who said last year Seriton is “up there, (for) one of the positions people ask me about,” may have taken note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/told-coach-stimac-i-will-fight-for-my-place-in-national-team-seriton/articleshow/80412230.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
January 23, 2021||Goa||FC Goa may need a new plan to outwit Kerala Blasters||Juan Ferrando has promised everyone a beautiful game on Saturday. Not many promise that, but the FC Goa coach knows what he is talking ahead of a crucial clash against an unpredictable Kerala Blasters at the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim. Goa have entertained, not just with their free-flowing football, but also goals at the death. There were stoppage time winners against Jamshedpur FC and Hyderabad FC. There were late equalisers against ATK Mohun Bagan and East Bengal too. Kerala have entertained as well, most notably with a dramatic winner against archrivals Bengaluru FC in their previous game. With Kibu Vicuna at the helm, there will be no holding back. “We want to win all the time. In the end, it is a new team and a new chapter. It is important to go game-by-game and control the emotions. “This season sometimes you narrowly lose three points. But it does not matter how you lose them. It is important to improve tactically. This season is being tough. All the teams are working hard,” said Ferrando. Ferrando has an important decision to make. He left an unwell Igor Angulo on the bench for the last two games and Alberto Noguera has since grown in stature. But with the star striker – scoring a goal every 98 minutes -- now fully fit, can he still be left on the bench? That decision, and a new plan, could be largely influenced by the absence of Brandon Fernandes. Possibly the best domestic player in the side, the winger picked up an injury in the previous game and remains unavailable. There are options. Devendra Murgaonkar and Ishan Pandita, both of whom have added their names to the scorers list this season, can be used. There’s Princeton Rebello too, besides Sanson Pereira as left-back is an interesting choice with Saviour Gama pushed higher up the pitch. Whatever Ferrando decides, Kerala know they have a tough task on hand against a team that has had an average of 64% ball possession per game. Kerala are warming up to the challenge of securing a top-four spot. They have seven points from their last three games and a win will take them to the fifth spot, just one behind Hyderabad FC and three points less than third-placed Goa. “Goa is a very good team, well-prepared with fantastic players. They are a team that has very dynamic players, not only Angulo and (Jorge) Ortiz, Romario is also playing very well,” said Vicuna. Kerala fielded a make-shift defence with Jeakson Singh alongside Costa Nhamoinesu at centre-back. Sandeep Singh was slotted at right-back and Dhenechandra Meitei on the left. Asked whether he would continue to show faith in that defence, Vicuna was non-committal, knowing fully well they cannot afford to make the mistakes that cost them the match in the first leg. “In the first match, we conceded the first and third goal very easily. I hope that tomorrow in the game we will be better defensively, also improving in our offensive plays. We are creating more chances than at the beginning of the season and I am sure we have the ability to get three points,” said Vicuna. Kerala have lost 10 points after scoring the first goal. Goa have 10 points after trailing by a goal. No one passes the ball more than Goa in a game and nobody has more goal scorers than Kerala. This one is sure to be entertaining, if not, as Ferrando promised, beautiful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fc-goa-may-need-a-new-plan-to-outwit-kerala-blasters/articleshow/80412277.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
January 23, 2021||Goa||Told coach Stimac I will fight for my place in national team: Seriton||Seriton Fernandes was nervous when national coach Igor Stimac dialled his number last year and summoned him for a meeting. The FC Goa right-back was regularly making heads turn. He was flying up and down, and his performance could no longer be ignored. The national coach watched him closely, and during his visit to Goa, decided to have a word. “I met the coach and he told me how he expects me to play (for the national team). He explained how I need to defend, how to go forward. He told me everything,” Seriton revealed to TOI during an online interaction on Friday. It was his first meeting with the national coach and he listened to every word that the Croatian World Cup bronze medallist had to say. “He said there are lot of people fighting for that spot and you will have to fight. I told him I’ll fight for my place and, if selected, will give my best for the national team,” disclosed Seriton. The Goa right-back was definitely in Stimac’s plans for the World Cup qualifiers. He was named among the probables for the World Cup 2022 qualifier against Qatar. But the coronavirus pandemic meant the national team has been robbed of international football. And Seriton has had to wait for his chance to impress. Since making his debut for FC Goa in 2017, he has been knocking hard on the doors of the Indian team. He’s been consistent. His attacking prowess was never in doubt; after all, he was an established winger before Derrick Pereira converted him into a full-back at Churchill Brothers. Since his debut against Mohun Bagan in the I-League, he hasn’t looked back. “I have played all matches right now (for Goa), and I will do whatever the team wants of me. My aim is to always put my best foot forward,” he said. Ferrando has fielded Seriton in each of the 12 games so far. Even in the previous two seasons, he missed just one game due to a red card. Those tackles that got him into trouble have now been controlled. Stimac, who said last year Seriton is “up there, (for) one of the positions people ask me about,” may have taken note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/told-coach-stimac-i-will-fight-for-my-place-in-national-team-seriton/articleshow/80411682.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
January 23, 2021||Hubballi||Lyricist Doddarange Gowda to preside over Kannada literary meet in Haveri||HAVERI: Popular cine lyricist Doddarange Gowda has been chosen to preside over the 86th Akhila Bharata Kannada Sahitya Sammelana to be held in Haveri. Kannada Sahitya Parishat president Manu Baligar announced his name after an executive committee meeting in Bengaluru on Friday. The 75-year-old writer will chair the literary meet from February 26 to 28. Folklorist and Sharana Sahitya Parishat founder Go Ru Channabasappa and Gowda were in the final race for the chair. Finally, members selected the latter unanimously. A former MLC, Gowda was Infosys co-founder NR Narayana Murthy’s classmate. “Gowda is a prominent Kannada poet. He has been chosen to preside over the 86th Kannada literary meet owing to his significant contribution to the Kannada literary world,” said Baligar.  Gowda was born in Madhugiri , Tumakuru district on February 7, 1946. He has written 114 books, 560 film lyrics, 29 anthologies of critical essays, besides innumerable literary articles in vernacular journals and periodicals. He has written dialogues for more than 10 Kannada films and has brought out poetry collections in English. Gowda said, “Recognition is very important for every individual. I have been contributing to Kannada literature since 1960. Now Kannada Sahitya Parishat has recognised me... It’s the biggest honour in my life. I sincerely accept this invitation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lyricist-doddarange-gowda-to-preside-over-kannada-literary-meet-in-haveri/articleshow/80412624.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
January 23, 2021||Bengaluru||Man from Goa flees without paying Rs 1.4 lakh hotel bill||BENGALURU: A Goa-based man, who put up a show of being a VIP and checked into a hotel here with five bodyguards, has fled without paying the room rent. He is said to have cheated the bodyguards too. According to police, the accused is Swapnil Naik, a resident of Goa. On January 2, Naik arrived at Zion hotel in Gandhinagar with five bodyguards and took a room on rent. On January 8, his wife arrived, and two more rooms were rented for the bodyguards. On January 9, they hired a mini-bus and went for a trip towards Ramanagara, but little did the hotel staff know that the couple had actually fled. Probe revealed Naik also cheated the firm from which he had hired the mini-bus and the bodyguards, whom he did not pay. Raju LN, the hotel staffer, in his complaint said Swapnil and his family did not clear the bill of Rs 1,43,243 towards room rent and food and had fled. Upparpet police have registered a case. Police said they have collected information about Naik’s movement and have launched a manhunt to nab him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-from-goa-flees-without-paying-1-4-lakh-hotel-bill/articleshow/80412628.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Job-seeker misbehaves with recruiter during video interview||BENGALURU: A job aspirant allegedly misbehaved with a female recruiter by showing his private parts during a video interview on Zoom recently. T Kumari (name changed), resident of Mahadevapura and senior software engineer with a private IT firm, was tasked with interviewing the suspect, Rahul Methil from Bhopal, to recruit him for her team. According to police, the interview was scheduled for January 8 and started around 1pm. Methil attended the interview through a video conference call. He noticed the interviewer was a woman and in the middle of the interaction, turned his camera towards his private parts. A shocked Kumari disconnected the call. She narrated the incident to her husband, who approached police. Whitefield police have registered a case of cybercrime against Methil under various sections of IT Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/job-seeker-misbehaves-with-recruiter-during-video-interview/articleshow/80412633.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Court gives nod to attach 26 properties of conman Yuvaraj||BENGALURU: A sessions court on Friday gave permission for provisional attachment of 26 properties of conman Yuvaraj, alias Sevalal Swamy, who was arrested by Central Crime Branch sleuths in December. Special public prosecutor SK Patil said there are 14 criminal cases against the 55-year-old scamster in different police stations. During investigation, sleuths found he had purchased properties in north and west Bengaluru, Hassan, Maddur and Arasikere. During searches, CCB police recovered over 100 cheques drawn in Yuvaraj’s name, worth around Rs 90 crore. After his arrest, many victims came forward and filed cheating complaints, including a 68-year-woman who said Yuvaraj had taken Rs 8 crore from her, promising a designated position in the central government. HC to expert panel: Consider BMRCL’s tree-cutting plea The high court on Friday directed the expert committee appointed by it to consider BMRCL’s application seeking permission to cut 872 trees along Metro’s Nagawara-Gottigere alignment. A division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka gave this direction after BMRCL counsel told the court it will submit an application to the committee. The panel appointed last year comprises experts from the forest department, GKVK and University of Agricultural Sciences, Bengaluru. BMRCL claims 872 out of 1,740 trees belong to those species (eucalyptus, coconut, etc) that are exempted from the purview of Karnataka Preservation of Trees Act, 1976. The high court bench said the committee has to ascertain whether the trees mentioned in the application are covered by sub-section 7, section 8 of the Act and if any of them can be saved. The committee will have to submit a report to the court by February 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/court-gives-nod-toattach-26-propertiesof-conman-yuvaraj/articleshow/80412642.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Bengaluru||Week after rollout, 1.7 lakh beneficiaries take vaccine in Karnataka||BENGALURU: In the past seven days, 1.7 lakh healthcare professionals in Karnataka have been vaccinated against the SARS-CoV2 virus, 56% of coverage vaccinators had planned to complete. The state had set a target of vaccinating 3,18,331 health workers in the timeframe, but managed to inoculate only 1,77,022. Yet, Karnataka continues to top states in Covid vaccination coverage. So far, the state has reported nine serious adverse effects following vaccinations (AEFI), including one on Friday. “No deaths were reported after vaccination on Friday. Even admission to hospital post vaccination is reported as serious AEFI,” said Pankaj Kumar Pandey, commissioner, health and family welfare department. A 35-year-old Davanagere woman was hospitalised, but officials said it was a case of anxiety post vaccination. On Friday, the state vaccinated 42,425 healthcare workers — 52% coverage of the 81,519 people it had planned to inoculate. Vaccinations were conducted in all the planned 1,100 sessions. Chitradurga achieved the highest coverage of 75%, followed by Bidar and Mandya. In Bengaluru Urban district (including BBMP areas), only 7,771 (45%) of the 17,183 people who were registered to take the vaccine were administered the first dose. More Covaxin vialsKarnataka is set to receive another 1,46,240 doses of Covaxin, health minister K Sudhakar said on Friday. The state had earlier received 20,000 doses of the indigenous Covid-19 vaccine. Although dispatch was scheduled for Friday, it is likely to arrive on Saturday, said health and family welfare department authorities. As on Friday afternoon, at which point 1.4 lakh healthcare workers were inoculated, Covishied was administered to 1,36,882 beneficiaries, while 1,774 received Covaxin. “Some are hesitating to take the vaccine due to rumours. The vaccine will keep Coivid-19 away. We have a big challenge of vaccinating 1.5 crore to 2 crore people in the state,” said Sudhakar. A total 8,47,908 lakh healthcare workers had registered for the vaccine in the first phase in Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-leads-in-vax-drive-jabs-1-7l-in-1st-week/articleshow/80412729.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Protesting freshers demand scholarships, hostel rooms||BENGALURU: Nineteen-year-old Ramesh, a student of Government ITI College on Hosur Road, decided to move from Raichur to Bengaluru in the hope of finding a spot in the college hostel. But ever since colleges reopened a month ago, he has been running from pillar to post looking for accommodation. “We were told that because of Covid-19, first-year students won’t be given a hostel room. My friends in Austin Town Hostel told me there are vacancies there, yet rooms are not being allotted. The authorities have asked me to make my own arrangements. I have no clue how to manage in a new city like this,” said Ramesh, who even went back to his hometown for a week. “My friend offered to share his place with me and asked me to come back. But how long can I depend on someone else?” he said. Ramesh is among the many freshers who are struggling to find hostel accommodation. Students led by All India Democratic Students organisation staged a protest at Mysore Bank Circle on Friday, demanding the government release scholarships and provide access to hostels. “The government has not yet invited applications for hostels and scholarships for the present academic year. Urban and rural students in many parts of the state are facing a bus problem,” said the students’ organisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/protesting-freshers-demand-scholarships-hostel-rooms/articleshow/80412755.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Bengaluru||Reconsider move to waive SSLC attendance in Karnataka: Schools||BENGALURU: The private schools’ association has asked the government to re-examine the decision to waive 75% mandatory attendance for SSLC students. Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board has said SSLC students don’t require the 75% attendance to appear for exams. The relaxation comes in view of schools reopening only in January and students having the option of not attending physical classes. “While we have not made it mandatory for students to attend physical classes, we cannot make 75% attendance compulsory. The rule may change as things improve: For instance, we could make a smaller percentage mandatory later,” said V Anbukkumar, commissioner, department of public instruction. However, Association of Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka is unhappy with the decision. “Students have the option of attending online or offline classes. But many do not attend either. If the regulations are relaxed and attendance is not counted at all, students will have no interest in attending rest of the classes too,” said D Shashi Kumar, secretary. “We are discussing relaxing the 75% attendance criteria,” said Snehal R, director, department of PU education. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/reconsider-move-to-waive-sslc-attendance-schools/articleshow/80412766.cms||---
January 23, 2021||World||Vijay Mallya has applied for asylum, his lawyer informs judge||LONDON: Fugitive economic offender Vijay Mallya’s barrister confirmed for the first time in a British court that the 65-year-old has applied for asylum, which is why he has not been sent back to India despite the UK courts having upheld India’s extradition request to send him back in May 2020 to face charges of fraud by false representation, conspiracy to defraud, and laundering money. Philip Marshall QC, representing Mallya in his bankruptcy proceedings in the high court — which have been brought by the consortium of Indian banks to whom Mallya owes £1.05 billion (Rs 10,467 crore) — on Friday, whilst making an application for £2.8 million (about Rs 28 crore) from the court funds office to fund Mallya’s legal fees and living expenses, was asked by deputy insolvency and companies court judge Barnett what the outcome of Mallya’s extradition proceedings were. Marshall replied: “The extradition request was upheld. He is still here because there is another route. You can apply to the secretary of state for a status, meaning you won’t go back. This is a historic route.” He also said: “Were Mallya to leave the jurisdiction it would undermine the whole point of the bankruptcy proceedings and make it more difficult for the trustee to carry out enquiries and his resistance to extradition and costs incurred are beneficial to the estate.” It is widely thought that Tiger Hanif — accused of being the mastermind of the 1993 Surat bomb blasts — was granted asylum, which led to his extradition to India being reversed in 2019. He had exhausted all avenues of appeal in the UK courts in 2013 and was due to be extradited, but, like Mallya, never went back. A decision was later made by the home secretray to withdraw the order for his extradition. On September 11, 2020 the bankruptcy petitioners and Mallya entered into a consent order whereby the net proceeds of sale of property in France worth €3.27 million (about Rs 29 crore) — ultimately owned by Mallya — were paid into the court funds office. Mallya was seeking on Friday £2.79 million from that pot to pay for his bankruptcy legal fees in the UK and the legal fees of his extradition case — including the Crown Prosecution Service costs — as well as all his cases in India, and his monthly £22,500 (approximately Rs 22 lakh) living expenses for six months. The court heard he was seeking legal fees in India amounting to approximately £1.8 million (about Rs 18 crore). These include the fugitive economic offender proceedings brought by the Indian government, which he is challenging, as well as the 11% compound interest on the principal debt which he is challenging, and also his settlement proposal in the Supreme Court of India. He also sought £127,818 (about Rs 1.3 crore) to pay Boutique Law for legal fees in respect of his extradition proceedings. The court heard that the costs order against him to pay for the Crown Prosecution Service legal fees had already been paid as otherwise he would have been imprisoned. There are also fees in the Diageo case, the court heard. The court also heard that a close relative of Mallya’s has recently died of Covid-19, inhibiting his ability to give instructions, and that he earns £5,000 (almost Rs 5 lakh) a month after losing his consultancy income of £62,500 (Rs 62 lakh) per month with the Racing Point F1 Team in October 2020. Apart from the sale of the French mansion he only has £250,000 (Rs 2.5 crore) in a bank account that is subject to a third party debt order. Tony Beswetherick, representing the banks, opposed his application on the basis it would totally deplete the funds held for the benefit of the creditors and on the basis that Mallya had other assets, namely two yachts in storage in Southampton, cars in storage in France, and almost £1.5 million (about Rs 15 crore) owed to him by various Mallya family trusts. The court heard that in addition to the petitioners’ debt, Mallya owes other creditors £2.5 million (Rs 25 crore) and has a further supporting creditor owed £2.3 million (about Rs 23 crore). Barnett reserved judgment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/vijay-mallya-has-applied-for-asylum-his-lawyer-informs-judge/articleshow/80413063.cms||NAOMI CANTON
January 23, 2021||India||Suspected terrorists hurl grenade at police vehicle in Kishtwar||JAMMU: Suspected terrorists lobbed a grenade at a police vehicle in Chatroo area of J&K’s Kishtwar district on Friday, triggering panic among locals. However, the explosive missed the intended target and burst on an empty stretch of road and none was injured. Soon after the attack, the area was cordoned and security personnel launched a massive search to trace the perpetrators. Kishtwar SSP Harmeet Singh said the grenade explosion took place in Chatroo’s Dadpeth area. “We are investigating the matter,” he added. Just a day earlier, DIG (Doda-Kishtwar-Ramban Range) Abdul Jabbar had said that of three districts in Chenab region, Doda and Ramban districts were now terrorist-free while Kishtwar was still struggling with militancy. “We are trying to make the area militancy-free as soon as possible,” the DIG told reporters during his visit to Doda to review the security situation ahead of Republic Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/suspected-terrorists-hurl-grenade-at-police-vehicle-in-kishtwar/articleshow/80413097.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
January 23, 2021||India||NCRB’s reply to RTI seeking info on assaults on disabled women in homes draws rights activists’ ire||NEW DELHI: The National Crime Records Bureau in response to a Right to Information application has said that they do not have information on incidents of rape or other forms of sexual assault reported from residential institutions housing girls and women with disabilities. The applicant has also been told that since policing is a state subject the applicant may seek information directly from the states and Union Territories. Citing this RTI response from December last year, over 90 disability rights organisations, activists and individuals have now written a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah expressing their dismay at the fact that despite the large number of reported cases of sexual assaults on disabled girls/women, the NCRB does not maintain disaggregated data on such violence, as a separate category. Some of the prominent organisations on the list whose representative have written the letter include National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled (NPRD), National Association for the Blind, All India Federation of the Deaf, Association for Rights of Differently-Abled & Caregivers among others. The NCRB in its reply in December to the RTI filed by disability rights activist Shampa Sengupta from NPRD, states that information on incidents of rape or other forms of sexual assault reported from residential institutions housing girls and women with disabilities have been reported from the states is not available with CPIO. The NCRB also told the applicant that “Police is a state subject under the 7th Schedule of the Indian Constitution. Hence you are advised to obtain the information directly from the concerned state or Union Territory.” The letter writers now want the home ministry should pass necessary orders to ensure that the NCRB maintains disaggregated data which “includes, but is not restricted to, sex, age, place of residence, relationship with perpetrator and disability in cases of violence and exploitation, including gender-based violence against women and girls with disabilities, and violence inflicted by intimate partners”. “This issue becomes all the more urgent as we are witnessing a growing number of cases of sexual assaults on girls/women with disabilities. We observe that during the pandemic period also there has been no respite. On the contrary, we find that there has been an increase in their numbers and the ferocity and brutality inflicted on the victims/survivors has escalated,” the letter said. They go on to add that in many cases the perpetrators seek to maim the survivor with the intention of further impairing her capacity to get through an already inaccessible criminal justice system. “This was blatantly evident in the recent case in Bihar’s Madhubani were an attempt was made to damage the eyes of a hearing and speech impaired girl after she was subjected to gang-rape,” it is pointed in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ncrbs-reply-to-rti-seeking-info-on-assaults-on-disabled-women-in-homes-draws-rights-activists-ire/articleshow/80413376.cms||Ambika Pandit
January 23, 2021||India||Centre flags off process to build database on tribal migrants; Goa to be testing ground for data collection||NEW DELHI: The Centre has flagged off the process to build a database of tribal migrants on Friday by launching the "Shram Shakti- national migration support portal". Goa will be leading the ground test on data collection through its brand new migration cell that will now set-out the framework to register migrants coming in by road and rail to work in the state’s hospitality, construction and fisheries sectors. Besides Goa, Maharashtra, Odisha, Gujarat, Telangana and Sikkim are states where the Tribal Research Institutes in collaboration with the state authorities are also working on the processes to collect migrant data and contribute to the central tribal data respository. The data collected at the state level will be uploaded on the central portal set-up by the ministry of tribal affairs and will be available for analysis to the central ministries and states. In the backdrop of the challenges faced by migrants during the pandemic, this is the first time that MoTA is working towards collating state level data centrally on tribal migrants to not only know their numbers but also link them to schemes. The data collection process will be done down to the village level and MoTA is trying to reach all states to join in this exercise. Goa is considered to be a destination state for migrants from tribal dominant states. An estimated 4-5 lakh migrants come to Goa each year from states of Odisha, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, UP and Karnataka. The Goa Migrant Workers Cell (GMWC) will be steered by the state’s labour secretary as chairman and has been assigned the mandate to collect the demographic details, skills, access to welfare schemes and migration patterns of all who will be registered. It is also proposed to set-up a migration facilitation centre to link migrants and families to various government schemes. Chief minister of Goa, Pramod Sawant said that the cell would address multiple needs of migrants ranging from legal support, access to health, to insurance and financial inclusion. Launching the portal, tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda cited the migrant exodus after the lockdown to drive home the importance of a database for linking the workforce to schemes and assistance. Munda also launched the tribal training module, Shram Saathi, to ensure that the process of livelihood migration is safe and productive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-flags-off-process-to-build-database-on-tribal-migrants-goa-to-be-testing-ground-for-data-collection/articleshow/80413568.cms||Ambika Pandit
January 23, 2021||Goa||MP Prasun Banerjee stresses on need for academies||Panaji: Former India captain and Lok Sabha MP Prasun Banerjee has stressed on the need for teams to come up with more academies to develop football. The Arjuna awardee who donned Mohun Bagan colours in the 70s and 80s wants to see the Indian national team grow stronger and give head coach Igor Stimac more options to work with. “Bruno (Coutinho) is younger to us and was a very good player. Brahmanand (Shankhwalkar) too came later, but they were self-made players. There was not much support during our time. Now there has to be more support,” Banerjee said during his visit to Goa on Friday. “We don’t have too many academies. Before there was only Tata (Football) Academy. It is essential for every team which wants to play in the big leagues to establish their academies first. This has to be the condition for them for their entry into any league. Teams have big budgets now,” said Banerjee, who became the first footballer to win a MP seat in 2014. Banerjee, who was part of an Asian All-Star XI, also wants the Indian Super League (ISL) to introduce promotion and relegation that will give players more reasons to fight for their team. “There were many good players during our time, but they were finished at a young age as they didn’t get the much-needed support. For professional to grow, AIFF and ISL must demand clubs to establish their academies first. There is lot of talent and India will have a pool of good players in the future,” said the 65-year-old||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mp-prasun-banerjee-stresses-on-need-for-academies/articleshow/80413737.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Goa||Adil’s move to FC Goa provides coach Ferrando with more options||Panaji: FC Goa have strengthened themselves with an important loan deal for Hyderabad FC defender Adil Khan till end of season. Goa and Hyderabad have been talking to each other for quite a while and have now agreed a deal. While, at least initially, the talks were of a swap with goalkeeper Mohammed Nawaz going the other way, sources said only Adil is making a move. “Nawaz is staying with FC Goa till the end of season,” a source told TOI on Friday. Adil’s signing is crucial for Goa, who take on the might of Kerala Blasters in an important clash on Saturday. Coach Juan Ferrando has been forced to play both foreign defenders – Ivan Gonzalez and James Donachie — at the back to strike a balance, but the arrival of India’s first-choice central defender could provide him with interesting options. At Hyderabad, the defender didn’t find favour with coach Manuel Marquez, who has opted to start with Chinglensana Singh at the back. Besides the Indian Super League, Adil’s arrival could also help Goa at the AFC Champions League where an Indian club will make its debut. While ISL allows use of five foreign players, ACL has the three plus one foreign player rule. “Adil comes with a proven pedigree and will add to the team his leadership qualities as well. He will be an asset going into the second half of the season and our maiden adventure into Asia,” said Goa’s director of football Ravi Puskur. Adil was also pleased to don FC Goa colours for the first time. “Being from Goa, FC Goa is a club that has always been close to my heart. Finally, the circumstances were right for the move to happen. “Being a Goan, playing formerly in a team with a similar style and having known the players, I believe I can make a real mark on the team. I can’t wait to put on the FC Goa shirt,” said Adil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/adils-move-to-fc-goa-provides-coach-ferrando-with-more-options/articleshow/80413825.cms||---
January 23, 2021||India||Centre gives ED access to crime database||NEW DELHI: The Union home ministry has given the Enforcement Directorate (ED) access to the search tool of Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS) and Interoperable Criminal Justice System (ICJS). While CCTNS is an integrated database of crime records of police stations across the country, ICJS enables seamless transfer of data and information among different pillars of criminal justice system like courts, police, prisons, forensic laboratories, from one platform. CCTNS has already been integrated with ICJS. “Access of ICJS/CCTNS search was provided to Enforcement Directorate (ED) on their request. Administrative user has been created for ED to create further users for their field officers to access ICJS/CCTNS search,” the home ministry said in a document listing its major achievements for November 2020. ED is the country’s specialised financial investigation agency that enforces laws such as Foreign Exchange Management Act and Prevention of Money Laundering Act. CCTNS software has been deployed at 15,263 out of 16,098 police stations across the country, and, around 15,007 of 16,098 Police Stations are entering 100% FIRs through CCTNS. Among its other achievements, the home ministry said a booklet was prepared on mobile application for crime scene photography/videography, which details the scope and extent of the usage on mobile app; legal tenability of the evidence to be tendered in the form of video/data gathered using app; application of standard operating procedures (SOPs) vis-a-vis the role of forensic/FSL teams; and variation between the time of videography and the time of uploading of the same on the web portal. The home ministry has been working on implementing the Supreme Court’s 2018 directive for videography of crime scene for investigation. As part of this, it has already rolled out the scheme in a few urban centres including Delhi. A mobile application has been developed for capturing the crime scene. In November 2020, 67 police officers of South district police of Delhi were trained by NCRB officers in use of mobile app for crime scene photography and videography. The app was duly integrated with Delhi CCTNS database using VPN, said the home ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-gives-ed-access-to-crime-database/articleshow/80414023.cms||Bharti Jain
January 23, 2021||India||Have offered best deal possible: Government tells farmer unions||NEW DELHI/BHATINDA: The stalemate between the Centre and the farm unions opposed to the new agri laws deepened on Friday after the government said the offer to suspend the legislations for up to one and a half years was the best deal possible and its rejection indicated that certain forces did not want a solution. The 11th round of discussions between the Centre and the unions ran aground with agriculture minister Narendra Tomar recounting several suggestions relating to amendments to the laws offered by the Centre and noting that the unions had remained frozen in demanding repeal of the legislations without agreeing to a clause by clause discussion on the reforms. After the meeting ended without the next date being fixed, Tomar said it appeared there were certain forces which did not actually want a solution and were rather trying to serve their own political interests using the farmers. Such forces had nothing to do with farm interests as they simply wanted the protests to continue to serve their own interests, he added. The unions reiterated their plans to further intensify the agitation and continue with preparations to hold a tractor march on Outer Ring Road in Delhi on Republic Day. They will have another meeting with police officials on Saturday to discuss their January 26 plan. Before winding up the meeting on Friday, Tomar urged farm leaders to "reconsider the government's proposal", saying further progress could yet be made. Asked if he was hopeful, he replied with a laconic comment, “The sky rests on hope.” Unlike the previous five meetings, talks on Friday concluded without fixing a fresh date — a clear indication of a deadlock with the unions adopting a rigid repeal-or-nothing stand. After the meeting, farm leader Jagdeep Dallewal said, “At the start of the meeting, Tomar raised the issue of farm groups revealing their response to the Centre’s proposal in the media before informing the ministers. We said the media was outside the meeting and when they posed some questions, we shared the outcome of the meeting in which we rejected the proposal.” Dallewal, Buta Singh Burjgill, Jagmohan Singh and Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala told TOI that Tomar then displayed the press release issued on Thursday evening. The ministers were annoyed that we had rejected their proposal in the media, they said. The unions also raised the issue of police “misbehaviour” with senior farm leader Ruldu Singh Mansa while entering Vigyan Bhawan on Friday when the rear window of his car was broken. They also raised concern over objectionable language used with senior leader Darshan Pal and an alleged threat to farm leader Rakesh Tikait in a tweet. It is clear from Tomar’s stand that the government will now move forward only when the unions accept the Centre's proposal or agree to discuss it. The government on Wednesday had offered to put implementation of the laws on hold for up to 18 months and form a joint committee to look at all demands of farmers to arrive at a solution through discussions. Read AlsoProtesting farmer leaders allege conspiracy to kill 4 of them, disrupt tractor rallyProtesting farmer leaders have alleged that a conspiracy has been hatched to kill four of them and create disturbance during their proposed tractor rally in Delhi on January 26.The government even offered to submit the proposal to the Supreme Court through an affidavit. The unions, however, rejected this proposal on Thursday, saying they didn’t want to compromise with their core demands, including repeal of laws and legal guarantee to MSP. Tomar made his displeasure known to the unions the moment the meeting started on Friday and said the government had already offered them the best option. Though the farm representatives and officials remained in the meeting hall at Vigyan Bhawan for nearly five hours, the actual talks were held for only around 30 minutes when both sides simply reiterated their respective stands. Ministers, including Tomar and Piyush Goyal, even stayed outside the main meeting hall for quite some time after clearing the government’s stand while agriculture secretary Sanjay Agrawal sought to engage with the union leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/have-offered-best-deal-possible-government-tells-farmer-unions/articleshow/80413899.cms||Vishwa Mohan
January 23, 2021||India||New Congress chief in June: CWC after spat||NEW DELHI: The Congress Working Committee (CWC) overpowered resistance from a group of seniors to set June-end as the deadline for electing a full-time party president who will take over the reins from interim chief Sonia Gandhi. The June 30 cut-off for holding the delayed exercise, which has been set keeping in view the forthcoming elections in five states, met with strong opposition from a group of dissenters, resulting in an acrimonious exchange between two sections of party veterans. Read AlsoCongress G-23 denies writing another letter after debacle in BiharThe Bihar setback has triggered speculation of another letter from Congress dissidents to the leadership seeking introspection, the buzz being so strong that the ‘G23’ officially denied sending another missive to Sonia Gandhi. “There has been no meeting of the group in the recent past and no letterGhulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and Mukul Wasnik, all part of the dissident grouping G-23, joined forces with former finance minister P Chidambaram and demanded that election for the party president be held immediately. They also demanded elections for seats on the CWC and the Congress election committee.The insistence led to acrimonious exchanges with another group of seniors. Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot strongly countered the push for early polls by arguing that preparations for the coming battles in West Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry should take precedence. He was supported by his counterparts from Punjab and Chhattisgarh, Amarinder Singh and Bhupesh Baghel, respectively, as well as veterans like A K Antony, Ambika Soni and former Uttarakhand CM Harish Rawat. Read AlsoG-23 signatories stand by reforms demand: Congress' Manish TewariNEW DELHI: Former minister and Congress MP from Anandpur Sahib Manish Tewari, one of G-23 leaders to write to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi calling for a full-time and effective leadership, said all the signatories stood by the demand for an elected CWC and institution of a parliamentary board to runRahul Gandhi did not express his views on the timeframe, even though he agreed that it was time election was held. It was time that the issue was “finished, once and for all” and the party “moved on”, sources quoted him as saying. Gehlot was the most aggressive in countering the demand for polls and is learnt to have singled out Anand Sharma for obstructing the plan to keep the poll in abeyance until June. "What right do those who were the biggest beneficiaries of power during the UPA era despite never being elected have to demand internal elections," a source quoted the Rajasthan CM as bluntly telling Sharma. He also said the party had bigger issues to deal with and reminded dissenters of the high posts they had held because of the trust the Gandhi family had in them. Sharma, party insiders said, protested strongly against Gehlot’s show of aggression and “name calling”, at which point Rahul stepped in to assert that arguments forwarded by both Gehlot and Sharma were on “two extreme ends” of the discussion. At a press briefing after the CWC meeting, general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal clarified that typically, elections to the CWC were held after the election of the party president. “So, we have to go back to the party’s constitution to see whether elections for the president and the CWC can be held together. We will look into this and announce the schedule soon. One thing is certain, everything will be done in keeping with the Congress constitution,” he said. The CWC, which began with Sonia’s address, saw her highlight key issues that will tailor Congress’s parliamentary strategy in the upcoming budget session. She said there were “many pressing issues of public concern” that would need to be debated and discussed in Parliament. Referring to the three agri laws and the farm protests, Sonia said the government had shown “shocking insensitivity and arrogance” and was “going through the charade of consultations”. “It is abundantly clear that the three laws were prepared in haste and Parliament was consciously denied an opportunity for examining in any meaningful details their implications and impacts. Our position has been very clear from the very beginning: we reject them categorically because they will destroy the foundations of food security that are based on the three pillars of MSP, public procurement and PDS,” she said. Later, the CWC passed resolutions on three issues of national importance, lending its unequivocal support to farmers demanding repeal of the three agri laws, thanking scientists and researchers for developing the Covid-19 vaccine in such a short period of time and appealing to people to come forward for vaccination, and the third in which it said it would demand a Joint Parliamentary Committee to inquire into journalist Arnab Goswami’s WhatsApp chats, which revealed he was privy to sensitive details of the Balakot air strikes before they took place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-congress-chief-in-june-cwc-after-spat/articleshow/80414534.cms||Swati Mathur
January 23, 2021||World||‘Irony’, says India as Pakistan moves UN resolution to protect religious sites||NEW DELHI: In another India-Pakistan face-off at the UN, after Pakistan co-sponsored a resolution promoting a culture of peace, India described as a matter of great irony that a country where a Hindu temple was recently demolished, and where minority rights are being emasculated, was introducing such a resolution. The UN General Assembly on Thursday adopted the resolution, promoting a culture of peace and tolerance to safeguard religious sites, that condemned all acts or threats of violence, destruction, damage or endangerment, directed against religious sites as such, that continue to occur in the world, and denounced any moves to obliterate or forcibly convert any religious sites. The resolution was co-sponsored by Pakistan along with 21 other nations. India, in the explanation of position on the resolution, cited attacks on the Hindu temple in the Pakistani town of Karak, against a Sikh gurdwara as well as destruction of the Bamyan Buddhas in Afghanistan, and said in the world of growing terrorism, violent extremism, radicalisation and intolerance, religious sites and cultural heritage sites remain vulnerable to terrorist acts, violence and destruction. “The resolution cannot be a smokescreen for countries like Pakistan to hide behind,” said India, reiterating its call for application of principles of objectivity, non-selectivity and impartiality to form the basis of discussions at the UN.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/irony-says-india-as-pakistan-moves-un-resolution-to-protect-religious-sites/articleshow/80415187.cms||---
January 23, 2021||India||‘Irony’, says India as Pakistan moves UN resolution to protect religious sites||NEW DELHI: In another India-Pakistan face-off at the UN, after Pakistan co-sponsored a resolution promoting a culture of peace, India described as a matter of great irony that a country where a Hindu temple was recently demolished, and where minority rights are being emasculated, was introducing such a resolution. The UN General Assembly on Thursday adopted the resolution, promoting a culture of peace and tolerance to safeguard religious sites, that condemned all acts or threats of violence, destruction, damage or endangerment, directed against religious sites as such, that continue to occur in the world, and denounced any moves to obliterate or forcibly convert any religious sites. The resolution was co-sponsored by Pakistan along with 21 other nations. India, in the explanation of position on the resolution, cited attacks on the Hindu temple in the Pakistani town of Karak, against a Sikh gurdwara as well as destruction of the Bamyan Buddhas in Afghanistan, and said in the world of growing terrorism, violent extremism, radicalisation and intolerance, religious sites and cultural heritage sites remain vulnerable to terrorist acts, violence and destruction. “The resolution cannot be a smokescreen for countries like Pakistan to hide behind,” said India, reiterating its call for application of principles of objectivity, non-selectivity and impartiality to form the basis of discussions at the UN.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/irony-says-india-as-pakistan-moves-un-resolution-to-protect-religious-sites/articleshow/80415095.cms||---
January 23, 2021||India||Three ministers quit Didi government in run-up to Bengal polls||KOLKATA/HOWRAH: Bengal minister Rajib Banerjee on Friday became the third member of the Mamata Banerjee cabinet after Suvendu Adhikari and Lakshmi Ratan Shukla to quit the Trinamool government in the run-up to the assembly elections. A teary-eyed Banerjee, whose gripe about “not being able to work” was initially drowned in the din of Adhikari’s exit, emerged from Raj Bhavan to allege “unfair treatment” by TMC. It remains to be seen whether Banerjee follows Adhikari to BJP or bides his time like Shukla, who has said he wants to devote time to cricket. Like Adhikari — and unlike Shukla — he marked a copy of his resignation to governor Jagdeep Dhankhar before making a “courtesy call” that lasted more than an hour. Pouring his heart out standing on the Raj Bhavan lawns, Banerjee said, “My portfolio was changed without even intimating me. But I don’t want to hurt anyone or make personal attacks. Some others are doing that and it is up to their conscience." Banerjee last held the forest portfolio and, before that, was the state irrigation minister. He posted his resignation letter to CM Mamata on his Facebook page as well as Twitter handle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/three-ministers-quit-didi-government-in-run-up-to-bengal-polls/articleshow/80415038.cms||---
January 23, 2021||India||After 5 years’ jail, innocent couple comes out to find kids missing||AGRA: A day after their release following five years in prison for a crime they never committed, a couple is now desperately looking for their minor children. The kids, a son who was five then and daughter three, were sent to “some orphanage” in their parents’ absence. Now, nobody knows where they are. The couple — Narendra Singh, 40, and Najma, 30 — was arrested from Agra’s Bah in 2015 after a five-year-old boy was found murdered. In its order releasing the couple, the additional district and sessions court came down heavily on the police. “It is unfortunate that innocent people have spent five years behind bars and the main accused is still free,” the court said and directed the SSP to take action against the investigation officer for his negligence. The court revealed that the then sub-inspector had admitted that he did not even try to find out who the FIR was registered against. It then recommended that the case be re-investigated. A distraught Narendra Singh, who used to work as a teacher, said, “What was our children’s fault? They had to live like orphans. They were so small when police arrested us.” Najma has written a letter to the SSP to help them locate the missing kids.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-5-years-jail-innocent-couple-comes-out-to-find-kids-missing/articleshow/80415366.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 23, 2021||India||Pro-Khalistan protests: India alerts nations||NEW DELHI: Following reports that a banned pro-Khalistan group had called for protests outside Indian missions in the UK and other countries on Republic Day, the foreign ministry on Friday said India has asked host countries to take appropriate action for ensuring the security of the mission premises. “Wherever our missions see that anti-India activities are taking place, this issue is raised with the government of that country and we work with them,” said MEA spokesman Anurag Srivastava responding to a question on steps being taken by India in this matter. On the banned Sikh For Justice’s call for the blockade of Indian missions on January 26, he said in those countries where there have been protests outside the mission posts or where protests are going to take place, “we have raised the issue of security of our diplomatic mission with local authorities”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pro-khalistan-protests-india-alerts-nations/articleshow/80415371.cms||---
January 23, 2021||India||ED discovers money trail of betting scam to China||HYDERABAD: The ED has begun a probe into Chinese companies resorting to fraudulent online betting, cheating people in India and transferring the proceeds of the crime to China through multi-layered and technical transactions involving cryptocurrency. The firms allegedly laundered Rs 1,100 crore from just two accounts. After a Chinese national Yan Hao was arrested, the ED made him the prime accused in the case and named Delhi-based Jagadamba Trading Company and two Gurgaon-based companies — Dokypay Technology and Linkyun Technology — along with their directors and associates as accused in its enforcement case information report (ECIR). Naisar Sailesh Kothari, a cryptocurrency trader from Bhavnagar in Gujarat, was added as an accused later. ED’s probe was an offshoot of Hyderabad cybercrime police investigation that started with a complaint in July 2020 by S Praveen Kumar of Sitaphalmandi in Secunderabad who said he was cheated of Rs 97,000 through the gaming website htpps.baronclubs.com. He said he was made part of a 5,000-member Telegram app group before being cheated. In the ECIR, the ED said the accused created multiple websites that look like e-commerce platforms. “If any player wants to indulge in betting and gambling, he has to come through a referral code provided by the Telegram groups. All those who add new members into these gaming groups will be paid incentives. These groups offer predictions to the gamblers and lure them into investing in betting and dupe them. Most of the websites will remain inactive and the admins of these Telegram groups would indicate to their members where to gamble and which site is active,” the ED said. “This is done to avoid any legal tussles. The name of the game where members play and place their bets is called Colour Prediction. Dokypay and Linkyun collect money from the members through Paytm and CashFree payment gateways,” ED added. The domain name servers of these companies are China-based and data hosting servers are cloud-based in the US but are operated from China. “All these entities are controlled by China-based Beijing T Power Company,” the ED said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-discovers-money-trail-of-betting-scam-to-china/articleshow/80415433.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
January 23, 2021||India||Rajnath Singh junks claims of China building infra on Indian soil||NEW DELHI: Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday dismissed Congress allegations that China had usurped Indian land, saying India would not compromise on its sovereignty and territorial integrity under any circumstances. The minister also said that the government had left no stone unturned to heed to the agitating farmers’ concerns over the farm laws and they should now take part in the Supreme Court-mandated committee to resolve the issues. “I want to make it clear that India will do anything to safeguard its sovereignty and integrity. We’re proud of the action taken by our military so far. Our jawans made sure that they hold their heads high,” he said in an interview to TimesNow channel. Asked about reports that China had built dwellings on Indian soil in Arunachal Pradesh, Singh said the MEA had specified about the LAC and that China is building border infrastructure. “The construction has been going on ... Now, India has also started constructing infra near the LAC at a fast pace considering the requirements of the locals as well as our forces. We’re developing our infrastructure at a very fast rate. We’re building roads and bridges,” he said. He said China has objected to Indian projects many times, questioning the reason behind building infrastructure there. “We will not compromise when it comes to protecting India’s sovereignty and national integrity, and we’ve haven’t compromised on that till date,” he said. Asked about the stalemate over talks with farm unions, Singh said, “The government has always said that there should be clause-by-clause discussions. Wherever the need arises, we will make the amendments ...But if the farmers want more thorough discussions, the agriculture minister has given them a proposal that the government is ready to put the laws on hold for 18 months.” Singh said the government will have discussions and see what amendments are needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajnath-singh-junks-claims-of-china-building-infra-on-indian-soil/articleshow/80415438.cms||---
January 23, 2021||India||BARC ex-CEO back in jail, HC seeks his health report||MUMBAI: Former Barc CEO Partho Dasgupta, accused in the alleged television ratings point (TRP) rigging case, petitioned Bombay high court on Friday for bail and for an urgent hearing for relief after learning that J J Hospital planned to discharge him though his health has “deteriorated”. Justice P D Naik called for a report on Dasgupta’s “heath condition” on Monday when it will also hear his bail plea. Public prosecutor Deepak Thakare informed a bench of Justice P D Naik, at an urgent 7pm hearing, Dasgupta has been discharged from JJ hospital and taken back to Taloja jail. Dasgupta’s lawyer Arjun Singh Thakur, while seeking the urgent hearing and relief, said, “The applicant’s wife and daughter have managed to get a video of him being transported on a stretcher”. Dasgupta was “on oxygen until Friday afternoon. He is being transferred in a very suspicious manner for reasons best known to the respondents (state)”. Thakare said jail doctors would treat him and submit a report on his health status to court on Monday. On Wednesday, a sessions court had rejected the bail plea of Dasgupta, arrested in the alleged TRP scam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/barc-ex-ceo-back-in-jail-hc-seeks-his-health-report/articleshow/80415479.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 23, 2021||India||Times Network plans legal action against BARC||NEW DELHI: Times Network, under which Times Now operates, said on Friday it is contemplating “all possible legal actions” against Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) for its unacceptable and unpardonable" failure to act on complaints of large-scale manipulation of TRPs to favour Republic TV, causing it “huge financial losses and irreparable damage to reputation”. Times Network, in a statement, said, it also “intends to initiate appropriate proceedings against the individual perpetrators of the fraud as per provisions of criminal and civil laws”. Read AlsoNational security thoroughly compromised, govt's silence is deafening: Sonia Gandhi on Arnab WhatsApp chatsSilence from the government's side on what has been revelead has been defeaning, said Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday referring to the purported WhatsApp chats of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami doing the rounds of social media.The Network said it had since Republic TV’s launch in May 2017 “suspected large-scale manipulation of ratings pertaining to illegal usage of multiple channel numbers (LCNs) and out-of-electronic programme guide (EPG) placement by Republic TV”. Read AlsoArnab Goswami &amp; ex-BARC CEO chats go viralThe chats document a constant flow of communication between Dasgupta and Goswami and chats between former BARC’s chief operating officer Romil Ramgarhia and Republic TV CEO Vikas Khanchandani. Dasgupta is in judicial custody, while Ramgarhia and Khanchandani are out on bail.Read AlsoTRP scam: Shock, outrage on social media over Arnab Goswami and ex-BARC CEO's WhatsApp chatsNEW DELHI: The leaked WhatsApp conversations between Republic TV executive editor Arnab Goswami and former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) Partho Dasgupta has brought to the fore evidence of alleged collusion to influence TV ratings. The purported WhatsApp conversations between the“We also found significant abnormalities in market-wise ratings of that channel clearly indicating ground level tampering and/or deliberate intervention at the raw data level to favour them. Times Network repeatedly complained about these irregularities to BARC for almost two years but got no resolution as the complaints routinely resulted in stock replies,” the statement said. Read AlsoArnab’s channel gained ‘illegal’ access to DD FreeDish users without paying govtSince its launch in May 2017, Arnab Goswami owned news channel Republic TV had gained ‘illegal’ access to an additional 22 million users of a Prasar Bharati-owned direct-to-home (DTH) service, DD FreeDish, without paying the government for it.However, a “statement by Mumbai Police on December 25, 2020 made it clear that proof had been unearthed exposing manipulation by BARC officials for the benefit of Republic TV in 2017/18," said the statement. “As per BARC’s Forensic Audit of July 2020, as well as the multiple email and WhatsApp chats of that period, which have been accessed by Mumbai Police, it is now clear that Times Now’s TRPs were indeed manually reduced by BARC officials headed by Partho Dasgupta and Romil Ramgarhia before publishing, with the intention to give undue advantage to Republic TV in the English News Genre and thereby fraudulently declare Republic TV as No.1, even when Times Now was consistently higher by a large margin and was the undisputed leader of the Genre,” the statement added. Read AlsoArnab Goswami programme leads to £20,000 fine for UK licenseeRepublic TV owner Arnab Goswami’s Hindi news channel in Britain, Republic Bharat, has been fined £20,000 by the UK's broadcasting regulator for promoting and justifying hatred towards Pakistani people.TN said BARC’s misreporting of data for the news genre over a protracted period as “systemic and deliberate”, and that its actions constitute “moral turpitude, breach of trust and puts a question on code of conduct and ethical standards of the present BARC board and management”. They added that multiple attempts by Times Network to get an official statement of explanation from BARC in the last few weeks were rebuffed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/times-network-plans-legal-action-against-barc/articleshow/80415487.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Business||83% drop in flyers at Mumbai airport during April-December, 75% dip in Delhi||MUMBAI: Mumbai airport witnessed an 83% drop in passenger traffic and 71% in flight movement between April-December 2020, compared to the same period in 2019. Mumbai witnessed the worst decline among major and even smaller airports in India. Delhi airport saw a 75% decline in passenger traffic (domestic and international), while Bangalore and Hyderabad had 75% and 72% drops respectively, according to data released by Airports Authority of India. Expectedly, decrease in flight movement was higher for Mumbai, compared to other airports. While Mumbai saw a drop of 71% in flight movement in April-December 2020 compared to the same period in 2019, for other major airports the decline was lower. Delhi airport was 62%, Bangalore 60 % and Hyderabad 61%. But the numbers are improving. Flight volumes and passenger traffic have, however, been on a steady rise. The drop in flights (domestic and international) in December 2020 compared to December 2019 for Mumbai was 44%. It is an improvement over numbers for November, which was a drop of 50% and October, which was a decline of 60% and for September it was 68%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/83-drop-in-flyers-at-mumbai-airport-during-april-december-75-dip-in-delhi/articleshow/80415489.cms||Manju V
January 23, 2021||India||Rajiv case: Supreme Court says Tamil Nadu governor to decide on killer in a week||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday modified its order passed on Thursday and recorded that the Tamil Nadu governor shall decide within a week on the remission plea of AG Perarivalan, who is serving life term in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, instead of four weeks as mentioned in its earlier order. A bench headed by Justice L Nageaswara Rao passed the order after it was brought to its notice that solicitor general Tushar Mehta had on Thursday informed the court that the governor will take a decision in “3-4 days” but the order which was put on the SC website said four weeks. “The learned solicitor general submitted that the application filed by the petitioner under Article 161 of Constitution of India shall be considered within a period of one week from Friday. List this matter after two weeks,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajiv-case-supreme-court-says-tamil-nadu-governor-to-decide-on-killer-in-a-week/articleshow/80415492.cms||---
January 23, 2021||India||Congress netas march to Republic TV office, seek Arnab’s arrest||MUMBAI: Congress activists led by Mumbai Congress president Bhai Jagtap and cabinet members Aslam Shaikh and Varsha Gaikwad marched to the office of Republic TV on Friday to demand the immediate arrest of its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami for “mischief and fraud”. Jagtap said it was high time law-enforcement agencies arrested Goswami alleging he received confidential information and used it to enhance his channel’s television ratings point (TRP) in connivance with former Barc CEO Partho Dasgupta. “This is a serious issue. Information on national security was being used for personal benefits and gains. It amounts to treason,” Jagtap said. Congress activists also staged a statewide protest to demand his arrest on Friday. “India launched an airstrike on Balakot in Pakistan after an attack on CRPF personnel at Pulwama. How did Goswami receive the entire information about it three days in advance? Did he pass on the information to anyone? These questions need to be answered. Goswami’s action blatantly violates the Official Secrets Act and amounts to treason,” Shaikh said. In Latur, the hometown of former chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh, Congress legislator Dhiraj Deshmjkh led the protest. In Amravati and Nagpur, the protests were led by Congress legislators Sulbha Khodke and Vikas Thackeray. Shaikh said in the event that no action is taken against Goswami in days to come, Congress will intensify its agitation and force the government to arrest him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-netas-march-to-republic-tv-office-seek-arnabs-arrest/articleshow/80415499.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
January 23, 2021||India||In Australian Test, Covid fight, ‘atmanirbhar’ spirit won, says PM Modi||GUWAHATI: PM Narendra Modi on Friday held up India’s resolve and resilience to beat the odds, be it fighting the pandemic or scripting a turnaround to win a Test series against the Aussies in their lair, as evidence of the spirit of “Atmanirbhar Bharat” permeating everyday lives. Addressing the 18th convocation of Tezpur University through videoconferencing, PM Modi said he personally drew inspiration from these two “notable events” to continue working for an evolving and self-reliant India. “When the battle against Covid-19 had just started, concerns were raised about a vast country like India staring at devastation due to its dearth of resources. But India has shown that if you resolve to do something and have resilience, it takes little time to ready the resources needed for the task.” The PM said India “did not compromise with the Covid situation” and took proactive decisions to curb the fast-spreading virus. “With a made-in-India solution, we resisted the virus spread significantly and utilised the opportunity to improve our health infrastructure. Our vaccine research and production capacity has given a protection shield not only to India but many other countries.” Modi attributed the success in producing an indigenous Covid-19 vaccine to the combined force of scientists, researchers and industry. PM Modi, who will be travelling to Sivasagar on Saturday to preside over Assam’s largest land distribution plan for the “indigenous landless”, said the biggest transformation in the country was in the realm of instinct, action and reaction — the credo of today’s youth. Referring to the Test series win against Australia, he said, “Young India is in charge. After one humiliating defeat at the hands of the Australian cricket team, we hit back, won the next match and went on to register a remarkable series win. The players showed determination despite injuries. Many of the team members were inexperienced but their positive intent was clear.” He urged the students to see the circumstances of the sporting triumph as a lesson in how confidence, a positive mindset and determination to overcome adversities can help the country scale new heights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-australian-test-covid-fight-atmanirbhar-spirit-won-says-pm-modi/articleshow/80415505.cms||Kangkan Kalita
January 23, 2021||India||Ahead of his Bengal visit, Modi recalls Netaji’s Gujarat connection||NEW DELHI: A day before his Kolkata visit for the launch of “Parakram Diwas” celebrations to mark the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose amidst already politically intense West Bengal, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday reminisced several memories of Haripura in Gujarat, one of the most significant venues in the political journey of the veteran freedom fighter. In a series of tweets, Modi said among the various programmes being organised across the nation, one special programme is being held at Haripura. “Haripura has a special relation with Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. It was at the historic Haripura Session of 1938 that Netaji Bose took up the Presidentship of the Congress Party. Tomorrow’s programme at Haripura will be a tribute to Netaji Bose’s contribution to our nation,” Modi tweeted and also shared several pictures of his own visit to Haripura, the venue where Bose had been elected as Congress president as a rebel, in defiance of the authority of Mahatma Gandhi and Jawahar Lal Nehru. Bose had been elected as Congress president as a rebel defeating P Sitharamaiya, who had the backing Congress stalwarts including Mahatma Gandhi and Jawahar Lal Nehru. The Prime Minister further reminisced, “On the eve of Netaji Bose’s Jayanti, my mind goes back to 23rd January 2009- the day we launched e-Gram Vishwagram Project from Haripura. This initiative revolutionised Gujarat’s IT infrastructure and took the fruits of technology to the poor, in the remotest parts of the state.” Modi said he can never forget the affection of the people of Haripura, who took him through an elaborate procession on the same road as Netaji Bose was taken, in 1938. “His procession included a decorated chariot drawn by 51 bullocks. I also visited the place where Netaji stayed in Haripura,” the prime minister added. The PM said the thoughts and ideals of Bose will keep inspiring us to work towards building an India that he would be proud of…a strong, confident and self-reliant India, whose human-centric approach contributes to a better planet in the years to come. The already intense political scene in West Bengal looks set to further heat up with Modi set to visit Kolkata on Saturday for the " Parakram Divas " celebrations to commemorate the 125th birth anniversary of Bose. PM's plan comes amid an escalating political fight between the ruling Trinamool Congress and its principal challenger, the BJP, for the claim to be the rightful custodian of Netaji's legacy which continues to inspire millions in the poll-bound Bengal. Right since the beginning of its first term, the Modi government has tried to yoke itself to the memory of Netaji by declassifying documents and by embracing the descendants of the indomitable freedom fighter who had accused Congress of not recognizing his contributions. The Modi government who endorses the grouse of Bose's kin, also named islands in Andamans after the former Congress chief who broke away from the party to launch Azaad Hind Force ( Indian National Army) to liberate the country from colonial rule.  It was only last week that culture ministry declared its plan to commemorate January 23, Netaji's birthday as Parakram Divas( Valour Day).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ahead-of-his-bengal-visit-modi-recalls-netajis-gujarat-connection/articleshow/80415518.cms||Akhilesh Singh
January 23, 2021||India||Serum fire losses pegged at over Rs 1,000 crore; Covid vaccine supplies safe||PUNE: Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla on Friday said its manufacturing plant at Manjari here suffered a loss of over Rs1,000 crore in Thursday’s fire that claimed five lives. Poonawalla said, “We have got multiple facilities. The fire did not affect the supply of Covid vaccine. Our other productions, such as the BCG vaccine, suffered loss. We will make up for the supply gap. We have suffered huge financial loss. But there is no supply loss.” “After the fire broke, we had initially received a report that all workers have been rescued. We tweeted the information because we were happy. After the fire was doused and the fumes dissipated, we got to know that five workers had died. We did not have the list of workers at the building. We later got an update and have offered our condolences to the victims’ families. My father has announced compensation (Rs25 lakh each) for the victims’ family members,” he added. SII CMD and Adar’s father Cyrus Poonawalla said, “There was no production at the building. The production was yet to start. The fire did not cause damage to other buildings in the special economic zone.” Earlier in the day, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray visited SII and took stock of the situation. “Covid-19 has not gone from Maharashtra. Last week we had a ray of hope following the launch of the vaccination drive. The Covid vaccine stock in SII is safe,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/serum-fire-losses-pegged-at-over-rs-1000-crore-covid-vaccine-supplies-safe/articleshow/80415539.cms||Aseem Shaikh
January 23, 2021||Patna||Senior health officials take vaccine shots in Bihar, set example||PATNA: Health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit, who took the anti-Covid vaccine shot on Friday, said the vaccines against the pandemic were safe and there was no reason for anyone to hesitate in joining the immunisation drive currently underway in the state. Apart from Amrit, executive director of State Health Society Manoj Kumar, managing director of Bihar State Medical Services and Infrastructure Corporation Pradeep Kumar Jha and eight other employees of the health department also got the Covshield vaccine shots at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences here on Friday. Amrit said they did not feel any side effect after taking vaccine shots. ‘At least 65,000 health workers have already been vaccinated in the state since January 16. Covid 19 came as a big challenge, but the frontline and health workers fought against it. Now when the immunisation drive has begun, their morale and self-confidence has grown stronger,” Amrit added. He said the vaccination gave the much-needed feeling of safety against the threat of the pandemic which kept the entire society in a state of fear for months. Amrit also appealed to the people to shun hesitation and take the vaccine shots for their safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/senior-health-officials-take-vaccine-shots-in-bihar-set-example/articleshow/80412741.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Surat||Wife saves cop from suicide||Surat: A 35-year-old police constable was saved in the nick of time by his wife after she cut the nylon rope with which he was trying to hang himself. Pankaj Damor was attempting suicide by hanging himself at his room in police headquarters in Athwalines on Friday morning. However, his wife saw him hanging and immediately cut off the nylon rope and brought him down before rushing him to the hospital. He is admitted into the ICU in a private hospital. Cops are trying to ascertain the exact reason behind his drastic action. “We will record his statement for his extreme step once he regains consciousness,” a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/wife-saves-cop-from-suicide/articleshow/80412868.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Patna||Deputy CM inaugurates 10-day international trade fair||PATNA: The India International Mega Trade Fair (IIMTF), now an annual event in the city’s calendar, was inaugurated by deputy CM Renu Devi at Gyan Bhawan here on Friday. Traders from countries such as Thailand, Dubai, Malaysia, Iran among others are participating, seeking a platform for sales and promotion of goods at a time when markets worldwide are experiencing a slump due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Altogether 160 stalls, displaying over 25000 unique products have been put up at the 10-day fair, which has eight global and 10 Indian state participants. The fourth edition of the fair is being organized in association with the Bengal Chamber Commerce Industry. “Patna has long been an important business and luxury brand centre of eastern India. The IIMTF is a major step towards the economic resurgence of the state as well as the nation on the whole,” the deputy CM said in her inaugural speech. The fair is a shopper’s delight with category products like handicraft, handlooms, home decor, exotic plants, organic food ingredients, artwork, accessories, furniture, designer clothes, dry fruits, bags, purses and many more. After a difficult financial year, traders are hopeful for a strong start to the year. Zahra, an dry fruits seller from Afghanistan said, “This is my first outing after the pandemic and I decided to restart my business ventures from this trade fair as customer response of the city was best for me in the previous edition.” Shoppers were also thrilled over the variety of products at the exhibit. Richa Mehta, resident of Gola road said: “This is the first time I attended the exhibition and I was impressed with the quality of the products and the wide variety of stalls. I am already excited to visit the fair again.” 19-year-old Farheen Khan said, “I love the ambience and the fact that a large array of unique products is available under the same roof.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/deputy-cm-inaugurates-10-day-international-trade-fair/articleshow/80412181.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Patna||Railway hospital likely to start DNB course soon||PATNA: The central superspecialty hospital (CSSH) of East Central Railway (ECR) at Karbigahiya end of Patna Junction will soon start Diplomate of National Board (DNB) course, which is equivalent to MD/MS course, for medical students. “While the Railway Board has approved the proposal to start DNB course at CSSH, the process is on to obtain permission from other medical bodies,” ECR general manager L C Trivedi said at a function to mark the 12th foundation day of the hospital on Friday. “This hospital is not only providing medical care and treatment to the railway employees of the ECR zone, but also to patients from other zonal railways,” Trivedi said, adding the departments of dental, eye, heart and gynaecology are well equipped to provide advanced medical treatment to the patients. Addressing the scientific session of the function, titled ‘Covid-19: A medical challenge’, CSSH medical director Dr R K Verma said, “Even though the pandemic was a new experience for doctors at the hospital, they showed strong commitment and sincerity to serve Covid-19 patients,” he said. He added the 200-bed CSSH has 39 doctors and 250 paramedical staff. “On an average, about 900 patients, including retired railway employees, visit the hospital daily either for consultation or treatment,” Dr Verma said, adding the annual budget on medicines is Rs 7 crore for this hospital. Doctors from AIIMS-P, IGIMS, Patna and other hospitals of the city also participated in the scientific session. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar also addressed the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railway-hospital-likely-to-start-dnb-course-soon/articleshow/80412559.cms||Kumod Verma
January 23, 2021||Vadodara||Heavyweight corporator joins BJP||Vadodara: The city unit of the BJP got a major shot in the arm with Rashtriya Samaj Paksha (RSP) president and former corporator Rajesh Ayre joining the party. Two other former corporators from his ward including his wife and another female corporator joined the party too. Ayre had won as an independent candidate in the Subhanpura-Gorwa area in 2005 Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) polls. He then joined the BJP and won on a BJP ticket in 2010. Ayre quit the party later and joined the RSP and contested and won on all the four seats of his ward in the 2015 VMC polls. Ayre, his wife Purnima Ayre, Hemlata Gor and Viren Rami had won in the ward in 2015. Rami, however, has parted ways with Ayre. While joining the BJP on Friday evening Ayre said that he had kept the development of his ward a priority and worked for people. “I have always believed in the BJP ideology and now we will work towards winning all 76 seats in the VMC. I have returned back home and could not have gone to any other party,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/heavyweight-corporator-joins-bjp/articleshow/80411627.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Varanasi||Exhibition of GI products promoting ‘Brand UP’||Varanasi: The week-long exhibition of GI-tagged products of the state from January 18 to 24 is showcasing ‘Brand UP’. It has been organised by the Uttar Pradesh Export Promotion Council (UPEPC) in collaboration with the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) at Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Hastkala Sankul, a trade facilitation centre in Bada Lalpur area of the district. A total of 28 GI-tagged products of UP have been put out on display and are also on sale in the exhibition which is happening in both physical and virtual modes. Joint commissioner (industries) Umesh Singh said that the exhibition is providing an effective platform to the exhibitors and buyers. “The GI tag guarantees quality. Even in the pandemic period, the GI-tagged products made good business and have proved the concept of ‘vocal for local’ to be a success,” he added. Explaining the importance of GI, assistant commissioner (handloom) Nitesh Dhawan said that GI is a sign used on products that have a specific geographical origin and possess qualities/reputation due to their place of origin. “It provides legal protection to the products and prevents unauthorized use of the registered GIs by others. It promotes economic prosperity of producers of goods in a geographical territory,” he said. GI expert Dr Rajani Kant said that the government and industrial organizations should make collective efforts for the promotion and development of GI products to benefit the local artisans. As many as 50 stalls of GI products from 16 districts including Varanasi, Bhadohi, Chandauli, Mirzapur, Ghazipur, Azamgarh, Bulandshahar, Farrukhabad, Firozabad, Gorakhpur, Kanpur, Kannauj, Lucknow, Prayagraj, Saharanpur and Siddharthnagar are part of the exhibition. The GI-tagged products like terracotta of Gorakhpur, brocade of Varanasi, Nizamabad black pottery of Azamgarh, handmade carpets of Bhadohi, perfumes of Kannauj, metal craft of Moradabad, pottery of Khurja and kala namak rice of Siddhartha Nagar have been attracting many visitors. Seminars and training programmes by experts for improving the technical skills of the craftsmen are also being organized in the exhibition. The craftsmen will be given free tool kits in collaboration with the government of India. Under the technical upgradation training programme for GI products, there is a training for 240 craftsmen, soft skill training for 600 craftsmen, and new technology training for 270 craftsmen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/exhibition-of-gi-products-promoting-brand-up/articleshow/80413981.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 23, 2021||Coimbatore||Gold, cash stolen from locked house||Coimbatore: Burglars decamped with five sovereigns of gold ornaments, Rs 1.5 lakh and a pair of silver traditional lamps from a house at Mullai Nagar in Vellalore on Friday.House owner C Ravi had left for Dharmapuri on January 13 with his wife. His neighbour found the front door lock broke open and alerted Ravi’s son Nagaraj of Singanallur. A team from the Podanur police station inspected the place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gold-cash-stolen-from-locked-house/articleshow/80414019.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Business||Sensex dives 746 pts after profit-booking||MUMBAI: A day after scaling the 50k mark, the sensex witnessed bouts of sharp selling and closed 746 points lower at 48,879 points, as RIL and financial stocks witnessed selling pressure due to profit-booking. Outside of the sensex, metal stocks too witnessed a strong selloff. On the NSE, Nifty lost 218 points to close at 14,372. The selling was led by foreign funds that recorded a net outflow figure of Rs 636 crore, its second net selling figure this month, CDSL data showed. As domestic funds too were sellers in the market, with a net outflow of Rs 1,290 crore, it was natural that the leading indices would close lower, market players said. The trend here was influenced by global markets. According to Siddhartha Khemka, head, retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services, global cues were weak as investors took profits after a recent rally that was driven by hopes of the US economic stimulus by President Joe Biden. “Moreover, European markets opened weak amid concerns over the risk of further lockdowns, tighter travel restrictions and weak UK retail sales numbers,” Khemka said. “On the domestic side, Nifty after a quiet start, dipped soon to close at session lows.” Among the 30 sensex stocks, 25 closed lower, while five ended higher. The day’s slide also shaved off Rs 2.15 lakh crore from investors’ wealth with BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 194.1 lakh crore. A weak closing on Wall Street may affect sentiment on Dalal Street, but on the domestic front a strong quarterly result from Reliance Industries could support the market, analysts said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-dives-746-pts-after-profit-booking/articleshow/80414183.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Patna||Surgery by ayurveda doctors: IMA-Bihar to observe hunger strike from February 1||PATNA: Doctors under the aegis of the Indian Medical Association (IMA)-Bihar will observe round-the-clock relay fast from February 1 to 14 against the Centre’s decision to allow ayurvedic postgraduate degree holders perform various surgical interventions. IMA-Bihar secretary Dr Sunil Kumar said the association members would hold relay fast in batches in association with junior doctors and medical students and submit memorandum to their MPs concerned and also to the PM. He described the decision of allowing ayurveda degree holders to perform surgeries as ‘mixopathy’ and against the interest of public health. “There are about 25,000 doctors in government and private health facilities in the state. However, only 11,000 are registered with IMA-Bihar,” he said. IMA state president Dr Bimal Karak, who is also the superintendent of Patna Medical College and Hospital, said surgeries needed well-trained hands, sophisticated operation theatres and modern equipment. “Several new technologies and medicines have come up to make surgeries easy in modern times. Such facilities are lacking in other streams, including ayurvedic system,” he said. President-elect of IMA-Bihar Dr Amar Kant Jha Amar wondered how those trained with a different stream could perform surgical intervention. He said ayurveda has its own merit and line of treatment and it should not overlap with surgical allopathy. “One develops expertise in surgeries only after undergoing years of training in undergraduate and postgraduate levels. Those from other streams just can’t perform surgeries,” Dr Amar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/surgery-by-ayurveda-doctors-ima-relay-hunger-strike-from-feb-1/articleshow/80413015.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Patna||BSP’s lone MLA from Chainpur joins JD(U)||PATNA: The lone MLA of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) in Bihar, Mohammad Zama Khan (47), joined the ruling JD(U) after meeting CM Nitish Kumar at the latter’s official residence on Friday. Thus, the JD(U) got a Muslim MLA in the assembly and its total count of MLAs in the 243-member house increased to 44. @AshokChoudhaary के आवास पर आयोजित PC में JD(U) के प्रदेश अध्यक्ष @UmeshSinghJDU एवं विधानसभा में मुख्य सचेतक… https://t.co/3fngHgjEwo— Ranjeet Kumar Jha (@WithRJha) 1611335538000As Zama is the only Muslim MLA in the four-party NDA in Bihar, there is strong speculation in political circles that he might get a berth in the Nitish cabinet during its next expansion. Nitish has already announced that cabinet expansion would take place soon. Zama won Chainpur seat in Kaimur district in the 2020 assembly polls on the BSP symbol, defeating BJP senior leader and then minister Brij Kishor Bind by a margin of more than 24,000 votes. JD(U)’s state working president and education minister Ashok Choudhary was present when Zama met the CM. Later, Zama went to the residence of Choudhary where senior JD(U) leaders like the party’s state president Umesh Kushwaha, the NDA’s chief whip in assembly Shrawan Kumar and Choudhary himself welcomed the Chainpur MLA by offering him flower bouquets and a shawl. Later, Choudhary also announced Zama’s entry into the JD(U) at a press conference where the Chainpur MLA said he decided to join the ruling JD(U) as he was impressed by CM Nitish Kumar and his development works. “I think I can do more for the development of my constituency, district and the people by strengthening the hands of CM Nitish, who has done several works for the development in the state,” Zama said. When asked whether he has got an assurance of getting a ministerial berth in the next cabinet expansion, Zama said, “I joined the JD(U) after seeing development-related schemes and other good works of Nitish Ji. I decided to join his party on the issue of development.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bsps-lone-mla-from-chainpur-joins-jdu/articleshow/80412942.cms||Madan Kumar
January 23, 2021||Patna||Covid recovery rate in Bihar touches 98.43%||PATNA: The number of Covid-19 cases in the state went up to 2,59,617 on Friday with 168 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. Four fresh deaths, on the other hand, took the state’s toll to 1,472. However, with 2,55,538 people recovering from the virus so far, there were 2,605 active cases in the state on Friday. The state recorded 458 recoveries, more than double the number of new cases, in the last 24 hours. The state’s recovery rate has now risen to 98.43%. As per the health department bullets, two fresh deaths were reported in Bhojpur and one each in Darbhanga and Patna. No Covid casualty was recorded at AIIMS-Patna on Friday. AIIMS-P nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said six patients were admitted to the hospital and three discharged on Friday. Altogether 97 patients are currently undergoing treatment for Covid at AIIMS-P. At Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, only one Covid patient was undergoing treatment on Friday. Of 168 new cases recorded in the state on Friday, Patna accounted for 65. The district’s tally has now risen to 51,859. However, with 50,512 recoveries and 406 deaths, there were 941 active cases in the district on Friday. Among other districts, Araria recorded 13 new cases on Friday and Arwal 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-recovery-rate-in-bihar-touches-98-43/articleshow/80412600.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Patna||Bihar govt to decide on proposed 15% increase in holding tax||PATNA: The Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) decision to raise the holding tax by 15% is likely to increase the burden on the salaried class as well as professionals, especially when residents are still coping up with the Covid-19 pandemic. The proposal has been approved by the PMC empowered standing committee and also by the general board on Thursday. The final call for the revised rates would be taken by the state cabinet as the proposal will be sent to the urban development and housing department. PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma told this newspaper on Friday that as per Section 127 of Bihar Municipal Act, the civic body is supposed to increase the property tax rates every five years. “Accordingly, the revision was due for the last over two decades as it was last revised in 1993. The proposal was tabled in the standing committee and the general board meetings and passed by the members. Now, the state government will take a final call,” he said. “The government can reject the proposal or approve on its own accordance. If it is approved, they will decide from which financial year the revised holding tax is to implemented,” he added. Patliputra MP Ram Kripal Yadav, however, objected to any hike in holding tax and termed the move as ‘unfair’. He told this newspaper that it would badly affect the people, who are already bearing financial burden due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “During the general board meeting, I opposed their decision to increase holding tax, but they told me that it had not been revised for the last 27 years. I asked them who was responsible for that and why they did not increase the taxes earlier. If the civic body increases the holding tax by 15% in one go, it will affect the residents. The civic body is not giving all the facilities and services that the public are entitled to in return to the taxes they are already paying. Not even the basic facilities are there,” the MP said. As per the civic body’s estimation, there are about 2.8 lakh taxpayers registered with the PMC, while the survey is being conducted to identify more such properties which have been included recently. “The PMC is conducting a fresh survey to add more holding taxpayers from the upcoming financial year,” said PMC public relations officer Harshita.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-to-decide-on-proposed-15-increase-in-holding-tax/articleshow/80412482.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Patna||Option to choose would have increased vaccine turnout: Experts||PATNA: Health experts feel the government should have given the flexibility to beneficiaries to choose the Covid-19 vaccine they want. This, they said, would have increased the turnout at the vaccination sites. State IMA senior vice-president Dr Ajay Kumar said healthcare workers have full faith in the vaccines, but giving the option to choose between the two available ones would have been better. “There are many doctors who want to take Covaxin, but the health institutions where they are working has been allotted Covishield and vice-versa,” said Dr Ajay, adding in future the government may become more flexible and allow people to choose. In the first phase of vaccination for health workers across the country, two vaccines are being administered, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Serum Institute’s Covishield. Bihar has received 20,000 doses of Covaxin and 54,9000 doses of Covishield. However, healthcare workers at present are not allowed to choose between the two. While Covaxin has been sent to six government hospitals —PMCH, NMCH, AIIMS-Patna, Shri Krishna Medical College and Hospital in Muzaffarpur, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital in Bhagalpur and Anugraha Narayan Medical College and Hospital in Gaya —Covishield has been sent to the rest of the 295 centres in the state. Principal secretary of the health department, Pratyaya Amrit had earlier said beneficiaries will not be forced to take the jab, but they also do not have the choice to choose from either of the two vaccines. They can either take the vaccine which their institute has been sent or skip the vaccination. Even Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan in a press conference on January 13 before rolling out the Covid-19 immunisation had cited the example of other countries saying several of them were using more than one vaccine, but they were also not giving any option to choose from them. Renowned virologist Dr T Jacob John said the government before rolling out the immunisation programme should have informed about the positives and negatives of both the vaccines. “Government must initiate a policy for vaccination. What they hope to achieve through vaccination and the intention behind rolling this programme. That policy is not clear.” He further said there could have been a mechanism where the health institute would have done the homework and found out what the healthcare workers wanted and would have given their requirement to the government accordingly. Another doctor associated with a government hospital said it is clear that 30 crore population will be given the vaccine for free in the three rounds of the first phase, which include one crore health workers, two crore frontline workers and 27crore prioritised groups. But with more vaccines expected to enter the market in future and after private players enter, people will get the option to choose their vaccines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/option-to-choose-would-have-increased-vaccine-turnout-experts/articleshow/80412684.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 23, 2021||Business||Seven accounts worth Rs 1,013 crore fraudulent: Indian Bank||Chennai: Indian Bank on Friday reported that seven borrowal accounts worth Rs 1012.7 crore were frauds during the quarter ended December 31, 2020. The bank’s board has also approved to raise Rs 4,000 crore from a share sale, and an additional Rs 3,000 crore via bonds. The public sector bank said it has witnessed a 25% QoQ increase in profit in the December-ended quarter at Rs 514 crore, driven by improvement in gross NPA and a marginally lower provisioning in this quarter. It reported a net loss of Rs 1,739 crore for the same period last year. The fraudulent accounts include a Delhi-based engineering, procurement and construction company at Rs 500 crore, few MSME companies, an aviation company at around Rs 100 crore and the IL&FS account at Rs 408 crore reported in the previous quarter. It said in respect of loans and advances classified as fraud, the bank holds 100% provision. “These accounts were reported earlier. However, they have been recognized as frauds in the December quarter,” said bank MD Padmaja Chundru. The public sector bank has announced that its Q3 net profit stands at Rs 514.3 crore. Amalgamation of Allahabad Bank into Indian Bank came into effect on April 1, 2020. “Board of directors of the Bank approved raising equity capital aggregating up to Rs 4,000 crore through Qualified Institutions Placements (QIPs) or Follow on Public Offer (FPO) or Rights Issue or in combination. To raise AT 1 or Tier 2 Capital aggregating upto Rs 3,000 crore through issuance of Basel III Compliant AT1 or Tier 2 Bonds,” the bank said in a press statement. These fund raising are subjected to regulatory approvals. On non-performing assets, its gross NPAs were at 9.04% of gross advances as on Q3FY21 brought down by 365 bps from 12.69% as on Q3FY20. And net NPA came down to 2.35 % as on Q3FY21 from 4.22% as on Q3FY20 with a reduction of 187 bps. “About Rs 5,581 crore amount — worth 1.61% of the assets- have been restructured in the last quarter,” Chundru said. Shares of Indian Bank Up 1.56% at Rs 90.9 apiece on BSE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/seven-accounts-worth-rs-1013-crore-fraudulent-indian-bank/articleshow/80412965.cms||Mamtha Asokan
January 23, 2021||Business||Vaccine drive opens new biz opportunity for truck makers||Chennai: The government’s vaccine programme is opening up a new business opportunity for truck makers. With 10,000-12,000 specialised trucks needed for the vaccines to be transported across the country — and a strong export opportunity as neighbouring countries rush to vaccinate as well — truck companies are betting big on vaccine-carrier reefer or refrigerated trucks. Daimler India Commercial Vehicles and Motherson Group on Friday unveiled the BSafe range of reefer trucks. Others including Tata Motors, Ashok Leyland and Volvo Eicher Commercial Vehicles are also launching their own products. Truck market which shrank 34% in 2019 and more than 60% in 2020 is looking at this opportunity as a godsend.“After two years of sharp decline, we expect 2021 to see a strong recovery of upwards of 40% increase in sales. Economic activity is picking up and the vaccine is on its way. Around 1.3 billion people will be vaccinated twice and trucks play a vital role in the entire cold supply chain for safe transportation,” said Satyakam Arya, MD & CEO, DICV. DICV is offering this solution on its entire range of 10-42 tonne trucks to ‘cater to all segments of vaccine logistics’. DICV’s BSafe range will also be exported extensively. “We will offer this to all countries where Daimler is present and Motherson is present,” said Arya. DICV isn’t the only company stepping on the gas. Tata Motors, for its part, has lined up an entire range from 700 kg to 10 tonne trucks for vaccine transportation. “We are working closely with hospitals, transporters and bodybuilders to get the requirements correct and we have already sold more than 45 vehicles and another 100 plus reefer trucks and we have a pipeline of 200 trucks,” said Girish Wagh-president CV business unit, Tata Motors. Tata Motors is also planning to export to markets like Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal and several African markets as their vaccine drive picks up.Others like Ashok Leyland are focussing on last mile connectivity for Covid 19 vaccines. “We have developed specialised refrigerated applications on our Dost and Partner range of LCV vehicles designed and suited for the supply of Covid19 vaccines,” said Nitin Seth, COO, Ashok Leyland. Truck market analysts say the demand for vaccine trucks will help create traction along with other sectors that are picking up. “Along with construction, cement and auto demand recovery, vaccine transportation should help the truck market turnaround,” said Shamsher Dewan, VP ICRA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/vaccine-drive-opens-new-biz-opportunity-for-truck-makers/articleshow/80413005.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
January 23, 2021||Agra||UP farmer falls ill during protest at Ghazipur border, dies||AGRA: A 60-year-old farmer of UP’s Kasganj district who fell ill at a protest site near Ghazipur border succumbed at a private hospital in Moga, Punjab on Friday. Lakhvinder Singh was an active member of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) and was popular among the farming community. A former block development council member, Singh was a resident of Mirapur village under Sahawar sub-division of Kasganj district. On December 29, he went to Ghazipur border to participate in the farmer protest against the Centre's three new farm laws. According to local residents, the deceased farmer owned 20 acres of farm land. He was head of the Mirapur Gurdwara Management Committee. Regarded as “Pradhan ji”, Singh was known for helping the needy. Gurcharan Singh, a relative of the deceased farmer, said, “In 1980, several families from Punjab had shifted to Kasganj district. Lakvinder Singh along with his family had been living in Mirapur village for 40 years. Following his spirit of community service, he had earned respect in society. He was deeply passionate about farm issues. On December 29, he went to protest against the three farm laws at Ghazipur border.” His son Harpreet Singh said, “After the severe cold wave and rain on January 1 and 2, my father fell sick at the protest site. He had high fever and chest pain. Later, when his health condition worsened, we sent him to Moga at my elder brother's place. He was admitted at a private hospital there and died on Wednesday night. Our entire family is devastated.” Kasganj district president of BKU Sanjay Prajapati said, “The deceased farmer Lakhvinder Singh was BKU's Mirapur village president. He died for farmers rights. He will be remembered as a martyr." “We demand the central and state governments to provide Rs 10 lakh monetary assistance to the family of the deceased farmer and a government job to one of his family members," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-farmer-falls-ill-during-protest-at-ghazipur-border-dies/articleshow/80411332.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 23, 2021||Business||Grasim to foray into paints biz||TNN Mumbai: The Aditya Birla Group has marked a foray into paints with the Grasim Industries board approving an initial capital expenditure of Rs 5,000 crore for this over the next three years. This makes Aditya Birla the second large group to enter the paints business in recent years. In 2019, JSW Group entered the segment as part of its diversification into consumer-facing businesses. In a statement, Aditya Birla Group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla said the paints industry presents a high-growth option for Grasim. “The foray into paints is a strategic portfolio choice for Grasim as it looks to identify new growth engines. Grasim’s strong balance sheet will facilitate this entry, which will add size, scale and diversity to its existing portfolio of established standalone businesses. The company endeavours to invest in businesses that have the potential to be a leader in their addressable markets, have the ability to achieve scale, and generate consistent and attractive returns in the long term,” said Birla. The sector has registered a revenue CAGR (compounded annual growth rate) of around 11% during FY14 to FY19. Given the value migration from the unorganised to the organised market, the outlook remains robust, providing the space for a quality new player. Market leader Asian Paints reported 25% growth in consolidated revenues to Rs 6,788 crore for the quarter ended December 31, 2020. It said demand conditions continued to exhibit a strong recovery across business segments, spread over most regions in the third quarter of this financial year. The domestic decorative business grew more than 30% in volume, driven by premium and luxury portfolios of Asian Paints. Other players in the sector include Berger Paints, Kansai Nerolac Paints, Akzo Nobel and Shalimar. Grasim said its entry in paints will offer a wide choice to Indian consumers as the company plans to introduce the latest range of products in line with global mega-trends. “The company’s entry into this high growth sector will help painters/applicators and all traditional and emerging channel partners across India to expand their existing business and grow,” Grasim added. Started as a textiles manufacturer in India, Grasim Industries is today a top diversified player with a leadership presence across many sectors. It is a leading global producer of viscose staple fibre, the largest chlor-alkali, linen and insulators player in India. Through its subsidiaries UltraTech Cement and Aditya Birla Capital, it is also the largest cement producer and a major diversified financial services player. Grasim reported a consolidated net revenue of nearly $11 billion and an ebitda of $1.9 billion in FY2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/grasim-to-foray-into-paints-biz/articleshow/80413615.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Round 1 of vax drive may end by Feb 15; 8 minor reactions seen||Mumbai: BMC’s executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said on Friday the civic body plans to put up names of health workers on its Covid website so that they know if they have been registered on Co-WIN. They can now take the shots at any of the nine centres of their choice. Earlier, they could only go to the centre linked by the virtue of their home or work address. In Mumbai, 3,539 out of 3,852 took the vaccine on Friday at the 10 vaccination centres. A total of 21,610 of the 28,350 healthcare workers scheduled for vaccination on Friday took the shots at 282 centres. With Friday’s turnout, the state has now completed vaccinating 74,000 of the nearly eight lakh registered health workers while Mumbai has finished vaccinating nearly 9,000 of its 1.2 lakh beneficiaries. For the first time since vaccination began on January 16, there was a queue in the city. Among districts, Beed had the highest turnout at 151%. Others such as Hingoli, Amravati, Wardha, Jalna and Osmanabad saw more than 100% vaccination. In MMR, Navi Mumbai saw a 100% turnout of 400 recipients on Friday. Principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said the session in certain places started late so the final numbers could change. He added that 318 people took Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin on Friday. Although KEM Hospital, Parel, saw the most vaccinations in a single centre in a day at 685, only five out of the 10 vaccine booths worked, said dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh. The local BMC ward’s war room as well as KEM’s two-member team called up doctors from neighbouring Tata Memorial and Wadia hospitals, Hinduja Hospital, Mahim, as well as SRCC Hospital, Haji Ali. “Momentum has built up now. There is adequate confidence in the vaccine,’’ he said. At BKC’s jumbo facility, dean Dr Rajesh Dere said they had received a list of 400 from the ward office, but his own team called those who had missed out on the previous three days. “We made about 1,200 calls,” he said. Gomare said a sizable number was “walk-in” beneficiaries. At least eight cases of adverse events following immunisation were reported in the state. Jalna, Nashik, Sangli and Thane reported two cases each. While BMC also saw two minor cases, they were not mentioned in the state report. N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, said with sites increasing to 500, the state plans to finish the first round by February 15. Dr Sanjay Oak, chairman of the state Covid taskforce, said the private sector needs to be roped in for bitter turnout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/round-1-of-vax-drive-may-end-by-feb-15-8-minor-reactions-seen/articleshow/80415131.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 23, 2021||Business||Yes Bank Q4 net at Rs 151cr, to raise Rs 10k cr||TNN Mumbai: Yes Bank has reported a net profit of Rs 151 crore for the quarter ended December 2020 as compared to a loss of Rs 18,560 crore in the corresponding quarter of previous year. Sequentially, the profits were marginally higher than the Rs 129 crore reported in the preceding quarter ended September 2020. The bank’s board, which met to approve the results, also cleared a proposal to raise up to Rs 10,000 crore through issue of shares by any of the permissible modes. The bank will now seek shareholders’ approval for fund-raising through a postal ballot. In its results, the bank said that forensic audits for remaining accounts in respect of which the bank had received a whistleblower complaint in 2018 are in the process. This update was presented to the board on January 15. Yes Bank has said that forensic audit of some defaulters, which was done at the behest of another consortium of banks, has been given to Yes Bank. According to the bank, these reports have given more information regarding the allegations against the bank’s promoter and former CEO Rana Kapoor and it has filed complaints with law enforcement agencies (LEAs). “Also, the LEAs — the Enforcement Directorate (ED), the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFlO) — have launched probes into some aspects of transactions of the founder and former MD & CEO, and alleged links with certain borrower groups. LEAs are investigating allegations of money laundering, fraud and nexus between the founder and former MD & CEO and certain loan transactions,” the bank said in its filing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/yes-bank-q4-net-at-rs-151cr-to-raise-rs-10k-cr/articleshow/80413870.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Pune||PMC initiates action against illegal constructions||The civic administration on Friday initiated action against illegal constructions in Mundhwa, Keshavnagar area. A total area of over 8,070 sq ft was pulled down with earthmoving machines and gas cutters. Officials from the administration said that notices were issued to the concerned owners. Action was initiated after the authorities did not receive any reply from the owners. Authorities said that action against illegal constructions in city’s peripheral areas will continue. A similar action was initiated in the last two weeks by the administration in 11 villages which were merged in the city limits in 2017. Conference held on Metro lite A conference was held on Metro lite, Metro neo and water Metro on Friday. Durga Shanker Mishra, secretary, Ministry of Housing and Urban Development, chaired the conference from MahaMetro’s office in Pune. Mishra proposed the use of appropriate Metro system for tier-II and tier-III cities over rail based high capacity Metro system. It was further stated that the Metro system like Metro lite, neo and water Metro are more viable and suitable for tier-II and tier-III cities. The conference was attended by managing directors of Metro corporations from across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-initiates-action-against-illegal-constructions/articleshow/80413996.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 23, 2021||Coimbatore||18-year-old boy heldfor sexual assault||Coimbatore: An 18-year-old boy was booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, on Friday, for sexually assaulting a 15-year-old girl.The Rathinapuri police said the boy, who was working as a labourer, had befriended the girl, who was his neighbour, last October. “The girl’s parents had warned her against the relationship. After finding that the boy sexually assaulted her, the parents filed a police complaint,” a police officer said. The boy was arrested and lodged in the Pollachi sub-jail. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/18-year-old-boy-heldfor-sexual-assault/articleshow/80413986.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Lucknow||CRPF cop nabbed for fake Lucknow Metro job offers||LUCKNOW: A head constable deployed with Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in Jharkhand was arrested on Friday for duping innocents on the pretext of giving them jobs as station master in Lucknow Metro. The head constable, identified as Vijay Pal Singh, was arrested from a guest house in Charbagh. SHO, Naka, Manoj Mishra told TOI that an FIR against Pal was lodged by security officer of UP Metro Jitendra Kaushal. “Based on the information that Pal had called 16 applicants at a guest house in Charbagh, a police team raided the place and nabbed him,” said Mishra. Fake job offers and application forms were recovered from the guest house. The police said that Pal used to take Rs 10,000 in the account of one Anant Pandey from people on the pretext of registration for jobs in Lucknow Metro. He also took money for interviews and then issued fake appointment letters to job aspirants. However, his entire plan was foiled when some persons approached Lucknow Metro officials and informed them about the racket. As many as 200 people were duped by Pal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/crpf-cop-nabbed-for-fake-metro-job-offers/articleshow/80415039.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Patna||Governor, CM Nitish Kumar condole death of Bihar workers in Karnataka's Shimoga||PATNA: Governor Phagu Chauhan and CM Nitish Kumar have expressed grief over the death of some workers from Bihar in a dynamite blast in Karnataka late on Thursday evening. At least six people, majority of them from Bihar, were charred to death and several others injured when a gelatine-laden truck exploded in Shivamogga district of Karnataka. The victims were yet to be identified as their bodies were charred beyond recognition. “My thoughts and prayers are with the victims’ families and their loved ones during this difficult hour,” the governor said in his message. The CM on Friday asked officials concerned in the state to remain in touch with their counterparts in Karnataka. The CM has also asked the resident commissioner in New Delhi to coordinate with the government of the southern state and make arrangements for the treatment of those injured in the explosion. In his message, Nitish wished speedy recovery to the injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/governor-nitish-condole-death-of-bihar-workers-in-karnataka/articleshow/80412932.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Varanasi||Narendra Modi talks to Kashi recipients, seeks to dispel fears on Covid-19 vaccines||VARANASI: Amid the world’s biggest rollout of vaccination against Covid in India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday sought to dispel fears on safety and efficacy of the vaccines during a virtual interaction with vaccine recipients, doctors and vaccinators in his parliamentary constituency, Varanasi. “India has launched the world’s biggest vaccination drive and the credit goes to the medical fraternity and scientists, who developed two vaccines in a short span of time. The ‘made in India’ vaccine is also being provided to other countries,” said the PM. Giving full credit to the scientists of the country for the vaccine's success, the PM said that there was no political decision involved here. "We have followed whatever our scientists have suggested," Prime Minister Narendra Modi said. While dispelling the doubts and hesitation about the drive, Modi also made the nation listen to the experiences of some of the beneficiaries and Covid vaccinators of the first round of drive through video conferencing. In his 25-minute live interaction, the PM spoke to five beneficiaries and vaccinators of his parliamentary constituency, including a matron at the district women’s hospital Pushpa Devi, an ANM at the Shiv Prasad Gupta divisional hospital Rani Kunwar Srivastava, chief medical superintendent of the Deen Dayal Upadhyaya district hospital Dr. B Shukla, senior lab technician at DDU district hospital Ramesh Chandra Rai and an ANM at Hathi Bazar community health centre (CHC) in Sevapuri Shrinkhala Chauhan. Responding to the PM, Dr. B Shukla said that 81 medical staff, including himself, got vaccinated on the first day of the drive and went to perform their day's duty after a 30-minute wait. “There is no confusion among the medical staff about the vaccine’s efficacy,” he said adding that over 10 lakh vaccines have been administered in India so far and no major side-effect has been reported so far. "Symptoms like minor headache and mild fever are very common in any kind of vaccine, but that snn Before the first round of vaccination we had detailed discussion on this and we resolved to go out and spread the message that even in a minor vaccine, there are symptoms like minor headache or mild fever. We told people that these are very normal after-effects of a vaccine and one might get in Covid vaccine as well. If still anybody had any doubt, I volunteered to get vaccinated first when it started on January 16," Dr Shukla told the PM. "Your words about safety and efficacy of the vaccine carry much weight. It enhances people's faith," the PM told Dr Shukla The PM wanted to know from them their experience after getting vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/modi-talks-to-kashi-recipients-seeks-to-dispel-fears-on-covid-19-vaccines/articleshow/80413083.cms||Binay Singh
January 23, 2021||Business||RBI proposes bank-like norms for big NBFCs||MUMBAI: Large non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) are likely to be more intensely regulated and their lending to sensitive sectors like capital markets and real estate capped if the RBI were to implement proposals that it has put forward in a discussion paper. The proposal comes at a time when an RBI panel had recommended that large NBFCs should be allowed to turn into banks. The norms, which will be brought on a par with banks for large NBFCs, include provisions for standard assets, CEO compensation guidelines, disclosure requirements, and rules for selling bad loans. Mid-tier and large NBFCs will also need to have a centralised core banking system in place. The paper comes two months after RBI deputy governor M Rajeshwar Rao said that large NBFCS should be incentivised to either convert into banks or scale down. The discussion paper proposes segmenting the industry into layers. There will be a base layer consisting of non-systemically important NBFCs like peer-to-peer lending platforms. The second layer would be systemically important finance companies, including specialised lenders. The third layer would be significantly important NBFCs whose failure can impact financial stability. In addition to these companies, there would be a fourth layer. “It is possible that considered supervisory judgment might push some NBFCs from out of the upper layer of the systemically significant NBFCs for higher regulation/ supervision. These NBFCs will occupy the top of the upper layer as a distinct set,” the report said. The RBI had decided to relook at regulation and supervision of NBFCs following two large defaults — IL&FS and DHFL. “When failure of an extremely large NBFC can precipitate systemic risks. The regulatory framework for NBFCs needs to be reoriented to keep pace with changing realities in the financial sector.” The RBI has historically adopted a differential regulatory structure for NBFCs. “Lighter and differential regulation has provided operational flexibility to NBFCs and helped them develop sectoral and geographical expertise, extending variety and ease of access to financial services. The extant regulatory arbitrage in favour of NBFCs has been well thought out and is conceptualised by design rather than by default,” the RBI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-proposes-bank-like-norms-for-big-nbfcs/articleshow/80413775.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Patna||Lalu Prasad stable; Rabri Devi, Misa Bharti , Tejashwi Yadav and Tej Pratap meet ailing leader in Ranchi||RANCHI: A day after incarcerated RJD president Lalu Prasad had a health scare, his wife and former Bihar chief minister Rabri Devi, along with sons Tejashwi Yadav and Tej Pratap, and daughter Misa Bharti visited him at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) on Friday to inquire about his condition. On Thursday evening, a team of doctors rushed to Lalu’s ward after he complained of breathlessness. The doctors later said he had a mild bout of pneumonia. A RIMS medical bulletin on Friday said Lalu’s condition is stable. “We have conducted several tests to check his blood parameters, including ECG, X-ray and Covid-19 tests as well and the results are negative. On Friday, Lalu was taken for a high-resolution CT scan and the report is awaited,” the bulletin said. The paying ward, where Lalu is staying, was abuzz throughout the day on Friday after a host of political leaders from Jharkhand and Bihar gathered to inquire about his health. State RJD president Abhay Singh said Rabri Devi, Tejashwi and TejPratap reached Ranchi by a chartered plane while Misa had come earlier. He said the jail administration had given special permission to the family members to meet Lalu. Singh added, “We are satisfied with the treatment given to our leader by the hospital and the Jharkhand government. We are hopeful that Lalu ji would recover soon. Our party members are praying everywhere for his well-being. Rabri and other family members are likely to be with Lalu ji on Saturday as well. They would not take part in any political programme during their stay here.” RJD leader and former MLA Radha Krishna Kishore, who was present on Rims premises, said, “The entire RJD family is concerned with Lalu Prasad’s health. I am hopeful of his quick recovery and have faith in the doctors.” Meanwhile, Lalu was taken for radiological tests and has shown symptoms of mild pneumonia. The ailing leader has been housed at the paying ward while he was undergoing treatment after being convicted in fodder scam cases by the Jharkhand high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lalu-stable-rabri-misa-tej-and-tejas-meet-ailing-leader-in-ranchi/articleshow/80412115.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Patna||‘Boyfriend’ killed minor to stop her from marrying someone else: Police||PATNA: A 19-year-old man, who has been arrested for brutally stabbing to death a minor girl Anshu Kumari in the city on Thursday, told the police that he killed her “girlfriend” because he didn’t want her to marry anyone else. The police cracked the murder case of the 14-year-old within 24 hours when they arrested Sandeep Kumar early on Friday morning from his rented accommodation at Khasganj in Sohsarai, Nalanda. According to the police, Sandeep, a Part-I student of English honours, was in a relationship with the girl but their families were opposed to it. The accused is from Sunka village under Tharthari police station area of Nalanda where Anshu, a Class X student, lived earlier with her maternal uncle’s family. City SP (East) Jitendra Kumar said Sandeep confessed to killing Anshu. Kumar further said that both were having an affair for the past few years and they wanted to marry but their family members were against it. “Sandeep’s family sent him to Khasganj to study, while Anshu’s parents took her to Patna around one and half years back due to their affair,” Kumar said. Kumar further said that Anshu’s parents were preparing to get her married. “Sandeep had asked Anshu to elope, but she had refused to do so,” he added. “Sandeep finally decided to kill Anshu so that she could not marry anyone else either,” he said. The SP said Sandeep confessed that he used to tell Anshu that he would kill her but she used to laugh. “Even on Thursday, Sandeep said he had come to kill her when she asked the reason for his sudden visit,” Kumar added. “On January 19, both had a telephonic conversation. Sandeep knew Anshu would be alone on Thursday as her mother would be leaving for Nalanda. He came from Nalanda by bus and returned after committing the crime,” the SP said, adding the case would be put for a speedy trial. Jakkanpur police station SHO Mukesh Kumar Verma said police recovered the blood-stained knife from the railway track at Sipara in Jakkanpur on Sandeep’s indication. “He had purchased it from Chandi one and a half months back indicating he was prepared for the murder. The knife is generally used by school students for project work,” he said. Verma said Sandeep’s jacket, clothes and shoes worn at the time of the murder were also seized. “Several photos of the minor and Sandeep together were recovered from his seized cellphone,” Verma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/boyfriend-killed-minor-to-stop-her-from-marrying-someone-else-police/articleshow/80412294.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Minor girl from MP raped, killed, stuffed in plastic bag||RAJKOT: The forensic postmortem of a seven-year-old girl whose body was found bundled in a plastic bag in Morbi town revealed that she was raped and brutally killed by smashing a stone on her head. The body was spotted by some people behind a panjrapol (cattle shed) on Sartanpar Road. The girl had gone missing from her house on January 19. Her parents are natives of Alirajpur in Madhya Pradesh and they had come to Morbi a few months ago. Morbi police said she had gone missing from the ceramic unit where her parents were working at the factory’s outdoor unit. Her parents started searching for her and inquired in the neighbouring areas. As she was found nowhere, they approached Morbi police and lodged a complaint of kidnapping. In the footages of CCTV, the girl is seen playing in an open area but after sometime, she was not there. After being informed by the locals, police sent the body to Rajkot Civil Hospital for forensic postmortem. “The report confirmed that she was raped and then murdered. Some suspects have been identified and we are questioning them,” said Radhika Bharai, deputy superintendent of police, Morbi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/minor-girl-from-mp-raped-killed-stuffed-in-plastic-bag/articleshow/80412351.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Patna||Magadh University campus gets nod for stadium, two new hostels||GAYA: The Magadh University campus at Bodh Gaya would get a stadium and two new hostel buildings. The existing hostel building will be renovated. State education department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar issued directions with this regard during his visit to the MU campus on Thursday. The principal secretary held a meeting with MU vice-chancellor Prof Rajendra Prasad, pro-VC Prof V N Singh and the Indian Institute of Management, Bodh Gaya, director Vinita Sahay to resolve the IIM campus problem. MU nodal officer Sanjay Kumar said, “Both the sides have agreed and 116 acres of MU campus land would be allocated to IIM. Because the existing stadium is now on the IIM campus, the principal secretary has assured that a new stadium would be constructed on the MU campus land. Measurement of land for the stadium was done on Thursday itself,” he said. Earlier, in September 2014, following the letter by then principal secretary of education department RK Mahajan to the then Gaya DM Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, 119.96 acres of land belonging to MU was identified to set up the B-school. Since it started in 2015, the IIM has been running in the building of directorate of distance education (DDE). However, some confusion had cropped up recently when fencing work of the land identified for the B-school was being done. It was assumed that the fencing work was being done on the plot other than that identified for the B-school. “Now with both sides have agreed, 71 acres of land on the MU campus and 45 acres outside would be allocated to the B-school campus,” the MU nodal officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mu-campus-gets-nod-for-stadium-two-new-hostels/articleshow/80412962.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Patna||Khagaria DM: In touch with Arunachal Pradesh dist administration for release of 28-year-old||PATNA: Khagaria administration is in touch with its counterparts in Changlang district of Arunachal Pradesh for the safe and quick release of Ram Kumar, who has been kept hostage by insurgents for the last more than one month, DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh said on Friday. Kumar (28) from Bahadurpur village under Alauli police station area in Khagaria was allegedly kidnapped along with Pranab Kumar Gogoi of Assam from an oil drilling site in Changlang on December 21 last year. ULFA-I and a group belonging to NSCN-IM are allegedly involved in the kidnapping for ransom. Both work for a private oil drilling firm. The insurgents had released a video of Kumar in which he could be heard urging Bihar CM Nitish Kumar for help in order to get him released by talking to his Assam counterpart Sarbananda Sonowal. In reply to a query, additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani on Thursday night had said the state government was in touch with the Arunachal government and efforts were being made to get Kumar released. When asked, Ghosh told TOI over phone that Kumar’s wife met him on Friday to seek help for getting her husband released safely as soon as possible. “I am sending a letter with the petition submitted by Kumar’s wife to Changlang DM. I will also seek an update from him on the progress made till now in the case,” he said. Ghosh said the matter was being monitored at the highest level by the state government. “Higher authorities are also in touch with their counterparts,” he said. The DM said SP Amitesh Kumar has already written a letter to his Changlang counterpart soon after it came to light on Thursday. He is taking periodic updates. “Though it’s a police matter, the district administration would provide all necessary assistance to Kumar’s wife and children in Khagaria,” he said. Kumar’s wife Bina Kumari told TOI on Friday that she only wants her husband’s safe release. Kumar’s five-year-old son is suffering from blood cancer and his treatment expenses are met from his father’s salary. The woman said in her husband’s absence, she is having a tough time in getting his son treated properly in Patna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/khagaria-dm-in-touch-with-ap-dist-admn-for-release-of-28-year-old/articleshow/80412995.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 23, 2021||Business||IPO financing rule to hit subscription||MUMBAI: RBI’s proposal to cap IPO financing by NBFCs to up to Rs 1 crore per person may lead to a sharp drop in bidding by high net worth individuals (HNIs), which may result in a drastic reduction in subscriptions of offers. Banks have a Rs 10-lakh limit on IPO financing and there is no such cap for NBFCs. “IPO financing by NBFCs has come under close scrutiny, more for their abuse of the system,” the RBI said in a discussion paper. “Taking into account the unique business model of NBFCs, it is proposed to fix a ceiling of Rs 1 crore per individual for any NBFC,” the RBI said. Currently HNIs, with money borrowed from NBFCs, are allowed to pay just 1% margin money to bid for the entire portion reserved for this group of investors. In effect, in a Rs 1,000-crore IPO, 50% of which is reserved for HNIs, these investors can pay just Rs 5 crore to bid for shares worth Rs 500 crore offered in the IPO. Bidding with borrowed money can lead to a huge rise in the total subscription in the IPO and then to the listing prices of these offers. Often a high oversubscription number in an IPO may mislead investors into thinking that the company is doing exceptionally well, shares are highly valued and hence the mad rush for them. Post-listing, however, the shares slide and some of the investors incur losses. Market players said that RBI’s proposed rule would surely bring a break to highly subscribed IPOs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ipo-financing-rule-to-hit-subscription/articleshow/80413708.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Patna||Plan to organise ‘Happy Street’ in Patna every Sunday||PATNA: The state capital is set to bring out the positive vibes with the ‘Happy Street’ initiative to be launched by Patna Smart City Limited (PSCL). A 325-metre-long stretch between J P Roundabout and Children’s Park adjacent to DM’s residence near Gandhi Maidan has been identified for organising the event. PSCL officials said the initiative is aimed at encouraging people to use non-motorized transport and come out onto the streets every Sunday to socialize through a wide array of activities. The earmarked stretch of the road will be barricaded and vehicles will not be allowed on it for a few hours on Sunday evening. People will be free to walk, run, play, do yoga and dance on the street. “The bidding process has been initiated for roping in agency for organising the ‘Happy Street’. The initiative aims at increasing the happiness quotient of people by making them use the streets. The plan is to create a carnival-like atmosphere with proper sitting arrangements and ferry lighting of the street. It is likely to start maximum in six months,” PSCL public relations officer Harshita said. Deliberating on the activities to be held in the event, she said residents could engage in activities like playing various games, shopping, dancing and gorging on delicious street food from various makeshift food stalls. She said other projects such as theme based illumination of buildings around Gandhi Maidan is also underway. “The Happy Street project is part of a bigger initiative to make Gandhi Maidan and the areas around it a major hangout spot under the Smart City Project,” she said. The Happy Street concept is not new. Several cities in the country, including Kolkata, Pune, Thane and Ahmedabad have successfully implemented it. But this is the first such initiative in Patna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/plan-to-organise-happy-street-in-patna-every-sunday/articleshow/80412311.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Business||Digital, retail biz boost RIL Q3 net by 26% to Rs 15k crore||TNN Mumbai: Reliance Industries (RIL), India’s largest company in terms of market value, reported a 26% rise in its third quarter profit to Rs 14,894 crore, benefiting from higher price realisations in its digital services and retail businesses. Revenue declined 21% to Rs 1.2 lakh crore, it said on Friday. Operating profit was flat at Rs 26,094 crore in the October through December months due to weak earnings in its dominant O2C (oil-to-chemicals) business. The company said from the third quarter, it will disclose O2C as a separate business segment after it decided to combine its traditional refining and petrochemicals units. RIL’s consumer business accounted for 51% of its operating profit compared to 37% in the year-ago period. “The world is now closing ranks for a strong global action on climate change. This gives Reliance the right opportunity to accelerate our own ambitious new energy and new materials business wedded to the vision of clean and green development. In line with this vision, our O2C business has formally reorganised its reporting segments to reflect our new strategy and management matrix for this enterprise,” said RIL chairman Mukesh Ambani. “The reorganised structure will enable Reliance to pursue new opportunities for growth, with strategic partnerships with the best and the biggest in this business globally. The O2C platform will increasingly move further downstream and will create planet-friendly and affordable energy and materials solutions.” Operating profit of O2C declined 28% to Rs 9,756 crore due to lower product sales and price realisations. But operating profit of digital services (Jio) rose 48% to Rs 8,942 crore due to an improved average revenue per user (ARPU) and higher data usage by people, while remaining sheltered at homes due to Covid. ARPU is the total revenue of the telecom operator divided by the number of users on its network. Jio continued to be the star contributor to RIL’s operating profit. Its ARPU was Rs 151 in the December quarter, up from Rs 128 a year ago. Jio, which was launched in 2016, has 410 million customers and saw a data traffic growth of 31% on its network. The consumer business added more than 50,000 jobs in the pandemic-hit April through December months. Operating profit of retail increased 13% to Rs 3,102 crore. RIL said that 96% of its store network was opened in the December quarter after Covid-related curbs were eased. However, only half of them were fully operational. It added that fashion and lifestyle staged a strong bounce-back, surpassing pre-Covid levels despite lower than normative operating conditions. Grocery and electronics posted double digit growth. Operating profit of oil & gas declined 94% to Rs 4 crore, while operating profit of financial services, which RIL recently started to report separately, rocketed 229% to Rs 303 crore. RIL’s debt at the end of the quarter was Rs 2.57 lakh core but it had Rs 2.2 lakh crore in cash and cash equivalents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/digital-retail-biz-boost-ril-q3-net-by-26-to-rs-15k-crore/articleshow/80413394.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Business||IL&FS claims Rs 32k cr of its total Rs 99k cr debt resolved||TNN Mumbai: IL&FS has said in its progress update that Rs 32,000 crore of debt has been resolved so far. The group has a total debt of Rs 99,355 crore, of which the board had said that over Rs 56,000 crore would be recovered (see graphic). Given that most lenders have written off their debt to the troubled group on their books, the resolution will be recorded by them as profit. According to a research report in 2019, 40% of the group’s debt is with public sector banks and its borrowings accounted for 0.6% of all bank loans in the country. Of the total debt resolved, Rs 21,600 crore has been addressed based on cash balances or through sale of businesses. “The incremental recovery value of entities whose resolutions have been filed with the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) and appellate tribunal (NCLAT) is around Rs 10,300 crore,” IL&FS said in a filing. Of the debt resolved on cash balances, Rs 750 crore was the settlement amount received for IL&FS Solar Power, and Rs 1,000 crore was received by IL&FS Tamil Nadu Power from the state electricity distribution company. Another Rs 300 crore was recovered by IL&FS Financial Services from loans given to entities outside the IL&FS Group. The ones pending at the tribunal for final approval are Rs 7,550 crore of road projects, Rs 4,900 crore through debt restructuring of IL&FS Tamil Nadu Power, and Rs 1,370 crore to be received for termination of concession for road projects. IL&FS has got approval from creditors for selling Terracis Technologies, which represents a recovery value of nearly Rs 1,200 crore to the highest bidder. The group has also signed deals to sell its environment business for Rs 150 crore and two real estate properties for Rs 20 crore. The realisation of Rs 13,000 crore of debt through transfer of road assets to an InvIT is expected to take place next year with IL&FS receiving Sebi approval for the ‘Roadstar’ Trust, which will take over the road assets. The bidding process for IL&FS stake in ONGC Tripura Power Company, which would result in recovery of Rs 3,800 crore, is currently in progress. The board said that it has received interest from over 20 potential bidders for the bad loans worth Rs 4,700 crore in IL&FS Financial Services. The board said that the resolution process had got delayed because of the Covid-19 pandemic, which resulted in a disruption in the functioning of courts. The pandemic also had an impact on asset valuation and the investment appetite of some bidders fell in the early months of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ilfs-claims-rs-32k-cr-of-its-total-rs-99k-cr-debt-resolved/articleshow/80413985.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Patna||Work on 6 new ropeways to commence this year: Minister||PATNA: Tourism minister Jivesh Kumar on Friday said foundation for at least two new ropeways in the state would be laid by CM Nitish Kumar soon. “Work on six ropeways in the state would commence this year. Besides, Rajgir ropeway will be thrown open to public by the end of February. The ropeway on Mandar hills in Banka will become operational in another two months,” the minister said. He added work orders have already been issued for construction of ropeways at Rohtasgarh in Rohtas district, Mundeshwari hills in Kaimur district and Vanabar hills in Jehanabad district. The CM has been requested to lay foundation for at least two ropeways,” Jivesh told TOI, adding the ropeways will be constructed by Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Limited (BRPNNL). The other three ropeways are proposed to come up at Dungeshwari, Brahmyoni and Pretshila mountains in Gaya. “State-of-the-art ropeways equipped with latest technologies are proposed to be constructed at the tourist and religious sites in the state to attract visitors,” the minister said. Chorasan temple situated on top of Rohtasgarh hill is a major religious and tourist attraction. At present, devotees of Chorasan temple and tourists to Rohtasgarh fort follow the route through Akbarpur, which is the main town in the route to Rohtasgarh fort. From Akbarpur, tourists and devotees cover around 1.5km distance on foot to reach the boundary wall of the fort. Tourism department is thus constructing the 1.35km ropeway between Akbarpur and Rohtasgarh fort for the convenience of visitors. Similarly, a 425m ropeway will be constructed at Mundeshwari hill in Kaimur district to smoothen the access to famous Mundeshwari Dham temple atop the hill, which is presently reached by climbing around 950 steps. With regard to the three ropeways proposed at Gaya, the tourism minister said instructions have been issued to officials concerned to expedite the process of land acquisition and other necessary clearances for the purpose. As per the project report for Dungeshwari hills ropeway, Dungeshwari cave temple, also known as ‘Mahakala’ caves, is situated 12km northeast of Bodh Gaya. Lord Buddha is believed to have meditated at this place for six years before he went to Bodh Gaya for the final realisation. A golden emaciated Buddha sculpture memorising the rigid penance is enshrined in the cave temple. Hindu goddess deity Dungeshwari is also placed inside cave temple. A concrete path of about 400m leads to the niche of the hill, where the temples are tucked in the hill rocks at a height of 63m from base. Historians said historical and religious sentiments are attached with Ratnagiri hills at Rajgir and Mandar hill at Banka. Mandar hill dates back to early medieval times and it is believed to have been used by the Gods to churn the ocean to get hold of nectar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/work-on-6-new-ropeways-to-commence-this-year-minister/articleshow/80412884.cms||Piyush Tripathi
January 23, 2021||Varanasi||Morari Bapu performs ‘puja’ at Gorakhnath temple||Gorakhpur: Famous ‘kathawachak’ Morari Bapu on Friday offered ‘puja’ at Gorakhnath temple. He also had ‘darshan’ of ‘divya jyoti, and met seers related to the temple. From January 23 to January 31, he’ll be in Kushinagar for Ramkatha. In Gorakhnath temple, temple secretary Dwarika Tiwari along with others welcomed him. After Gorakhnath temple visit, Morari Bapu went Gita Vatika and had ‘darshan’ of Sri Radha Baba, Vatika and temple inside Gita Vatika campus. Morari Bapu will deliver Ramkatha at Budhh Mahaparinirvan Sthali at a field near a hotel and all the preparations have been completed following Covid guidelines, a member of Sri Ram Katha Ayojak Yagya Samiti, Kushinagar, Amar Agarwal, said. The organizer team has appealed the devotees to listen Katha through app and channel as the entire programme will also be online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/morari-bapu-performs-puja-at-gorakhnath-temple/articleshow/80413100.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Coimbatore||Cut-out season is here again||Coimbatore: Giant cut-outs of political leaders are back on roads, despite several directions by courts restraining political parties from erecting them.Residents of Coimbatore woke up on Friday to see the city roads lined up with several flex boards and larger-than-life cut-outs of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, who landed here for a two-day campaign on Friday.In Selvapuram, AIADMK men had erected 40ft high cut-outs of EPS, his deputy O Panneerselvam and local administration minister S P Velumani, along with late chief ministers MGR and J Jayalalithaa. Several stretches in suburbs and along the campaign route of EPS were dotted by digital flex boards.“Roads were dug up to erect cut-outs and flex boards, blocking the path,’’ Singanallur MLA N Karthik said.The paraphernalia have been put up despite the Madras high court, as well as Madurai bench of the HC, restraining political parties not to erect banners that pose danger to the public.The court had come down heavily on political parties in the wake of the death of Subashree, a 23-year-old Chennai-based techie, after a banner erected by AIADMK men fell on her in 2019. In 2017, Raghupahy, a 30-year-old techie died after his motorcycle rammed an illegally-erected arch on the Avinashi Road in Coimbatore. Shortly afterwards, a young girl on a scooter fell on the Avinashi Road, allegedly after she tried to avoid hitting a flagpole.Coimbatore corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian told TOI that applications seeking permission for erecting cut-outs are dealt at zonal offices of the corporation. South zone assistant commissioner T R Ravi, under whose jurisdiction Selvapuram falls, said applicants had sought permission from the town planning officer and it was the TPO who handled the applications. Town planning officer Sasipriya could not be reached to find out if permission was sought by AIADMK men for putting up the giant cut-outs.Activists and opposition parties question the rationale behind erecting giant cut-outs, even if permission is obtained. “Courts have directed that hoardings, banners and cut-outs that could distract motorists and hinder vehicle movement should not be erected. Despite the orders, AIADMK men have brazenly put them up,’’ Karthik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cut-out-season-is-here-again/articleshow/80414024.cms||Mayilvaganan
January 23, 2021||Business||Indigo Paints IPO subscribed 117 times||TNN Mumbai: The maiden offering for Indigo Paints, which closed on Friday, was subscribed 117 times. Through this offer, the company aims to raise Rs 1,170 crore. The portion reserved for retail investors was subscribed nearly 16 times, while the one for qualified institutional buyers 190 times. The portion reserved for high net worth investors (HNIs) was subscribed 263 times, a release from the merchant bankers said. The IPO comprised a fresh issue of Rs 300 crore, and an offer for sale of 58.4 lakh shares by the company’s promoter Hemant Jalan, and investors Sequoia Capital India Investments IV and SCI Investments V, amounting to Rs 870 crore. The shares were offered in the price band of Rs 1,488–1,490 per share. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indigo-paints-ipo-subscribed-117-times/articleshow/80414058.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Agra||UP: After 5 years in jail for crime they didn’t do, couple can’t find kids||AGRA: A day after their release following five years in prison for a crime that they never committed, a couple is now desperately looking for their minor children. The kids, a son who was 5 then and daughter 3, were sent to "some orphanage" in the absence of their parents. Now nobody knows where the children are. Police had arrested the couple -- Narendra Singh, 40, and wife Najma, 30 -- from Agra's Bah in 2015 after a five-year-old boy was found murdered. In its order releasing the couple, the additional district and session court came down heavily on the police. "It is unfortunate that innocent people have spent five years behind bars and the main accused is still free," the court said and directed the SSP to take action against the investigation officer (IO) for his negligence. The court then recommended that the case be re-investigated on the basis of available evidence to nab the real culprit. "Prosecution was dependent on circumstantial evidence in the absence of any factual one," the court said. "The then sub-inspector, Chidanand Singh, who was working with the investigation officer, admitted in court that he did not even try to find out who the FIR was registered against." A distraught Narendra Singh, who earlier worked as a teacher, said, "What was our children’s fault? They had to live like orphans. My son Ajeet and daughter Anju were so small when police arrested us for murder." Najma has written a letter to the SSP BablooKumar to help them locate the missing kids. “We haven’t met our children since our arrest. We don’t know where they are,” Narendra Singh said, weeping. The couple's bail application was rejected by the district judge in 2015. Later they went to the high court, but it could not be taken further due to their inability to afford the expenses. Their lawyer Vansho Baboo told TOI: "Police have admitted in court that they arrested the couple due to the public uproar after the death of the minor boy. And that they submitted the chargesheet in a hurry without verifying facts."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/innocent-couple-in-jail-for-5-yrs-come-out-to-find-kids-5-3-missing/articleshow/80411327.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 23, 2021||Patna||‘Depressed’ woman cop commits suicide in Ara||ARA: A 28-year-old woman constable, Sharda Kumari, allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling fan at her rented accommodation at Kashyap Nagar under the Nawada police station area in Ara late on Thursday evening. She was posted in the riot control battalion of Bhojpur police at New Police Lines. Bhojpur SP Har Kishore Rai said prima facie, it seemed to be a case of suicide. “She was probably suffering from depression. Police have recovered a diary of the deceased constable. We are probing the case from all angles,” he added. Police sources said Sharda was a resident of Rajwan village under the Panjwada police station area in Banka district. She got married to one Pradeep Kumar Chauhan, an electrician, in 2012. Sources added Sharda had requested her husband two days ago to consult a doctor for her treatment as she was suffering from depression. “When her husband was cooking on Thursday, she went downstairs to the study room of her landlord’s children and committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling fan. She was taken to the sadar hospital at Ara, where the doctors declared her brought dead,” police sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/depressed-woman-cop-commits-suicide-in-ara/articleshow/80412347.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Retired university teachers to stage dharna soon||PATNA: In an unprecedented move the retired teachers of universities and colleges in Bihar, many of whom are in their eighties and nineties, will stage a dharna at the Raj Bhavan soon in order to draw the attention of the chancellor towards the inordinate delay in payment of their arrears since April, 2017. According to the members of the Bihar State Federation of Retired University Teachers, serving teachers have received all their arrears, but the retired ones, most of whom are crippled with various geriatric problems, have been kept waiting. Nonagenarian Nageshwar Prasad Sharma, a retired physics teacher of Patna University, expressed concern at the dilly-dallying attitude of the state government towards payment of arrears of their revised pension. “We want to get the arrears before it is too late,” he told this newspaper. Worse is the condition of Magadh University pensioners. “Retired teachers of other universities have been paid 10 months’ arrears, but we have not,” claimed Magadh University Teachers’ Association’s former general secretary Satyadeo Narain Sharma. State higher education director Rekha Kumari, however, blamed the universities for the delay in disbursement of funds for payment of arrears. She pointed out that the universities had been asked to submit the estimated requirement of funds for payment of arrears to the retired teachers and non-teaching staff, but only Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar Bihar University and Veer Kunwar Singh University had done so. “The government will release the money as soon as the remaining universities submit a list of their fund requirement,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/retired-university-teachers-to-stage-dharna-soon/articleshow/80412438.cms||B K Mishra
January 23, 2021||Business||Cloud tech shines as NetApp’s 7th startup cohort graduates||Bengaluru: Data management and hybrid cloud services provider NetApp on Wednesday announced the completion of the seventh demo day of the company’s flagship startup accelerator programme, NetApp Excellerator. The seven graduating startups - BlinkIn, Litmus Automation, CloudHedge, SynctacticAI, BrainSightAI, Arintra, and Sn126 - have the potential to disrupt fields such as clinical AI, mental health, data management, edge computing and remote customer service. The demo day offered the seven graduating startups the opportunity to showcase their solutions to investors, customers, venture capitalists and industry leaders. Arintra and BrainSightAI are healthcare startups. Arintra is an intelligent medical assistant that helps reduce overload on clinical providers. BrainSightAI is building a SaaS platform to bring the power of advanced imaging and AI to clinicians and patients to help ensure better brain health. Some of the graduating startups are developing enterprise software. SynctacticAI’s smart data science platform extracts insights from structured and unstructured data for verticals like fintech and retail. CloudHedge uses AI and ML, coupled with DevOps and cloud, to achieve enterprise-wide IT automation. Ravi Chhabria, MD, NetApp India, told TOI that the focus on data-driven innovation is only accelerating. "We not only clearly see it in the healthcare startups, but we also see it in some of the infrastructure startups that are actually enabling this whole multi-cloud infrastructure that NetApp is at the core of. With access to our technology and business experience in hybrid cloud data management, the startups are better prepared to create a robust homegrown technology ecosystem," he said. Madhurima Agarwal, leader, NetApp Excellerator and director of engineering programs, NetApp, said: “After the success of a completely virtual programme for the last cohort, we rode on the momentum for this batch as well. This has enabled participation from four international startups, which has further validated the global outlook of the program." Registration for the eighth cohort is now open for a 4-month program that offers a fully paid PoC (proof of concept), or an equity-free grant of $15,000. B2B technology startups with products in the areas of cloud, AI, IoT, DevOps, Kubernetes, and data management can apply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cloud-tech-shines-as-netapps-7th-startup-cohort-graduates/articleshow/81139126.cms||Akhil George
January 23, 2021||Coimbatore||Union edu minister stresses on women empowerment||Coimbatore: “While it was not easy to transfer the traditional classroom learning to e-learning environment, we managed not to let the Covid-19 pandemic affect the academic performance by conducting examinations, including entrance examinations like NEET. If 2020-21 was announced a zero academic year, it would have affected students,” Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal told students of the Avinashilingam Institute for Home Science and Higher Education for Women here on Friday.“With more than 1,000 universities, 50,000 colleges and lakhs of teachers and students, it was not easy to shift to the e-learning environment. We not just adapted the shift, but also conducted several programmes, including webinars, workshops and faculty development programmes,” Pokhriyal said while addressing the students virtually during the 32nd convocation ceremony of the institution.Speaking about the new education policy (NEP), the minister said it will make the country self-sufficient and make the world look up to us. “The Cambridge University called the policy a reform and appreciated it.”“Students’ talent will be identified in the young age itself and their skills will be honed from Class VI by providing vocational training along with internship. A large number of students can become entrepreneurs. Local ideas will be showcased at global forums,” Pokhriyal said.Speaking about women empowerment, the minister said, “All steps we take towards the development of the world are useless without empowering women. Women’s role is important in the development of the country. So, it is necessary to bridge the gender gap in literacy rate.”As many as 2,506 students, including 39 PhD students, received their degrees during the ceremony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/union-edu-minister-stresses-on-women-empowerment/articleshow/80414034.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Petition seeks stay on land transfer to RSS||BHOPAL: Mohd. Suleman, who has filed a case in the MP Waqf Tribunal, on Thursday moved an application in the tribunal praying for a stay on SDM (city), Jameel Khan's order to hand over a piece of land to Rajdev Seva Samiti, the other claimant of the land, for construction of a boundary wall. Seeking preservation of disputed vacant land on the other side of RSS divisional office "Keshav Needam" in Kabadkhana area, Suleman claimed it to be a Muslim graveyard and that his ancestors were buried there. Along with the application, he also presented an affidavit of Congress MLA, Arif Aqueel. Advocate, Rafi Zuberi, argued the case on behalf of the applicant. On the other hand, public pleader, PNS Rajput, presented the side of district administration, Sarvat Sharif for MP Waqf Board, HL Jha for BMC and Jagdish Chhavani for Rajdev Seva Samiti. The applicant prayed the tribunal to order status quo at the site but the tribunal members declined, instead directing that a copy of the application and supporting documents enclosed with it be handed over to advocates representing other parties. There will be arguments on the application on January 23, now. Receiver appointed by the district administration over the property, who was TI of the area, had been removed by the SDM order on an application of Rajdev Seva Samiti, which is a trust, and it was handed over to the trust for construction of boundary wall as it contended that it has won the legal battle for the land from all forums and there is no stay from any court on construction of a boundary wall on the land in question. Areas under three police stations were put under curfew and prohibitory orders imposed in areas under 11 more police stations of the old city on Sunday to avoid any untoward incident during building of the boundary wall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/petition-seeks-stay-on-land-transfer-to-rss/articleshow/80414037.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Doc escapes unhurt in road accident||Hyderabad: A woman doctor escaped unhurt after her car over turned at Bandlaguda in Rajendranagar police station limits on Friday. However, as the doctor did not lodge a complaint, no case has been registered. According to Rajendranagar SI A Daamodar, at around 7 am, a car driven by a woman doctor over turned at Bandlaguda. “We came to know that the doctor applied brakes and turned the vehicle to avoid hitting a dog that suddenly came on to the road. As a result, the car over turned. But as she wore a seat belt and due to opening of the air bags, the doctor remained unhurt. She refused to lodge a complaint and no case has been registered,” the SI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/doc-escapes-unhurt-in-road-accident/articleshow/80414029.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Bhopal||Pyare Mian sexual abuse case: Planned murder, saw bruises on her chest, say kin||BHOPAL: A day after a 17-year-old girl — one of the alleged victims in the Pyare Mian sexual abuse case — was cremated amid controversial circumstances, there was a numbing silence at her home. Her mother is in shock and has fallen ill. Her younger brother, barely seven, went to immerse her ashes in Hoshangabad. Of those left at home and in any condition to speak, the victim’s elder sister and maternal aunt said she had been murdered in a planned manner. She says she saw bruises on the 17-year-old girl’s chest and cheek. The police deny this and say the preliminary autopsy report has only mentioned ‘suspected poisoning’. “My little sister never took any pills even if she was ill. I don’t believe the claim that she took an overdose of sleeping pills,” she told TOI on Friday, anguished that the family “wasn’t allowed to bring her home, one last time, before the cremation”. “Police lied to us that they were taking the women of our family and neighbourhood to Hamidia Hospital. Instead, police took them directly to Bhadbhada crematorium,” she alleged. Police, however, say this was done with the family’s consent. The 17-year-old had been put up at a government shelter along with four other survivors after the alleged Pyare Mian sexual assault case broke. She fell ill on January 19 and was taken to hospital where she died the next day. Girl was not allowed to talk to family over telephone, alleges kinPolice lied to us that they were taking the women of our family and neighbourhood to Hamidia Hospital. Instead, police took them directly to Bhadbhada crematorium,” she alleged. Police, however, say this was done with the family’s consent. “My sister had been living away from home (at the shelter) for the past six months. Just two days before the incident, we met her and she was absolutely normal,” the elder sister said, alleging that whenever their mother went to meet her at the shelter, policewomen or shelter home staff always hung close, “as if they wanted to overhear our conversation “. “She was not allowed to talk to family over telephone,” she alleged. “Sometimes she was allowed to meet the family from behind a fence, as if she were an accused. She would protest, asking why she was being singled out as the other girls could meet their families normally,” said her aunt. ASP (zone-1) Rajat Saklecha said that neither the autopsy surgeons nor policewomen who inspected the minor's body found any external injuries or strangulation marks. “The short-PM report suspected poisoning as cause of death. Things will be clear upon receiving the final report,” he said. DIG Irshad Wali said the girl’s body was taken directly to the crematorium with the consent of family members and police did not pressure them. He explained that a major law and order situation had taken place after a murder in May 2020 in the area where her family lives, so the family members agreed to take the body directly for cremation. “The viscera has been sent for forensic tests and I have written to the lab to send the report as soon as possible,” said DIG Wali. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/planned-murder-saw-bruises-on-her-chest-say-kin/articleshow/80414041.cms||Sudeept Mishra
January 23, 2021||Bhopal||Pyare Mian sexual abuse case: Shivraj Singh Chouhan sets up SIT; rights panel seeks report||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday ordered a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the mysterious death of a 17-year-old victim in the alleged Pyare Mian sexual abuse case. The state human rights commission demanded a report from the DGP, Bhopal DIG, collector, and director of women and child development department on the way she was allegedly cremated against the family’s wishes. She was a survivor and not an accused, it said, Former AICC chief Rahul Gandhi compared it to the Hathras tragedy and tweeted: “The BJP government has failed to protect women, it cannot even behave humanely with victims and their families.” Former CM Kamal Nath and former law minister P C Sharma also demanded a CBI probe. On Friday, CM Chouhan chaired a high-level meeting on this and recent crimes against women, and said: “We couldn’t save Bhopal’s daughter. It’s not an ordinary incident, but very unfortunate. An SIT will probe it. No one will be spared.” The SIT will be headed by IG (crime against women) Deepika Suri with CSP (TT Nagar) Umesh Tiwari and CID inspector Pankaj Diwan as members. Why wasn’t survivor’s body handed over to parents: MPHRCThe Bhopal collector had already instituted a magisterial probe under additional district collector Maya Awasthi. The rights panel has questioned the government why her body was taken directly to the crematorium. “She was a survivor and not accused,” it noted, adding that police did not want to hand over her body to the grieving parents. Police called the girl’s family members to the crematorium and performed the last rites, it says. “Her family members kept asking what is the rush for last rites, but police did not listen to them. Her mother pointed out that the girl was being treated like an accused by police and that the family was not allowed to meet her in hospital. The family wanted to perform her last rites following traditions,” the commission said, calling it a “serious incident”. The minor’s statement under Section 164 CrPC had been recorded before court in October 2020, but not her trial statements. Police officers say this was because the presiding judge was transferred and Covid-19 delayed processes. Police had requested a fast-track trial but the case was tried in a normal court. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-sets-up-sit-rights-panel-seeks-report/articleshow/80414057.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Coimbatore||Industrialists’ concerns will be addressed: CM||Coimbatore: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami assured the industrial community in the district that their concerns would be addressed and demands fulfilled. Elaborating on the efforts taken by the government for growth of the industrial sector, the chief minister said they had been focusing on ensuring producing excess power in the state and maintaining law and order.Speaking at a meeting with industrialists in the city on Friday night, the chief minister assured industrialists that all their concerns and demands would be fulfilled. “Tamil Nadu is the most sought after state by industries for investments. We ensure this by maintaining law and order without which industries cannot flourish,” he said, while mentioning how the state received investments worth Rs 60,000 crore despite the pandemic. Multiple industrial and trade bodies had earlier in the evening submitted a list of demands including that the state government provide 25% financial assistance to set up the defence infrastructure testing scheme, wherein the total project cost would be around Rs 200 crore. They said this will help many MSMEs trying to make products for the defence sector to test, validate and get their products certified before participating in tenders.Industrialists pointed out that the department of defence production has requested an expression of interest for setting up a defence testing centre in the Tamil Nadu Defence corridor under the defence testing infrastructure scheme (DTIS) with an outlay of Rs 400 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/industrialists-concerns-will-be-addressed-cm/articleshow/80414064.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Coimbatore||Atal Tinkering Labs to be set up in 2 govt schools||Coimbatore: The Government Higher Secondary School at Velliangadu and the Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Anaimalai have been identified to set up Atal Tinkering Labs.“Until last year, schools had to apply and obtain permission to set up the lab. But this year for the first time, the central government identified the schools to set up the lab depending upon factors like strength and science-related activities,” a school education department official said.The schools will be granted 12 lakh each to set up the lab, the official said. “The schools will have to set up the lab within six months from the date of disbursement of fund. The lab will invoke interest in science by putting students’ creativity to test, and inculcate the habit of research. Students from nearby schools can also make use of the lab.” Kulandaivel, headmaster of the Government Higher Secondary School at Pannimadai, said the lab was set up at the school in 2019. “It has been very useful to students. We allow students from class VI to use the lab,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/atal-tinkering-labs-to-be-set-up-in-2-govt-schools/articleshow/80414059.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Bareilly||Am I terrorist or goon, detained DSGMC chief Sirsa asks UP cops||Bareilly: “Am I am a terrorist or a goon,” asked Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC), who was briefly detained and prevented from travelling to UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri district to meet farmers on Thursday evening. Police reportedly took him into custody in the Bisalpur area of Pilibhit and then shifted him to Bareilly police lines. Kheri district magistrate (DM) had earlier written to Pilibhit authorities stating that Sirsa’s arrival may disturb law and order. The DSGMC president, who is also a senior politician, was later released around midnight and he left for Kheri. Addressing the media early on Friday, Sirsa said, “I came to know that false cases are being registered against farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri district and they are forced to provide a bail bond of Rs 5 lakh. The farmers requested us to meet them and help them in resolving this issue. On their request, I was heading towards Kheri when I was arrested by police. They told me that my arrest is a preventive one. I was brought to a police station where I was shown a letter issued by Kheri DM and SSP that my visit can disrupt law and order." “I am a person who can sacrifice his life for the country. How can I disrupt law and order? When people came to know about my arrest, they assembled in Bareilly and police were forced to release me as my arrest was unconstitutional. Now, I am heading towards Kheri to address their problems,” he added. When contacted, Bareilly SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan told TOI, “He [Sirsa] was not arrested, but only stopped to show him the letter sent by Kheri officials to prevent his entry in their district. We released him after two hours. He was allowed to travel.” Meanwhile, Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW) has reportedly registered a case of cheating against Sirsa for alleged misappropriation of funds during his tenure as the secretary general of the DSGMC on the order of a Delhi court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/am-i-terrorist-or-goon-detained-dsgmc-chief-sirsa-asks-up-cops/articleshow/80411356.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||80% fall in Mumbai’s daily Covid count since September||MUMBAI: For the second day in a row, the state reported a dip in Covid-19 cases and fatalities: 2,779 new cases and 50 deaths were reported on Friday, taking the state’s tally to 20,03,657 and toll to 50,684. City authorities added 483 cases to Mumbai’s tally of 3 lakh. Also, nine Covid patients died in the city, taking its toll to 11,287. All the victims were above 60. There has been an 80% decline in the city's daily cases since September, when they peaked to over 2,500. Experts said the profile of patients has changed over the months. “Nowadays, most patients needing hospitalisation hail from buildings. These are possibly people who lived indoors all these months and ventured out when cases declined,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state task force on Covid-19. BMC's Covid dashboard showed roughly 30% of the beds available for Covid-19 are occupied, in both public and private sectors. In KEM Hospital, the largest BMC-run hospital, only 20 patients are admitted at present as against an occupancy of roughly 500 in May-June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/80-fall-in-citys-daily-covid-count-since-sept/articleshow/80415171.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 23, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Gas victims’ treatment stopped due to non-payment of dues||BHOPAL: The woes of gas victims seems to be only growing amid the Covid pandemic. Two of the three hospitals, designated by the gas relief department for free treatment of gas-hit cancer patients, have stopped treatments due to non-payment of dues for almost a year. The third — Chirayu hospital — is an exclusive Covid-care centre as of now as is not treating any other patients. Jawaharlal Nehru cancer hospital, which treats the maximum gas-hits cancer patients, has put up a notice on its gate stating that new gas-hit cancer patients will not be treated at the hospital on ‘credit’ from January 15 and after January 31, no gas victims suffering from cancer will be treated free of cost or on credit. Nazma, a gas victim, who has been undergoing treatment for breast cancer at Jawaharlal Nehru hospital, was admitted on January 17 for chemotherapy but was discharged the next day without any treatment. Her son was asked to get a fresh confirmation order from the CMHO, gas relief, for continuation of treatment. Nazma’s son said, “I have been trying to get the confirmation letter from the CMHO for almost a week. I have been coming to the CMHO, daily and have finally managed to get the letter. I hope her treatment starts tomorrow.” He said, usually cancer patients are provided an estimate on the expenditure and if the money sanctioned is exhausted, a new estimate is released. Treatment was never stopped earlier, he said. Another one of the patients who treatment was stopped abruptly is Salim, who has to undergo radiation therapy after finishing his chemo sessions. His son told TOI, “My father’s chemotherapy is over, but radition therapy is still left. The doctor told us that there is an order from ábove’. New estimates will be released after January and no gas-hit patients will be treated till January 31. We are getting our father treated with the help of Ayushman card.” Activist groups argue that Jawaharlal Nehru hospital is run by a Trust and gets grants from the state government. It was also given free land by the state government, therefore, it cannot refuse treatment to gas victims due to delay in payment. Director, Navoday Cancer Hospital, Dr Shyam Agrawal said, he had sent a memorandum to the gas relief department stating that free treatment of gas victims will have to be stopped from December 31, 2020, on non-payment of dues. Jawaharlal Nehru cancer hospital had also given a similar memorandum, he said. “We are treating old patients, whose package sanctioned by the gas relief department has not exhausted but we are not taking any new such patients,” he said, adding that the hospital has not received payment since March 2019. The amount due to the hospital from gas relief department is Rs 6.5 crore, he said. The Supreme Court Monitoring Committee formed to ensure best possible treatment to gas victims has also intervened in the matter, writing a letter to the gas relief department to pay the dues, so that treatment of gas-hit cancer patients can continue. “We have written to the gas relief department to do the needful, so that treatment of cancer patients among gas victims does not stop,” said a member of the committee, Purnendu Shukla. Director, gas relief, Basant Kurre, said, “It's wrong to say that cancer patients among gas victims are not getting treatment. They are receiving treatment.” When asked about the notice put up at Jawaharlal Nehru cancer hospital, he said, “They may have put up the notice but treatment of cancer patients among gas victims has not stopped.” Regarding payment of dues, he said “It is payment from the government. When there is provision, payment will be made". Additional director of Jawaharlal Nehru cancer hospital, Rakesh Joshi, admitted that they have discontinued treatment of gas victims as dues amounting to Rs 28 crore have not been paid. “We have written to the gas relief department informing them of our decision but there has not been any response from them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/gas-victims-treatment-stopped-due-to-non-payment-of-dues/articleshow/80414060.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
January 23, 2021||Bareilly||Pilibhit, Kheri, Shahjahanpur farmers on tractors drive to Delhi, cops try to dissuade them at every 3-4km||Pilibhit: Agitating farmers of Pilibhit, Kheri and Shahjahanpur, responding to a call by farmer union leaders, drove their tractor-trolleys to Delhi in droves on Friday, to take part in the proposed rally along Outer Ring Road on Republic Day. Farmers from Tikunia, Nighasan, Palia and Bhira areas of Kheri district joined groups from Banda and Khutar areas of Shahjahanpur on Pilibhit-Basti highway (NH-730) at the border of Pilibhit and Shahjahanpur districts, where they were met by Pilibhit farmers. From here, thousands of farmers on 150 tractor-trolleys driven by women farmers, many of them laden with essential supplies, made their way to the Delhi border. District police had set up check posts at every 3-4 km, where cops, without using force, strove to convince the farmers to suspend their journey, but without any effect. The administration had deployed three companies of PAC (Provincial Armed Constabulary) and the force of 14 police stations on NH-730 and the Bareilly-Haridwar (NH-74) highway within district boundaries. Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa, who was detained by Bareilly police, escorted farmers of Kheri after he was released after midnight on Friday. “We shall maintain discipline and peace during our journey to Delhi border, and will drive our tractors in single file along the side of the road, to allow maximum passage for highway traffic to pass smoothly,” said Kuldeep Singh, a local farmer leader associated with Rashtriya Kisan Majdoor Sangathan (RKMS). “Farmers from Khatema, Sitarganj, Nanakmata and Rudrapur in Uttarakhand will join us in Rampur, while those from Kashipur, Bajpur and Gadarpur will link up at Moradabad,” said farmer Gurdayal Singh, a former zila panchayat chairman of Kataiya Pandari village under Amaria block of Pilibhit. Superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav claimed that a large number of farmers abandoned their plan to move to Delhi as a result of appeals made by the cops. He stayed in Puranpur with other police officials to keep a close eye on the situation. “Cops noted down registration numbers of all tractors and other vehicles of farmers taking part in the rally, but unlike in the past, did not barricade the highway,” said Gurmeet Singh, president of Nighasan unit of UP-Uttarakhand Sikh Sangathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-kheri-shahjahanpur-farmers-on-tractors-drive-to-delhi-cops-try-to-dissuade-them-at-every-3-4km/articleshow/80411368.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 23, 2021||Meerut||Double murder accused arrested||Bijnor: The main accused in a case in which a man who killed his wife’s parents and critically injured his brother-in-law in Bijnor’s Seohara six days ago was arrested on Friday. The accused had allegedly attacked his victims at his in-laws’ house when they were fast asleep.Bijnor SP Dharamveer Singh claimed the accused was tracked down using their surveillance system, and a case registered against him under IPC sections 452, 307 and 302.He added, “During interrogation, the accused, Rizwan, said he’s a rag collector who came to Seohara three years ago. He fell in love with Anjum and they got married. He took Anjum to his native village Bhanedi in Muzaffarnagar district. But three months into their wedding, they began fighting. Eventually, fed up with his wife, he took her to a forest one day, tied her to a tree and thrashed her, after which she left for her parent’s house.” When Rizwan tried to bring Anjum back with him she refused, leading him to suspect she was having an affair with her brother-in-law Faemuddin. That’s when he hatched his plan to eliminate Faemuddin and Anjum’s parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/double-murder-accused-arrested/articleshow/80411364.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 23, 2021||Ahmedabad||Woman moves Gujarat high court to deport husband from US||AHMEDABAD: After remaining unsuccessful in recovering the arrears for Rs 1.5 lakh monthly maintenance for 23 years, Sonal Patel (48) on Friday requested the Gujarat high court to initiate process to trace her husband in the United States and bring him to India for punishment for not obeying court orders. According to Sonal’s advocate Jit Patel, Sonal’s marriage with Jitendra Patel took place in 1992. He was a Green Card holder in the US. He left India after 4-5 days of the marriage with promise that he would initiate visa process so that she could join him soon. This did not happen and in 1997 Sonal approached a court for maintenance alleging not only harassment for dowry from in-laws but cheating by the husband. She alleged that she was made to sign a blank page to prepare an affidavit for visa purpose, but instead she received a divorce deed on that page. The husband also withdrew visa process initiated earlier. In 2003, the Ahmedabad rural court ordered the husband to pay Rs 1.5 lakh every month to the wife. The husband approached the high court, which pulled him up for not questioning the ex-parte order first. His appeal was dismissed for non prosecution. Sonal kept on trying to recover the maintenance amount by approaching lower courts. The court even proposed to sell his family property in India, but the Supreme Court intervened to protect his parents’ property. In 2017, the wife moved the high court to punish her husband for committing contempt of the court. The summons and warrants were issued but could not be served on the address shown in the petition. The National Central Bureaus (Interpol) as well as ministries of home and law and justice were also made party respondents by the high court. On Friday, advocate Yatin Oza for the petitioner requested the high court to initiate the process under the provisions of a treaty between India and the US on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. This requires the MHA to fill up a form and send it to US attorney general, who further appoints an authority to trace and deport the person wanted by Indian courts. The high court sought response from the Centre over this proposition by January 28 saying that it would require some time to decide on how it can issue directions that can be carried out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-moves-hc-to-deport-hubby-from-us/articleshow/80412413.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Bareilly||Delhi cops escort terror suspect to Sambhal to meet family after father’s death||BAREILLY: Suspected Al-Qaeda operative Mohammad Asif, 46, who was arrested by Delhi Police in 2015, was brought to his house in Sambhal district on Friday to meet his family after his father passed away on Thursday morning. Asif, who is suspected to be the training and recruitment chief of Al-Qaeda in Indian Subcontinent (AQIS) and accused of trying to revive the terror outfit, is currently lodged in Tihar jail. The suspected terror operative was brought to his house in Deepa Sarai locality amid heavy security of Delhi Police commandos in a police van. His face was covered with a shawl as he entered his house, while the police force waited outside. Chakresh Mishra, superintendent of police, Sambhal, said, “The suspected terror operative was brought to his hometown on Friday morning after getting a nod from the court as his father had passed away on Thursday. He was permitted to meet his family members amid full security. The local police, who were alerted about the visit, remained deputed in the area. The team left in the evening.” Asif was arrested by Delhi Police in December 2015, from Seelampur area in north-east Delhi, while another suspect, Zafar Masood, was picked up by the ATS from Sambhal-Moradabad road. According to police, a class V dropout, Asif had tried to join the Harkat-Ul-Mujahideen, a terror outfit, in 2009. The writings and publications of Maulana Asim Umar, a senior member of AQIS, had a deep impact on him. Asif had allegedly used a social media site to get in touch with an AQIS operative working for Maulana Asim Umar in 2012. The latter allegedly encouraged him to attend a terror training camp in Pakistan. The operative had also allegedly asked Asif to arrange funds so that two other men, recruited by the terror outfit, could travel to Afghanistan. Asif and two other men had reached Pakistan in 2013 and travelled to north Waziristan. He had then met Maulana Asim Umar, who had been appointed as chief of AQIS by Al-Qaeda chief, Ayman al-Zawahiri, according to sources. In Waziristan, Asif had undergone intense training as he was supposed to head AQIS’s India operations after he returned, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/delhi-cops-escort-terror-suspect-to-sambhal-to-meet-family-after-fathers-death/articleshow/80411360.cms||Maria Khan
January 23, 2021||Bareilly||Mother-son duo, two contract killers held for murdering her brother-in-law for property||Bareilly: A mother-son duo and two contract killers who were hired by them were arrested on Friday on the charges of murdering her brother-in-law, whose body was found in Bhojipura area of Bareilly district on Wednesday night. Police said 42-year-old Jaganlal was killed on the instructions of his elder’s brother’s wife for property. Police have arrested main accused Munni Devi and her son Darshan Singh Yadav along with two contract killers Dev Singh and Prahlad Yadav, while the third contract killer Kalicharan is still at large. Jaganlal used to live in Bhojipura area with his two wives and an adopted son. He had married 10 women since the early 90s. Five of his wives had died of illness while three "left him for other men”. He was about to transfer the ownership of his ancestral land to his adopted son which led to his murder, said police. “The autopsy had confirmed that Jaganlal was murdered and we started our investigation by registering a case against unidentified accused. During investigation, we found that the victim had married 8-10 women and was currently living with two women and a 24-year-old youth. Jaganlal was about to transfer the ownership of his 14 bigha land to the youth, which is why his sister-in-law gave his murder contract to three people. We have arrested the woman, his son and two contract killers and all of them are sent to jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mother-son-duo-two-contract-killers-held-for-murdering-her-brother-in-law-for-property/articleshow/80411366.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Last-minute air fare soars for the first time since pandemic||MUMBAI: A domestic air travel trend that stayed strong throughout the second half of 2020 was cheap fares even for last-minute buyers. That has now become a thing of the past. Last-minute fares for the Republic Day extended weekend travel aren’t sky high, but they are definitely not as gaunt as they were during the initial months of the pandemic last year. The two factors that had led to the trend of cheap last-minute fares were low demand for air tickets due to the pandemic and government caps on domestic fares. Both these factors have changed. Last May, when domestic air travel recommenced after the lockdown, the government had imposed upper and lower fare caps along with a condition that 40% of seats per domestic flight be sold at a fare that is lower than the mid-price point. On the Mumbai-Delhi route, for instance, the fares are capped at Rs 3,500 and Rs 10,000 on the higher end. On an 180-seater aircraft then, about 72 seats (40%) had to be sold at a fare lower than Rs 6,750. However, two weeks ago, the government reduced that number to 20%, which means now after 36 seats are sold at a fare lower than Rs 6,750, the airline can jack up the fare to Rs 10,000. On Friday, the effect was visible on the last-minute fares for the Republic Day extended weekend travel. For departure flights from Mumbai, the return fares (travel on January 23/24 and return on January 27) that have rallied the most are those on flights to Kolkata (cheapest priced at Rs 14,500, with only return flight being non-stop), Srinagar (Rs 15,000, via Delhi), Kochi (Rs 11,000), Port Blair (Rs 29,600 , one-stop both ways), Dehradun (Rs 13,600), Jaipur (Rs10,600), Leh (Rs13,000, via Delhi) and Goa (Rs 9,600). “In comparison, the cheapest last-minute return fare on most domestic routes was in the range of Rs 7,000 to Rs 9,000 from mid-2020 onwards,” said a travel agent. An airline official said that this will be the first extended weekend during the pandemic when domestic fares have risen though not as much as last January. “Fares to popular destinations have risen more than those to Delhi or Mumbai and demand for leisure travel is up. We expect good yields this summer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/last-minute-air-fare-soars-for-the-first-time-since-pandemic/articleshow/80411371.cms||Manju V
January 23, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP school education department takes up digital content creation||VISAKHAPATNAM: Learning from the experiences during the Covid-19 pandemic, which severely impacted upon education system, the AP School Education Department has now focused on creating e-content at individual teacher level. The department had earlier trained about 130 state-level resource persons to, in turn, teach the nuances of e-content creation in districts. The initiative has been taken up to integrate digital education with schooling to augment the learning process. The education department is currently conducting a district-level hands-on training programme on content creation for teachers on the DIKSHA (Digital Infrastructure for Knowledge Sharing) platform. State DIKSHA officials informed that that the district level training programmes has also involved faculty and student teachers of DIETs (District Institutes of Education and Training). “The key objective of the training series is to make the teachers self-sufficient in digital content creation along the lines how they prepare the conventional lesson plans. It is one of the 21st century digital skills every teacher should have. Content upgradation is a constant process and with this training, the teachers would be able to create their own e-content. This would be more appealing to the students as they get habituated to the lecture delivery or style of a particular teacher,” a state official informed. Digital learning and training has taken the centre stage as the pandemic forced the educational institutions to suspend their academic activities for months together. However, a few teachers would be hesitant to use the e-content prepared by others in their individual instruction system. Training all the teachers on e-content creation would come in handy in situations like Covid-19. The AP School Education Department introduced several digital education initiatives in the past. The ‘E-Knowledge eXchange/Diksha platform has been providing an access to virtual classroom experience for the last three years. Two years ago, it launched ‘energising textbooks’. Once scanned through the Diksha App, the textbooks, having QR codes of certain topics/procedures in each lesson, will take the students to suitable subject content, images and videos of that particular topic. Education officials say that the web-based learning will supplement the conventional teaching and learning in an age of growing ubiquity of information technology and internet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/school-education-dept-takes-up-digital-content-creation/articleshow/80412416.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Police invoke stringent law against stock broking firm||MUMBAI: Investigators attached seven properties, estimated to be worth Rs 60 crore, belonging to Anugraha stock broking firm and its director, Paresh Kariya. Police also invoked sections of the stringent Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID) Act. Kariya was arrested last week for his alleged role in a Rs 450-crore cheating case. Over 350 investors told police they were cheated. “We are probing the case,” said EOW joint commissioner of police Niket Kaushik. Among properties attached are two commercial offices at Ahmedabad, one office each in Vile Parle and Juhu, and three 2BHK flats in Juhu. “We are trying to find out if there are more properties,” said chief investigating officer Rajesh Kelwe. Police also froze 116 bank accounts, including 10 of Kariya. The total amount in these accounts is nearly Rs 1.5 crore. An officer said, “The accused promised to pay interest to depositors on their investments.” Police have also issued look-out circulars against all accused at Indian airports. Anugraha, which has around 30,000 clients, was dealing in shares for over 15 years and has several sub-brokers. Kariya had told police he suffered a loss of Rs 600 crore and hence could not return the money. NSE had earlier suspended the brokerage firm’s operations in Futures and Options (F&O). Kariya had been trading in F&O on behalf of clients too. “Kariya was trading in shares without the consent of many clients. Investors lost money due to losses suffered in share trading. Kariya was doing share trading for clients,” added the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/police-invoke-stringent-law-against-stock-broking-firm/articleshow/80414150.cms||Mateen Hafeez
January 23, 2021||Bareilly||Police arrest 3 who were putting up promotional posters of gambling at temple walls in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: Three persons were arrested on Thursday while putting up promotional posters of gambling (satta) at the walls of famous Ma Yashwantari temple in Pilibhit. While four more accused are still at large. The nabbed persons disclosed that due to the reluctance of clients in taking part in ‘satta’, they had to put up posters, hoping to allure the people. According to the SHO of Pilibhit Kotwali police station, Atar Singh, posters stated that people can earn up to Rs 10,000 while gambling for only Rs 110. “The posters also assured full protection against the police with a claim that the police had been compromised. The accused guaranteed that people partaking in the gambling can be released immediately if anyone was arrested,” Singh said. Singh said when a police team tried to nab the accused, they were assaulted, which lead to one constable getting injured. The police team recovered 56 posters, the slips of satta and some cash, Singh said. The seven accused, all belonging to Pilibhit city, were booked under sections 147, 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapons) 332 (voluntarily causes hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty), 353, 499 of IPC and section 13 of the Public Gambling Act, 1867.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/police-arrest-3-who-were-putting-up-promotional-posters-of-gambling-at-temple-walls-in-pilibhit/articleshow/80411374.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 23, 2021||Vijayawada||AP govt plea against panchayat polls may come up in SC on Monday||VIJAYAWADA: Efforts of the state government and the employees’ unions to move Supreme Court challenging the order of AP high court on panchayat elections turned out to be futile on Friday. The state government and Andhra Pradesh Government Employees’ Federation (APGEF) moved separate petitions on Friday but they could not get through the Supreme Court registry because of defects in the petitions. The APGEF made a request to the registry to mention before the bench for urgent hearing. However, the registry sent back the petition after finding defects. By the time the advocates made necessary changes to the petition and moved it again, hearing of the court concluded. Later, they tried to move a house motion petition for urgent hearing. The request was again turned down by the registrar-general observing that urgent hearing of the petition was not necessary. The registrar-general told the petitioners to list the matter on Monday in regular court. On Thursday, a division bench of the AP high court headed by the Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami allowed the appeal petition moved by the State Election Commission (SEC) and directed to conduct elections along with the ongoing vaccination programme. Challenging the high court order, state government and APGEF moved Supreme Court on the grounds that conducting elections will not only become a hindrance to vaccination programme but also pose threat to the safety of employees on election duties and also general public at large, which is nothing but violation of right to life. Though the state government made all efforts to move the petition before the apex court, it fell short of time. With election notification for the first phase of panchayat elections will be issued on Saturday, legal experts are curious about what the Supreme Court will say about the petition. Some legal experts are of the view that courts cannot interfere in the election process once the notification is issued as it is against election laws, while others are of the opinion that the apex court may intervene as the petition was moved on the grounds of violation of fundamental rights. The state government and APGEF moved separate petitions on Friday but could not get through the Supreme Court registry because of defects in the petitions||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-plea-against-panchayat-polls-may-come-up-in-sc-on-monday/articleshow/80412432.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 23, 2021||Kanpur||Kanpur: Man accused of rape arrested after encounter||KANPUR: The police on Friday morning shot at and injured a man accused of raping a married woman and looting her husband in Bithoor police area of the district on December 31. The accused, identified as Shiv Karan, had managed to flee after committing the crime. The alleged incident had taken place on December 31, 2020 near the Nankari area under the Bithoor police station limits, said station house officer Bithoor Kaushlendra Pratap Singh. The woman was returning to her city home along with her husband when the accused Shiv Karan, had robbed her and her husband of their valuable belongings and later forcibly took her to a secluded spot where he allegedly raped her. The police following a complaint swung into action and after lodging an FIR arrested the accused on Thursday. “When the accused was being taken to Nankari for recovery of his cell phone, he snatched the service pistol of an SI posted at Mandhana police out-post and opened three fires on police team. None of the cops were injured. Later, in retaliatory action, he was shot at by police following which he suffered bullet injury in his leg. He has been taken into custody and the pistol he snatched has been recovered,” police said. The injured accused has been admitted to a hospital where his condition is said to be stable. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-accused-of-rape-arrested-after-encounter/articleshow/80414153.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Now, get a crop at salons on Western Railway stations||MUMBAI: Commuters will now have the option to get their hair styled or trimmed, or their beard shaved or xbeauty treatment done at railway stations. Western Railway has decided to allocate space for unisex hair salons. WR’s chief public relations officer Sumeet Thakur said, “We are looking at options to increase our non-fare box revenue. At present, space for salons has been earmarked at Mumbai Central, Andheri, Goregaon, Kandivli and Borivli in Mumbai besides Surat in Guajrat.” For the first time and attempt is made to by railway to earn revenue in this manner. WR feels there will be good response to salons as commuter footfalls in Mumbai are huge. Around 250 sqft will be offered to the salon operator. A WR official said, “The concept is good as it does not pose any danger to train operations as there will no hazardous goods used or stored to operate hair salons. The salon can remain open from 6am to 10pm.” WR has insisted that hygiene be maintained and that the facility not hinders smooth movement of passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-get-a-crop-at-salons-on-wr-stns/articleshow/80391021.cms||Manthank Mehta
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Three years after constable died of malaria, FIR on two JJ doctors||MUMBAI: It took three years for the police to conclude that constable Gorakshak Narsale who was infected with malaria died within three days of admission due to negligence at Nagpada Police Hospital. The Nagpada police registered an FIR against two doctors of Nagpada police hospital for causing death by negligence. Police said that constable Narsale (25), attached to Local Arms division at Tardeo, was admitted on September 1 with high fever and cold. Within three days his condition worsened and he was shifted to JJ Hospital where he died hours after admission. His father, Dattatray, alleged that he died due to negligence at Nagpada police hospital with no treatment given for three days. He demanded an in-camera post-mortem. The then police chief had ordered a probe. His father alleged that Nagpada police hospital refused to give his case papers and instead gave a memo that he had malaria. “An inquiry by senior officials and with help of the medical board and from medical papers and treatment given, we found there was negligence on the part of two doctors and we have registered an offence against the doctors,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3-years-after-constable-died-of-malaria-fir-on-2-jj-doctors/articleshow/80412436.cms||S Ahmed Ali
January 23, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow University hostel inmates protest food quality||LUCKNOW: Upset over the poor quality of food served to them for the last one month, inmates of Lal Bahadur Shastri Boys’ hostel of Lucknow University staged a protest late Thursday night. At least 50 hostel residents shouted slogans against LU administration and demanded improvement in quality of food. Later, they called off their protest after the university officials intervened and assured them quality food. However, hostellers posted messages on social media platforms on Friday morning tagging university officials and LU dean student welfare, urging them to look into the issue as there was no improvement in quality of food. The menu was improvised later in the day. “Rice and chapatis served to us are always half-cooked, the food has more oil than vegetables and pulses. We often find hair in pulses. Same dishes area provided to us every day,” said Vishal Singh, a student of BA (second year) in economics (Hons). “When we lodged a complaint with officials, they said they would refund money and asked to run mess on our own,” he alleged. Another BA student, Aman Dubey, said: “We get only two slices of bread in breakfast and the lunch and dinner provided to us is of poor quality. When we asked officials to taste the soyabean curry and rice being served to us, they refused to test its quality.”  LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava said, “We had an interaction with students regarding their complaints after which the quality of food was improvised.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-hostel-inmates-protest-food-quality/articleshow/80415041.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Meerut||Two M’nagar families clash over children’s dispute, 6 injured, one with gunshot||Muzaffarnagar: Shots were fired and sharp-edged weapons used as two groups in Kulhari village under Charthawal police station of Muzaffarnagar clashed over a “minor” issue, late night on Thursday, leaving at least six people injured, including one with a gunshot. A probe has been ordered.A source said two families joined a minor dispute that broke out between two groups of children. Later, the village chief arrived and struck a compromise between the families. But late into the night, members of both families again clashed and started beating each other. Sharp objects, sticks, country-made weapons were used in the clash in which six people got injured, including one who sustained a bullet injury. After being informed, a police team from Charthawal police station rushed to the spot and took the injured to hospital. Police have registered a case in the matter and launched an investigation.Deputy superintendent of police (City), Kuldeep Singh, said, “A police team was pressed to arrest all those who were involved. A case was registered under various sections and attempts to arrest the accused are being made.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-mnagar-families-clash-over-childrens-dispute-6-injured-one-with-gunshot/articleshow/80411369.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 23, 2021||Ahmedabad||Guwahati-bound flight diverted||Ahmedabad: A flight from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad bound for Guwahati was diverted to Kolkata on Friday due to bad weather. There was a dense fog over Guwahati, sources said. The flight left Ahmedabad at around 6am and arrived in Kolkata around 9am, it is learnt. It left for Guwahati at 10.40am. Some 13 other flights were delayed at SVPI on Friday. These included flights to Goa, Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Varanasi, Lucknow, Jaisalmer, Rajkot and Chandigarh and an international flight to Dubai. Six other flights from SVPI, to Sharjah, Mumbai, Darbhanga, Jammu, Patna and Delhi, were cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guwahati-bound-flight-diverted/articleshow/80412429.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 23, 2021||Dehradun||From pilot to global marketing exec, how losing job during lockdown helped many kickstart their dream of turning chef, running ‘food biz’||Dehradun: As the sun sets, a Royal Enfield bike gets parked on the corner of the city’s Rajpur road and Ishan Agarwal, 30, starts setting up his little kitchen over a table that he carries behind his bike. A portable stove is soon alight and the smell of frying kebakhs (a kind of kebab from Uzbekistan) fills the air as Agarwal deftly puts together his signature dish of bun-kebakh, available in vegetarian and mutton options. A former marketing head of an Australian coffee firm based in the Middle East, Agarwal was doing well and earning close to Rs 20 lakh annually when the pandemic led to him losing his job in July last year. Rather than fret over it, he packed his bags, returned to hometown Dehradun and turned the adversity into opportunity by exploring his passion for cooking. “I have always been interested in cooking right from childhood,” says Agarwal with a smile when asked about the reason for setting up a ‘bike barbecue.’ Ask him ‘why kebakhs?’ and he says, “I first sampled the dish while touring Uzbekistan in 2015 and the taste lingered on my palate ever since. It’s almost like our Indian kebabs but the spices and treatment are a little different. Also, I wanted to bring something new for people so that they come to us for this speciality.” Agarwal’s food has found several fans although he started his bike barbecue barely two weeks ago — amongst those who have tweeted about his venture is filmstar Raveena Tandon. Incidentally, Agarwal is helped in his bike outlet by 24-year -old Vineet Negi alias Johny, a former supervisor with an air catering company who also lost his job during the pandemic. “I met Johny in Dehradun itself and we both had equal passion for cooking. Since both of us had lost our jobs, we decided to join hands,” says Agarwal, adding that the overwhelming response that he received has motivated him to continue with his passion rather than look for another job. Almost a similar story is of 31-year-old Sameer Sewak, a pilot-turned-chef, who cooks Lucknow-style Awadhi delicacies on a chulha at his home in the Jakhan area of the city for a discerning clientele. His dishes like biryani and yakhni pulao are winning many admirers. Actor Swara Bhaskar, who was in Mussoorie sometime back, had ordered his food and wrote a positive review on social media. “It’s not always bad when your plans don’t work out because sometimes, life has something better in store,” says Sewak who has completed his pilot training from Canada and was all set to join as a trainer in one of the flying schools there. However, the pandemic shelved his plans and he had to stay back in India with his parents in Dehradun. “Although my passion has always been flying, I was interested in cooking right since childhood. During the lockdown, my second passion took over the first one and I started experimenting with my grandmother’s recipes. As people began appreciating the food I was making, I started delivering on weekends. Earlier, I was taking just five orders as I was handling everything — from shopping to cooking and even cleaning. But as orders started pouring in, my parents and sister, too, joined and started helping me out,” he says, adding that he is now planning to open a full-fledged restaurant, temporarily shelving his flying plans. For Ravikant, 38, the Covid pandemic came as ‘a big gift’ as otherwise, he says he would have never gathered the courage to follow his dream of starting a food venture. Ravikant was working in a multinational tourism firm in Delhi before he lost his job in June last year. He decided to start a small food outlet outside his home in Noida’s sector 19 where assisted by his wife and 12-year-old daughter, he serves varieties of sandwiches, burgers and shakes. Mostly thronged by youngsters who are either working in Noida or studying, Ravikant’s shop has now become quite popular. “Sandwiches and shakes are best in terms of health and are pocket-friendly food too. I have decided to stick to a small menu and it’s working,” says Ravikant, adding that he is thankful the situation arising out of the pandemic motivated him to get out of his comfort zone and pursue his dream. Akshay Parker who was a chef with the Taj hotel in Mumbai and later moved to a cruise liner, also lost his job as a result of the pandemic. Son of a mill worker in Mumbai’s Dadar, Parker is now running a biryani shop in his locality that is being thronged by over 100 customers everyday. He, too, decided to stick to his speciality —‘dum biryani’ and says he is getting a very good response. “Where there is a will, there is a way,” says Parker, adding that he is so satisfied with his small business that he has decided to continue with it rather than looking for another job that he may lose in the time of crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/from-pilot-to-global-marketing-exec-how-losing-job-during-lockdown-helped-many-kickstart-their-dream-of-turning-chef-running-food-biz/articleshow/80422795.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 23, 2021||Bareilly||Sanitation workers in UP ‘forced’ to donate Rs 100 for Ram Mandir||BAREILLY: Sanitation workers, mostly Dalits, in Jalalabad area of UP’s Shahjahanpur held a protest on Thursday alleging that they were “forced” to donate Rs 100 each for the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. An official later refused to mark the attendance of those who failed to contribute, they claimed. The officials, however, dismissed all their allegations as “baseless”. Video clips of the protest have been widely circulated on Friday. In one of the purported clips, one can be heard saying that they want to “contribute to the poor”. In another clip, some protesters can be heard saying that a minor boy of their caste was not allowed to attend a religious function in the neighbouring Hardoi district and children of his age called him “untouchables”. Prem Prakash Valmiki, the provincial general secretary of Uttar Pradesh Safai Karamchari Sangh, told TOI, “I have been elected five times as ward member from Jalalabad. On Thursday, a few contractual workers called me up to inform me that an official in Jalalabad municipality had refused to mark their attendance unless they pay Rs 100 per person as donation for the Ram Mandir.” The official was doing it on the instructions of Nagar Palika chairman, Valmiki alleged. “The sanitation workers are on contract and get only Rs 6,700 with 12% Employees’ Provident Fund deduction. The official even told the workers to beg, borrow or steal to get the money which was very insulting. When we are considered untouchables, then what is this donation for? This is the reason why I stood for my peers and protested against the Nagar Nigam." According to Valmiki, when executive officer Dayashankar Verma came to know about the protest, he reprimanded the official and requested the workers to return to work. When contacted, the executive officer said, “The sanitation workers were not forced to give any donation. We have marked everyone’s attendance and no one is collecting funds for Ram Mandir from our department now.”Jalalabad Nagar Palika chairman Munendra Gupta told TOI, “We had only asked to collect donations from the people who voluntarily want to contribute for Ram Mandir. No one was forced and the allegation that their [sanitation workers] attendance was denied are baseless.” Watch UP: Sanitation workers allegedly ‘forced’ to donate Rs 100 for Ram Mandir||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sanitation-workers-forced-to-donate-rs-100-for-ram-mandir/articleshow/80411377.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 23, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: ‘Don of Juhapura’ caught after chase||AHMEDABAD: A 49-year-old man from Juhapura late on Thursday night tried to kill a cop by hitting him with his car and pointed a gun at another police personnel when they tried to stop him near Lokhandwala party plot. The man identified as Amin Marwadi, a resident of Jahangir Park in Juhapura, was carrying a revolver, a baseball bat and a sword in his car. A video showing him firing his revolver and saying he is the don of Juhapura went viral after his arrest by Vejalpur police. According to an FIR filed by a constable of Vejalpur police, Bhaylubha Dilubha, he and other cops were deployed near Lokhanwala Party Plot in Juhapura after they got an input that Marwadi would be passing from there with weapons in his car. When the cops saw Marwadi’s car, they flagged him down but he continued to drive away to evade them. Six cops chased him on their scooters and motorcycles and succeeded in forcing him to stop near Gazala Farm. One of the cops, Siddhrajsinh Ratan, went in front of the car and Marwadi drove the car into him, injuring him. Marwadi drove for another 2km before he was caught by Vejalpur police personnel and a surveillance squad team. When the cops tried to arrest him, he pointed a revolver at them. He was soon overpowered. The injured cop was taken to a hospital in Jivraj Park where he was diagnosed with multiple fractures on right hand and right leg. Police booked Marwadi for attempted murder along with charges under the Arms Act . The video featuring Marwadi which went viral shows him saying “I am a don of Juhapura and nobody can touch me.” He then fires twice in the air.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/don-of-juhapura-caught-after-chase/articleshow/80412457.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Allahabad||NER cancels special trains on Paush Purnima over low turnout||PRAYAGRAJ: After incurring huge losses on Makar Sankranti, North Eastern Railway (NER) has cancelled special trains for Magh Mela pilgrims on the occasion of the second major snan on Paush Purnima falling on January 28. The decision has been taken as authorities expect a low turnout on Paush Purnima too from the stations falling under NER due to Covid pandemic. NER had run a special train on Makar Sankranti on January 14, but it incurred losses. Two trains were operated from Manduwadih to Prayagraj City, but only 18 passengers booked the first train and just 11 boarded the second train. This was against the estimation of the railways, which expected at least 800 to 900 passengers. Public relations officer (PRO), NER, Ashok Kumar said, 05153 Manduwadih-Prayagraj Rambagh special train and 05152 Prayaraj Rambagh-Manduwadih special train will be cancelled on January 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ner-cancels-spl-trains-on-paush-purnima-over-low-turnout/articleshow/80411227.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Dehradun||CM to lay foundation stone of Sainik Dham today||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of a Sainik Dham structure in Purkul Gaon on Saturday morning. The dham would have the details of all the defence personnel from the state who have laid down their lives for the country since Independence. CM Rawat recalled that Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed Uttarakhand as the Sainik Dham as the state has given (and continues to give) several brave jawans to the country. The Sainik Dham structure will be built to pay a tribute to defence personnel, who guard the borders and help the society when needed, said the CM. He added that all clearances have been provided and funds are available for the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-sainik-dham-today/articleshow/80411402.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 23, 2021||Chandigarh||In Hry, cops will not stop farmers heading to Delhi||Chandigarh: Haryana Police has decided not to confront farmers on their way to Delhi-Haryana borders for the tractor parade on Republic Day. Farmers from Punjab and other states have set out for Delhi. The priority for Haryana Police is to ensure that flag hoisting by ministers, MLAs and political appointees proceeds smoothly as farmers have warned Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) government representatives, ministers, MLAs and heads of political bodies who will chair Republic Day functions. Haryana Police authorities have cancelled regular leaves of personnel till further orders. Director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava confirmed that the farmers have been given free passage to New Delhi. Yadava said the focus of the police is to ensure that Republic Day functions are conducted peacefully. “More than 50,000 farmers are camping on the borders and our people are acting as facilitators, as they are also citizens. It would not be an issue if a few thousand join them there. Republic Day is the biggest occasion for us all. Here, our main concern is the law and order situation as well as state and district-level celebrations planned in the state,’’ said Yadava. On the proposed tractor parade, Yadava said, “MHA is already negotiating with farmers over the tractor march and the event is two days away. Let us see how things shape up. Else, we will have put our measures in place.” A few months ago, police dug up roads and created obstructions at Punjab-Haryana, Rajasthan-Haryana and UP-Haryana borders to stop farmers from reaching Delhi. Several cases were registered against the protesting farmers. Besides digging roads and parking heavy vehicles on borders, in addition to barricades, police resorted to cane charging, water canons and tear gas in Ambala, Karnal, Panipat and Sonipat-New Delhi borders. Police also used force in Palwal, Rewari, Jind, Sirsa and Fatehebad districts to prevent the influx of farmers from Punjab and other states into New Delhi. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and other ministers have faced the ire of agitating farmers over the past one month. Farmers vandalised the venue and dug up helipads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-hry-cops-will-not-stop-farmers-heading-to-delhi/articleshow/80414103.cms||Manvir Saini
January 23, 2021||Meerut||Delhi businessman’s unlikely link to don: Stolen Mercedes||MEERUT: Until a week ago, Abdul Majid, a Delhi-based businessman, had little idea about his remote connection with UP’s most wanted don Badan Singh Baddo. It was only when his palatial bungalow was being razed, Majid got to know that his Mercedes S Class he was trying to trace was once one of Baddo’s prized possessions, a claim that UP police has also confirmed. The car was bought in 2008 at a price of Rs 90 lakh. According to Majid, “I had given my car to an acquaintance who dealt in the sale and purchase of second-hand luxury vehicles in 2015. I was promised Rs 30 lakh after the sale but years passed by and I never saw my vehicle and the dealers kept confusing me to an extent that I even filed a complaint at Delhi’s Civil Lines police station against the two men in January 2017.” A couple of years ago, Majid was tipped by one of his friends that his car was brought to Meerut and might have landed in the fleet of the don. However, he could never get a confirmation. “On Thursday, someone from Meerut sent me footage of the demolition of Baddo’s house. I called up policemen in Meerut and police sources maintained that my car was linked to Baddo.” Circle Officer, Partapur police station, Krishan Bishnoi, told TOI, “Majid’s claim is correct. In fact, there are several vehicles, including the one which is still registered in Majid’s name, that we are trying to trace. Majid’s car was last spotted at a petrol pump station in Gurugram soon after Baddo had escaped in March 2019. But after that, there is no sign of that vehicle. In fact, there is another one, a bulletproof BMW, which is also missing.” Baddo, 48, has more than 30 cases of murder, loot, robbery and extortion lodged against him at various police stations in Meerut and adjoining districts. He was sentenced to life imprisonment on October 31, 2017, for the murder of Ravinder Singh, a lawyer, in 1996. He had fled from Meerut during his transit from a Ghaziabad court in March 2019 after allegedly entertaining a police team accompanying him in a hotel where alcohol was served. Nine accused, including six policemen, were initially arrested but all were granted bail later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/day-after-demolition-of-don-baddos-bungalow-delhi-bizmans-hope-to-recover-his-merc-s-class-rekindles/articleshow/80411375.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra improves its vax rank, now at 6th place; Karnataka, AP lead||MUMBAI: Maharashtra climbed a notch on Friday to reach the sixth position among states that have vaccinated the most number of healthcare workers since the nationwide drive began on January 16. A total of 12.7 lakh health workers have got vaccinated in the country so far. Karnataka that has vaccinated 1.8 lakh is at the top followed by Andhra Pradesh that has inoculated 1.27 lakh of its health workforce. At the third, fourth and fifth positions are Odisha (1.21 lakh), Telangana (1.02 lakh) and West Bengal (80,542). In all, four states have completed vaccinating over a lakh health workers each. Not all states, though, have held drives every day since the launch, unlike Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. Maharashtra, in comparison, has completed vaccinating 74,000, covering around 9% of the nearly eight lakh healthcare workers. The notable turnout in Karnataka is despite the state witnessing two deaths—a health worker in Ballari district and a doctor in Shivamogga—although the state has labelled them as not directly linked to vaccination. N Ramaswami from National Health Mission argued the two top performing states had three more days of vaccination. Interestingly, both Maharashtra and Kerala, two states with the highest active cases, continue to see a lukewarm response. In Kerala, not even 50,000 have been vaccinated. Authorities in Kerala have maintained that vaccination was a matter of “personal choice” and hence cannot be hurried. Meanwhile, some have pointed out instances of fake vaccination claims in Karnataka. TOI Bengluru had reported on Friday how local officials have come across at least 20 instances where workers have not taken the vaccine but claimed otherwise. Stating that vaccination will assume its own pace in different states, Dr Naveen Thacker, a former civil society organisation representative to the Gavi board, the Vaccine Alliance, said a rollout on the same day doesn’t mean uniform execution. “There are teething issues which each state is tackling at their own level. What is important now is to have confidence-building measures to fight hesitancy,” he said. A Bengaluru official confirmed that while Karnataka’s absolute numbers are high, certain pockets have 50% uptake or less. BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said one cannot compare vaccination drives carried out in different states in terms of the number of people vaccinated. “One needs to look at the number of sessions that a particular state has been allotted by the central government (through the Co-WIN app). If a state has more sessions, it will be able to vaccinate more people at the same time than a state with fewer sessions.’’ Pune-based public health specialist Dr Anant Phadke said, “A low turnout is because of vaccine hesitancy. But it is across the country. The government plans to vaccinate 3 lakh health workers every day, but in the first five days it managed less than 8 lakh vaccinations. Even at the rate of 3 lakh a day, it will take 1,000 days or almost three years to vaccinate 30 crore from priority groups.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-improves-its-vax-rank-now-at-6th-place-karnataka-ap-lead/articleshow/80411388.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 23, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Seafood landing at Ennore, Royapuram, Pattinapakkam has high concentration of metals||CHENNAI: A lot of the waste let out into the city’s lakes and water bodies returns to residents’ plates in the form of heavy metals in seafood, a study has found. The study conducted in fish landing areas at Ennore, Royapuram (Kasimedu) fishing harbour and Pattinapakkam showed seafood had high concentrations of chromium, nickel, manganese, zinc, lithium and titanium besides certain levels of copper, lead and iron.  While some of these metals are vital for the human body, frequent intake of seafood loaded with them can damage organs like liver and kidney and even cause cardiovascular diseases and cancer. Of the three locations where fishermen land with fresh catch and sell it, samples from Ennore had the highest average concentration of heavy metals at 10.7mg/kg, followed by Kasimedu or Royapuram at 10.63mg/kg and Pattinapakkam with 10.56mg/kg. The highest average heavy metal concentration of 11.7mg/kg was in crabs and the lowest of 9.9mg/kg in prawns, while fish and squids had 10.4mg/kg, said professor S Sureshkannan, corresponding author, in the study. Findings of the study, conducted by Madras Veterinary College, Tanuvas, Dr MGR Fisheries College and Research Institute, Ponneri and Veterinary College and Research Institute, Orathanadu, were published in the International Journal of Chemical Studies. Scientists from city-based National Centre for Coastal Research said crustaceans like crabs feed on dead organic matter lying on sediment that accumulates more concentrations of heavy metals. “Unlike the physiology of a fish which has the capability to let out or eliminate these heavy metals from its body, the process of elimination is less in crabs,” scientist said. Hepatopancreas, which plays a key role in metal detoxification in crabs, has the capability of accumulating more trace metals. This is possibly why “crabs may be a good indicator for measuring contamination level in surface sediment in the sea.” After researchers collected 15 samples of fish, prawns, crabs and squids at each site, a laboratory analysis showed variability in metal concentrations between the study sites besides in the different types of seafood, which was linked to possible sources. The presence of nickel, the highest recorded heavy metal in samples from all three sites, was linked to petroleum industries, stainless steel industries, electroplating plants, smelting plants and nickel-cadmium battery plants. Its maximum mean concentration was 69.9mg/kg at Pattinapakkam. The researchers said galvanisation units, paint manufacturing units and pharmaceutical units could be sources of zinc, while sources of manganese are iron, steel and alloy industries. Iron, which can get into coastal waters through discharge of sewage and hospital waste into water bodies, is vital for human cell functions, but an excess can accumulate in various organs resulting in damage to the gastrointestinal tract. The study points out that concentrations of chromium, manganese, nickel and zinc above the WHO permissible limits and the presence of lithium and titanium in seafood samples is a matter of public health concern.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/its-heavy-metals-on-the-menu/articleshow/80412435.cms||U Tejonmayam
January 23, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Active Covid-19 cases under 1,500||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 137 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,86,694. The toll increased to 7,146 as four more patients succumbed to the novel coronavirus. Anantapur, Guntur, Kurnool and Visakhapatnam districts reported one death each. As many as 167 patients were discharged from various hospitals. There are currently 1,488 active cases with 8,78,060 cumulative recoveries and 7,146 deaths. The active cases are less than 100 each in seven districts. For a district like West Godavari, which reported more than 94,100 cumulative cases, there are only 53 active cases. All 13 districts recorded less than 20 new daily infections on Friday, while seven districts posted single-digit case numbers. Nellore became the seventh district to cross the 99% recovery rate milestone after Anantapur, Kurnool, East Godavari, West Godavari, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam. Andhra Pradesh conducted 48,313 Covid-19 tests and detected 137 new cases on Friday, translating to a case positivity rate of less than 0.3%. Only 6,125 people were screened through rapid antigen tests among 48,313 tests. Meanwhile, the health department administered Covid-19 vaccine to 17,339 healthcare workers on Friday. The immunisation drive took place in 714 sessions in 13 districts. As many as 2,860 people received the vaccine in East Godavari, followed by 2,268 in Visakhapatnam. While Covishield is being administered in all districts, Covaxin doses were also added to the immunisation drive in Krishna district. The health department received 1.44 lakh Covaxin doses on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/active-covid-19-cases-under-1500/articleshow/80412439.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Varanasi||Gorakhpur admin to provide free coaching for competitive exams||GORAKHPUR: After CM Yogi’s announcement about providing free coaching to students for competitive exams, Gorakhpur is the first district to begin work in this direction. Interested students are encouraged to apply through the district’s website. Last date for submitting application is January 28, and the classes would start from February 1, informed CDO Inderjit Singh. As per the CDO, counselling of applicants has started from January 22, and is being held everyday between 9.30 am and 10.30 am. As per the interest of students, they will be given coaching classes for competitive exams such as civil services, banking, SSC and PCS. “The building for free coaching on Narmal campus is in the last phase of construction. As many as 200 students will be able to avail the facility. Out of the 200 students, 100 will be provided with hostel. Until construction is completed, the classes will be held at Vikas Bhawan. No meetings will be organized there during the classes,” said Singh “In the first three months, general knowledge classes will be held, in which young IAS and PCS officials of the district would guide and share their notes. District-level officials and BDOs will also cooperate. Assistance from the professors of DDU Gorakhpur University , MMM University of Technology and other specialists will be taken for personality development classes. The students will be given career counselling as well,” said the CDO. “Four free libraries will be started in the district, which include two new ones at Narmal and Vikas Bhawan campuses, and the existing ones at Jubilee Inter College and Nagar Nigam campuses will be refurbished. Books and magazines for competitive exams will be available here. Students can also contact Vikas Bahawan for voluntarily donating books to the libraries,” informed Singh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakhpur-admin-to-provide-free-coaching-for-competitive-exams/articleshow/80414022.cms||Arjumand Bano
January 23, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat govt starts school tests on WhatsApp||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat education department has decided to conduct weekly online exams for all students in government-run schools through WhatsApp starting January 23. The tests will be held for students from Class 3 to Class 12. This is a pilot project and further application will be decided depending on its outcome. Students will receive time-bound multiple-choice questions for subjects like Gujarati and Environmental Science on January 23. On January 30, a similar test will be held for students of Classes 3 -12. The results for each test will be generated immediately. The assessment will be based on the online classes that they are undergoing. The student will send his/her name to a WhatsApp number and questions will follow. Each question will pop up after the answer to the previous one has been sent. The time taken by every student to answer each question will be recorded and a report generated almost immediately. Maharashtra had carried out online mid-term assessment of school students using WhatsApp last November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-starts-school-tests-on-whatsapp/articleshow/80412437.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Lucknow||UP Blind Judo Association’s tableau to be part of Republic Day Parade||LUCKNOW: In a first of its kind initiative, a sports tableau is being prepared by the UP Blind and Para Judo Association. The tableau, which is being prepared at Ravindralaya under ‘jhanki’ number 13, will be a part of the Republic Day celebrations. The initiative will feature photographs of the specially-abled sports personalities from India and abroad. Munawar Anzar, CEO, UP Blind and Para Judo Association, the man behind the whole initiative, says, "I am really thankful to the UP Government and our Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath ji for providing us all the required facilities so that the specially-abled sports people could excel in different categories. It is for the first time that such a tableau is being prepared in our state which is going to be part of the Republic Day parade. It is going to be a really proud moment for us and for the state." He adds, "It is also for the first time that we have started judo for the blind and deaf in our country. This ‘jhanki’ is an effort by all the specially-abled sports people in the state to thank the government for its efforts." Interestingly, the tableau also features a message of women empowerment by highlighting the female sports personalities in the category who have brought laurels to the country. "The message that we want to give through this is that the specially-abled are no less than anyone else if given a chance," adds Anzar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/blind-judo-assns-tableau-to-be-part-of-republic-day-parade/articleshow/80415045.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Lucknow||Headmaster, teacher suspended over ‘anti-Brahmin’ slogan on school wall in UP||LUCKNOW: A headmaster and an assistant teacher of a government school in Avni area of Lalitpur district were suspended after an alleged anti-Brahmin slogan painted on the wall of a classroom stoked a controversy. The action came after the pictures of the inauguration of a smart classroom with the slogan on its wall went viral on social media on Sunday. Interestingly, district education officers who inaugurated the smart class missed the slogan during the event and swung into action only after right wing outfits objected to it. The slogan read: ‘Aapka kalyan school ki ghanti bajne se hoga, mandir ki ghanti bajne se Brahmin ka kalyan hoga’ (Ringing of school bells will ensure your welfare, temple bells will benefit only the Brahmins). According to officials, head master of upper primary school at Avni, Anil Kumar (Rahul), and assistant teacher Qadir Khan, were suspended for not adhering to the code of conduct. The suspension notice (a copy is in the possession of TOI) issued by basic shiksha adhikari (BSA), Lalitpur, Ram Pravesh on January 18, said several representations from Hindu outfits and social organisations were received which demanded strong action against objectionable remarks. The notice said a report submitted by the block education officer found Kumar and Khan prima facie guilty and recommended action against them. “The duo are accused of getting casteist/religious slogans painted on the school premises, not adhering to the teachers’ code of conduct, doing things as per their wish, and disregarding departmental orders,” the suspension order said. The teachers have been attached to the office of block education officer (BLO), Talbehat. The BLO of Bar block in Lalitpur has been asked to investigate the matter and submit his report within a month. Lalitpur district magistrate Annavi Dinesh Kumar told TOI that the administration has removed the controversial slogan from the walls of the school. “An inquiry has already been ordered into the incident and the final report is awaited. Even before this, we have taken the teachers to task and got the slogan removed. Only when the final report arrives, we will be able to conclude if the act was intentional or not,” Kumar said. Despite repeated calls and messages, BSA Ram Pravesh was unavailable for comments. The upper primary school is a composite school where classes 1-8 are run on the same premises. PHOTO CAPTION: BSA Lalitpur (in blue jeans) inaugurating the smart class in upper primary school, Avni. The controversial slogan (in black) is seen painted on the classroom wall||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/headmaster-teacher-suspended-over-anti-brahmin-slogan-on-school-wall/articleshow/80415085.cms||Isha Jain
January 23, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Many give a miss due to health issues, lack of communication||LUCKNOW: About 40% beneficiaries in the city kept away from vaccination owing to unavoidable personal and health issues and lack of communication. On the other hand the turnout for Covidsheild vaccination was reportedly low because many ASHA and ANM workers did not report. While 56.1% out of 600 selected turned up at three centres where Covaxin was administered, (57.9%) out of 4,496 shortlisted for Covidshield got vaccinated at the remaining 32 centres. The Drug Controller General of India has given Covisheild and Covaxin emergency approval for restricted use in public interest in the country. Covaxin is still undergoing phase-3 clinical trials, hence some are hesitant about taking it. TOI spoke to those who skipped Covaxin. Pleading anonymity, a senior consultant at SPM Civil hospital said, “Covaxin is being administered in medical trial mode. It’s efficacy data is not published yet. I cannot take any vaccine without having full information about it.” At SPM Civil hospital, health workers claimed they got two SMSes on Thursday — first at 11.30am informing that vaccination scheduled on Friday has been cancelled and the second at 2pm saying that the session will be held on Friday. “It caused confusion, hence some did not turn up,” said a health worker. District immunisation officer Dr MK Singh confirmed that the first message was sent inadvertently by a staff member, which was later rectified. Few doctors at Rani Laxmi Bai hospital said they couldn’t go for vaccination because of work overload. Dr Lalit Kumar, said, “OPD had a long queue. We cannot send back patients who come from far off places, hence I requested seniors to put my name in the next round.” Dr Manoj Kumar also cited similar reasons for not being able to attend the session. Both, however, said that they have no safety concerns about Covaxin. Anjani Bajpai, a ward boy at Lokbandhu hospital, said he had to rush to Sitapur as his uncle suffered a heart attack. Jitendra Kumar, a word boy at Civil hospital, did not come due to fever.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/many-give-a-miss-due-to-health-issues-lack-of-communication/articleshow/80415063.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
January 23, 2021||Kanpur||Molested girl ends life in Etawah||KANPUR: A 17-year-old girl in Etawah committed suicide by jumping in front of a speeding train after police allegedly refused to register her complaint of molestation against a local youth. Her family members alleged that when they tried to report the matter to Balrai police station, the cops on duty refused to lodge their complaint. The incident took place on Friday afternoon in a village under the limits of the Balrai police station of Etawah. SSP (acting in charge) Aparna Gautam told reporters that the concerned officers have been directed to further investigate the matter and action will be initiated against those found guilty of dereliction of duty. However, SP said it also came to fore that the two sides had compromised over the issue. CO Jaswantnagar Massa Singh said the accused has been taken into custody and his questioning is underway. The girl had accused a village youth of molesting her on January 20. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/molested-girl-ends-life-in-etawah/articleshow/80414124.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
January 23, 2021||Allahabad||3,121 health workers get Covid shots in Allahabad||PRAYAGRAJ: The health department immunised 3,121 healthcare professionals for Covid-19 — against the target of 5,000 — at 23 locations in Prayagraj on Friday. Vaccine doses were also given to chief medical officer (Prayagraj) Dr Prabhakar Rai and nodal officer (vaccination) and deputy CMO Dr Rahul Singh. Principal, MLN Medical College Dr SP Singh also received the vaccine shot. Remarkably, Dr Singh performed 85 eye surgeries after taking the jab. Besides, Dr Tariq Mahmood, professor and head of department of pulmonary medicine, MLN Medical College, was vaccinated. The vaccine was administered to 3,121 healthcare professionals in 50 sessions at 23 centres, including Motilal Nehru Medical College, Motilal Nehru Divisional Hospital (Colvin), District Women Hospital ( Duffrin), TB Hospital, Beli Hospital, SRN Hospital, Manohar Das Eye Hospital, Railway Hospital, four private hospitals — Kamla Nehru Hospital, Nazareth Hospital, Jagrati Hospital and Vatsalya Hospital, and 11 community health centres. “The drive started at 9am and continued till 5pm. SMSes are already been sent to the listed beneficiaries,” the deputy CMO said. He said a six-member team of medical and para-medical staff and security personnel was deputed at each centre and vaccines have already been delivered to all rural centres in Soraon, Phulpur, Holagarh, Kaurihar, Kutwa Vani, Saidabad, Handia, Anupur, Pratappur, Baharia and Mauaima. Beneficiaries were also given a record card. They would get the second dose on February 19 after a gap of 28 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/3121-health-workers-get-covid-shots-in-city/articleshow/80411240.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Chennai||Lankan Tamilswith links to int’l drug racket held||Chennai: Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officials on Friday arrested two Sri Lankan Tamils who were staying in Chennai concealing their original identities. One of them is allegedly a kingpin with links to international drug smuggling syndicates in Pakistan and Sri Lanka. The duo, M N M Nawas and Afnas, are relatives who were living in a three bedroom apartment in Karapakkam near Shollinganallur along with their family members, an NCB official said. They did not have passports and were living in Chennai for the past 10 years. The arrest is a follow-up to a seizure of 95.88kg of heroin and 18.33kg of methamphetamine from a Sri Lankan fishing vessel ‘Shenaya Duwa’ in the territorial waters of India near Tuticorin on November 26 last year. Five pistols and magazines were found in possession of the crew of the vessel and were seized. The six-member crew, all of whom were Sri Lankan nationals, were arrested. “Nawas is the kingpin who was conducting the operations from Chennai. Afnas is his accomplice and relative,” NCB zonal director A Bruno said. An NCB release said: “Both Nawas and Afnas hold important positions in the multinational Heroin syndicate. They were controlling the mid-sea pickup and delivery of narcotic drugs from Pakistani and Iranian vessels. Both had fled Sri Lanka when the Sri Lankan authorities closed in on them. It is also believed that there is an Interpol Red Corner Notice issued by Sri Lankan government against Nawas.” Heroin made from opium cultivated in Afghanistan, Iran and Pakistan (known as the death triangle), has two important transit points through Sri Lanka and Maldives, NCB said. Heroin is loaded in fishing vessels from ports in Iran and Pakistan for mid-sea transfer into similar vessels from Sri Lanka and Maldives. Transfers happen in India territorial waters or in its vicinity. “Very reliable intelligence developed by NCB and Indian agencies over the period indicates that Pakistani drug traffickers lodged in Sri Lankan prisons for drug offences control this trade and they source and deliver large quantities of heroin from Golden Crescent to Sri Lankan and Maldivian entities,” NCB said. In a separate case, on January 15, NCB Chennai arrested two men named Khaja Mydeen, 31, and Kadar Meeran, 27, and seized 45kg of ephedrine kept in a a godown in Maraimalai nagar in Chengalpet district. Sources said they were concealed in sandwich and pizza makers and exported to foreign countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lankan-tamilswith-links-to-intl-drug-racket-held/articleshow/80412443.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 23, 2021||Kanpur||Underground tunnels to help rescue Metro passengers during fire, other emergencies||Kanpur: Kanpur Metro service would have a provision for fire safety in the underground Metro corridor. For this, two tunnels beneath the UG corridor will be connected at every 240 meters so that in an emergency situation like fire, commuters can be rescued through the other one. Besides, connectivity between tunnels is also equipped with fire-proof doors to restrict the fire from spreading from one tunnel to the other. Exhausts of high capacity are also installed in the UG tunnels to avoid congestion in case of fire. Divisional commissioner Raj Shekhar, who visited Metro Depot and IIT-Kanpur station on Friday, was briefed in detail about the fire-fighting arrangements to be made for Metro. He was also briefed that various mock drills like fire drill, rescue of a disabled train and power failure drill will be organized on a regular basis in future. During inspection, Metro engineers informed the commissioner that the Metro Depot would be equipped with all the necessary facilities for stabling, maintenance and repair works of the Metro trains. In addition, monitoring and controlling of Metro operations will be executed from the Operations Control Centre (OCC) that is to be built at the Depot. The commissioner also inspected technical rooms and platform at IIT Metro Station. At IIT Metro station, he was given details of the finishing works undergoing at the station. The civil structure of all the necessary technical rooms that are used for Metro operations has been prepared at IIT station and currently floor work, granite work and glass work are being executed. He was also briefed about the ongoing finishing works at IIT Metro station and installation of various provisions at the Metro Depot that will be utilized in future for ensuring a hassle free and seamless Metro train operations in the city. In industrial city, construction of nine-kilometre-long Priority Corridor between IIT and Motijheel is under progress. It is expected that trial run of Metro would be done in November this year and would become operational for public in January 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/underground-tunnels-to-help-rescue-metro-passengers-during-fire-other-emergencies/articleshow/80414054.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Lucknow||GI products net Rs 25Lsale in just four days||Lucknow: The Geographical Indication products exhibition in Varanasi has recorded sales of about Rs 25 lakh in just four days. The exhibition has been organized to give a platform to local products from UP and other states. Organised in collaboration with FICCI, the exhibition has products from 16 districts on display. Seminars and training programmes by experts also took place to help artisans. Tool kits were distributed among artisans to encourage ‘Vocal for Local’. The exhibition saw a display of GI products from Varanasi, Bhadohi, Chandauli, Ghazipur, Mirzapur, Azamgarh, Bulandshahr, Farrukhabad, Firozabad, Gorakhpur, Kanpur, Kannauj, Lucknow, Prayagraj, Saharanpur and Siddharthnagar. There were 28 unique GI products on display, seven of which were from Varanasi. Products on display included terracotta of Gorakhpur, brocade, saris and wooden toys of Varanasi, black pottery of Azamgarh, handmade carpets of Bhadohi, perfume from Kannauj and metal craft from Moradabad. Deputy commissioner, industries, Virendra Kumar said 240 craftspersons were trained while 600 were given soft skill training and 270 craftspersons were imparted training in new technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gi-products-net-rs-25lsale-in-just-four-days/articleshow/80415087.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||HDIL case: ED raids premises of Viva Group, arrests kin of Vasai MLA Hitendra Thakur||MUMBAI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday arrested Vasai MLA Hitendra Thakur’s relative Mehul Thakur, who was associated with Viva Group, and another person Madan Gopal Chaturvedi, in two separate money laundering cases connected with the HDIL-PMC Bank fraud and Yes Bank scam. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) also conducted raids at the premises of the Virar-based Viva Group, which belongs to the family of the Vasai MLA.  ED officials said they had recovered Rs 73 lakh cash along with digital and documentary evidence during the raid. Legislator Hitendra Thakur’s son Kshitij is an MLA from Nalasopara. Thakur’s brother Javendra (Bhai) Thakur is a former gangster, and the family enjoys tremendous clout in the Vasai-Virar-Palghar belt. The ED took the help of 30 CRPF personnel to provide security during the raid. Officials were recording the statement of Thakur’s relative Mehul Thakur at the time of going to press. Kshitij Thakur denied involvement of the Viva Group in money laundering, saying that ED itself was not saying so in its press release, and pointed a finger at associates for which, he said, the group could not be held accountable. He also denied any financial transactions with PMC Bank. The ED searched the registered office of Viva Group in Virar along with residential premises of the Thakur family and an office in Andheri. They also searched residences of two financial consultants of Viva Group at Juhu and Chembur. It is alleged that HDIL promoters Rakesh Wadhawan and his son Sarang Wadhawan, the then PMC Bank chairman Waryam Singh and its managing director Joy Thomas and others had caused a loss of Rs 4,355 crore to PMC Bank and made gains for themselves. The ED has attached several properties of the Wadhawan family worth Rs 293 crore, along with jewellery worth Rs 63 crore in the case so far. During its investigation, the ED said, it had found that the Wadhawans have allegedly diverted more than Rs 160 crore from HDIL to Viva Group-controlled companies in the garb of commission. The source of these funds was illegal fund diversion from PMC Bank, ED officials said. In a separate case, the ED said that it had also found that the Wadhawans have siphoned off Rs 200 crore that their group obtained from Yes Bank as a loan to Mack Star Marketing. The ED said it found that the Wadhawans fraudulently transferred two commercial properties of Mack Star in Kaledonia building, Andheri East, worth Rs 34 crore to the Viva Group. For the transfer of the two properties, separate sale agreements dated June 26, 2017, were prepared. In the sale agreements, the purchase amount was shown to be paid via 37 cheques by Viva Holding (Viva Group) to Mack Star Marketing against purchase of the properties. But investigators found these cheques were never encashed in the account of Mack Star. Kshitij Thakur said, “We have issued cheques like in any business transaction. If they have not deposited it into the bank, that is not our responsibility. Nowhere in its release is the ED talking about the involvement of Viva Group in money laundering, but they are talking about associates. Why should we be held responsible for the acts of our associates?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hdil-case-ed-raids-premises-of-group-owned-by-virars-thakurs/articleshow/80414261.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 23, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Day begins with fog, ends on freezing note||LUCKNOW: A thick dense fog enveloped the city on Friday, leading to cold-day conditions with temperature dropping seven degrees below normal. The night was also chilly with mercury two units below the standard level. The maximum temperature was 15.6 degrees Celsius and minimum temperature 6.3 degrees Celsius. The visibility dropped between 50-100 metres in the morning hours. It affected air, rail and road traffic. Moderate to dense fog is expected on Saturday morning as well. However, sky would be clear by the afternoon. Temperatures are also likely to increase by a couple of degrees. The rise in mercury level will continue on Sunday before plunging again on Monday. State Met director JP Gupta said that temperatures dropped in the night because of cold winds from snowclad mountains. These winds condensed moisture content in the atmosphere into fog, which, in turn, led to drop in day temperatures. However, he added, a western disturbance has hit the hill area, which will cut off the flow of cold winds towards the plains, leading to rise in temperatures for next two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/day-begins-with-fog-ends-on-freezing-note/articleshow/80415053.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Kanpur||Bomb threat at mall, cinema halls turns out to be a hoax||Kanpur:The city police were on high alert on Friday after a person posted a bomb hoax on Twitter, tagging city and UP Police official handles. According to police sources, the tweet with Twitter ID Suryavanshi Bad 1, which stated that bombs would be exploded minutes after screening of movie Madam Chief Minister in a multiplex at a Mall in Kanpur South, besides Gurudeo and Pammi theatres in Kalyanpur, was posted on Friday noon and was noticed by city police authorities and some other Twitter users. According to SSP/DIG Preetinder Singh, the tweet was later removed by the user and a high alert was sounded at the multiplex in Kanpur South and Gurudeo and Pammi theatres in Kalyanpur. Extra checking was initiated across the theatres and city’s Crime branch, Bomb disposal and dog squads, were roped in to conduct searches across all the three places. Police emptied the multiplex and theatres in Juhi police and Kalyanpur police areas for a while. The multiplex and theatres, showing the just-released Hindi movie Madam Chief Minister starring Richa Chadda, were cleared off without much panic, senior police officials said. However, the search by bomb disposal squads and sniffer dogs proved futile and the Twitter post was declared a hoax, later all the shows including the noon show of the movie were resumed under strict vigil, said SP South Deepak Bhuker. “We will take strict action against the offender for raising the false alarm,” he said. Police, with the help of other agencies including the cyber cell, is probing the matter. Based on initial investigations, cops believe the person behind the tweet was playing a prank. “An FIR has been lodged at Juhi police station and investigations are underway to zero-in on the prankster,” said Singh further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bomb-threat-at-mall-cinema-halls-turns-out-to-be-a-hoax/articleshow/80414116.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Digital lockers for luggage at railway stations||To ensure safekeeping of luggage and other belongings of passengers, Central Railway will install digilockers in cloakrooms at CSMT, LTT and Dadar station. The lockers can be opened only through RFID tag technology and an online receipt will be generated. To retrieve luggage, the receipt will be with QR/bar code will be scanned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/digital-lockers-for-luggage-at-rly-stns/articleshow/80391038.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Lucknow||Everyone should get jab to deliver final blow to Covid: UP CM||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that Covid-19 vaccination will prove to be the final blow to the coronavirus. Inspecting the vaccination implementation at Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital here on Saturday, the CM reiterated the importance of prevention protocol till the required herd immunity is achieved. “The vaccination work was the final salvo on the coronavirus pandemic and everyone must contribute by taking the shot,” he said, adding that the Covid vaccine will be made available to everyone in the state as per the priority set up by the Union government. Later, he reviewed the progress of the programme across the state and directed health officials to ensure that the GOI protocol on pandemic prevention and vaccination is followed in letter and spirit. The CM expressed happiness over the improving Covid-19 recovery rate. According to data from the health department, more than 97.3% of the patients in the state have recovered. In the review of the Covid-19 situation, the CM said: “though the number of cases is declining fast and the recovery rate is significantly high, there is no need to drop guard against the pandemic virus. The testing, surveillance and treatment facilities should remain in top gear.” Talking about the subsequent phases of the Covid-19 vaccination, the CM directed officials to finalise the list of essential services staff. Officials said that around 18 lakh personnel engaged in essential services including state police, municipal bodies, civil supplies, district administration etc are to be vaccinated after health workers. Officials also said that the unit concerned is also interacting with Union government counterparts to raise the indent of vaccine doses. The CM also took stock of preparedness for the Jan Aarogya Mela to be held on Sunday. The mela, which is a brainchild of the CM, drew more than 2.67 lakh persons across the state last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-everyone-should-get-jab-to-deliver-final-blow-to-covid/articleshow/80415074.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Ahmedabad||Auto loan sanctions from NBFCs down by 63%||Ahmedabad: Reduced demand and more stringent lending norms, apart from the liquidity crisis faced by non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) after the pandemic, has led to a 63% decline in sanctions of automobile loan from NBFCs in the second quarter of 2020-21, against the corresponding quarter of 2019-20. Data on sanctions was provided by the Finance Industry Development Council (FIDC), whose estimates suggest that in Gujarat too, sanctions by NBFCs fell by upwards of 60%. Mahesh Thakkar, director general, FIDC, said, “Demand for vehicles took a hit since the lockdown. At the same time, spending capabilities of buyers have been impacted and consequently, uptake of automobile loans declined.” FIDC data shows that automobile loan sanctions declined from Rs 633.67 crore in the second quarter of 2019-20 to Rs 236.59 in the corresponding quarter of 2020-21, across India. Industry players pointed to the liquidity crisis faced by NBFCs. “Repayment of existing loans were affected because the incomes of borrowers reduced. Due to this, a number of NBFCs had made lending norms more stringent. This was one of the key reasons for the decline in loan sanctions,” said the operations head for vehicle finance of an Ahmedabad-based NBFC. According to automobile industry experts, NBFCs account for at least 50% of lending for two-wheelers and at least 35% for cars in Gujarat. “However, in the recent past, while NBFCs slowed lending due to fund rotation, a number of private banks got more aggressive on the automobile loan portfolio,” said Pranav Shah, chairman, Gujarat, Federation of Automobile Dealers’ Association (FADA). “A couple of NBFCs turned into banks as well. This may also be a reason for the decline in sanctions of automobile loans,” Shah added. FADA officials also said that two-wheeler sales were badly affected in the first two quarters of 2020-21, and since the majority of financing for two-wheeler purchases is through NBFCs, sanctions from NBFCs had fallen. FIDC experts said the situation has improved significantly in Q3 and Q4 with a spike in automobile demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/auto-loan-sanctions-from-nbfcs-down-by-63/articleshow/80412508.cms||Niyati Parikh
January 23, 2021||Dehradun||Deepak Joshi elected president of Sachivalaya Sangh||Dehradun: Deepak Joshi was elected the president of Sachivalaya Sangh for the third successive term on Friday. Out of the total 1,008 votes that were cast, Joshi received 492 votes and he defeated his nearest rival Narendra Prasad Raturi by a slender margin of 9 votes. The voting started on Friday morning and the results were announced late in the evening hours. Joshi, in his last term, had strongly opposed the issue of reservation in promotion and changes made in the recruitment roster for government jobs. For the post of general secretary, Vimal Joshi, who got 317 votes, defeated Rakesh Chandra Joshi by a margin of 39 votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/deepak-joshi-elected-president-of-sachivalaya-sangh/articleshow/80411443.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 23, 2021||Lucknow||1 lakh+ UP health workers get vaccinated in a day||LUCKNOW: UP achieved the feat of vaccinating more than one lakh health workers in a single day on Friday. According to the report updated till 8.30 pm, 1,00,676 health workers were inoculated across 1,535 session sites. This is about 65% of the target of 1,55,311, set for the day. “So far, no state has vaccinated one lakh persons in a single day,” said a senior officer associated with the vaccination programme. With this the total number of health workers to get the vaccine against coronavirus in UP crossed 1.23 lakh in just two days. UP has a list of 9.06 lakh health workers including 2.34 lakh from private sector to be inoculated in the first phase. As on January 16, both Covishield and Covaxin were administered on Friday. As many as 29 sessions of Covaxin were held across seven cities -- Agra, Ambedkar Nagar, Badaun, Lucknow, Firozabad, Bahraich and Jhansi in which 1592 health workers were covered. The remaining 99,094 health workers got Covishield. UP among top three states in clocking high vaccine target, next jab on Jan 28The top three districts in terms of percentage inoculation were Balrampur (97.61%), Siddharthnagar (95.61%) and Shrawasti (94.97%). Eight districts -- Etawah, Shahjahanpur, Chandauli, Firozabad, Rampur, Amroha, Banda and GB Nagar -- scored below 50%. A government spokesperson said that those vaccinated on Saturday will get the second dose on February 19. The next round of vaccination will take place on January 28. According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, UP now ranks among the top three states in terms of vaccinated health workers. Karnataka leads the list with over 1.82 lakh, followed by Andhra Pradesh where 1.27 lakh health workers have got the vaccine. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath expressed happiness over the roll out of the vaccination programme. Speaking to reporters after inspecting the activity at Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences, the CM said: “vaccination will prove to be the final blow against the pandemic virus. But this should not make people complacent. Everyone must continue to follow preventive norms.” Reports from the state family welfare directorate also revealed that only 233 minor incidents of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) were reported from across the state. “Even a miniscule side effect was being noted as a result of which no one required any hospitalisation,” said health sources. They also said that there was reasonable enthusiasm for vaccination. In fact, over 60% of the total persons vaccinated had taken the shot by 3.pm. Later, additional chief secretary health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad, reiterated that following prevention protocol is a must for everyone. "Those who get the vaccine must remember that the complete immunity will arrive 2-3 weeks after the supplementary shot given 28 days from the first dose. And for others, prevention protocol is the only reliable tool against the pandemic virus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/1l-up-health-workers-get-vaccinated-in-a-day/articleshow/80415208.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 23, 2021||Lucknow||UP to get rid of obsolete laws to facilitate business||LUCKNOW: The state government is likely to repeal all redundant, irrelevant and cumbersome laws, especially those related to the department of industries. Chief secretary RK Tiwari has directed the departments concerned to scrutinize all such rules and ensure they are either merged or removed by March 31 to enable a conducive atmosphere for industrialization. “Tiwari has asked departments like labour, home etc to complete exercise of repeal, merger or reducing number of compliances by March 31, a spokesperson said. ‘Accept all applications only through Nivesh Mitra portal’Action will also be taken to eliminate the need for renewal of clearances required for operation of low-risk industries or to increase frequency and duration of renewals,” a government spokesperson said. In a meeting of infrastructure and industrial development department, the chief secretary directed the forest & environment department to reduce the timeline for issuing pollution-related ‘no objection certificates’ (NoC) to industries from 120 days to 30-45 days to bring UP at par with other states. He said a government order should be issued, mandating all departments to accept applications related to industries only through single-window portal ‘Nivesh Mitra’. “Officials heading the departments should conduct a monthly review of user feedback on the portal so that concerns may be addressed,” he said. The ‘Ease of doing business’ rankings (UP currently holds second spot) are determined by the feedback. The review was held to discuss the Business Reform Action Plan (BRAP)-2020, recommended by the department of industrial promotion and internal trade, Government of India, for reduction of burden of regulatory compliances on industries. Additional chief secretary (infrastructure and industrial development) Alok Kumar said action was also being taken at the department level to reduce the number of other compliances related to industries in various departments. Currently, these stand at 1,300. Requirement of maintenance of registers and records by enterprises will also be rationalized and manual records and registers related to enterprises will be digitized or simplified. It was decided in the meeting that more services should be integrated with Nivesh Mitra portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-get-rid-of-obsolete-laws-to-facilitate-biz/articleshow/80415176.cms||Neha Lalchandani
January 23, 2021||Lucknow||Khadi fashion show to mark UP Diwas inaugural||Lucknow: A khadi fashion show with India’s top designers will be the highlight of the first day of the Uttar Pradesh Diwas celebrations that will be held at Awadh Shilpgram from January 24 to 26. On that day, the world’s largest khadi mask will also be launched through a hot air balloon, giving a dual message about khadi and also encouraging people to wear masks during the Covid-19 pandemic. The mask has been made of bits of khadi cloth sourced from all the districts of the state. Designers, including Asma Hussain, Roona Bannerji, Reena Dhaka, Ritu Beri and Manish Tripathi, will be part of the select team that will display their designs. Models from Mumbai and Delhi will participate in the show. Additional chief secretary (khadi and village industries) Navneet Sehgal said that the show had been organized to popularise khadi among masses. “Khadi fashion shows have been organised earlier as well when they are well received and appreciated by people. That is why it is being held again on a grand scale to mark the Uttar Pradesh Diwas. It will help associate the youth of the state with the campaign for Khadi,” he said. He said that khadi and gramodyog units from UP, Delhi, MP, Uttarakhand, Bengal and Jharkhand will showcase their products during the event and also sell them. The exhibition will be inaugurated by chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “On this occasion, 336 solar spinning wheels would be given to poor women of the state. These women have been trained in operation of these wheels,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/khadi-fashion-show-to-mark-up-diwas-inaugural/articleshow/80415093.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 23, 2021||Bareilly||187 turtle hatchlings released into river Ramganga||Bareilly: As many as 187 river turtle hatchlings were released into river Ramganga by members of the World Wide Fund for Nature-India with the support of local community members in Shahjahanpur on Friday. As part of the turtle conservation programme, a total of 231 eggs were rescued from the riverbed with the help of farmers. Out of these eggs, 187 turtles of two species had been hatched in June 2020 in a nursery pond at the DFO office premises. Project officer Shahnawaz Khan told TOI, “The turtle hatchlings, consisting of 81 Brown Roofed Turtles and 106 Indian Tent Turtles, have been released into the Ramganga at Saepur village. The turtles are scavengers and clean up the water from decaying matter.” Shahnawaz added “The collective efforts of the people, administration and forest department helped us in saving 187 hatchlings, which were released into the river in the presence of DFO Adarsh Kumar and ADM Ram Sewak Dwivedi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/187-turtle-hatchlings-released-into-river-ramganga/articleshow/80411427.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 23, 2021||Visakhapatnam||RTC eyes Vizag for logistics hub||Visakhapatnam: The Visakhapatnam circle of Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation has embarked upon making the Port City logistics hub of the RTC. The corporation has started renovation works for the logistics centre at the bus station in the city. Speaking to TOI, C Ravi Kumar, executive director of Vizianagaram zone of the RTC said the zone is presently earning nearly Rs 7 lakh to Rs 8 lakh per day from parcel and courier services. Currently, the RTC has two main logistic points—one at Dwaraka Nagar bus station and the other at Maddilapalem depot. The corporation has set itself a target of earning at least Rs 2,000 crore annually from logistics by March 2021. — Kamalakara Rao||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rtc-eyes-vizag-for-logistics-hub/articleshow/80412487.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 23, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Drones search for missing 10-year-old specially-abled girl||AHMEDABAD: After a 10-year-old specially-abled girl from Hebatpur failed to return home after going out to play, Sola police deployed four drone cameras and 70 cops to trace the child. This is probably the first time in the city that drone cameras are being used to look for a missing person. An aerial view of the area from a drone cameraSola police identified the girl as Geeta Valmiki. Her parents stay at a slum near Hebatpur near railway crossing. On January 17, she went out to play but never returned home. Her parents, who are daily wage labourers, searched for her in the locality but failed to find her. The next day, they approached Sola police and registered a missing person complaint. “The area around the slums in Hebatpur is deserted. The entire patch is covered with Babool and other trees. Since it was difficult to look there for a little girl who can’t even speak properly , we have deployed 70 police personnel on ground to trace her,” said Sola inspector J P Jadeja. He added that they are also using drone cameras to look for the girl in the wooded area. Police have pasted around 5,000 posters at railway stations and bus stops for information about the girl.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/drones-search-for-missing-10-yr-old/articleshow/80412503.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Aurangabad||Ill-treat parents, lose 30% salary: Aurangabad zilla parishad to staff||AURANGABAD: Aurangabad zilla parishad has passed a resolution announcing 30% salary deduction of staffers failing to take care of their elderly parents. The proposal was moved by ZP president Meena Shelke during Thursday’s general body meeting. In November 2020, Latur ZP garnered headlines by becoming the first in the country to pass such resolution unanimously. The resolution at Aurangabad ZP, too, has been passed unanimously and is being appreciated by citizens from different walks of life. It has been decided that the deducted salary will be transferred to parents’ bank accounts. While tabling the proposal, Shelke stated that the decision to table the proposal was taken after she received complaints from the parents of ZP staffers alleging that their children are either ill-treating them or are not taking their care. “Such frictions and ill treatments have reportedly surged during the lockdown period when people were facing hardships and were compelled to stay back home,” said Shelke. As per the resolution, a committee will scrutinise the complaints received from parents of ZP employees, following which both the parties will be given a fair chance to present their sides before the committee which will cross verify the allegations and claims before drawing a conclusion. Based on the findings, recommendation would be made for deducting salaries and transferring them to their parents’ bank accounts. Once sanctioned by ZP CEO, the proposal would be sent to the accounts department for carrying out further documentation work. When asked, ZP officials were not clear if the deduction would be rolled back if the ZP employees mend their ways. The move has been welcomed by ZP members from across the party lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/zp-staffers-salary-to-be-cut-for-ill-treating-kin/articleshow/80412492.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||MGL’s helpline number to alert on road digging||MUMBAI: Mahanagar Gas Limited does a regular surveillance of the entire gas pipeline network by deploying patrolling team which is undertaken as a routine activity Customers and the public can dial 1800 22 99 44 (tollfree) or 022 24012400. One can also mail details on emergencycontrolroom@mahanagargas.com, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mgls-helpline-number-after-gas-leak-incident/articleshow/80390470.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Aurangabad||Criminal on record held for killing man||Aurangabad: Within hours of a 60-year-old man being bludgeoned to death in the MIDC Waluj area of Aurangabad city, police have arrested a 23-year-old criminal on police record as the prime suspect. The deceased has been identified as Sominath Rathod of Adgaon Palshi while the accused has been identified as Bharat Gadve of Savitribai Phulenagar in Wadgaon Kolhati. During the preliminary probe, the accused has confessed of murdering the man after a heated argument broke out between the duos over occupying space for sleeping on footpath near Padmapani Baudh Vihar Gate of the Bajajnagar area. Police learnt about the incident at around 7 am on Friday following which a team led by police sub-inspector Satish Pandit rushed to the spot and recovered the victim’s body. Following a panchanama, the body was taken to Government Medical College and Hospital where an autopsy was performed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/criminal-on-record-held-for-killing-man/articleshow/80412507.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 23, 2021||Aurangabad||SIT detains two in siphoning Rs14.5cr from coop bank||Aurangabad: The special investigation team of Nanded police, currently probing the online siphoning of Rs 14.46 crore from the common pool account of a cooperative bank, have detained two suspects for questioning. The suspects transferred the money online from Shankar Nagari Sahkari Bank’s common pool account, which it shared with IDBI bank (service provider), between December 17, 2020, and January 2, 2021. The money was transferred to 267 different bank accounts in Gujarat, Haryana, Delhi, West Bengal, Karnataka and Tripura. The delay in lodging of FIR has resulted in complications as well as withdrawal of around 90% of the total amount by the suspects. Superintendent of police Pramodkumar Shewale said, “We are yet to get any concrete clue regarding the suspects. Our teams with the help of cyber experts are working overtime to crack the case.” The officer, while confirming the detention of two suspects for questioning, said that things will become clear only after key suspects are identified and brought to book. Deputy superintendent of police Vikrant Gaikwad, who is currently heading the SIT, said that his teams were sent to Delhi to search for clues in this case and are working on to identify the key suspects. “This is first of its kind of money siphoning from the common poll account of a bank in the state, due to which our teams are facing difficulties in reaching the suspects,” Gaikwad said, adding that the cyber experts assisting the police have already seized cooperative bank’s server for screening and their report is still awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sit-detains-two-in-siphoning-rs14-5cr-from-coop-bank/articleshow/80412532.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Madurai||HC seeks IIT advice on laying electric lines without disturbing farm land||Madurai: Observing that the routes for transmission lines over agricultural land should be planned in such a way so that there is a least displacement of farmers or disturbance, the Madras high court has sought suggestions from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras with regard to the laying of the lines.The court was hearing a petition filed by Nethaji challenging the passing of transmission electricity lines through agricultural land parcels from Virudhunagar to Coimbatore district for a power project.A division bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice M M Sundresh observed that petitioner raises an important issue as to how transmission lines should be designed so as not to disturb agricultural land or render large tracts of agricultural fields uncultivable.The judges observed that it is expected that the state or the appropriate authorities would take the lines of least resistance while choosing the routes of the transmission lines. It is possible that towers have to be set up on agricultural lands, but the route should be planned so that there is a least disturbance to the agricultural land while keeping the costs of transmission also in mind. It is not unknown for transmission lines to take a detour at times from straight lines so as to save the fertile land from being affected.The judges observed that at present, it appears to be far-fetched to seek transmission lines to be carried underground, particularly, since that could involve huge expenses. In any event, for such lines to be carried underground, there may be even more disruption in the agricultural activities undertaken, unless the jack-pushing method or boring method, on a limited scale, can be resorted to upon a scientific study being conducted in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-iit-advice-on-laying-electric-lines-without-disturbing-farm-land/articleshow/80414302.cms||Kaushik Kannan
January 23, 2021||Madurai||7-yr-old boy dies of suspected dengue in Madurai city||Madurai: A seven-year-old boy died of viral haemorrhagic fever on Thursday night at a private hospital in Madurai a day after testing positive for dengue at another private hospital. District health officials however claimed that it could not be confirmed whether the boy was suffering from the mosquito-borne viral disease.A total of 45 dengue cases, including those of children, have been reported in January in the district, the highest in a month this season. Children are more prone to developing a severe form of dengue called dengue haemorrhagic fever, which can cause severe bleeding, leading to death. On Wednesday, S Thirumalesh from S Alangulam was admitted with symptoms of viral fever to a private hospital in Madurai. According to the medical report from the hospital, he died of massive blood loss during treatment for viral haemorrhagic fever. The cause of death was mentioned as decompensated shock and pulmonary haemorrhage.However, before admission to the hospital, the boy had preliminarily tested positive for dengue antigen at the lab of another private hospital. “The boy did have low platelet count and other dengue symptoms. But, an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) test to confirm dengue was not done before his death. So, it cannot be declared as a dengue death,” said a health official.The official however said that measures are being intensified by Madurai corporation to prevent spread of fever and dengue cases in S Alangulam area, which is a known hotspot for the disease in the city. The district health department remains vigilant amid the steady rise in cases and 1,086 DBCs are engaged in fever surveillance and dengue preventive measures across the district. Those with symptoms of dengue, which include high fever, headache, rashes, muscle and joint pain etc., have been urged to immediately consult a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/7-yr-old-boy-dies-of-suspected-dengue-in-madurai-city/articleshow/80414310.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 23, 2021||Madurai||Plea to abolish special teams in police dept||Madurai: The Madras high court on Friday sought a response from the state government on a plea seeking to abolish special teams that are constituted in the police department and to frame guidelines for the constitution of such teams.A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi was hearing a public interest litigation filed by S Muruga Ganesan, joint secretary of the advocates wing of the PMK.The petitioner stated that in October last year, a party cadre, Sakthivel, was brutally assaulted by a special team suspecting him of having a connection with a rowdy. Sakthivel sustained injuries and was admitted at the Government Rajaji Hospital. Though Sakthivel’s wife submitted a representation, no steps were taken.Ganesan stated that nearly 70% of the police strength from every station are used as special teams. Due to this, police personnel involved in regular duty are burdened with additional work and working under pressure. He stated that there are no provisions under the police standing orders and in statutes for the constitution of special teams. Hence, he moved the HC.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-abolish-special-teams-in-police-dept/articleshow/80414268.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya: Ram temple work resumes amidst Vedic hymn chant||AYODHYA: The two-day special prayers at Ramjanmabhoomi ended on Friday to mark the resumption of temple construction, which was halted two months ago after the foundation-laying process hit a water-and-sand hurdle. Amid chanting of Vedic hymns, digging work around the 2.77acre area around the proposed sanctum sanctorum was flagged off by temple construction committee chairman, Nripendra Mishra, who’s on a two-day visit to Ayodhya. The Ram Temple Trust also claimed to have hammered out a solution to the problem tormenting top engineers on ways to stonewall Saryu water streaming under the Ramjanmabhoomi site. After the second round of brainstorming at Faizabad Circuit House on Friday by Nripendra Mishra and engineers of Larsen and Toubro and Tata Group, the bottlenecks were removed. The final blueprint for the foundation will be chalked out by specialists at a Mumbai design lab and will be ready by the second week of February, said a top source in the temple trust. Talking to TOI, Trust member Dr Anil Mishra said, “After completion of puja on Friday, digging work began around the sanctum sanctorum. It will take at least 70 days to remove debris from the site and then the temple base will be laid after digging 40feet below ground level. Stones, lime and concrete will be used in the foundation and a retaining wall will be built around the base.” Dr Mishra, however, refused to divulge whether cement and iron will be used in the retaining wall. During the grand puja at Ramjanmabhoomi, construction committee chairman, Nripendra Mishra, made the announcement to devotees and trust members about recommencing construction of the temple. His message was significant, considering the crowdfunding drive by VHP for building the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ram-temple-work-resumes-amidst-vedic-hymn-chant/articleshow/80415166.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
January 23, 2021||Lucknow||Seven depose against paedophile junior engineer||LUCKNOW: Continuing with its probe into sexual exploitation of children by suspended junior engineer Ram Bhawan, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has traced seven people, now adults, who were abused as children. The seven deposed in court to record their statement, saying that they had been abused since 2008.Sources in CBI said that with the seven deposing, the number of victims identified by the team is now 39. As per estimates, 50 children were sexually exploited by Bhawan along with his wife Durgawati. Sources further said that the identities of the children were traced from the recovery of eight mobile phones, a laptop and other digital evidence, including a large volume of child sexual abuse material. CBI sleuths also said that teams are working to trace the identities of other children. Some of the victims broke down in court while narrating the ordeal they went through at the hands of the JE and his wife. They said that Bhawan and his wife used video games to trap them. They used to lure them into their house one at a time “to play video games” and then exploited them. (The victims' identity has not been revealed to protect their privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/seven-depose-against-paedophile-jr-engineer/articleshow/80415154.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Chandigarh||Tractor ride very much on, more set to join Jan 26 march to Delhi||Ambala/Jind/Hisar: Support for the January 26 ‘Tractor Parade’ in Delhi, being organised by farm groups protesting three contentious agricultural laws, continued to grow in Haryana on Friday, as groups of men and women left for the national capital and many more pledged to participate in it. The Jind-Patiala highway remained busy all day as groups from Jind, Fatehabad, Hisar, Sirsa and Kaithal made their way towards Delhi-Haryana’s Tikri border. Travelling in trolleys covered with tarpaulin and decorated with the Tricolour as well as balloons, farmers played patriotic songs along the way. Their luggage comprised gas cylinders, edible items, firewood, and other articles of necessity. Preparations included temporary mobile charging points and extra diesel. In north districts of the agrarian state, farmers from Ambala, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar said they would be starting from Saturday and the union leaders were holding key meetings to discuss strategy for the final march. Farmers from these districts will be marching to Delhi for joining the tractor march of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on January 26, under the leadership of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Haryana (Charuni) In Yamunanagar, BKU Haryana (Charuni) district director Mandeep Singh held several meetings with the farmers and youths in different blocks of the district and called them to join the tractor march to Delhi starting from Gadhola-Gadholi toll plaza on national highway (NH) 344 on Saturday. In Ambala, farm leaders also held similar meetings and gave a call to gather at grain market, Mohra village in Ambala Cantonment. Thanesar president of BKU Haryana (Charuni) Pawan Choudhary said they would gather at Shani Temple in Thanesar and start their march towards Delhi. Women participating in the protests also continued to grow. In Hisar, tractor-trailers led by young women from Mochi village left for Delhi from Landhari toll plaza. The convoy was flagged off by Kisan Sabha district president Shamsher Singh Numberdar. A functionary of the sabha said there was a possibility of the government closing petrol pumps and warned any such move. There were similar scenes in Jind. Women from various outfits, who have been preparing since January 9, held a press conference in which they said women will ferry farm-related equipment to the protest to show they are also farmers. In Hisar, men and women from villages of Kothakla and Kothhhurd left with ration in about 200 tractors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tractor-ride-very-much-on-more-set-to-join-jan-26-march-to-delhi/articleshow/80414241.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Ahmedabad||Covid: Pharmacy bills double||Ahmedabad: How many times have you been told to ‘boost your immunity’ to ward off coronavirus? After all, it was considered the only protection from the virus till a vaccine was created. So, it is no surprise to see a rise in purchase of immunity boosters and nutraceuticals, in addition to medicines and other items, causing a two-fold increase in the ticket size of retail medical bills in Gujarat over the past year. According to monthly consumer insights by Pronto Consult, the bill value at medicine retailers grew from Rs 1,000-1,200 in December 2019 to Rs 2,000-2,500 in December 2020. Explaining the trend, Pronto Consult founder Hari Natrajan said, “After the pandemic struck, most people began making bulk purchases to cut down on visits to medical stores. At the same time, greater awareness about health and immunity led many to purchase immunity boosters as well as nutraceuticals, a regular affair in their retail bill. Consequently, the average ticket size of the retail medical bill saw an increase over the past six months.” The report states that consumers’ purchase patterns have changed post-pandemic and that is one of the biggest reasons for the spike in retail bill value. “The trend is here to stay for a few more months,” said Natrajan. “Following the announcement of total curfew in Ahmedabad soon after Diwali, when the second wave of Covid-19 infections hit Ahmedabad, customers made hysteric bulk purchases. This is because people were reluctant to step out repeatedly amidst increased Covid-19 cases,” said Ankur Aggarwal, founder, MedKart. Medicine retailers, however, are also of the opinion that rise in price of medicines is also one of the key reasons for increase in bill value. Alpesh Patel, president of Federation of Gujarat State Chemists and Druggists’ Association, said, “There is an average 10% increase in price of general medicines. Therefore, the bill value is bound to increase. The Drug Price Control Organisation must take adequate measures to check this.” Speaking of purchase patterns, Dr Karishma Shah, founder of Pronto Consult, said, “In Gujarat, we saw an increase in purchase of brands like Zincovit (Apex Labs), Vitneurin CZS (Corona Remedies), Limcee (Abbott), Celin (Koye Pharma) amongst others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-pharmacy-bills-double/articleshow/80412617.cms||Niyati Parikh
January 23, 2021||Vijayawada||Chief secy asks SEC to wait for SC order||Vijayawada: Chief secretary Adityanath Das on Friday wrote to state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar, asking him to wait for the Supreme Court decision on holding of panchayat elections in the state. He further sought a schedule ‘conducive’ to both the SEC and the government and requested for a “revised schedule which would be in compliance with the letter and spirit of the high court order that the ‘parties will make all endeavour to ensure that both programmes’ (vaccination and elections) are conducted smoothly and successfully”. He further stated that the government is ready and committed for smooth conduct of the elections only “after inoculating poll personnel including police, revenue staff etc”. The chief secretary added that “any poll schedule after 60 days of first dose of immunising the poll personnel, being part of the frontline workers in phase I and II of the vaccination programme, would be acceptable to the state government”, adding that vaccination of “polling staff before they are sent on poll duty would instil confidence in the electoral process and also allay apprehensions of various service associations”. While stating that the high court has cast the responsibility of conducting elections smoothly on both the government and the SEC, the chief secretary made a “fervent appeal” to the SEC to understand the existing limitations before the state government in completing the vaccination programme for polling personnel smoothly before they are sent on poll duty. On removing the ‘so called tainted officers’ as requested by the SEC, the chief secretary said the officers were “actively involved in the pandemic situation and are right now engaged in the implementation of vaccination programme”. He also categorically stated that the government has consistently taken the stand that the present situation in the state is not conducive for the conduct of elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chief-secy-asks-sec-to-wait-for-sc-order/articleshow/80412525.cms||Gopi Dara
January 23, 2021||Madurai||Notice in plea against notification for ESZ in wildlife sanctuary||Madurai: The Madras high court on Friday sought a response from the central and state governments on a plea challenging the central government’s gazette notification on declaring 0-3km of the Kanyakumari Wildlife Sanctuary as eco-sensitive zone (ESZ).A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi was hearing a public interest litigation filed by P Lalaji, secretary of the Black Rock Hill Planters Association at Kanyakumari district. The petitioner stated that there are nearly 40 estates within Blackrock, Asambu and Mahendragiri hills in the district. The estates have been in existence for hundreds of years and it has the oldest clove, pepper, rubber, coffee and tea plantations. These estates have no other employment opportunity except agriculture and horticulture. Notifying the area around the sanctuary as ESZ would affect the agricultural activities, he said.Lalaji stated that the central government had issued a draft notification on February 20, 2020, notifying 0-3km around the sanctuary as ESZ. In view of the lockdown announced due to Covid-19 pandemic no public hearing was conducted. He noted that the draft notification should be made available in the vernacular language for the people to raise objections, however, this notification on ESZ was only made available in English and Hindi.Though several people raised objections to declaring ESZ around the sanctuary in a meeting conducted in 2019, the central government had issued a finalized notification in the gazette on September 22, 2020. Last year, the HC Madurai bench had stayed the gazette notification on the ground that no public hearing was conducted.Hence, the petitioner sought for a direction to quash the notification dated September 22, 2020. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/notice-in-plea-against-notification-for-esz-in-wildlife-sanctuary/articleshow/80414282.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Madurai||All septic tanks in taluk closed after kids drown||Madurai: The state government on Friday informed the Madras high court that all septic tanks in Karambakudi taluk in Pudukottai district, have been are closed and compensation was awarded to two siblings who drowned in a tank in the district.Following this, the court closed the public interest litigation filed by S Shanmugam, district organiser of the Periyar Ambedkar Makkal Kazhagam, an organisation working for the betterment of weaker sections in the district, seeking compensation for the victim’s family.The petitioner stated that as many as 50 families of cleanliness workers are residing in the Vittaldas Kudiyiruppu Valagam at Karambakudi taluk. In August 2020, Hrithik Roshan, 6, and Aravind, 4, sons of Kumar of the locality died as they accidentally fell inside a septic tank behind their house.When members of the organisation visited the place, they noticed that the locality was maintained without proper sanitation and several septic tanks at the taluk were not closed.Hence, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench seeking to close all the septic tanks in Karambakudi taluk and to provide compensation to the children’s family and to take action against the officials who were responsible for not closing the tank in which the siblings fell into.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/all-septic-tanks-in-taluk-closed-after-kids-drown/articleshow/80414257.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Madurai||Mud accrued after rain turns Madurai’s air quality worse||Madurai: As an after effect of recent rain, levels if particulate matter PM 10 and PM .2.5 have gone up, which could lead to serious health hazards if people do not take precautions, experts have said.The copious rainfall resulted in damages to the roads in the city and as a result, mud can be seen piled on the sides and potholes filled with slushy water. Now that the mud has started drying up, it is leading to heavy dust pollution.S Rajamohan, managing director of Enviro Care, an environmental solutions organization, said that though the levels of gases like SO2 and nitrous oxide were within the permissible level in Madurai’s atmosphere, levels of particulate matter PM 10 and PM 2.5 was high for this season.“It is a result of the mud on the roadsides and potholes and it is a must that the Madurai Corporation clean up the roads for sand and the residents also keep the roads in their areas free of dust to help to overcome the issue,” he said. The air quality index (AQI) for Madurai on Friday was 87 during the day, which was moderate by health standards. However, according to the website, www.accuweather.com, the air quality of Madurai on Friday evening, was 104 according to AQI, which could lead to sensitive groups experiencing discomfort. Air quality in Madurai is usually much better during the first three months of the year, but this year it has started degrading from January, which is a sign that bad conditions might prevail during summer and hence, the corporation should clean the roads regularly, said K Murugan of Anna Nagar. City engineer S Arasu said that they were making efforts to clean the roads regularly and keep them dust-free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mud-accrued-after-rain-turns-madurais-air-quality-worse/articleshow/80414323.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Lucknow||PM steered India through Covid crisis, raised BJP’s reach: JP Nadda||LUCKNOW: BJP president JP Nadda on Friday said the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution helped the party prove its political and electoral mettle. Hailing Prime Minister Narendra Modi for providing an able leadership thereby helping the country beat Covid-19 challenge and enabling BJP to register electoral victories across the country, he also praised UP CM Yogi Adityanath for effective implementation of central flagship schemes in the state. Speaking at an intellectual convention in Lucknow, Nadda said the BJP bagged maximum vote share and highest number of seats in council elections in Jammu & Kashmir. “The opposition used to claim that there would be bloodshed in J&K if Article 370 was abolished. Now, these people are not seen anywhere. Down south, the party won by-election on Dubaka seat in Telangana despite odds. We also increased our seats in Greater Hyderabad municipal elections. Likewise in Karnataka, we won 18,000 wards and byelections on two assembly seats,” he added. He said the party also won six out of seven assembly seats in UP byelection and had the highest strike rate in Bihar too. Nadda said BJP also made its presence felt in North-East states. “Why did this happen? It was because of the strong leadership provided by PM Narendra Modi and successful implementation of government schemes by BJP-ruled states,” he said, emphasising that UP CM Yogi Adityanath was executing Centre’s schemes effectively and was getting “special attention” from PM. Nadda cited a recent survey which showed Narendra Modi as the most popular PM of independent India, while Jawaharlal Nehru finished last. He also congratulated Yogi Adityanath for being named as the best CM in a survey. “Such ratings are achieved only by those who associate themselves with people and work tirelessly,” he said. “UP has not only executed development works but also ensured robust law and order which helped attract investments,” Nadda said, accusing previous SP and BSP governments of giving shelter to ‘goonda’ elements. “Coronavirus outbreak was new to the entire world but the BJP government showed how to deal with the challenge,” he said, crediting the PM for leading from the front and taking bold decisions and preparing the country to get the best facilities . “After Lal Bahadur Shastri, Narendra Modi was the only PM whose directives were followed in entire country. BJP did not shy away from its responsibilities and provided food packets and other relief material to 24 crore people per day across the country,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pm-steered-india-through-covid-crisis-raised-bjps-reach-nadda/articleshow/80415099.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Aurangabad||Brahmin community demands reservation||Aurangabad: Members of Brahmin community under the umbrella organization ‘Samast Brahmin Samaj Sangharsh Samiti’ held a mega agitation in the city on Friday demanding reservation for community members in education and employment sector. The members also demanded the formation of an independent financial development corporation for the upliftment of community which they claimed is facing hardships and discrimination on multiple fronts. Community members unanimously expressed concerns about the misuse of social media for passing racist slurs on the community and portraying them in bad light. Some members even objected to the alleged twisting of history by showing community members in poor light in fight for India’s independence. Majority of the members were found concerned about their children considering to shift to foreign countries for want of better career opportunities. Samiti member Jaishri Choube said, “Due to discrimination against Brahmin community, our kids are being compelled to shift to foreign countries. Taking advantage of their talent, other countries are growing and our country is left behind.” Members of the samiti while shouting slogans demanded reservation in education and employment sector and maintained that despite scoring good marks, their children are not getting admissions in educational institutes of their choice. Another member Vijaya Kulkarni said, “There has never been an incident of Brahmin community causing damage to the society or the infrastructure, but still we are being ignored. We are not like others who damage properties while pressing for their demands.” During the agitation, women members of the Samiti even performed a skit and demanded that their demands be fulfilled at the earliest. Echoing similar demand, Ujawala Paithane said, “All we want is reservation in accordance with the percentage of population we share so that we do not lag behind.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/brahmin-community-demands-reservation/articleshow/80412555.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 23, 2021||Aurangabad||LCB nab 3, detect cattle theft cases||Aurangabad: The local crime branch of Aurangabad rural police nabbed three suspects in the wee hours of Friday and claimed of detecting multiple cases of cattle theft by them. Police said that the suspects have confessed to selling the cattle to butchers. The arrested suspects have been identified as Ansar Shaikh (30), Tushar alias Sunny Divekar (21), both hailing from Rajwada in Devgaon rangari and Zuber Qureshi (35) also from Devgaon Rangari in Kannad taluka. LCB also seized Rs 30,000 cash which the suspects made by selling the stolen cattle, a pick-up vehicle used for transporting the cattle and three mobile phones — totally costing Rs 5.55 lakh. Preliminary probe has revealed that Ansar and Tushar would commit cattle theft and the stolen cattle were readily purchased by Zuber, a butcher by profession. LCB inspector Bhagwat Phunde said that the suspects have confessed to stealing a cow and a calf from in front of hotel situated in the Lasur station area on January 2, followed by lifting another animal belonging to Vinod Shelar and another bull belonging to Somnath Wakde. Taking cognizance of these animals getting stolen in a single night, Shillegaon police registered a case of theft against unidentified suspects. While working on the case, LCB carried out a technical analysis and zeroed down on Zuber who confessed to purchasing the cattle stolen by the other two. Police suspect the trio’s role in many more cases of cattle theft which off late are registering a surge in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/lcb-nab-3-detect-cattle-theft-cases/articleshow/80412581.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 23, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Covid survivor doctor takes Covaxin shot, says it’s safe||LUCKNOW: No one knows the physical and psychological trauma of Covid-19 other than Dr Rupendra Kumar, an anesthesiologist at Lokbandhu Hospital, who not only saw many patients succumbing to the disease, but also contracted the infection during the line of duty. He remained in ICU for as many as 15 days and had to be given convalescent plasma therapy. All the memories went past his mind in a flash when Dr Kumar extended his hand to get a Covaxin shot. I took the shot with confidence, waited for 30 min & was back to work: ENT specialistCovid-19 patients in ICU used to plead before doctors for life, their families were devastated. Even I had a near death experience. I felt so helpless, but today after taking the jab, I feel psychologically strong as now I am secure from reinfection and will no longer have to see the faces of dying patients,” he told TOI. “Both Covishield and Covaxin are safe and good weapons against Covid-19,” he added. Covaxin was given to health workers of three hospitals in the second round of the first phase of mass vaccination drive. About 600 health workers — 200 each of SPM Civil, Rani Laxmi Bai and Lokbandhu Hospitals — were called for vaccination. However, the turnout was 337 (56.1%) as many skipped the drive despite being informed in advance. While 76 took the shots at SPM Civil, 107 were inoculated at Rani Laxmi Bai hospital and 154 at Lokbandhu Hospital. Most of those who took the shots gave a positive feedback. Physically challenged sanitary worker Roona Devi, who got immunised at Rani Laxmi Bai Hospital, said she was motivated by her 10-yearold son. “There were some apprehensions about the safety and side-effects, but my son said don’t worry and go for it.”. “I got the shot with full confidence. I waited for 30-minutes and was back to work,” said Dr Pankaj Srivastava, an ENT specialist at the Civil hospital. At Civil, jab first, consent later Covaxin was to be given after a written informed-consent of the beneficiary. However, at SPM Civil Hospital, which saw the lowest turnout (38%), the recipients were asked to sign the consent form after inoculation. “People who have come for vaccination have already been informed about the possible side-effects. Hence we vaccinated them first and then got the consent form signed to save time,” said Dr NB Singh, nodal officer for vaccination. He said nobody objected to the proceedings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-survivor-doc-takes-covaxin-shot-says-its-safe/articleshow/80415173.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
January 23, 2021||Lucknow||UP: J P Nadda exhorts BJP cadre to consolidate party at booths||LUCKNOW: BJP president J P Nadda on Friday reached out to booth-level workers in Uttar Pradesh and exhorted them to ensure public welfare programmes initiated by the Centre and state government are implemented at the grassroots.  He also appealed to them to consolidate party’s position among all sections of society. Addressing booth presidents, Nadda, who’s on the second and final day of his visit to Lucknow, said party workers should reach out to people and apprise them on BJP government’s welfare schemes to all sections of society. The BJP chief’s observation comes at a time when the party is gearing up for the upcoming panchayat elections and assembly elections next year. Nadda said, divisional-rung workers should visit allocated booths every month and hold meetings with booth committees and even dine with them. BJP president hints at forming ‘panna panels’He should also ensure people from all sections of society get associated with a booth,” Nadda said. The BJP chief also sought to scale up the job of ‘panna pramukhs’ asking them to meet each voter in their respective area, in time of crisis. Nadda also dropped hints of forming a ‘panna committee’ (panel for redressal of members in every voter page) and setting a target for members. Nadda hit out at Opposition parties, saying most of 1,500 parties in India are caught in nepotism. “It is only BJP where a person from ordinary moorings becomes a PM and CM and changes the fate of the country and state,” he said, stressing it was only BJP which had a democratic set-up that allows grassroots workers to rise to the top. “It is a party with neeti (policy), neta (leader), karyakram (programme) and karyakarta (worker),” Nadda stressed. “It is this ideology which ushers changes,” Nadda said, underlining that various schemes of the Centre are driven by the ideology of ‘antyodaya’, envisaging relief to the last-mile beneficiary. He said, the enthusiasm among party workers was a reflection on UP’s future. “One should feel fortunate to work as a karyakarta of BJP. Political parties are a medium to execute ideas,” he said. Later, presiding over a meeting of BJP IT volunteers, Nadda said, social media should be used to ensure people are educated on public welfare programmes executed by the state government and party. He said, social media should also be used to dispel anti-government narrative peddled by Opposition parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nadda-exhorts-bjp-cadre-to-consolidate-party-at-booths/articleshow/80415184.cms||Pankaj Shah
January 23, 2021||Lucknow||Lockdown bold decision to snap Covid chain: UP CM||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Friday that the BJP leadership has shown how public service is executed in the times of crisis like the coronavirus pandemic. Speaking at a convention of intellectual society on the second day of BJP chief JP Nadda’s visit, Yogi hailed PM Narendra Modi for imposing the lockdown to break the chain of pandemic. “Now the coming of the vaccine has further raised the hope of the people,” he said, adding that the world saw how the pandemic was tackled by the Indian government under the leadership of PM Modi. Yogi took a potshot at the opposition leaders for not stepping out to serve people during the pandemic. “Many leaders are in quarantine even after more than 10 months. Their workers obviously feel isolated,” he said, adding that, “some leaders just tweet from the comfort of their homes.” On the contrary, the BJP governments at the Centre and the state coordinated to tackle the crisis. “There were times when Naddaji called me up and asked me to take the help of organisational workers to save the lives of people,” Yogi said. “The mantra was Sewa hi sangathan hai (service is organisation),” he said. It was after the organisational workers worked in tandem with the state government that the crisis was tackled, he said. Yogi said earlier people questioned BJP on the issue of Ram temple in Ayodhya. “Some of them, in fact, used to term Ram as a fictional character. Now when the contentious issue has been resolved they are saying that Ram belongs to them also,” he said. The CM said that all welfare schemes of the central and the state governments were being executed without any discrimination and prejudice and the primary aim was to serve the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lockdown-bold-decision-to-snap-covid-chain-cm/articleshow/80415126.cms||Pankaj Shah
January 23, 2021||Lucknow||Honeytrapped into captors’ lair, medico rescued in Greater Noida||LUCKNOW: A 21-year-old student of ayurvedic medicine and surgery, who was honeytrapped and kidnapped for ransom from outside his hostel in Gonda, 120km off Lucknow, was rescued by a UP crack police team on Friday after a brief encounter with three captors on the Greater Noida expressway, 40km from Delhi. The medico, Gaurav Haldar, was kept hostage for five days in the Noida apartment of the kingpin, Dr Abhishek Singh, after a 700km roller-coaster ride from Gonda. A woman doctor and a key gang member, Preeti Mehra, who set up a date with Gaurav before luring him into the trap, is on the run. UP Special Task Force and Gonda police, which cracked the case, are yet to locate her whereabouts and are questioning the accused, who demanded Rs 70lakh ransom from Gaurav’s father, Nikhil. The abduction was clinically planned with the accused opening three fronts to throw investigations into disarray. While the medico was kidnapped from Gonda, the first ransom call was made from a far-eastern UP district, Sant Kabir Nagar, and the youth was kept hostage in a house in Noida, said additional director general of police, STF, Amitabh Yash. Second ransom call blew captor’s coverHowever, their cover was blown off when the kingpin made a second ransom call, threatening to kill Gaurav if the Rs 70lakh ransom was not paid. UPSTF swiftly located the abductor’s location to NCR through phone surveillance, said the STF officer. Besides mastermind Dr Abhishek Singh, two of his aides, Nitesh, Mohit, were arrested after their Sedan was intercepted on the Greater Noida expressway by STF after a brief exchange of fire. Police had asked Gaurav’s father, Hitesh, to request the captors to come to Lucknow for payment of ransom in exchange for Gaurav. Two other arrested gang members, Rohit and Satish, were later nabbed in Gonda. “On January 18, Dr Mehra called Gaurav from a passer-by’s phone outside his Gonda hostel and then Dr Abhishek Singh with aides whisked him away, thrashed him in the car and injected him with sedatives. The first ransom call was made to Gaurav’s father, who works at a clinic in Bahraich, on January 19. After the second call was received, surveillance teams zeroed in on a location in Noida, said Amitabh Yash. “The mastermind, Dr Abhishek Singh, is an ayurvedic doctor, while his aide Rohit hails from the Gaurav’s village and provided information on the youth. Gaurav’s number was shared with Dr Preeti Mehra, who was instructed to honey-trap him,” said the officer. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi, announced a Rs 2lakh cash reward for the STF and Gonda police team, which carried out the rescue operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/medico-honeytrapped-abducted-from-gonda-rescued-in-g-noida/articleshow/80415189.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
January 23, 2021||Lucknow||52cr ballots for world’s biggest poll||Lucknow: With over 52 crore ballot papers already printed, the State Elections Commission (SEC) is gearing up to conduct the three-layered panchayat polls for over 8.88 lakh posts and having a strong electorate of over 12.5 crore. Because of the sheer magnitude of posts that include nearly 59,000 village heads and the remaining members of village, block and district level committees, the panchayat elections are also considered to be the world’s largest elections. Though EVMs have replaced ballot papers in most polls, the panchayat polls are still dependent on ballot papers. In 2015 panchayat polls, then election commissioner SK Agarwal had attempted to switch over to the EVM, but the decision was deferred mainly due to the involvement of huge expenditure. An official spokesman of the SEC told TOI that if the commission would go for EVMs, it would cost around Rs 1,500 crore, while with ballot papers, it would not cost about Rs 45 crore. Besides, given the huge number of candidates and symbols, EVMs would have to be recalibrated, the spokesman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/52cr-ballots-for-worlds-biggest-poll/articleshow/80415194.cms||Subhash Mishra
January 23, 2021||Madurai||KKNPP unit 2 shut for refuelling and annual maintenance||Tirunelveli: The 1,000 MW unit-2 of the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project (KKNPP) has been shut from Wednesday for carrying out the annual maintenance and refuelling, says a statement from KKNPP site director S V Jinna. The 1,000 MW VVER (water-cooled water-moderated reactor) belongs to the pressurised water reactor (PWR) category that uses uranium oxide fuel to generate electricity.An official said that it is mandatory to carryout the spent fuel replacement and other maintenance work every 7,000 hours or in 300 days. The usual time taken for the maintenance is 90 days. In 2020, unit-2 was shut for only 84 days and connected back to the grid on March 14.Since then, the unit has supplied 6,709 million units of electricity before being shut for the third refuelling outage, this year. Since inception, the two functioning units of KKNPP (Unit-1 and Unit-2) have produced 52,590 million units of electricity. Unit-1 is running at its full capacity. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kknpp-unit-2-shut-for-refuelling-and-annual-maintenance/articleshow/80414361.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Kolkata||Ballygunge Park locals call for heritage precinct status||KOLKATA: Residents of Ballygunge Park have written to the municipal commissioner, urging KMC to stop the demolition of old bungalows and mansions. This is the first such initiative by locals and reflects the sensitization of citizens about preserving the built heritage that not only defines the character of these neighbourhoods, but also contributes to the unique tapestry of Kolkata. “We request you to immediately stop the demolition of houses on Ballygunge Park, which should, along with the surrounding areas, be declared a heritage precinct as it is architecturally sensitive,” the residents stated in the letter to municipal commissioner Binod Kumar. In the absence of a ‘heritage precinct’ tag, it is not illegal to demolish old houses that are architecturally significant and have been associated with neighbourhoods for decades. But they leave the city poorer, something that even Nobel laureate Esther Duflo had noted. Ballygunge Park residents have cited a practical concern as well: the burden on the physical infrastructure that is already bursting at the seams. Indian National Trust for Art & Culture (Intach), Kolkata, convener GM Kapur said the request from concerned citizens of Ballygunge Park is something that KMC urgently needs to take note who are seeing its destruction causing not only a loss of built heritage but adding to urban chaos by way of traffic congestion and pressure on basic civic facilities like water and drainage . Writer and Calcutta Architectural Legacies founder Amit Chaudhuri, who has been pushing for the recognition of heritage precincts in Kolkata where entire neighbourhoods and not just buildings are protected, welcomed the initiative. “It’s encouraging to see residents invoking their rights as citizens as well expressing their belief on the architectural importance of their neighbourhoods. The letter to the KMC is a reminder that citizens need to play an active role in determining their built environment and preserving its history,” remarked Chaudhuri, who along with Kapur had filed a PIL about heritage and the KMC Heritage Conservation Committee at Calcutta High Court in 2019. Following this, a committee was set up in 2020 at the behest of the court with two persons from the KMC Heritage Conservation Committee, other KMC officials, Chaudhuri and Kapur as members. The committee met three times and took some positive steps like putting up the names of heritage committee members in the public domain and minutes of the heritage committee meetings on the website. But the issue of heritage precincts was not taken up. “We had submitted a proposal on heritage precincts on August 10 last year, but there has been no response from KMC,” Chaudhuri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ballygunge-park-locals-call-for-heritage-precinct-status/articleshow/80412594.cms||Subhro Niyogi
January 23, 2021||Madurai||Lanka may hand over bodies of fishers today; protests continue||Ramanathapuram/Pudukottai: A day after the bodies of four fishermen from Rameswaram, who allegedly came under attack from the Sri Lankan navy, washed ashore in the island nation, political parties in Tamil Nadu joined fishermen to protest strongly, with one leader asking the Centre to treat the incident like the Italian marines case. Meanwhile, Union fisheries minister Giriraj Singh met representatives of fishermen at Rameswaram on Friday and promised steps to bring back the bodies. Officials in Pudikottai from where the fishermen had set sail later told TOI that the bodies are likely to be handed over to fishermen at the international border on Saturday morning.The incident happened last Monday when the boat of the victims was allegedly sunk by a Lankan navy vessel in the island nation’s waters. Their bodies washed ashore in Sri Lanka one after the other till Thursday. Seeking justice for the deceased, fishermen of Thangachimadam in Rameswaram, where the victims belonged to, have announced an indefinite fast from Sunday. Nearly 450 mechanised boats from Pudukottai district refrained from fishing on Friday in a show of protest as the victims had set sail from Kottaipattinam fishing harbour in the district.Meanwhile, PMK founder S Ramadoss said in a statement that the Sri Lankan navy personnel responsible for the deaths should be arrested like the two Italian Marines who fired at Tamil Nadu fishermen off the Kerala coast in 2012 causing the death of two fishermen. He said the government should not show any leniency towards the Lankan government by merely condemning the incident. “In many instances in the past, the Lankan Navy had warned Tamil Nadu fishermen that they would drown and kill them at sea,” he said. MDMK general secretary Vaiko has announced a protest at Valluvar Kottam in Chennai on Monday. He accused the BJP government at the Centre of failing to prevent such attacks on fishermen. Stating that the Government of India has strongly condemned the incident, Union minister Giriraj Singh appealed to the fishermen to give up the “immigration to Katchatheevu” protest announced by mechanised boat owners on Saturday. The representatives agreed to temporarily call off the protest and put forward various demands to the Centre. Among the key demands were to ensure such incidents don’t recur, ensure the fishermen’s safety while fishing in traditional fishing areas and bring back Indian fishing vessels seized by Sri Lanka. Ramanathapuram district collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver and officials from the fisheries department were among those present during the interaction at a hotel in Rameswaram.Ponraj told TOI that the victims are the sole breadwinners of their families and they would be pushed to financial distress. “One of the men has a 20-day-old child and another two toddlers,” he said. The relief of Rs 10 lakh each from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund was given to the kin of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lanka-may-hand-over-bodies-of-fishers-today-protests-continue/articleshow/80414359.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||One more held as NCB continues raids, 11grams MD seized||MUMBAI: The Narcotic Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday arrested one member of Chinku Pathan alias Parvez Khan drug peddling gang and seized 11 grams of Mephedrone (MD) from him. The NCB also grilled Arif Bhujwala’s wife and brothers-in-law for allegedly helping him flee. The NCB on Wednesday had arrested Chinku Pathan and on Thursday arrested two more associates—DJ and rapper Rahul Verma and Zakir Hussain Fazal Haq Shaikh, and busted their drug factory. A huge quantity of drugs, weapons, two high-end cars and Rs 2.2 crore was seized. During the course of interrogations, it was learnt that Chinku Pathan’s distant relative Salman Usman Pathan helped absconding accused Arif Bhujwala manufacture drugs in a makeshift lab below Bhujwala’s house in Dongri. The 11 grams of MD, a weighing machine and small polythene bags were seized from Pathan’s house in Dongri. While the NCB arrested Salman Pathan, they are looking for his brother Farhan Pathan, who played a key role in drug peddling for Chinku Pathan. On Friday, the NCB also carried out searches of four more places in Dongri in connection with the case. Arif Bhujwala’s wife and his brothers-in-laws were questioned about Bhujwala’s escape on Thursday, when the NCB official went to arrest him. The NCB also issued a lookout circular (LOC) against Bhujwala, suspecting that he may try to flee the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1-more-held-as-ncb-continues-raids-11grams-md-seized/articleshow/80414372.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 23, 2021||Bengaluru||Miscreants pocket Karnataka farmer funds||BENGALURU: In a huge racket involving swindling of lakhs of rupees intended for farmers, thousands of ineligible beneficiaries have availed benefits under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi, or PM Kisan Yojna. In a complaint of cheating and cybercrime filed with the Central CEN Crime police on January 18, Deepaja SM, an officer from the office of commissioner of agriculture, has said most of the fraudulent beneficiaries have enrolled for the scheme from Chitradurga district since November 2020. These beneficiaries have bank accounts in Bihar and West Bengal. Beneficiary names showed multiple timesUnder PM Kisan Yojna, small farmers with land of two hectares or below will get Rs 6,000 each year in three instalments to enable them to procure farm inputs. While the complaint is silent on the number of beneficiaries, police suspect it could be about 20,000. “As part of verification at the end of December 2020, officials found 1.6 lakh enrolments for the scheme from Chitadurga, which was higher than any district in the state. The beneficiaries used self-enrolment portal for their enrolment. The officials approved 1.3 lakh enrolments and released the fund to 87,212 persons,” the complaint stated. As per the complaint, the officials found several names appearing as beneficiaries multiple times. They allegedly used forged land documents belonging to Chitradurga district and Aadhaar cards to enrol their names. The banks, whose details they furnished, are in Uttar Dinajpur district, West Bengal and Purnea district, Bihar. As per preliminary findings, the illegal enrolments were approved wrongly by the joint director of agriculture, Chitradurga district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/miscreants-pocket-state-farmer-funds/articleshow/80415675.cms||Santosh kumar.B
January 23, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Under pressure, BS Yediyurappa rejigs portfolios again||BENGALURU: A day after allocating portfolios to seven new ministers of his cabinet, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday reshuffled some of the portfolios after some members expressed unhappiness about their roles. In the process, JC Madhuswamy, relieved from his second portfolio of Kannada and culture, has been allocated Haj and wakfs department in what is seen as a second snub in 24 hours. On Thursday, the chief minister had allocated him medical education and Kannada and culture ministries after removing law and parliamentary affairs and minor irrigation departments. Kannada and culture has now been given to Aravind Limbavali in addition to the forest ministry as he was unhappy with one department considering his seniority. Gopalaiah gets exciseOn Thursday, Madhuswamy was miffed that the minor irrigation portfolio was taken away from him and given to new minister CP Yogeshwar. Sources said Madhuswamy is peeved again and he met the Suttur mutt seer on Friday, seeking blessings before deciding on his future course of action. Sources said he would fall in line because he doesn’t have too many options. Accordingly, Yediyurappa changed the portfolios of some new ministers, who had threatened to resign as they were unhappy with Thursday’s allocations. MTB Nagaraj, who had been given excise but was keen on housing, has been handed the municipal administration and sugar. The excise portfolio has gone to K Gopalaiah, who was unhappy with horticulture and sugar ministries.Gopalaiah said he was happy with the excise department since its revenues will help in chalking out finances of the state. Youth empowerment and sports minister KC Narayana Gowda has been given the additional charge of planning, programme monitoring and statistics, a portfolio that was with Yediyurappa. The state’s new horticulture and sericulture minister will be R Shankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/under-pressure-bsy-rejigs-portfolios-again/articleshow/80415679.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Bengaluru||Three detained, probe ordered after 6 die in Karnataka's Shivamogga explosion||By: Udaya KumarSHIVAMOGGA/BENGALURU: Three persons were detained and a high-level probe was ordered into the blast which killed at least six men in Hunasodu village of Shivamogga district late Thursday night. While three of the dead are migrant workers from AP, two are from Bhadravathi in Shivamogga, officials said. CM BS Yediyurappa said stringent action would be taken against the guilty. He announced Rs 5 lakh as compensation for kin of the deceased. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai said cops have detained three persons, including the quarry owner and a gelatin stick supplier, and are interrogating them to confirm the kind of explosives used in the quarry and their shipment. Probe to focus on explosive shipmentining and geology minister Mur- Mgesh Nirani after inspecting the blast site said five bodies have been recovered. He said it’s not clear if the explosive substance found at the site was gelatin or some other material but added that a large quantity of explosive was shipped to the site. “Minerals are mined illegally in the state and we’re verifying if the stone quarry was operating illegally,” he said, adding that the probe will focus on shipment of explosives to the site. Authorities are piecing together evidence to figure out what led to the explosion of the parked truck loaded with explosives. Locals said it happened when the consignment was being unloaded from the truck. The blast caused damage to buildings and civic infrastructure in Shivamogga. Some houses developed cracks and roof tiles and windowpanes shattered. Manoj Rajan, director, Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, said there was no earthquake or tremors in the area. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted the state government is providing all possible assistance to the affected. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also offered condolences to victims’ families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/3-detained-probe-ordered-after-6-die-in-shivamogga-explosion/articleshow/80415681.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Bengaluru||Visvesvaraya Technological University can conduct offline exams: Karnataka HC||BENGALURU: Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) can go ahead with offline semester examinations with the Karnataka high court on Friday disposing of the petition filed by 120 students seeking directions to hold online exams for those who could not appear physically in the wake of Covid-related health risks. Justice R Devdas asked the VTU to follow the SOP issued by the Karnataka government as well as by the university. All affiliate colleges have been told to follow suit. On the first date of hearing, the court had declined to intervene in the matter. Will adhere to SOP, says VTUhe judge had pointed out that the Texamination for selecting civil and district judges had been conducted only through offline mode. The students’ grievance was that if offline mode is adopted, then thousands of them would have to come to Bengaluru to write the exam. They had challenged the December 9 notification issued by VTU. However, VTU said conducting online exams is technically impracticable and the university would take all precautions and adhere to the state government’s SOP. The university informed the court that technical/ expert opinion was taken before deciding to hold offline examinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/vtu-can-conductoffline-exams-hc/articleshow/80415687.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Ahmedabad||Cops to get body cameras this year||Ahmedabad: To evaluate and assign blame in cases of friction between cops and citizens, the police has decided to make the constabulary and traffic cops deployed on roads wear body cameras, which are also known as body-worn cameras. Top ranking police officials said the budget for this has been sanctioned by the government and the cameras will be in use by the end of this year. Police officials said that the body cameras will be fixed to the uniforms of cops. Cases friction between cops and the public have surged during the enforcement of Covid safety protocols, the lockdown and curfews. This proposal, however, had been put forward two years ago and has now got the green signal. The programme will be implemented in phases, to cover the entire force. Of 1 lakh Gujarat Police personnel, about 80,000 constables will eventually be wearing body cameras. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-to-get-body-cameras-this-year/articleshow/80412656.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Nagpur||Vid artists to recreate 800-yr-old saint tradition in Maha’s R-Day tableau||Nagpur: This year’s Republic Day parade in New Delhi will have many firsts such as restricted number of spectators, no chief guest and bio-bubble for the participants due to the Covid-19 situation. For Vidarbha, there is an additional first; and it’s very special. A team led by an art director from Nagpur and comprising of 22 artists from Vidarbha, all youngsters below 30 years, is making the Maharashtra state’s tableau in the national capital. This is for the first time since 1980 that artists from Vidarbha are making the float of the state for the R-Day parade.Art director duo Naresh Charde and Pankaj Ingle who run ‘Shubh art’, an advertising and event management firm in Ajni, have bagged this opportunity this year. In a video chat with TOI on Friday, Charde said they had been waiting for this opportunity since 10 years. “Finally, the state government as well as Defence ministry selected our proposal this time,” he said. The basic concept of the tableau is Santancha Mela (a congregation of Warkari saints) which will depict the 800-year-old tradition of Warkari saints in Maharashtra for which the state is known across the world. Young artists Tushar Pradhan from Yavatmal and Roshan Gule from Wardha, both pass outs from Government Chitrakala Mahavidyalaya in Nagpur, are working 24X7 along with the team to recreate the history on the float. Nagpur’s Rahul Dhansare is supervising the entire task. “An eight foot tall statue of Sant Dnyaneshwar, the pioneer of the Varkari Sampradaya, will be at the forefront. Next will be Sant Tukaram with Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. An 8.5-ft tall replica of Lord Vitthal’s idol from Pandharpur will be in the backdrop. Statues of all major saints from the state will be placed all around the float,” said Tushar. The artists are using fibre material to make lifelike and durable statues . It takes special skill to carve the statues out of this material. Rajesh Tembhre and Ankush Tembhre from Yavatmal have made four moving statues for this float.“Literature has been the most important and rich part of Varkari Sampradaya. The writings are not only spiritual but also philosophical. Our artists have done amazing calligraphy to show this literature,” said Charde.Maharashtra’s tableau has always been a special one in the R-Day parade. In 2018, a tableau designed by renowned art director Nitin Desai had won the first prize. Nagpur artists are eager to be a part of this tradition. Maharashtra in R-Day parade- State’s tableau won first prize in 1980, 1983, 1993, 1994, 1995, and 2018- Second and third prize in 2007, 2009, and 2017- Did not make it to the parade in 1972, 1987, 1989, 1996, 2000, 2005, 2008, 2013, 2016 and 2020- This year, the concept is ‘Santancha Mela’ — a congregation of Warkari saints- Tableau will have statues of saints, Lord Vitthal, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and saint literature- The float will move on the tunes of abhangs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-artists-to-recreate-800-yr-old-saint-tradition-in-mahas-r-day-tableau/articleshow/80412627.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 23, 2021||Amritsar||UK Sikh advocacy group urges Joe Biden to support protesting farmers||BATHINDA: Sikh-American human rights advocacy group Sikh Coalition has written a letter to the US President Joe Biden urging the new administration “to support India’s farmers and take a stand for human rights”. The organisation has asked President Biden to release a statement “reminding” Prime Minister Narendra Modi government that peaceful protest — without the fear of violence and intimidation — is a fundamental right in a democracy. Sikh Coalition claimed thousands of Sikh Americans have already called on their elected representatives to speak out in support of the farmers’ protest. In addition, community members have held solidarity marches in 16 states over the last two months, with more scheduled for this weekend. The letter signed by Sikh Coalition’s senior policy and advocacy manager Sim J Singh claimed the new laws drastically deregulate the agriculture sector “without any significant protections for farmers, giving corporate entrants unprecedented control over India’s food supply and further devastating the majority of India’s small farmers”. As they continue to engage in good faith, the farmers’ resolve to repeal the laws was an effort towards critical agricultural reform that serves the interests of farmers and laborers and not just corporate entities, it read. “They know that these laws will prevent their ability to protect their rights as judicial jurisdiction has been removed through these new bills. Their thinking is simple: I might die protesting for my family’s rights today, but I will be disenfranchised and bonded to labour under large monopolies that benefit only corporations if these new laws apply to my livelihood tomorrow,” the letter by the US group claims. “While the protests remain peaceful, the response from the Indian government and security forces has not,” the group has alleged, adding that the government’s response escalated whenever additional citizens showed support in their home states and attempted to join the protesters on the outskirts of Delhi. “We urge the White House to issue a statement in advance of the January 26 protest that reminds the Indian government that the world is watching,” the letter added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/uk-sikh-advocacy-group-urges-biden-to-intervene/articleshow/80414351.cms||Neel Kamal
January 23, 2021||Nagpur||Round 1 of health workers’ vax affair to end on V-Day||Nagpur: The state government has set February 14 deadline to complete Covid-19 vaccination of remaining 1,42,687 healthcare workers from 11 districts of Vidarbha. Till date, 16,740 (10.5%) of 1,59,427 registered healthcare workers have been vaccinated in the region.Government has allowed increase in number of centres and vaccination on five days a week to achieve the target. Also, the drive to administer second dose will start from February 15. The region had received 86,800 doses of Covishield and Covaxin which are sufficient for only 53% of registered healthcare workers. The government is likely to deliver doses for remaining 47% beneficiaries on Monday or Tuesday.Deputy directors of health services Dr Sanjay Jaiswal (Nagpur division) and Dr Rajkumar Chavan (Amravati division) told TOI they are confident about meeting the target by February 14. “First dose will be given to all registered healthcare workers so that we can kick-off second dose from February 15,” they said. Vaccination is being done on four days a week as per government’s guidelines. “Now, it will be done on five days in a week, Tuesday will be reserved for routine immunization programme and Sunday will be a rest day,” said Jaiswal and Chavan.Second dose is to be administered after 28 days from the date of taking the first dose. Antibodies start developing 2-3 weeks after first dose and get a boost after second dose, as per experts.The vaccination programme held on five days covered healthcare workers of only government-run hospitals due to less number of centres. Only Akola Municipal Corporation and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) have started inoculating staff of private hospital.Dr Jaiswal and Dr Chavan said revised guidelines will be implemented from Monday. It means staff of private hospitals will start getting the jab in all districts.The five centres in the city are NMC and government-run hospitals. Some staff of private hospitals are being inoculated at Pachpaoli and Daga hospitals. NMC medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar said centres will be increased to 15 from Monday. Initially, the NMC had planned 60 centres.“We will plan to also open centres at private hospitals. Decision will be taken by municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B on Saturday,” said Dr Chilkar .NMC was the only civic body in the region to conduct vaccination on six days a week. The government has reportedly asked the NMC to avoid vaccination on Tuesday and Sunday.On Friday, 4,972 healthcare workers turned up to take the jab, which is the highest single-day turnout so far. Authorities claimed 88% achievement as target was 5,650.The NMC had claimed achievement of 112% and 110% at Pachpaoli and AIIMS. Similarly, Zilla Parishad had reported vaccination of 116% at Ramtek and 110% at Saoner.The authorities are calculating vaccination percentage as against target of 100 for each centre in 10 districts of the region. The target is 450 for four centres of Gadchiroli district. Actually, 120-150 registrations are being done at each centre. Few centres including two from the city are doing on-the-spot vaccination of registered healthcare workers. Therefore, the percentage of vaccination has increased.If considered district-wise, percentage of vaccination was 109.5% in Wardha and 107.2% in Amravati.Vaccination in city was also highest as compared to last four sessions. Out of the targeted 500, 414 (82.8%) took the jab. Rise in vaccination led to reduction in wastage of doses. 16 doses were wasted at five centres.No case of Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI) was registered after vaccination on Friday in 11 districts, as per the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/round-1-of-health-workers-vax-affair-to-end-on-v-day/articleshow/80412658.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 23, 2021||Madurai||Panchayat president makes accounts public, wins praise||Madurai: Transparency leads to better governance, says this panchayat president in Sivaganga district who has put out the account statement of his panchayat’s expenditure in the open, for everybody in the village to see. S Servarkodiyon, 33, a first-time panchayat president, completed his BE and worked in Singapore for ten years. ``On my return (in 2018) I found that there was a need to do something for my village and decided to contest the local body polls. I promised 16 things for the development of the village, the first of which was the construction of an anganwadi,’’ he said.Sevinipatti panchayat comes under Thirupatur panchayat union in Madurai, and has four hamlets with a population of 2,518. ``It was after I assumed charge that I found that 43 things had to be done, including building roads and buildings. It is my endeavour to ensure that I complete all before my term ends in five years,’’ he said. As people had voiced their need for an anganwadi for children, it was constructed at a cost of Rs 8.5 lakh after getting permission, and the bills have been sent to the government. This panchayat had just Rs 637 in its coffers when Servakodiyon assumed office. Now, eleven works have been initiated in all the four hamlets of Sevinipatti, Kalankuthu, Chandiranpatti and Kottapatti. Two weeks ago, the account statements were sent to the villagers on their smartphones, if they had them, on WhatsApp and also made available in the village for all to see. R Pandi, a villager, said this was the first time they were seeing the accounts of the panchayat so openly, though it was usually stated in gram sabhas. ``It also helps people to plan their needs for the village accordingly,’’ he said.S Sasikala, an anganwadi worker, said such transparency was something they had never seen. ``He is an example of how a panchayat president should be, and being transparent could help end corruption,’’ she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/panchayat-president-makes-accounts-public-wins-praise/articleshow/80414362.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Madurai||78-year-old with high-risk vascular disease operated upon successfully||Madurai: A high-risk ‘hybrid’ surgery involving blood arteries was successfully performed on a 78-year-old man, who developed a life-threatening internal bleeding, caused by a tear in the aorta, the main trunk of the arterial system.The surgery - thoracic endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR) - was performed by a team of doctors led by Dr R Sivakumar, senior consultant, interventional cardiologist, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre, Madurai. “The patient developed a tear in the descending part of the aorta, which was extending into the distal arch of aorta, neck vessels, right renal artery and lower limb vessels. As a result, the senior citizen was suffering from headache and breathlessness on and off for more than three months,” said Sivakumar.Initially, a vascular bypass surgery, a surgical procedure to redirect blood flow from one area to another by reconnecting blood vessels was done. “The artery supplying blood to the left hand was bypassed to the artery supplying blood to the left brain, using a 7mm Dacron graft, a synthetic stent to hold the artery open. Immediately after the procedure, we performed endovascular aortic repair by placing a 24 F aortic stent graft into the diseased aorta to seal the tear and stop the internal bleeding,” Sivakumar explained. Though the patient had a high risk of developing complications like stroke, paraplegia or renal failure during or soon after the intervention, there were no such episodes. He regained consciousness the same day and is recovering well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/78-year-old-with-high-risk-vascular-disease-operated-upon-successfully/articleshow/80414365.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Ray lensman's house set to get heritage status||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Heritage Commission has notified that it intends to declare the residence of iconic cinematographer Subrata Mitra on 70, Sarat Bose Road, as a building of heritage importance. On Friday, it issued a notice stating that local authority/owner/occupier/leaseholder shall not transfer, by way of sale, lease or mortgage or cause demolition, removal, alteration, defacing, hoarding of the wall or misuse of the part of whole of this building. Plans are also afoot to install a blue plaque next week and build a museum there soon. Mitra is known as the godfather of Indian cinematography in India, having worked with Satyajit Ray and given the early Merchant Ivory films their characteristic look. At 21, Subrata Mitra began his career as a cinematographer in ‘Pather Panchali’. He is known for pioneering the technique of bounce lighting, while filming ‘The Apu Trilogy’. Later, he also worked in ‘Devi’, ‘Mahanagar’, ‘Kanchenjungha’, ‘Charulata’, ‘Nayak’. His other important works include ‘The Guru’, ‘Bombay Talkie’, ‘Mahatma and the Mad Boy’ and ‘New Delhi Times’. From 1997, Mitra was an emeritus professor of cinematography at the Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute. A Padma Shri recipient, he was also given the Eastman Kodak Lifetime Achievement Award for Excellence in Cinematography. WBHC chairperson Shuvaprasanna told TOI that he had received an e-mail from Mitra’s family friend Sunanda Basu, expressing apprehensions about the property being on the verge of demolition. “I have memories of visiting this house. When I came to know that this house could be demolished, I immediately took action,” Shuvaprasanna said. The Commission’s notice says that any proposal for development of his residence shall be considered by the Commission after having obtained the clearance of the committee to be formed for this purpose. Within 30 days, the local authority/owner/occupier/leaseholder may give their views on this in writing to the commission. The red building next to South Calcutta Girls’ College is under 24×7 CCTV coverage. A security guard, who has watched Sandhya Ray’s movies but has no idea about Mitra, prevents people from entering. If sought permission, he points at the phone number of Subimal Chakraborty, secretary of the trust called Subrata Mitra Archives, on the main gate of the compound. “He was my Dronocharya and I am his Ekalavya. I have retired as a professional photographer of the government of India. Subrata Mitra Archives is housed in this building. This house was given to this trust by Subratada’s brother, Pragyan, in 2017. The question of our eviction doesn’t arise,” Chakraborty said. Elaborating on the objective of the trust, he said, “We want to preserve his works. We have honoured Madhabi Mukherjee, Nitish Roy and Tarun Mazumdar with the award instituted in his memory. Subratada’s cousin, Uma Basu, was an acclaimed singer. Uma Basu Smriti Sansad also operates from here. Another organization called Little Magazine Writers in Need also operates from there. Besides, there are approximately ten tenants too. There is no question of demolition of this house.” Chakraborty said this house has archival material belonging to Mitra. “They are under restoration. He had worked with Jean Renoir in ‘The River’. Subratada was a sitar player. The sitar he had played for the title music of ‘The River’ is there in this house. So are his charcoal sketches,” he said, refusing to divulge the details of the camera collection.  Sunanda Basu, who was Mitra’s family friend and has taught German at the Max Mueller Bhawan for 37 years, remembers other rare collections kept in this house. She used to frequent his house from the early 80s onwards. “Subrata’s paternal grandfather, SK Mitra, had bought this house. I stopped going to this house regularly after Mitra’s sudden demise in December 2001. Subrata was a divorcee and had no children. He had two unmarried young brothers,” she said.  Mitra and his brother had a camera rental business. “This house used to have all their cameras. His personal cameras and lights were all kept in his room. Satyajit Ray used to sketch scenes on empty cigarette packets. Those were also there in Subrata’s cupboards. His personal correspondences, photographs taken by him and their negatives were also preserved there,” she said. Even her own collection of books on European painting were also kept in this house. “Ramkinkar Baij had gifted Subrata a small metal sculpture which was a replica of the artist’s own face. That too was preserved there. BR Panesar, who was Subrata’s dear friend, had told me that this house had at least two boxes full of some 100 small cards painted by him. Subrata also had some pieces of small jamewar handkerchiefs there,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ray-lensman-house-set-to-get-heritage-status/articleshow/80412622.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
January 23, 2021||Chennai||City gets 2 parks, one has old agri tools on display||Chennai: The city got two horticulture parks on Friday. In Washermenpet, century-old agricultural tools and an imported borewell equipment used to cater to the city’s water requirement will welcome visitors at the Heritage Garden. While in Gopalapuram, around 34,000 varieties of palms, ornamental plants and trees dot the Senganthal Poonga. Both the parks were inaugurated by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. The 3.8-acre site where the Heritage Garden has come up was not in use for long, said agriculture secretary Gagandeep Singh Bedi. Bedi said the borewell was used in the 1920s and has been restored to its original condition. It, along with other agricultural tools, is on display in the indoor gardens. The facilities will be garden-cum-museums, the official said. The open garden has around thousand varieties of ornamental and flowering plants, and palm trees. The facility has indoor and outdoor play areas for children, an open gymnasium, audio-visual hall with a seating capacity of 104, display of hydroponic cultivation and a lawn spread over 6,000sqm. Senganthal Poonga has been created over an area of 6.83 acres inside the horticultural society premises. The garden can be accessed from Avvai Shanmugam Salai. This park will act as a recreation centre as well as an educational centre for students and botanists, Bedi said. Some of the rare and endangered plants and medicinal herbs have been planted and raised in this park, he said. The park has a parking area of 20,000sqft, children play area, open gym, solar hut with space for practicing yoga, wide pathways for walkers, lawns, pergolas to allow the growth of creepers and woody vines. Bedi said the park has a self-sustaining water management system that comprises borewells, reservoirs and water harvesting structures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-gets-2-parks-one-has-old-agri-tools-on-display/articleshow/80412649.cms||P Oppili
January 23, 2021||Madurai||Mixed response to reduction in syllabus for classes X, XII||Madurai: There is concern and relief among teachers over the revised syllabus which has been reduced by 40% for classes X and XII as they feel students will be denied the chance to strengthen their foundational knowledge, while at the same time acknowledging that the move will reduce stress among students.For both classes X and XII, across various subjects, roughly around 30-40% reduction in topics has been done in the new prioritised syllabus. Teachers said that all important topics have been retained but some topics are not covered in depth. “All the chapters have all been retained as only certain topics and sub-topics within them have been left out. However, some of these topics are important for students for higher studies as well as competitive exams, which they will miss out if they go by the reduced syllabus,” said M Senthilnathan, president of Private Schools Correspondents’ Confederation.The reduction also varies for different subjects. “In case of biology, reduction is less in zoology compared to botany but overall 40% reduction will be there. Due to the reduction in syllabus, continuity is lost when dealing with certain topics and students are unable to comprehensively study an important topic. It would be a drawback for students who study well,” said Selvan Arputharaj, a Class XII biology teacher.However, government school teachers said that the prioritised syllabus is helpful for government school students who have missed out on having any proper classes since the pandemic began. “The topics for practical work have been reduced making it easier to train students for practicals in the little time we have. Further, 30-35% of the reduced topics for Class XII across subjects are from the first volume of books. Usually, for slow learners, teachers concentrate on the first volume only so it is easier for teachers too to teach the lessons from scratch and ensure they can get minimum pass marks,” said S Vennila Devi, a Class XII Chemistry teacher, adding that most government school students are worried about the vast topics left to cover and the reduction helps bring down stress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mixed-response-to-reduction-in-syllabus-for-classes-x-xii/articleshow/80414367.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
January 23, 2021||Madurai||Man kills community dog, complaint filed||Madurai: Three residents of Sellur here have lodged a complaint against a man who inhumanly killed their friendly community dog. M Pandiselvi, T Mariammal and R Muthumari of Sivagami street in Sellur said that the man entered their compound and killed their dog by hitting it with a log.K P Marikumar, of Nandrimaravel an organisation for community dogs, rushed to the spot after the video of the man killing the dog and putting it into a gunny bag was doing rounds on WhatsApp groups of animal lovers. The accused was identified as Vimal Raj, an auto driver, but residents claim he is a corporation worker. He had been instigated by one Saravanan who got annoyed when the dog barked at him, they said.The women said the dog was very friendly and all the houses in the compound fed it in turns. Raja, a resident, said that the crime took place when women in the area were collecting water and tried to prevent the man from beating the dog, but he had killed it and took it away. “What was very disturbing was the see the videos as the dog was very much a part of our community and was very friendly. It would sleep in front of our house,” he said.Animal activist Marikumar, Trichy Blue Cross member M C George and others have now launched a campaign demanding justice for the dog. George said they were taking the matter to PETA. The corporation commissioner has assured that the killer was not a corporation worker but would look into it. They also demand the arrest of Vimal Raj and registering cases under IPC section 429 & PCA Sec 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-kills-community-dog-complaint-filed/articleshow/80414364.cms||---
January 23, 2021||India||As vaccine diplomacy continues, government says no request from Pakistan yet||NEW DELHI: Faced with queries about whether India would consider supplying Covid-19 vaccine to Pakistan, the government on Friday said it had not received any request from Islamabad for vaccine. India has so far donated Covishield vaccine to Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar, Bhutan and the Maldives in the immediate neighbourhood and is awaiting confirmation of regulatory clearances from Afghanistan and Sri Lanka to deliver the same as grant assistance to them.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); “I am not aware of any request for the supply of India-made vaccines to Pakistan on a G2G basis or commercial basis. The other part of the question is hypothetical at this stage and I would not like to respond,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava, when asked if India could consider donating vaccine to Pakistan as well. China has so far committed 500,000 doses of its Sinopharm vaccine for Pakistan. Read AlsoIndia begins Covid-19 vaccine exports to Brazil, Saudi ArabiaIndia will begin commercial shipments of Covid-19 vaccines to Brazil and Morocco today, followed by Saudi Arabia and South Africa, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi attempts to burnish his credentials as a key global leader.The official said that keeping in view the domestic requirements of the phased rollout of Covid-19 vaccines, India will continue to supply the same to partner countries over the coming weeks and months in a phased manner. “It will be ensured that domestic manufacturers will have adequate stocks to meet domestic requirements while supplying abroad,” he said, adding that contractual supplies are also being undertaken to Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Brazil, Morocco, Bangladesh and Myanmar. Read AlsoVaccination drive: India’s one million shots in 6 days is world’s fastest rolloutThe six days that it took India to administer more than one million doses of vaccines against Covid-19 makes it the fastest rollout of a million vaccine shots against the pandemic among countries that have placed their inoculation data in the public domain. A week into India’s vaccination drive,On the issue of quantity and types of vaccine being supplied, the government said supplies would be based on availability and regulatory approvals in the countries concerned. Brazil President J M Bolsonaro thanked PM Narendra Modi for the vaccine in a tweet. “Namaskar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Brazil feels honoured to have a great partner to overcome a global obstacle by joining efforts. Thank you for assisting us with the vaccines exports from India to Brazil. Dhanyavaad,” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-vaccine-diplomacy-continues-government-says-no-request-from-pakistan-yet/articleshow/80415668.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Madurai||2.3K vaccinated in a week in Madurai||Madurai: The Covid-19 vaccination drive has seen 2,275 healthcare providers out of 3,500 beneficiaries targeted in the district take the vaccine in its first week till Friday. There have been no cases of adverse reactions so far. The highest number in a day was on Thursday when 500 beneficiaries were vaccinated, achieving 100% of the day’s target. Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) reported the most number of beneficiaries being vaccinated in a single session site.District deputy director of health services Dr KV Arjun Kumar and 50 healthcare workers received the vaccine on Friday. “The vaccination drive is picking up steadily in the district as per schedule. So far, the drive has been smooth and even the initial technical difficulties have been rectified,” said Dr Arjun Kumar. He further said that by taking the vaccine himself on Friday, it has encouraged other healthcare workers. In Madurai, only Covishield is being administered.  The Indian Medical Association (IMA) had also been creating awareness and advising doctors from the private sector to get themselves registered and vaccinated. “Top doctors from IMA getting vaccinated has reinforced the faith in the vaccine. No adverse effects have been reported among doctors. The chances of adverse reactions due to these vaccines is very less,” said Dr VN Alagavenkatesan, president-elect, IMA, Madurai.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/2-3k-vaccinated-in-a-week-in-madurai/articleshow/80414370.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Nagpur||Banjaras up in arm against Nemade’s fiction||Nagpur/Yavatmal: Members of Banjara community, which dominate Yavatmal and Washim districts of the state, stage a missive protest in front of the respective district collectors against the derogatory portrayal of Banjara women in the book, ‘Hindu — Jagnyaachi Samruddha Adagal’, written by Jnanpith award winner Bhalchandra Nemade. The book has been in print since 2010.Senior literary and social activist of the community Dr Ganesh Chavan demanded a ban on Nemade’s fiction work. “After reading the novel in details, I can surely claim that it’s a deliberate attempt by the author to portray women of Gor Banjara community in a derogatory manner. Banjaras inherit a great history and rich culture. Such semi-pornographic portrayal of our woman is unacceptable,” said Dr Chavan. Devivas Rathod, who was part of this delegation, alleged that there was a scam in honouring Nemade with Jnanpith award. “Nemade himself has said many times that the present novel is a part of tetralogy which means the novel is incomplete. It’s illegal to award country’s biggest literary honour to an incomplete peace of literature,” he said and demanded an immediate withdrawal of the award. The community groups have also written the award committee in this regard. Agitation in Yavatmal was more vocal than Nagpur. Renowned physician of the city Dr T C Rathod led the agitation here along with woman activist Aruna Rathod. A delegation met the resident deputy collector Lalitkumar Warhade and submitted a memorandum. While talking to TOI in Yavatmal, Dr Rathod condemned the novelist and urged the state and the central governments to ban the sale of controversial book in the country as it hurts the Banjara pride. “Now, we have brought our sentiment to the notice of the government and appealed it to take punitive measures against the writer and the publisher. If the government fails to act quickly, the Banjara community will come on to the street and fight against the sectarian attitude of the writer and those who nurture ill of the community,” said Dr Rathod. Aruna Rathod has cautioned the government of intensifying their protest and continue till the demands are met.Old book, renewed controversy- Nemade’s novel ‘Hindu — Jagnyachi Samruddha Adgal’ was released in 2010- Banjara literary activist Motiram Rathod had raised objections right then- After Rathod’s demise in 2012, the agitation was stopped midway- Nemade received Jnanpith award — India’s highest literary honour in 2014- Fresh edition of this novel is about to be launched soon in 2021- Banjara community now wants a ban on the novel, file case on author and publisher, and withdrawal the award given to the author for this work||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/banjaras-up-in-arm-against-nemades-fiction/articleshow/80412703.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Ahmedabad||8 new GIDCs, multi-storeyed sheds soon in 5 districts||Gandhinagar: The state government on Friday announced setting up of eight new industrial estates under Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) along with multi-storeyed sheds in five districts. On the occasion, chief minister Vijay Rupani also digitally allotted 264 plots of GIDC at Charup of Patan District through computerized draw. The state government is providing a conducive environment to manufacturing units in the state for development of distinctive products of each district and to realize the One District One Product goal, the CM said. He announced the setting up of new industrial estates over 987 hectares in eight districts of the state. Of these, the estate at Morbi will be developed as a model estate in an area of 500 hectares - equipped with advanced infrastructural and ancillary facilities. These new estates will provide Rs 1,223 crore capital investment and 20,000 new jobs in future, said the CM. MSME sector will get 2,570 plots of 500 to 2,000 square metres and 337 plots of 10 thousand to 50 thousand square metres in these new GIDC Estates. Jalotra-Banaskantha’s marble cutting and polishing industry, Sheikhpat-Jamnagar’s brass industry, Morbi’s ceramic industry, Kadjodra-Gandhinagar’s food-agro industry, Patan’s auto ancillary industry, Nagalpar-Rajkot’s medical device industry as well the engineering industries of Anand and Mahisagar will benefit through this, a statement said. The CM said that the government has also decided to set up multi-storeyed sheds in nine existing industrial estates of the state to boost MSMEs. In five districts - Valsad, Surat, Bharuch, Vadodara and Ahmedabad — 360 new multi-storeyed sheds will be constructed . He further said that the existing estates of Dahej, Saykha, Ankleshwar, Halol, Sanand-2, Vapi and Lodhika are also planned to be developed as ‘model estates’ with all basic and high-tech facilities. During the establishment of Gujarat, there were only 6,000 MSME units in the state. After the development journey of last two decades, today there are 35 lakh MSME units functioning in the state, an official state government release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/8-new-gidcs-multi-storeyed-sheds-soon-in-5-districts/articleshow/80412699.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Two who beat stray dog to death held||CHENNAI: Two factory employees were arrested on Friday for beating a stray dog to death in Gerugambakkam. The two, along with another employee, had tortured and beaten the animal with iron rods on January 1. Animal lovers, outraged by the act of cruelty, have been demanding the arrest of the perpetrators and #justiceforkatara was trending on social media. Katara was being fed by a resident of the area, M Sathyaraj, as well as by some of the employees of a factory near his house. When Sathyaraj couldn’t find Katara on January 2, he went searching for the dog and found it bleeding and howling in pain inside the factory. The watchman told him that some young men had beaten her because she had been barking at night. Police filed an FIR in the matter. “After investigation, we arrested factory workers Rajesh and Ranjith who admitted that they had beaten the dog. The third person has gone to his native place,” said S U Raja, sub-inspector, T14 Mangadu police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/two-who-beat-stray-dog-to-death-held/articleshow/80412691.cms||Priya Menon
January 23, 2021||Nagpur||Contempt plea against div commissioner in HC||Nagpur: A contempt petition has been filed against divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar at Nagpur bench of Bombay high court after he failed to appoint chief flying instructor (CFI) at Nagpur Flying Club (NFC) despite its clear orders on January 6.The case came up for hearing before a division bench comprising justices Atul Chandurkar and Nitin Suryawanshi on Friday. However, the former judge made it “not before me” and therefore, it would be listed before a new bench, according to petitioner’s counsel Shriniwas Deshpande.The petition was filed by Sumedha, wife of late Flt Lt Shridhar Ghatate, in PIL (No13/2016) filed by the latter after the British-era club stopped operating in 2016 on account of the government’s apathy. On Friday, the NFC however, floated an advertisement for recruiting deputy CFI.On January 6, a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote slammed the commissioner for failure to comply HC’s order of November 18, 2019, observing that not an inch of progress was made for over a year to restart the prestigious club.“We direct the commissioner to take necessary steps to appoint CFI as per the assurances given to him earlier, who is identified to be Captain Shiv Jaiswal. Necessary steps in this direction be taken within two weeks,” the judges had said.Deshpande argued that Kumar failed to make any contact with Jaiswal despite the latter writing many letters to him regarding his appointment. “Since January last year, Jaiswal was given an appointment letter, but no efforts were made to join him. He was constantly sending reminders, as he too, wants to settle in Nagpur and stay with his family members. However, the commissioner didn’t reply to any of his communications. Neither the commissioner nor the government are keen to restart the NFC, which would have benefited the students aspiring to become pilots from the region,” he said.Thanks to the government’s apathy, the prestigious club is closed from the last three years, thus depriving many aspirants from getting training in flying aircraft at reduced rates in comparison to commercial academies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/contempt-plea-against-div-commissioner-in-hc/articleshow/80412695.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||83% drop in flyers at Mumbai airport during April-December||MUMBAI: Mumbai airport took the worst battering among major airports in the country, witnessing an 83% drop in passenger traffic and a 71% decline in flight movements during April-December 2020 compared to the corresponding period in 2019. Delhi saw a 75% decline in passenger traffic, while Bengaluru and Hyderabad had a 75% and 72% drop, according to data released by the Airports Authority of India. A few smaller airports witnessed bigger declineIn terms of flight movement, other major airports witnessed a lower dip than Mumbai. While Delhi airport saw a 62% drop, it was 60% in Bangalore and 61% in Hyderabad. But the numbers are improving with flight volumes and passenger traffic on a steady rise.  From the time domestic air travel restarted in May last year after the lockdown, the Central government has allowed airlines to steadily add more flights. Currently, airlines are allowed to operate 80% of their pre-pandemic schedule. In case of Mumbai airport though, the numbers are down due to added restrictions on flight movements imposed by the state government. The drop in number of flights (domestic and international included) in December 2020 as compared to December 2019 for Mumbai was 44%. In comparison to the nosedive in flight numbers in preceding months -- 50% in November, 60% in October and 68% in September---things have certainly started looking up. Similarly, passenger traffic decline for Mumbai in December 2020 as compared to December 2019 was 64%. But, in November, it was much higher at 66 %, for October it was 73 %, and in September it was 81%. The only airports that saw a higher decline in passenger traffic than Mumbai in December were smaller ones like Port Blair (87%), Hubli (87%), Pondicherry (99%), Agra (94%), Shimla (93%) etc. The only major Indian airports standing neck to neck with Mumbai (83.2%) were Chennai and Trivandrum airports with an 83.1 % decline in passenger traffic. Though the percentage drop was similar for the three airports, Mumbai being the country’s second largest airport witnessed a comparatively heavier drop in passenger volumes. For instance: Mumbai airport handled 35 million passengers between April-December 2019 as compared to 5.9 million in the same period last year, which is a drop of about 29 million. In comparison, the passenger traffic numbers for Chennai were 17 million in April-December 2019 as compared to 2.9 million in the same period last year, a drop of about 14 million. Similarly, the decline for the same period for Trivandrum airport was 2.5 million passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/83-drop-in-flyers-at-city-airport-during-april-dec/articleshow/80415251.cms||Manju V
January 23, 2021||Nagpur||Two murders within 24 hours rock city||Nagpur: Two murders within a span of 24 hours rocked the city police department on Friday.In the first incident, 40-year-old Ashok Meshram was bludgeoned to death by nephew Sarang when the victim was fast asleep at his Panchasheel Nagar residence in the early hours of Friday. The murder was a fallout of a family feud.In the second incident, Anand Ade was stabbed to death by a few assailants at his neighbourhood in Gadikhana on Killa Road later in the evening. The motive behind the murder is yet to be known. Ganeshpeth police and crime branch are conducting parallel probe into the matter.In the first incident, Meshram’s body was left on the bed wrapped in the quilt by his nephew Sarang who was netted shortly after the incident came to fore. It’s learnt that Sarang was abused by Meshram for not providing him food.Police said Meshram, who worked at a mutton shop, stayed alone. His wife and daughter lived elsewhere. Sarang used to provide him food. Meshram, who had earlier assaulted Sarang’s father, was depended upon the nephew who was left miffed for his abusive behaviour and had refrained from providing him food which led to the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-murders-within-24-hours-rock-city/articleshow/80412725.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 23, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: 38% healthcare workers get first vaccine dose on Day 5||CHANDIGARH: Continuing with lukewarm response to the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive, Punjab recorded coverage of 38% on Friday. With 21,329 registered healthcare workers getting themselves vaccinated so far out of a total of 57,168, the overall coverage stands at 37%. As per the health department’s target, as many as 22,912 healthcare workers were to be administered, the vaccine on 249 sites, but only 8,797 showed up to get jabs. Ludhiana recorded the highest turnout of 74% as 1,595 health workers were immunised out of 2,550. The coverage was 64% in Jalandhar, 62% in Hoshiarpur and 49% each in Mohali and Patiala. The lowest coverage was in Moga where only 7% — 51 out of 771 — received their first dose followed by Kapurthala, where the turnout was just 9%. In Mansa, 11% of healthcare workers scheduled to get their first dose showed up, 16% each in Fazilka and Fatehgarh Sahib, 19% each in Gurdaspur and Barnala, 21% in Ferozepur and 22% each in Sangrur and Pathankot. To help the health workers overcome their vaccine hesitancy, the Punjab government has launched an outreach programme. State’s Covid nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar shared that besides calling them, the health department is recording video messages of those who have got themselves vaccinated and sharing with remaining beneficiaries. 8 deaths, 224 fresh cases in PunjabPunjab reported eight deaths and 224 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday. According to health department’s data, two deaths each were reported in Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Tarn Taran and one each in Amritsar and Hoshiarpur. As many as 40 people were tested positive, 36 in Mohali, 28 in Jalandhar, 27 in Bathinda, 17 in Patiala, 14 in Amritsar, 10 each in Hoshiarpur and Nawanshahr, eight in Faridkot, six in Gurdaspur, five each in Sangrur and Kapurthala, four each in Pathankot, Fazilka and Fatehgarh Sahib, three in Ropar, two in Mansa and one in Tarn Taran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/38-healthcare-workers-get-first-vaccine-dose-on-day-5/articleshow/80414390.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan sees no deaths, third time in January||JAIPUR: For the third time in January, no Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state, while 201 fresh infections were witnessed on Friday. Earlier, on January 8 and January 15, no deaths were reported. Doctors attributed early detection of cases, medicinal protocol and investigations for the fall in cases. “The continuous dip in the mortality rate is a result of improved testing facility, early detection and conducive medicinal protocol. Remdesivir therapy, enhanced infrastructure in Jaipur and other parts of the state and most importantly public awareness has been helpful in bringing down the mortality,” said Dr. Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller of SMS Hospital. However, he warned that even in this scenario people should not be careless and continue following things like wearing masks, washing of hands and social distancing. Jaipur and Kota witnessed 41 fresh cases each and were followed by Jodhpur where 21 cases were reported and Nagaur 20. “There has been a continuous dip in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases and in this year so far the deaths too are ranging between three to 0 per day which is a good sign,” said Ravi Prakash Sharma, additional director, rural health. District like Bharatpur, Chittorgarh, Churu, Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jhunjhunu, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur and Tonk reported no fresh cases. The state now has 3,719 active cases out of which Jaipur has 766 cases followed by Kota with 461, Jodhpur 319 and Nagaur 283. “The occupancy at the hospitals for the Covid-19 patients has gone down to 2%,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-sees-no-deaths-third-time-in-jan/articleshow/80412744.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan sees no deaths, third time in January||JAIPUR: For the third time in January, no Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state, while 201 fresh infections were witnessed on Friday. Earlier, on January 8 and January 15, no deaths were reported. Doctors attributed early detection of cases, medicinal protocol and investigations for the fall in cases. “The continuous dip in the mortality rate is a result of improved testing facility, early detection and conducive medicinal protocol. Remdesivir therapy, enhanced infrastructure in Jaipur and other parts of the state and most importantly public awareness has been helpful in bringing down the mortality,” said Dr. Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller of SMS Hospital. However, he warned that even in this scenario people should not be careless and continue following things like wearing masks, washing of hands and social distancing. Jaipur and Kota witnessed 41 fresh cases each and were followed by Jodhpur where 21 cases were reported and Nagaur 20. “There has been a continuous dip in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases and in this year so far the deaths too are ranging between three to 0 per day which is a good sign,” said Ravi Prakash Sharma, additional director, rural health. District like Bharatpur, Chittorgarh, Churu, Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jhunjhunu, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur and Tonk reported no fresh cases. The state now has 3,719 active cases out of which Jaipur has 766 cases followed by Kota with 461, Jodhpur 319 and Nagaur 283. “The occupancy at the hospitals for the Covid-19 patients has gone down to 2%,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-sees-no-deaths-third-time-in-jan/articleshow/80416397.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan sees no deaths, third time in January||JAIPUR: For the third time in January, no Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state, while 201 fresh infections were witnessed on Friday. Earlier, on January 8 and January 15, no deaths were reported. Doctors attributed early detection of cases, medicinal protocol and investigations for the fall in cases. “The continuous dip in the mortality rate is a result of improved testing facility, early detection and conducive medicinal protocol. Remdesivir therapy, enhanced infrastructure in Jaipur and other parts of the state and most importantly public awareness has been helpful in bringing down the mortality,” said Dr. Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller of SMS Hospital. However, he warned that even in this scenario people should not be careless and continue following things like wearing masks, washing of hands and social distancing. Jaipur and Kota witnessed 41 fresh cases each and were followed by Jodhpur where 21 cases were reported and Nagaur 20. “There has been a continuous dip in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases and in this year so far the deaths too are ranging between three to 0 per day which is a good sign,” said Ravi Prakash Sharma, additional director, rural health. District like Bharatpur, Chittorgarh, Churu, Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jhunjhunu, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur and Tonk reported no fresh cases. The state now has 3,719 active cases out of which Jaipur has 766 cases followed by Kota with 461, Jodhpur 319 and Nagaur 283. “The occupancy at the hospitals for the Covid-19 patients has gone down to 2%,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-sees-no-deaths-third-time-in-jan/articleshow/80416396.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam police target weed smokers in bid to break supply chain||VISAKHAPATNAM: Reports of youngsters and students turning ganja peddlers are making Vizag police increase vigilance to curb the drug menace in the city. As part of this increased vigilance, police are now focussing on tracking consumers of the drug. Only a few days ago, Vizag police rounded up nine people for smoking marijuana across various places in the city. The accused were booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS). The worrying bit about this report is that seven out of the nine accused are below 25 years of age. Another group of young boys was also caught smoking weed near Dwarkanagar a few days ago. They were let go after counselling on their parents’ requests. While police have no data on the precise number of pot smokers in the city, they estimate that the number could be in the range of 5,000–6,000, a majority of them youngsters. Thus, in an attempt to break the chain between suppliers and consumers, police have now decided to nab consumers. For years, police focus on ganja smuggling has been centred on large-scale operations. The premise for this was it was difficult to track individuals using the drug in small quantities. Now, police have realised that it is regular consumers who are turning peddlers leading to rampant use of the drug in the city. Recent Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) raids have unearthed the wide and integrated smuggling network in the city. Every day around 20 kilos of ganja flows into the city. The weed passes through various routes, is packed in small sachets, with each sachet priced between Rs 100 and Rs 200, and eventually finding its way to youngsters including students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/police-target-weed-smokers-in-bid-to-break-supply-chain/articleshow/80412701.cms||Nalla.Babu
January 23, 2021||Chandigarh||446 blackbucks, 68 peacocks killed in 5 years in 4 Haryana districts: RTI reply||Hisar: A total of 2,682 wildlife animals and birds have been killed in the forest department’s Hisar division, which includes Hisar, Fatehabad, Sirsa and Bhiwani districts, from January 1, 2016, to December 31, 2020, according to an RTI reply to plea filed with the department. Wildlife who have been poached over these years include 411 blackbucks, 68 peacocks, and 35 chinkaras (Indian gazelle). The situation is so grave that chinkara now survives only in some numbers in the Bishnoi community-dominated Lilas and Sainivas villages of Bhiwani district. Prithvi Singh Bainiwal, state spokesperson of All India Zeev Raksha Bishnoi Sabha, said Haryana state president Vinod Kadwasra Baropal, who is trying to conserve wildlife, had filed an RTI plea about poached animals. He said other animals who have been killed include 74 monkeys, 2005 nilgais and 89 animals of other species. In Fatehabad district, 862 animals were killed — 176 blackbucks, 24 peacocks, 2 chinkaras, 32 monkeys, 605 nilgais and 23 other animals. The figure was 1,273 in Hisar, which included 216 blackbucks, 27 peacocks, 22 chinkaras, nine monkeys, 958 nilgais and 41 other animals. Also, 187 animals were killed in Sirsa, including 12 blackbucks, a peacock, five chinkaras, a monkey, 163 nilgais and five other animals. In Bhiwani, 360 animals were killed — seven blackbucks, 16 peacocks, 6 chinkaras, 32 monkeys, 279 nilgais and 20 other animals. Kadwasara said the figures only accounted for deaths recorded by the forest department and not of animals whose corpses had been disposed of by poachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/446-blackbucks-68-peacocks-killed-in-5-years-in-4-haryana-districts-rti-reply/articleshow/80413983.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Jaipur||Officials asked to invite tenders for demolition of structures in Jalupura||JAIPUR: Jaipur development commissioner Gaurav Goyal on Friday directed senior JDA officials to chalk out an action plan after inspecting the land of MLA houses in Lalkothi and Jalupura. Directing to invite tenders for demolition of the structures, Goyal said, “JDA is of the view that the development plan for Jalupura, which is on Mirza Ismail Road and Sansar Chandra Road, should be such that the area becomes a centre of attraction for tourists and residents. For this purpose, opinions will also be sought from public and experts will be consulted.” Lalkothi is predominantly a residential area where JDA will provide high-class housing plots with all facilities. This will provide a golden opportunity to those who want to build a house in the heart of Jaipur. An amount of Rs 250 crore will be transferred by the JDA to Rajasthan Housing Board for construction of MLA Housing in Vidhan Sabha Nagar (West). The first installment of Rs 50 crore has been transferred by the JDA to the housing board, so that there is no obstruction in the construction. The remaining amount will be transferred by JDA in the next three years. As per the policy decision, MLA houses are being constructed in Vidhan Sabha Nagar West (West) by Rajasthan Housing Board and will auction the land of MLA houses in Lalkothi (East) and Jalupura by JDA. Since RHB specializes in housing construction and JDA has expertise in planning and developing land, both the departments will work together.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/officials-asked-to-invite-tenders-for-demolition-of-structures-in-jalupura/articleshow/80412700.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Nagpur||Less than 50% of Daga Hospital staffers take jab||Nagpur: Less than 50% staff of the Daga Maternity Hospital who registered for Covid vaccination took the jab over the five allotted days, with Friday being the last day. Following a low turnout here, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Friday sent health care workers of Mental Hospital and private hospitals to be vaccinated at the centre.The state government had approved only five as against the earlier planned 60 centres in the city. The civic body had selected the state government-run Daga Hospital among the five. The idea was to vaccinate the health care workers of this hospital who have handle pregnant women and newborn, both high risk categories for the coronavirus.Doctors, nurses, technicians and attendants were among the 452 working in the hospital. The vaccination commenced on January 16. 53 of the targeted 100 staff took the jab on Day 1, 32 on Day 2, 37 on Day 3 and 40 on Day 4 for a total of 162 as against the targeted 400. On Friday, 67 were vaccinated with some from the hospital and others from Mental and private hospitals.Only around 200 (44.25%) of the 452 from Daga have got vaccinated.From private hospitals, ophthalmologist and Rajya Sabha MP Dr Vikas Mahatma turned up for the inoculation along with his wife Dr Sunita and son Dr Chinmay. He happens to be first public representative to take the jab among health care workers.A doctor from Daga Hospital told TOI that around 10% staff refused to take the jab “while others could not turn up for various reasons”.NMC officials said that the hospital is likely to submit a second list of 74 health care workers. “They will be covered in the drive over the next couple of days,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/less-than-50-of-daga-hospital-staffers-take-jab/articleshow/80412747.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 23, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan sees no deaths, third time in January||JAIPUR: For the third time in January, no Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state, while 201 fresh infections were witnessed on Friday. Earlier, on January 8 and January 15, no deaths were reported. Doctors attributed early detection of cases, medicinal protocol and investigations for the fall in cases. “The continuous dip in the mortality rate is a result of improved testing facility, early detection and conducive medicinal protocol. Remdesivir therapy, enhanced infrastructure in Jaipur and other parts of the state and most importantly public awareness has been helpful in bringing down the mortality,” said Dr. Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller of SMS Hospital. However, he warned that even in this scenario people should not be careless and continue following things like wearing masks, washing of hands and social distancing. Jaipur and Kota witnessed 41 fresh cases each and were followed by Jodhpur where 21 cases were reported and Nagaur 20. “There has been a continuous dip in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases and in this year so far the deaths too are ranging between three to 0 per day which is a good sign,” said Ravi Prakash Sharma, additional director, rural health. District like Bharatpur, Chittorgarh, Churu, Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jhunjhunu, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur and Tonk reported no fresh cases. The state now has 3,719 active cases out of which Jaipur has 766 cases followed by Kota with 461, Jodhpur 319 and Nagaur 283. “The occupancy at the hospitals for the Covid-19 patients has gone down to 2%,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-sees-no-deaths-third-time-in-jan/articleshow/80416398.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai couple moves HC to get ‘adopted’ baby from CWC||MUMBAI: A city couple on Friday alleged the child welfare committee (CWC) took away their “adopted” infant and kept her in “illegal detention”. They have sought orders to be reunited with the baby, now aged two. The childless couple said they had adopted a newborn from a single woman under provisions of Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act (HAMA) through an adoption deed in January 2019. That June, CWC filed a criminal case against them and “immediately took” the child from their legal custody, they alleged. Currently, the child is being looked after by a trust that runs a “specialised adoption agency”, said their petition. CWC is a statutory body set up under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection ) Act as an authority to deal with children in care of protection. The petition alleged CWC has acted “arbitrarily” and “high-handedly” out of “mere ignorance of law” six months after the child was “adopted”. Parting the child has deprived her of her fundamental right to life as well as “love and affection of the adoptive parents,’’ said the couple. The couple filed a habeas corpus petition (to seek production of somebody from illegal detention or custody) through advocate Siddharth Jagushte and senior counsel Raja Thakare. The advocates mentioned it before a Bombay high court bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale at a virtual hearing on Friday. The biological mother, represented by advocate Tusshar Nirbhavane, used to work as a domestic help and had entered into the ‘adoption deed’’, is the contention. The couple said they performed a handing over ceremony for the child. Thakare said two important legal questions are involved, including whether adoption under HAMA can be “trifled with’’ when JJ Act recognises it and if Section 80 can be invoked when a valid adoption deed exists. The bench issued a notice to CWC, Mumbai suburban district, and posted the matter to February 5 for detailed hearing. The couple sought custody and also interim orders for daily access to the two-year-old.  The petition says applications filed by both the “adoptive father” and the biological mother for access and custody were rejected by CWC, thus the child spent the pandemic in a centre.  In June 2019, CWC had registered a criminal case at Amboli police station under Section 80 of JJ Act. It alleged failure to follow a proper adoption procedure under the Act and that the couple offered Rs 20,000 to the mother for medical expenses. The petitioners said the mother who also had a “medical history’’ suggested they who had cared and financially assisted with childbirth may adopt the child. CWC, though, said the adoption deed is illegal and not registered. After the FIR, CWC took custody of the child, said the petition. Thakare said the questions raised are whether, given section 56 (3) of JJ Act, can legal rights conferred by HAMA be trifled with especially “to the detriment of the best interests and fundamental rights of an adoptive minor thus depriving her from love, affection, care and comfort of the adoptive parents.’’ Section 56(3) of JJ Act categorically says its provisions would not apply to adoption under HAMA. Thakare said there are several Supreme Court Judgements to back the petitioners’ case. Section 80 of JJ Act provides that “if any person or organization offers, gives or receives any orphan, abandoned or surrendered child, for adoption without following provisions or procedure under the Act’’ can be punished for up to three years’ imprisonment or fine of Rs 1 lakh or both. The FIR is “vague’’ to “falsely implicate’’ them and discloses no offence, said the petition. The other question said the petition is whether provisions of section 80 of the JJ Act can be invoked by the CWC when there exists “a valid adoption deed entered into between the biological mother and legally fit adoptive parents”?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/couple-moves-hc-to-get-adopted-baby-from-cwc/articleshow/80411596.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 23, 2021||Jaipur||JMC to give licences to different businesses in Jaipur||JAIPUR: The cash-strapped Jaipur Municipal Corporation, (JMC) Greater, has now decided to regulate different varieties of trades. According to a new plan JMC has divided the trades in different categories that would include coaching centres, hospitals, commercial complexes, tobacco shops and other trades to which now corporations will issue licences. Under the new plan, different rules and regulations for different trades have been formulated. For the first time, tobacco shops and shanti owners will also be included in this. Till now, tobacco was sold in shops, street vendors and shanties without any regulations, but with licences now even small shop owners will come under the purview of the corporation. Naveen Bhardhwaj, deputy revenue commissioner, JMC, said, “There is a need to divide these trades in different segments so that rules for each can be drafted according to which licence fees can be charged. We will regulate the functioning of coaching institutes and tobacco shop owners as well who did not deposit any form of fees till now.” There are hundreds of coaching institutes in the city and many more coming up. However, there is no provision in the corporation under which they would are required to get a licence. Now, with the new rules, they will be dealt with separately. Moreover, JMC do not have any data of how many businesses are functioning in the city and it is expected that more than one lakh businesses will come under the purview of JMC. The corporation will organise camps at zonal level to register these businesses after a gazette notification has been issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-to-give-licences-to-different-businesses-in-city/articleshow/80412715.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Nagpur||Fadnavis slams MVA govt for no FIR in Bhandara case||Nagpur: Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, now leader of opposition in the assembly, took a dig at the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government for not registering an offence in the Bhandara district general hospital fire case even two weeks after the incident. The fire had claimed 10 premature babies in the Sick Newborn Care Unit of the hospital.Sources stated state director general of police (DGP), Hemant Nagrale, is set to visit Bhandara on Saturday.Fadnavis is set to launch an agitation in the district on January 25 during which he would raise the FIR issue. The local BJP unit, which had called one-day bandh after the incident, is gearing up to stage intense agitation under Fadnavis.The ex-CM, who also helmed the home department during the BJP-led government rule, claimed that police is working under government pressure. “Police must register the FIR without delay. From their approach so far, it seems police are concluding the incident to be an accident which is not right at this stage,” he said. “Even if the accident had happened due to human error or negligence, the investigating agency must incorporate the finding in the charge sheet,” said Fadnavis who also stated that there are several aspects to the incident which needs to be probed. He also said police should not close the case as an accident. Fadnavis said the government itself may not be inclined to allowing criminal proceedings in the case. “One of the files (proposal for fire maintenance and audit) was delayed by the health department for six months. It is making the government feel insecure about the criminal proceedings as it may boomerang on them,” he said. After a high-level inquiry committee submitted its report earlier this week, the government suspended the Bhandara district civil surgeon (CS), medical officer and in-charge sister, terminated services of three contract staff besides transferring the additional CS.Police department had been stating it is waiting for the committee report before proceeding with its action. It is reliably learnt that the Bhandara police are still clueless about the report which is yet to reach them. “We will take the decision about the FIR soon,” said SP Bhandara, Vasant Jadhav.Sources stated police are also yet to get the laboratory and forensic reports which would have to be considered while filing the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fadnavis-slams-mva-govt-for-no-fir-in-bhandara-case/articleshow/80412761.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: 68.42% turnout on Day 4 of vaccination drive||JAIPUR: The Covid-19 vaccination drive which resumed on Friday after a gap of two days gathered some pace. On the fourth day, 68.42% of health workers turned up for the vaccination, out of which 69.41% took Covishield and 38.45% Covaxin. Ajmer achieved 101.57% of its target, while Pratapgarh logged merely 39%. Health authorities were satisfied with the outcome as compared to vaccination on January 19 which was 54.19%. The vaccination was done online as Co-WIN application worked without any glitch. The Co-WIN application also gives an intimation to the beneficiary on completion of his first dose of vaccine. “We had 700 health workers registered for the vaccination in Ajmer, however, we were able administer dose to 711,” said an officer with the CMHO office. However, the tribal-dominated district Pratapgarh could merely achieve 39% of their total target of 300 beneficiaries. There has been ups and downs in the Covid inoculation drive since it was started on January 16. “On Day 1 of drive, the achievement of target in the state was 73.7%, on Day 2 of the vaccination drive on January 18, the achievement of target was 68.7% and on Day 3, on January 19, it has gone down to 54.8%. “But on Friday it has increased again. Gradually, fear among the health workers is fading away,” said an officer. The number of healthcare workers who got the vaccine was 12,258 which reduced to 11,288 on Day 2 and on Day 3, the number of health care workers was 8,833. “On Friday, 11,340 health workers got vaccinated out of total 16,314 registered beneficiaries,” said an officer while quoting the figures of vaccination. However, the average percentage of the vaccination till the completion of fourth day is 66.52%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/68-42-turnout-on-day-4-of-vaccination-drive/articleshow/80416419.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 68.42% turnout on Day 4 of vaccination drive||JAIPUR: The Covid-19 vaccination drive which resumed on Friday after a gap of two days gathered some pace. On the fourth day, 68.42% of health workers turned up for the vaccination, out of which 69.41% took Covishield and 38.45% Covaxin. Ajmer achieved 101.57% of its target, while Pratapgarh logged merely 39%. Health authorities were satisfied with the outcome as compared to vaccination on January 19 which was 54.19%. The vaccination was done online as Co-WIN application worked without any glitch. The Co-WIN application also gives an intimation to the beneficiary on completion of his first dose of vaccine. “We had 700 health workers registered for the vaccination in Ajmer, however, we were able administer dose to 711,” said an officer with the CMHO office. However, the tribal-dominated district Pratapgarh could merely achieve 39% of their total target of 300 beneficiaries. There has been ups and downs in the Covid inoculation drive since it was started on January 16. “On Day 1 of drive, the achievement of target in the state was 73.7%, on Day 2 of the vaccination drive on January 18, the achievement of target was 68.7% and on Day 3, on January 19, it has gone down to 54.8%. “But on Friday it has increased again. Gradually, fear among the health workers is fading away,” said an officer. The number of healthcare workers who got the vaccine was 12,258 which reduced to 11,288 on Day 2 and on Day 3, the number of health care workers was 8,833. “On Friday, 11,340 health workers got vaccinated out of total 16,314 registered beneficiaries,” said an officer while quoting the figures of vaccination. However, the average percentage of the vaccination till the completion of fourth day is 66.52%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/68-42-turnout-on-day-4-of-vaccination-drive/articleshow/80412767.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Chandigarh||HC reunites Rohingya refugee with son ‘lodged’ in Asr Jail||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court intervention helped a Rohingya refugee reunite with her son who was “illegally” confined in Amritsar jail. The high court has directed the Punjab government to send the 24-year-old Rohingya refugee from Amritsar jail to Chandeni Rohingya refugee camp in Haryana’s Nuh district, where his mother and other family members live as refugees. Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill passed the order while hearing a habeas corpus petition filed by Julaha alias Julaha Yusuf, a Rohingya refugee registered with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). The 48-year-old petitioner had escaped to India from Myanmar in 2008 and has lived in India ever since. In her plea, she said her son Sayedul Amin alias Said Ulla Amin alias Saidul was wrongly involved in a cheating and forgery case registered at Sujanpur police station in Pathankot. After facing trial, he was acquitted of all charges on November 26, 2019, by the Pathankot trial court. However, he was not released by the authorities and remained confined in Amritsar central jail. The HC was also informed that during his detention in Amritsar, he was attacked inside the jail for which an FIR was registered on April 24, 2020. In her habeas corpus petition, she sought directions to produce her son and to set him at liberty. However, during the arguments, her counsel confined his submissions to the relief of transfer of the petitioner’s son from Amritsar to Chandeni Rohingya refugee camp. It was submitted that both should be kept at one place till they are deported. Her counsel also contended that the Supreme Court has held that the right to life and liberty provided under Article 21 of the Constitution applies to all, irrespective of the fact whether they are citizens of India or aliens. The counsel submitted that various high courts have liberally adopted the rules of natural justice to refugee issues along with recognition of the UNHCR as playing an important role in the protection of refugees. Responding to the plea, additional solicitor general of India Satya Pal Jain, representing the Union government, informed that the ministry of home affairs has no objection in case the 24-year-old is transferred from Amritsar to Nuh camp provided the state of Punjab, where the petitioner’s son is presently kept, as well as the state of Haryana, where the petitioner’s son is to be transferred, do not have any objection. The counsel representing Punjab and Haryana expressed no-objections from the both the states. On this, the HC ordered the ADGP (prisons) Punjab to shift the petitioner’s son from Amritsar to Rohingya camp in Nuh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-reunites-rohingya-refugee-with-son-lodged-in-asr-jail/articleshow/80414400.cms||Ajay Sura
January 23, 2021||Chandigarh||62k inoculated in Haryana so far; Ggn, F’bad on top||Chandigarh: Haryana’s vaccination count on Friday reached 62,142, as total 15,961 persons got vaccine’s first dose at 256 session sites across the state. Like Covid-19 count, Gurgaon and Faridabad districts have topped the table in the vaccination jabs as well. On Friday, 53 persons across the state showed minor ‘adverse effect following immunisation’ (AEFI) and their condition is said to be stable. As many as 3,278 persons were vaccinated at 34 session sites in Gurgaon, while 1,809 persons were vaccinated at 19 sites in Faridabad. Bhiwani had 1,536 vaccinations on 20 session sites, Kurukshetra had 916 vaccination at 10 sites, and Karnal reported 783 vaccination on 12 sites. Nuh reported the lowest count of 103 jabs at nine sites. “We have seen a continues increase and Haryana is doing much better than other states so far as vaccination is concerned. Here we are not having daily target but an overall target,” said a senior official from the National Health Mission in Haryana. NHM is the state nodal agency for the immunisation. AEFI cases were almost negligible and they remained under observation for couple of hours, added official. On Covid-19 new cases front, Haryana recorded the 120 new cases and five deaths. Also, 209 persons were recovered during the day. SO far, Haryana has reported total 2,66,939 cases, 3,005 deaths and 2,62,349 recoveries. There are total 1,585 active cases across the state, including 55 critical cases. The state has recorded a recovery rate of 98.28%, Covid-19 positive rate of 5.30% and death rate of 1.13%. A total of 20,427 tests during the day has pushed the testing rate to 1,98,911 tests per million per day and the doubling rate has further gone up to 111 days. Gurgaon and Faridabad districts have reported highest 24 and 25 cases respectively. While rest 20 districts have reported 15 cases or less including five such districts where zero cases were registered. Two deaths have been reported from Kaithal while one death has been reported from Panipat, Yamunanagar and Jhajjar districts. Among the districts which reported zero cases were: Panipat, Jhajjar, Fatehabad, Nuh and Charkhi Dadri districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/62k-inoculated-in-haryana-so-far-ggn-fbad-on-top/articleshow/80414396.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan: 68.42% turnout on Day 4 of vaccination drive||JAIPUR: The Covid-19 vaccination drive which resumed on Friday after a gap of two days gathered some pace. On the fourth day, 68.42% of health workers turned up for the vaccination, out of which 69.41% took Covishield and 38.45% Covaxin. Ajmer achieved 101.57% of its target, while Pratapgarh logged merely 39%. Health authorities were satisfied with the outcome as compared to vaccination on January 19 which was 54.19%. The vaccination was done online as Co-WIN application worked without any glitch. The Co-WIN application also gives an intimation to the beneficiary on completion of his first dose of vaccine. “We had 700 health workers registered for the vaccination in Ajmer, however, we were able administer dose to 711,” said an officer with the CMHO office. However, the tribal-dominated district Pratapgarh could merely achieve 39% of their total target of 300 beneficiaries. There has been ups and downs in the Covid inoculation drive since it was started on January 16. “On Day 1 of drive, the achievement of target in the state was 73.7%, on Day 2 of the vaccination drive on January 18, the achievement of target was 68.7% and on Day 3, on January 19, it has gone down to 54.8%. “But on Friday it has increased again. Gradually, fear among the health workers is fading away,” said an officer. The number of healthcare workers who got the vaccine was 12,258 which reduced to 11,288 on Day 2 and on Day 3, the number of health care workers was 8,833. “On Friday, 11,340 health workers got vaccinated out of total 16,314 registered beneficiaries,” said an officer while quoting the figures of vaccination. However, the average percentage of the vaccination till the completion of fourth day is 66.52%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/68-42-turnout-on-day-4-of-vaccination-drive/articleshow/80416420.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Kolhapur||Two killed in road accident near Nerle||Kolhapur: Two people were killed and nine others were injured when a jeep they were travelling in turned turtle near Nerle on Mumbai-Bengaluru national highway on Friday afternoon. Police said the family was going to Pune by a jeep when its tire burst near Datta Bhuwan at Nerle. Following which, the vehicle turned turtle. Sangli police have identified the deceased as Shrikant Annappa Kumbhar (50), a resident of Miraj, and Swapnali Pramoo Kumbhar (35), a resident of Ichalkaranji. Shrikant Kumbhar was driving the vehicle. The injured have been admitted to a hospital in Islampur.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/two-killed-in-road-accident-near-nerle/articleshow/80410753.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Nagpur||More takers for Covaxin on Day 5||Nagpur: Two inoculation centres in Vidarbha, where Covaxin is being administered, received better response from doctors and health workers on Friday as compared to the initial days.In Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) at Nagpur, 59 persons received Covaxin jabs, while in Amravati district general hospital, 103 got Covaxin dose against 100 registrations for the day.In Nagpur, doctors and health workers only from the GMCH are allowed to get vaccinated at this centre. As per government directives, others like private doctors and health workers from different government hospitals are not allowed to take Covaxin in GMCH. As a result, the number of beneficiaries was limited to 59.A senior official supervising the vaccination in GMCH told TOI that 214 health workers have received the Covaxin jab in last five days against the total target of 563 till date. “More than 70% of these beneficiaries are doctors, while others are health workers. This indicates that doctors have no problem with Covaxin,” said the official.In Amravati, civil surgeon Dr Shyamsunder Nikam ensured registration of 150 health workers against the day’s target of 100. Here, 103 persons took the vaccine jab.Several private doctors in the city have expressed their readiness to get Covaxin jabs. Infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said Covaxin is equally safe and if he gets the option, he will go for Covaxin. Senior IMA functionary and consulting sexologist Dr Sanjay Deshpande, who got Covaxin jab on Wednesday, said the vaccine is completely safe. “Neither me, nor many others who got Covaxin along with me experienced any adverse symptoms,” he said.Covaxin, India’s only indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, has been developed by Hyderabad headquartered Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research’s National Institute of Virology, Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-takers-for-covaxin-on-day-5/articleshow/80412786.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 23, 2021||Chandigarh||‘U’ Grade if students fail to take EST||Chandigarh: Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Patiala, has informed the Punjab and Haryana high court that students who do not appear in any of the forthcoming end semester terminal examination (EST) of engineering courses commencing from January 25 would be awarded a ‘U’ Grade (unattempt grade). The HC has also been informed that students belonging to other states in which no dedicated examination centre has been set up and if they were to travel to Patiala, with a recent Covid-19 negative report, they would be accommodated and afforded hostel facility to facilitate their participation in the EST. This information was provided by the institute on Friday, in response to a petition filed by several students challenging its move to hold offline examination from January 25. However, after placing on record the submissions made by the registrar of the institute through their counsel, the HC disposed of the matter. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/u-grade-if-students-fail-to-take-est/articleshow/80414401.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||4 million doses of vaccine flown to Brazil, Morocco from Mumbai airport||MUMBAI: Two million doses of Covishield vaccine were flown to Brazil on Emirates Sky Cargo and another two million doses to Morocco on Royal Air Maroc from Mumbai airport early on Friday, an airport spokesperson said. Mumbai airport is the first airport in the country to export the vaccine to international destinations, said a Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) spokesperson, adding that as of January 22, the airport facilitated movement of over 14 million doses of Covishield vaccine across international and domestic destinations. Made in India vaccines arrive at Brazil airport. (Picture credit: ANI)An aviation source said, “Among these were 1.5 lakh doses to Bhutan, 1 lakh to Maldives, 20 lakh to Dhaka, 10 lakh to Kathmandu, 15 lakh to Rangoon, 50,000 to Seychelles and 1 lakh to Mauritius.” The airport, which handles the largest portion of EXIM pharmaceutical air cargo movements in the country, has been handling 40-50 tons of vaccines per day. Currently, Mumbai airport witnesses an average of 15 cargo flights a day and handles an average of 800 tons of export and 700 tons of import cargo in a day, the spokesperson said. “The airport offers direct cargo connectivity to major destinations such as Europe, America, Middle East, Africa, Japan, China, Hong Kong and Singapore, and 60 domestic cities wherein it connects within 10 hours to Europe, 15 hours to America, 5.5 hours to the Far East and 5.5 hours to African destinations,’’ the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/4mn-doses-of-vaccine-flown-to-brazil-morocco-from-mum-airport/articleshow/80412878.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan: 68.42% turnout on Day 4 of vaccination drive||JAIPUR: The Covid-19 vaccination drive which resumed on Friday after a gap of two days gathered some pace. On the fourth day, 68.42% of health workers turned up for the vaccination, out of which 69.41% took Covishield and 38.45% Covaxin. Ajmer achieved 101.57% of its target, while Pratapgarh logged merely 39%. Health authorities were satisfied with the outcome as compared to vaccination on January 19 which was 54.19%. The vaccination was done online as Co-WIN application worked without any glitch. The Co-WIN application also gives an intimation to the beneficiary on completion of his first dose of vaccine. “We had 700 health workers registered for the vaccination in Ajmer, however, we were able administer dose to 711,” said an officer with the CMHO office. However, the tribal-dominated district Pratapgarh could merely achieve 39% of their total target of 300 beneficiaries. There has been ups and downs in the Covid inoculation drive since it was started on January 16. “On Day 1 of drive, the achievement of target in the state was 73.7%, on Day 2 of the vaccination drive on January 18, the achievement of target was 68.7% and on Day 3, on January 19, it has gone down to 54.8%. “But on Friday it has increased again. Gradually, fear among the health workers is fading away,” said an officer. The number of healthcare workers who got the vaccine was 12,258 which reduced to 11,288 on Day 2 and on Day 3, the number of health care workers was 8,833. “On Friday, 11,340 health workers got vaccinated out of total 16,314 registered beneficiaries,” said an officer while quoting the figures of vaccination. However, the average percentage of the vaccination till the completion of fourth day is 66.52%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/68-42-turnout-on-day-4-of-vaccination-drive/articleshow/80416418.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Visakhapatnam||2kg weed oil, 100kg dry ganja seized in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizag city police seized over two kilos of weed oil and arrested one person when he was transporting the substance near Marripalem under Airport police station limits. The arrested was identified as Sedengi Chandra Mohan (32), a native of G Madugula in Vizag Agency. In another case, Duvvada police arrested six persons and seized over 100 kilos of dry ganja worth over Rs 2 lakh, four mobile phones, and Rs 5,000 cash. Police said the accused are from Maharashtra and daily wage workers in Vizag. They procured the weed from parts of Vizag Agency to transport to Mumbai by road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/2kg-weed-oil-100kg-dry-ganja-seized/articleshow/80412745.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Kolhapur||Satara reports 67 cases, 33 patients in Solapur rural||Kolhapur: Satara district reported 67 fresh Covid cases and two deaths since Thursday late night, taking the total number of cases to 55,879. The death toll has now gone up to 1,809. Satara tehsil added 15 new cases, Koregaon and Maan tehsils reported 10 cases each, Jawli and Wai tehsil identified eight cases each, five people tested positive in Khandala among others. A 75-year-old man from Jawli tehsil and a 68-year-old woman from Koregaon tehsil succumbed to Covid. As many as 53,310 patients have recovered from the contagion while 760 are undergoing treatment. 99 active cases in Kolhapur Kolhapur district reported 24 fresh Covid cases on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 49,834. The district recorded no deaths on Friday. The death toll stands at 1,715. The number of active cases dropped to 99 after 22 patients recovered on Friday. As many as 48,020 patients have recovered so far in the district. 21 cases in Solapur city Solapur city reported 21 Covid cases and 12 patients were discharged after recovering on Friday. No Covid death was recorded in the city. The city has 11,613 patients so far, of them, 627 have died due to Covid, 327 are currently undergoing treatment and 10,659 patients have recovered. Solapur rural reported 33 new cases and 61 patients were discharged on Friday. A 74-year-old man from Sangola tehsil succumbed to Covid. The rural areas have registered 39,221 cases, including 1,152 deaths, 426 active cases and 37,643 recoveries. Sangli adds 22 cases Sangli district reported 22 fresh cases of Covid. Sangli recorded no deaths on Friday. The active cases in the district reduced to 162. The district has reported 47,988 patients, of them, 1,745 have succumbed to the infection while 46,081 have been treated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-reports-67-cases-33-patients-in-solapur-rural/articleshow/80410759.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Kolkata||Education department seeks West Bengal CM's nod for February school reopening||KOLKATA: The school education department has sent a note to chief minister Mamata Banerjee in favour of re-opening schools from February after an 11-month closure. According to sources, the note states that all schools are prepared to open the campuses and have not only sanitized the premises, but they have also readied SOP, including phased re-introduction of classes, beginning with boards students and gradually moving to lower classes. “The department has told the CM that schools are ready and that all precautions have been taken for a safe and phased reopening. Once a green signal is given, schools will be able to allow students back on campus by maintaining all Covid protocols,” said a school education department official. He added that education minister Partha Chatterjee had already briefed the CM, who had assured that a decision would be taken soon. Another senior official said schools would in all likelihood be allowed to start functioning from February, beginning with senior class students. Several institutes are gearing up for such an eventuality. La Maritiere for Boys principal John Rafi has sent a notice to parents of students appearing for ISC exams this year, informing them the campus would gradually open from February 3, first for practical classes and then pre-board pen-and-paper exams. Practical classes for physics, chemistry, biology and computer science will be held at the school labs from February 3 to 12. La Martiniere for Girls principal Rupkatha Sarkar has told teachers about a possible re-opening in early February. The teachers have informally passed on the message to students. Several other schools also hope to open their campuses in February, both for practical classes and pre-board exams. But they are waiting for the state government to announce the reopening date before they fix a schedule. Don Bosco School Park Circus had sent mails to parents of classes X and XII students, asking them if they would allow their kids to go to school for pre-board exams in February. “Most parents were reluctant. So we held online exams in January,” said principal Fr Bikash Mondal. St James’ School has, however, put pre-board exams on hold for now, hoping the state would allow schools to reopen soon. Principal T H Ireland said he would not hold pre-board exams till ICSE and ISC schedules were announced. “As the board exams will be a pen-and-paper test, the pre-board should also be in the same medium,” he said. Bobby Baxter, principal of Julian Day School Ganganagar, has deferred the pre-board exams by a month. “From January 4, we are holding only theory exams online. The practical exams will be held in February or at a time when the campuses reopen after securing the state’s approval,” Baxter said. South City International School principal John Bagul said the school had started holding theory papers online for board examinees. It, too, will wait for the state nod before calling students for practical classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/edu-dept-seeks-cm-nod-for-feb-school-reopening/articleshow/80412854.cms||Somdatta Basu
January 23, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Govt permits VMRDA to cancel land allotment||Visakhapatnam: The government on Friday permitted the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) to cancel land allotment to the extent of 31.3 acres made to L&T Vision Ventures Limited in Kommadi in 2008. The urban development authority will also reimburse the amount paid by the developer. The erstwhile Visakhapatnam Urban Development Authority (Vuda) inked an agreement with L&T Vision Ventures for the development of a housing project in public-private partnership model about 14 years ago. The firm paid Rs 6.24 crore to Vuda but the project got delayed. As per the government order released Friday, the government received a number of petitions mentioning the land was allotted at a very low price, causing financial loss to the exchequer. “As the land value is arrived through auction in 2008 and the developer is expected to sell the developed land at today’s market rates, but not at the rates of 2008, the present market value of the land has to be reassessed. Government, after careful examination of the matter, hereby permits the VMRDA to cancel the land allotment,” states the government order. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-permits-vmrda-to-cancel-land-allotment/articleshow/80412787.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: 19-year-old stabs father to death in Junagadh district||RAJKOT: In a gruesome incident, a 50-year-old man was stabbed to death by his son in Juthal village in Maliya Hatina taluka of Junagadh district late on Thursday night over a domestic dispute. According to the police, the deceased, who was identified as Meraman Kathad, was hacked to death by his 19-year-old son, Govind, at around 9:30 pm over a grudge against his father who had lodged a complaint against him a few days ago. The police had summoned Govind on Thursday for questioning. An irate Govind created a ruckus with his mother Vijaya, over some domestic matters and when Meraman came to intervene and pacify his son, Govind got even more agitated and in blind rage stabbed his father with a knife. Meraman died on the spot. Police have detained Govind and further probe in on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/19-year-old-stabs-55-year-old-father-to-death/articleshow/80412395.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Surat||Illegal liquor sale racket busted||Surat: In a major crackdown on the illegal supply of liquor in the union territory (UT) Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH), police seized a huge cache worth Rs 21 lakh on Friday. According to the police, the raid was conducted under the supervision of superintendent of police, DNH and Sub Divisional Police Office at Kherdi village in Silvassa. Special branch team kept a track on illegal activities related to illegal liquor sale and supply. In-charge special branch assistant sub-inspector A R Vadaviya said, “About 454 boxes of various whiskey brands were seized from Kherdi village. There was specific information that an illegal supply and sale of liquor was being done.” Vadaviya said the liquor bottles were loaded in the tempo and the consignment was to be supplied outside the territory. The racket was run by Pandu Manju Gutiya, resident of Kherdi Maragpada in Silvassa; Chinu alias Chinyo Keshav Patel, a resident of Daman. Intimation of the illegal liquor sale racket was passed on to the central excise department for further inquiry and action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/illegal-liquor-sale-racket-busted/articleshow/80412835.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Jaipur||I-T raids: Unaccounted income of Rs 1,600 crore unearthed in Jaipur||JAIPUR: In a search and survey conducted by the Income Tax department at nearly 31 premises of prominent builders and jewellers unaccounted and unrecorded transactions exceeding to Rs 1,600 crore have been unearthed. Sleuths of the I-T department on Friday stated that the searches are on and on the conclusion the figure of unrecorded transactions may go up. Divulging the details of the raids, senior officers of the department stated that one of the groups is a prominent builder, developer and colonizer in Jaipur. “During the search, a plethora of incriminating documents and digital data in the form of unaccounted receipts, unexplained development expenses, unexplained assets, cash loans and advances, on-money receipts were found and seized. The highlight of the search was that complete details of unaccounted transactions of the last 6-7 years of this group maintained in several registers, slip pads, day-to-day cash book, expense sheets and diaries hidden in the basement were unearthed and seized from the main business premises. Total unaccounted transactions amounting to Rs 650 crore have been detected, so far in this group,” said a senior officer. The second group is a multi-venture activity group engaged in the business of precious and semi-precious stones, jewellery, antiques, handicrafts, carpets, textiles etc. “During the course of search operation, a concealed cavity was detected by the team at the main business premises of the assessee. The entire details of unaccounted manufacturing activity of gold and silver ornaments for the last six years were found from the said cavity. Documents relating to benami property amounting to Rs 15 crore were also found from the secret chamber,” the officer added. The jeweller group also had advanced unaccounted cash loans to various persons amounting to Rs 122.67 crore and is also earning unaccounted interest on the same. The third group is a renowned builder and developer of Jaipur engaged in the development of commercial centres, farm houses, townships and residential enclaves. “The group had also advanced unaccounted cash loans to various persons amounting to Rs 19 crore and is earning unaccounted interest on the same. Thus, total unaccounted transactions amounting to Rs 225 crore have been detected, so far,” said an officer. “In all, unaccounted & unrecorded transactions exceeding Rs 1,600 crore have been unearthed so far,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/i-t-raids-unaccounted-income-of-rs-1600-crore-unearthed/articleshow/80412789.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Injured jumbo dies after burning tyre thrown on its head, 2 arrested||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Two men were arrested on Friday for throwing a burning tyre on a wild tusker to chase it away from their illegal homestay at Masinagudi in the Nilgiris, their horrific act captured on video that went viral on social media. The elephant, which could be seen running away with its head on fire, had died on Tuesday after the burns added to the injuries it carried. The forest department had been treating the tusker since November for a deep wound on its back that had become infested with maggots. It’s only after the video went viral on Friday that forest officials realized the injury to the elephant’s ears had been inflicted by humans. Inquiries led them to Mavanallah near Masinagudi, and to the arrest of S Prasath, 36, and M Raymond Dean, 26. Raymond’s brother, M Nikki Rayan, 31, is absconding. Forest officials said on the night of January 3, the accused had thrown the burning tyre at the 50-year-old tusker to chase it away from a building in the buffer zone of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR), where new year revellers were illegally staying. The tusker had become used to human presence as forest officials had been treating it with oral medicines since November when they found it with the deep wound on its back. “It could have been caused either in a fight with another elephant or by a sharp tree branch. It may have started as a small hole, gotten infected and gotten deeper as maggots fed on it,” said a forest official. Last month, the forest department had even tranquilized the elephant and treated its injuries. Earlier this month, they found the elephant had lost part of a ear and blood was oozing from its head. Since the wound on its back was also festering, forest officials decided to tranquilize the tusker and shift it to the Theppakadu elephant camp for further treatment. “The tusker was alive till it reached Theppakadu. Just before entering the camp it breathed its last”, said L C S Srikanth, deputy director of Mudumalai Tiger reserve. Watch Shocking! Burning object thrown at elephant in Tamil Nadu’s Masinagudi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/jumbo-death-2-held-for-throwing-burning-tyre/articleshow/80412827.cms||Shantha Thiagarajan
January 23, 2021||Kolhapur||Efforts to dislodge MVA govt in state on from Day 1, says Pawar||Kolhapur: NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Friday said attempts had been made in Delhi and Mumbai to dislodge the MVA government in Maharashtra since the day of its inception. “I have no doubt that this government will complete its five-year term despite all such attempts,” he told the media here. Over the pending files of recommendations made by the MVA government to nominate members to the legislative council, Pawar said, “In my entire political career, I have never seen recommendations made by a chief minister after taking the Cabinet’s consent to be rejected or kept pending by the governor's office. Let’s see what happens further.” The NCP chief said the Centre’s plan to provide security to BJP leaders in Maharashtra after the MVA government removing or downgrading their security cover “is an infringement on the state’s authority over law and order”. He said, “The Centre has never provided security cover to the state leaders. It is an infringement on the state’s rights. The state government had removed or downgraded the security cover of some leaders based on the threat perceptions studied by top police officers.” On the fire that broke out at Serum Institute of India’s vaccine manufacturing facility in Pune on Thursday, Pawar said, “Some people sniffed conspiracy in the incident. I know the scientists and staffers at the institute. They are dedicated towards their work. Any claim of conspiracy is false. It was an accident. The production of Covid vaccine is safe. ” Pawar also said the government had information that compressed natural gas could be generated using sugar cane. He said, “We have a policy on making ethanol from sugar cane. Such diversification of sugar cane by-products will help the mills recover production cost and pay the farmers the assured price for their produce.” After the press conference, Pawar inaugurated a statue of first Maharashtra CM Yashwantrao Chavan and laid the foundation of the fourth floor of the Kolhapur zilla parishad building. He also dedicated 39 ambulances to the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/efforts-to-dislodge-mva-govt-in-state-on-from-day-1-says-pawar/articleshow/80410783.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Nashik||Elderly take vax, numbers go up as officials use flexi approach||Nashik/Aurangabad: The move of senior health authorities to take the Covid-19 vaccine on Friday seemed to inspire confidence among the other beneficiaries to take the jab. Health authorities are also using their discretion if the beneficiaries listed for the day do not turn for the vaccination. Nashik division, Kolhapur city and Aurangabad reported their best vaccination figures till now. At the 40 centres in Nashik division, 2,943 healthcare workers, or 73.5% of the 4,000 beneficiaries took the vaccine on Friday. The turnout was marginally higher than Wednesday, when 2,839 (71%) got the vaccine. The most impressive improvement was in Ahmednagar district — from 54% on Wednesday to 67.5% on Friday due to the performance in the urban areas. Dhule district continued to be on the top with 97% vaccinations and was followed by Jalgaon with 77 % (543 out of 700), Nandurbar with 76 % turnout (304 out of 400) and Nashik district with 70.4 % achievement (916 out of 1300 vaccinations). In Nashik district, the two vaccination centres of Nashik Municipal Corporation registered 107% vaccination, while two others registered 100% coverage. Two centres in Malegaon Corporation were poor performers for the day. Jalgaon reported two centres with 100% attendance, while Dhule registered 108% vaccinations in the district hospital. The Mhasavad Rural Hospital in Nandurbar registered 100% turnout. In Aurangabad, almost all the senior health authorities took the vaccine on Friday. Among those who took the jab were World Health Organisation’s surveillance officer Sayyed Mujeeb, Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s health officer Neeta Padalkar, district civil surgeon Sundar Kulkarni, Aurangabad division’s deputy director (health) Swapnil Lale, district vaccination officer Vijay Wagh, district tuberculosis officer Ulhas Gandal, AMC hospital manager Vishal Pattekar, senior neuro physician Abdul Majid. Padalkar said, “By taking the vaccine, we want to convey that all the listed beneficiaries can and should opt for vaccination. It will eventually be their shield against the deadly infection.” In Kolhapur, the district reported 763 of 1,100 beneficiaries getting the vaccine on Friday, which was slightly lower than 778 healthcare workers on Wednesday. In the district, the highest vaccination was from Kolhapur city, while in the district it is less. On Friday, 464 health care workers turned up at five Covid vaccination centres in Kolhapur city. Amol Mane, health officer and coordinator of the vaccination took the jab at one of the centres on Friday. “The confidence among the healthcare workers is increasing, which is been reflected in the increased turnout,” he said. Kolhapur district health authorities claimed that 5% to 10% of the vaccines are bound to thrown. One vial has ten doses and at the end of the session, if the vial is opened and less than ten beneficiaries turn up, the remaining liquid is discarded. Yogesh Sale, district health officer said that he has asked the centre coordinators to ensure minimum wastage. The district has received around 38,000 doses of vaccines so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/elderly-take-vax-numbers-go-up-as-officials-use-flexi-approach/articleshow/80412853.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 23, 2021||Vijayawada||AP govt nod to boost tourism in Kondaveedu fort||AMARAVATI: To promote the historical Kondaveedu fort as a major tourism attraction, the state government has approved a five-year plan for its development. The government has promised to ensure permission for works in the reserve forest area by from the authorities. The 13th century fort is surrounded by the reserve forest and local authorities are finding it difficult to provide amenities for tourists atop the fort hill. Kondaveedu Development Society convener Kalli Sivareddy has secured the support of finance minister Buggana Rajendranath and principal advisor to the chief minister Ajeya Kallam in putting works at Kondaveedu on the fast track. “Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is keen on making Kondaveedu a prominent tourist destination in the state,” said Sivareddy. A children’s play area and three view points on the top of the hill were being developed on the top of the hill. Similarly, the works to renovate Sri Narasimha Swamy temple are under progress. The old guest house located on the top of the hill is being converted as an environmental study centre with a cost of Rs 50 lakh. “We have also decided to develop a watch tower close to Puttalamma tank, which is also a historical structure,” said the local legislator Vidadala Rajani. Rajani said that bunds of all the three historical tanks including Puttalamma Cheruvu, Vedulla Cheruvu and Mutyalamma cheruvu would be strengthened with large boulders that will add beauty to the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-nod-to-boost-tourism-in-kondaveedu-fort/articleshow/80412823.cms||Samdani MN
January 23, 2021||Kolhapur||Mahalaxmi Express to resume services from Feb 1||Kolhapur: The much-awaited Mahalaxmi Express between Kolhapur and Mumbai will resume from February 1. The railways had planned to resume the service in October along with a Gondia-bound train. While the Gondia bound train restarted, the Mahalaxmi Express operations continued to remain shut. On February 1, the train will restart from Kolhapur’s Rajarshi Shahu Maharaj Terminus and will reach Mumbai next day. General manager of Central Railways Sanjeev Mittal confirmed the development and said that a notification has been issued in this connection. While earlier the train had 21 coaches, it will now have 18 coaches, including ten general coaches which will be subsequently increased depending on the turnout of passengers. Currently, passengers have to take a bus to travel between Kolhapur and Mumbai and the fares are costly. The train service is much cheaper than bus and, so the passenger turnout is expected to be high. The online bookings for the train service will restart on January 25 and passengers with confirmed tickets will only be allowed to board the train. Speaking to media through web-link, Mittal said the project to lay new rail line between Kolhapur and Vaibhavwadi in Konkan has been stuck due to insufficient funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/mahalaxmi-express-to-resume-services-from-feb-1/articleshow/80410764.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Mercury blows hot & cold in January||NEW DELHI: Intense fluctuations have been taking place in the minimum temperature this month, India Meteorological Department (IMD) data shows. On January 1, the minimum temperature dipped to the season’s lowest at 1.1 degrees Celsius but rose to 7 degrees Celsius on January 2. The highest minimum temperature was recorded on January 7 at 14.4 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature settled at 2 degrees Celsius on January 14 but it rose again the next day. On Friday, the minimum temperature dropped to 4.2 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal, but it is predicted to touch 7 and 8 degrees Celsius on Saturday and Sunday, respectively. IMD forecast says the minimum temperature may again come down to 4 degrees Celsius on January 26. Met officials said that the minimum temperature is fluctuating due to less western disturbance-influencing plains and rapid changes in wind direction and speed. Even cloudy days and clear skies have been changing continuously, affecting the minimum temperature. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said that a combination of factors has been causing fluctuations in minimum temperature in January. “Only one western disturbance affected the plains in January this year while six western disturbances impacted the plains last year. When the north-westerly winds blow from snow-capped western Himalayan region towards Delhi, it causes a drop in minimum temperature. However, as the wind direction changed many times, it led to sudden decrease or increase in minimum temperature.” Srivastava added the clear skies make the day warm while the heat quickly dissipates at night, which causes fall in minimum temperature. However, cloud cover leads to rise in minimum temperature. According to IMD, as the wind direction has shifted to easterly direction, the minimum temperature is likely to stay around normal on Saturday and Sunday. However, the wind direction may again change to north-westerly due to passage of a western disturbance and the minimum temperature is expected to dip from Monday. Cold wave conditions are likely at isolated places on January 26. The city has recorded three cold wave days so far this month. Met department has forecast strong surface winds (20-25 kmph) during the day on Saturday. The maximum temperature recorded on Friday was 18.6 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal. Moderate fog was observed in the city on Friday, while moderate to dense fog during morning hours is predicted for Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mercury-blows-hot-cold-in-january/articleshow/80412874.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
January 23, 2021||Chandigarh||'No need of new Jallianwala memorial'||Amritsar: Members of Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust has suggested to the state government to refrain from going ahead with its plan for constructing a new memorial to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre and instead erect a structure within the park if it desired so. One of the trustees, Tarlochan Singh, on Friday said he had taken up the issue with Punjab tourism and cultural affairs minister Charnajit Singh Channi, suggesting him not to construct a new memorial. “I told him to hold the function anywhere they like and honour the kin of martyrs, but don’t erect a new structure anywhere else except in Jallianwala Bagh itself,” he said, adding that if the Punjab government was keen on constructing a structure, there was enough place in Jallianwala Bagh. He said he also gave his suggestions to Amritsar’s deputy commissioner, who called him to extend an invitation to attend the January 25 function when the foundation stone of the new memorial would be laid. The state government has announced to lay the foundation stone of the new memorial at Anand Amrit Park on January 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/new-memorial-not-needed-says-bjp-mp/articleshow/80414404.cms||Yudhvir Rana
January 23, 2021||Chennai||Gang steals 25kg gold at gunpoint in TN||Coimbatore: A six-member gang armed with guns, knives and sickles barged into a Muthoot Finance branch in Hosur in Krishnagiri district around 10.30am on Friday and decamped with 25kg of gold jewellery — worth around Rs 7.5 crore — and Rs 96,000 in cash, police said. The masked gang threatened the staff at gunpoint, gagged and tied their hands and legs before taking the key of the firm’s safety chest from the branch manager. Raju, a customer who was present when the gang entered the firm, said, “The gang members threatened me by brandishing a gun and tied my hands and damaged my wristwatch. I was gagged with tapes. They assaulted the branch manager. They then went into the vault room and took away gold and cash in three travel bags.” While two members of the gang fled with the bags containing 25kg of gold and cash on a motorcycle, other four escaped from the firm around 11am, police said. Later, a few customers who visited the firm noticed the staff tied and gagged. Immediately, they informed Hudco police who rushed to the spot. Superintendent of police of Krishnagiri district Bandi Gangadhar inspected the crime scene and held an inquiry with the staff of the company. Following the incident, interstate borders at Hosur were alerted and vehicle checks were also conducted by police. However, the police could not trace the vehicle. “We have formed 10 special teams to nab the robbers. We suspect that the robbers escaped to Karnataka. Three special teams have gone to Bengaluru and the rest of the teams have been working on various angles,” inspector general of police (west zone), Coimbatore, K Periaiah said. Police also collected CCTV footage from the finance firm and nearby commercial establishments. Fingerprint experts and scientific experts visited the crime scene. A sniffer dog was also pressed into service. According to police sources, some gold ornaments were kept in pouches fitted with GPS (global positioning system) devices. The robbers were not aware of the GPS and kept the pouches inside their travel bags. With the help of GPS, police traced the gang till Anekal in Karnataka. Police were not able to trace the location of the robbers beyond Anekal. The Krishnagiri police have sought help from their counterparts in Karnataka to nab the robbers. Muthoot Finance chief general manager KR Bijimon issued a statement on Friday night stating the company would extend full cooperation and support to police investigating and ensure appropriate action is taken against the culprits. “We trust that police will be able to apprehend the culprits and our stolen gold would be retrieved soon. We would like to assure our valued customers that they will not face financial loss since the stolen gold is insured. Though the branch is temporarily closed, we will soon commence our regular working,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gang-steals-25kg-gold-at-gunpoint-in-tn/articleshow/80412875.cms||A Subburaj
January 23, 2021||Nashik||Nashik: Mayor Kulkarni inaugurates office of 94th Akhil Bhartiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan||Nashik: Mayor Satish Kulkarni inaugurated the office of 94th Akhil Bhartiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan on Friday. The literary meet will take place in Nashik.The office for the 94th Akhil Bhartiya Sahitya Sammelan has been started in the Pharmacy College on the premises of Gokhale Education Society, which is the venue for the literary meet at Nashik. All the work related to the meet will be conducted in the office.The Marathi literary meet has been proposed to the second half of March.Expressing happiness over conducting the Akhil Bhartiya Sahitya Sammelan at Nashik, Kulkarni said the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) will do its best to ensure the literary meet is conducted successfully. “We are happy that the Sammelan is being held after 15 years again in Nashik and we assure you we will do everything possible to ensure the attendees cherish the event all their lives,” said the mayor. He also said Nashik city, which is home to famous and renowned littérateurs including Vi Va Shirwadkar, Vasant Kanetkar, the doyen of Indian Cinema – Dadasaheb Phalke and the citizens will live up to the expectations of the organisers. Ajay Boraste, the leader of the opposition, NMC, thanked the organisers for choosing Nashik as the destination for the literary meet. “Nashik has a rich tradition of knowledge and the people here are also known for their contribution to the field of literature. We welcome the organisation of the event in the city and promise to do our best to ensure the event stands out from all other literary fests,” Boraste said. House leader Bapu Sonawane, Shiv Sena group leader Vilas Shinde, Lakshman Savji, Lokhitwadi president Jayaprakash Jategaonkar, executive president Mukunda Kulkarni and others were present at the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-mayor-kulkarni-inaugurates-office-of-94th-akhil-bhartiya-marathi-sahitya-sammelan/articleshow/80410795.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 23, 2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir alleges false cases against DSGMC chief||Chandigarh: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal has accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government of a ‘witch-hunt’ against Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa “by registering a false case against him”. Badal alleged Sirsa was being targeted for providing ‘langar sewa’ and other humanitarian aid to the farmers in the ongoing protest at the Delhi border. Punjabis across the world were aghast at the strong arm tactics being used by the central government to intimidate all those who were supporting the protest, Badal claimed, adding the Centre was after the DSGMC because it was at the forefront in providing aid to the farm movement. “The DSGMC had been providing langar to farmers from the very first day at the Singhu border on November 26 and continues to do so,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sukhbir-alleges-false-cases-against-dsgmc-chief/articleshow/80414468.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Kochi||Kochi: LDF secures win in Kalamassery municipality||KOCHI: Giving a jolt to UDF, LDF won the  to ward number 37 in Kalamassery municipality on Friday. The ward is the sitting seat of the UDF. LDF-backed independent candidate Rafeek Marakkar secured 308 votes against the 244 of UDF candidate V S Sameel of IUML. What played spoilsport for the UDF was the 207 votes garnered by the independent candidate Shibu Siddiq, who was fielded by the Congress. With the win, LDF has support of 21 members and UDF has 20. Currently, UDF is running the municipality after it won the toss when both LDF and UDF secured 20 members each. “We will move no–confidence motion after six months to wrest the municipality,” said senior LDF councillor Henny Baby. The drubbing lead to a rift in UDF in Kalamassery with IUML leaders accusing chairperson Seema Kannan and former chairman Jamal Manakkadan for not participating in the election campaign of Sameel and fielding independent candidate Siddiq. League leaders and UDF mandalam committee in the area have shot a complaint letter to KPCC chief Mullapally Ramachandran raising the issue. “We met chairperson Kannan and requested her to be part of the campaign. But the chairperson said she will participate only when Manakkadan asks her to do. Sameel was in the list of UDF candidates to be fielded in Kalamasssery before the election in ward 37 was postponed to January 21. Once the second notification was issued, they wanted to field Congress candidate in the ward. Meanwhile, Manakkadan also demanded vice-chairman post, which currently Muslim league adorns. We rejected both the demands and that’s why they refused to support the League candidate,” said P M A Latheef, president of Kalamassery town committee, IUML Both Kannan and Manakkadan were not available to speak despite repeated attempts. The chairperson post has been reserved for women belonging to SC/ST community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ldf-wrests-division-37-in-kalamassery/articleshow/80411614.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Pune||On-the-spot vaccination call helps boost Pune Metropolitan Region shot count||PUNE: The ‘on-the-spot’ vaccination of listed but unscheduled beneficiaries provided a shot in the arm for the vaccination drive in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Friday, the Day 4 of the mega nationwide initiative, taking its daily inoculation above 50%. A total of 1,838 or 63% of of the targeted 2,900 healthcare workers turned up for vaccination at the 29 vaccination centres in Pune district on Friday, marking a considerable rise from the dismal attendance in the earlier three days of the drive. “The ‘on-the-spot’ vaccination of listed but unscheduled beneficiaries who opted to get the shot out of turn is one of the reasons for the rise in vaccinations,” a health official said. In the rural parts of the district, 77% of the targeted beneficiaries turned up to take the shot at 15 centres. In comparison, 60% of the targeted 600 health workers turned up for the vaccination in the Pune municipal limits on Friday. This is the highest turnout for the PMC areas so far. The vaccination response in the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits improved on Friday, with 327 beneficiaries (41%) taking the shots. Three beneficiaries reported minor side-effects, including headache post-vaccination, which subsided within an hour. “Many healthcare workers responded to the on-the-spot vaccination call. This is one of the prominent reasons for the surge in vaccination number,” said Ashish Bharati, health chief, PMC. Sassoon hospital’s dean Muralidhar Tambe said, “We called in a few of our staffers for on-the-spot vaccination and they took the shot. This decision is good as it will reduce wastage of doses from the opened vials.” Three private hospitals-cum-vaccination centres — Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, Bharati hospital and Noble hospital — could not participate in the drive for three days due to log-in related issues. “We are planning to make the Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital’s centre functional on Saturday on an experimental basis using another log-in ID. Soon, all three hospital's would be able to conduct the vaccination on their premises,” Bharati said. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer of Pune Zilla Parishad, said quite a few beneficiaries opted for the vaccination when they were called in to take the on-the-spot vaccination. Four centres in rural parts recorded 100% vaccination on Friday, which include the sub-district hospital in Manchar, rural hospitals in Kanhe Phata and Shikrapur and a primary health centre in Sangvi. “Every centre is expected to vaccinate 100 beneficiaries in a day. These four centres met this target head-on,” Prasad said. The Talera Hospital vaccination site registered the highest response of 63 inoculations, while the New Bhosari hospital site registered 59 inoculations. Kasarwadi hospital site, which had seen the lowest response of a single beneficiary, saw a much-improved response of 50 beneficiaries. Pavan Salve, additional health chief, PCMC, said overall response in the civic limits would improve with each passing day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/on-the-spot-vaccination-call-helps-boost-pmr-shot-count/articleshow/80414473.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Reprieve for woman in Spain at risk of losing her OCI card||MUMBAI: Urging the Foreigner Regional Registration Office (FRRO), Mumbai, to have compassion, Bombay high court on Friday questioned how a woman from Spain could travel to the city with her toddlers amid the Covid-19 pandemic to answer its showcause notice to cancel her overseas citizen of India (OCI) card. “How will she come with the children in these times? There may be institutional quarantine. Her child is one-year-old. She has another child (three-year-old) to take care of. Have compassion,” said a bench of Justices Amjad Sayed and Madhav Jamdar after FRRO’s advocate said flights were operating between Spain and India. The judges heard a petition by Jennifer Kapasi to direct FRRO not to cancel her OCI card without hearing her. A German national, Jennifer Schoeffel married Mumbai resident Sameer Kapasi in Berlin in 2010. After obtaining a Person of Indian Origin (PIO) card, she moved permanently to India. Sameer died in a car mishap in 2012. In 2016, she was appointed administrator to his properties. She surrendered her PIO card and applied for OCI card with a lifelong visa. She was made to declare she would surrender her OCI card if she remarried. She was issued the card in February 2017. Her plea states hoping for a future in India, she began making large investments here. Meanwhile, she met an Italian working in India and they started living together. Their son was born in 2018. When her partner got a job in Spain in May 2019, she joined him. In January 2020, a daughter was born with visual impairment in the left eye. She stated she had to care for two minor children. Besides, travel restrictions and fear of Covid-19 made it difficult for her to return to India. The showcause notice dated September 28, 2020 states “though not remarried (Jennifer) has been found to be having a live-in relationship and the Central government has a provisional opinion that the petitioner’s OCI card is liable to be cancelled.” Apprehending her OCI card would be cancelled, Jennifer moved HC. Her advocate Samarth Moray said an appointment to fix a second eye surgery for her daughter is scheduled in March. “What is the hurry to cancel the OCI? You can wait,” said Justice Sayed. The FRRO was directed not to pass any order till March 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/have-compassion-on-mom-of-two-court-urges-frro/articleshow/80412883.cms||Rosy Sequeira
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Tata Power warns about fake bulbs||MUMBAI: Tata Power on Friday issued an advisory against fraudulent sale of LED bulbs using the company’s name. “This advisory is in reference to a recent incident which happened with Tata Power Delhi Distribution (Tata Power-DDL) where an unidentified person was seen selling LED bulbs illegally under Tata Power’s name. The person was seen selling a fake pack of four LED bulbs priced at Rs100.” Tata Power officials captured the entire activity on phone. The culprit realised he was being filmed and he fled from the spot, and is absconding, said an official. A company spokesperson said, “We are keeping a tab on such fraudulent malpractices and wish to alert customers about such fake products across the country. We would also like to urge customers to purchase LED bulbs only through our designated distribution channels.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/tata-power-warns-about-fake-bulbs/articleshow/80414497.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh announces jobs for kin of farmers who died during stir||CHANDIGARH: Chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday announced jobs for one member each of the families of Punjab farmers who lost their lives during the agitation against the “black laws”. This would be in addition to the Rs 5 lakh compensation being given to the families of the deceased farmers, he said during the 20th edition of his Facebook Live #AskCaptain session. Questioning the Centre’s “hesitancy to repeal the laws”, Amarinder said they should repeal the laws, then sit with the farmers and frame new laws after taking all stakeholders into confidence. Pointing out that the Constitution had already been amended so many times, he said there was no reason why the Centre should be so adamant about not rolling back the farm laws. Hitting out at the Centre for pushing the laws through Parliament with brute majority, without any discussion, Capt Amarinder said the entire country was paying the price for it. “Is there a Constitution in the country? Agriculture is a state subject under Schedule 7, so why has the Centre interfered with a state subject?” he asked. “They went and enacted these laws without consulting anyone, because of which we have all landed in this situation,” he added. “Barely were things returning to normal after the (Covid-19) lockdown, when the entire industry had shut down operations, when the farm laws were imposed,” he said, adding that the legislations had been implemented without any thought to the impact it would have on farmers and agriculture. The chief minister claimed that the Punjab government and every person in Punjab was standing with the farmers. “All Punjabis are concerned about our farmers sitting on Delhi borders. They are there to persuade the Centre to repeal the laws that were implemented without taking us into confidence,” he said. “Lots of old people are sitting there at the borders, not for themselves, but for the future of their children and grandchildren. The sad part is that we are losing our farmers to the cold every day, with an estimated 76 farmers having died so far,” he added. Asked whether there was democracy any more in this country, he replied, “You should ask the Centre whether India is not a democracy anymore?” He also agreed to a viewpoint that the farm laws should be repealed as the farmers, for whom they are made, don’t want them, saying: “It is against humanity.” He went on to add that when representatives of almost all farm unions from across the country were sitting at the Delhi borders, the agitation was of the entire nation’s farmers and not just of those from Punjab. Medical College to start In response to a Kapurthala youth’s question, Amarinder said admissions to Kapurthala Medical College will start by August this year. As for the over bridge work for Amritsar Joda Fatak, he informed an Amritsar resident that the entire amount of Rs 25 crore for the underpass had been deposited by the Improvement Trust with the Railways, which had invited the tenders. He said the allotment process was in the final stage and work was expected to start soon. On NIA notices to farmersOn the NIA notices to some farmers and supporters of the farmer agitation, he said it was a wrong step and that he would write to the Union home minister soon on the issue. Even Khalsa Aid, which was working across the globe, had not been spared, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-announces-jobs-for-kin-of-farmers-who-died-during-stir/articleshow/80414437.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Gurgaon||Boy dies during eye operation in Hisar||HISAR: A 12-year-old boy died while undergoing an operation to correct a squint in a private eye hospital at Kaimari road in Hisar on Friday. Enraged family members of the boy and other people from their locality gheraoed the hospital demanding registration of a criminal case and arrest of the doctor responsible. Heavy police force was deployed at the hospital and by late evening, police registered a criminal case against the doctors on the complaint of the child’s father. The child has been identified as 12-year-old Parth Wadhwa, a resident of 12 quarters in Hisar. Police spokesman Vikas Kumar said a case has been registered against doctors. In his police complaint, Mohit Wadhwa said he took his son Parth to the hospital for operation to remove squint. He said there was no anaesthesia specialist in the hospital and another doctor administered anaesthesia to the child. However, overdose of anaesthesia led to the child’s death, he alleged. He said hospital authorities referred the child to another hospital and called the police in an attempt to exonerate themselves. Family members returned to the hospital and alleged that the negligence caused by the doctors during operation led to his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/boy-dies-during-eye-operation/articleshow/80414451.cms||Kumar Mukesh
January 23, 2021||India||India sends 2 million doses of Covishield each to Brazil & Morocco||MUMBAI: Two million doses of Covishield vaccine were flown to Brazil on Emirates Sky Cargo and another two million doses to Morocco on Royal Air Maroc from the Mumbai airport in the early hours of Friday, an airport spokesperson said. The airport has facilitated distribution of 14.17 million doses of the Covishield vaccine across various international and domestic destinations so far. The Mumbai airport is the first airport in the country to have exported the vaccine to various international destinations, said an Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) spokesperson. An aviation source said, “Apart from Brazil and Morocco, among the vaccines sent abroad so far are 1.5 lakh doses to Bhutan, 1 lakh to Maldives, 20 lakh doses to Dhaka (Bangladesh), 10 lakh doses to Kathmandu (Nepal), 15 lakh to Rangoon (Myanmar), 50,000 to Seychelles and 1 lakh to Mauritius.” The airport, which handles the largest portion of EXIM pharmaceutical air cargo movements in the country, has been handling 40 to 50 tonnes of vaccines per day, said the MIAL spokesperson. Currently, Mumbai airport witnesses on average of around 14 to 15 cargo flights per day and handles an average of 800 tonnes of export and 700 tonnes of import cargo in a day, the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-sends-2-million-doses-of-covishield-each-to-brazil-morocco/articleshow/80415767.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Nashik||Fire breaks out at Sena storeroom of NMC HQs||Nashik: A fire broke out in a store room adjacent to the chamber of Shiv Sena functionaries on the first floor of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) headquarters at the Rajiv Gandhi Bhavan around 11am on Friday. The store room was used by both Shiv Sena leader and leader of opposition in the NMC Ajay Boraste and party functionary Vilas Shinde. No casualties were reported as none of the Sena leaders were present at the store room or the chamber at the time of the incident. The security guards present there used fire extinguishers to douse the flames. “Last week, we had given training to the security guards on how to use fire extinguishers. The training has helped a lot,” said municipal commissioner Kailash Jadhav. “I visited the room where the fire had broken out. Prima facie, it looks the fire broke out due to a short-circuit,” said Jadhav. A three-member team has been formed to find out the cause of the fire and submit a report in three days. Sanjay Bairagi, the chief of NMC’s fire department, said only furniture was gutted in the fire. There were no documents in the store room apart from some newspaper scraps. “It took six fire extinguishers and two fire tenders to douse the flames in half an hour,” said Bairagi. Mayor Satish Kulkarni said, “A probe will be conducted. Further decision will be taken after we receive the report.” “I got a call where a staff asked me not to come to the chamber in the morning as the pest control of the office premises had to be done. I got another call, two to three hours later, informing me about the fire,” said Boraste. Meanwhile, the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal called the municipal commissioner and sought details about the incident. “The chief minister has instructed me to conduct an audit of all the buildings dealing with health matters to ensure no such incident happens there,” said Jadhav. “We have already conducted an audit of Bytco hospital, Zakir Hussain hospital and the six divisional office buildings of the NMC. Moreover, all the 450 private hospitals and nursing homes, and commercial buildings, have been told to conduct fire audits,” said the civic chief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fire-breaks-out-at-sena-storeroom-of-nmc-hqs/articleshow/80412877.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 23, 2021||Dehradun||Bells, lights of Landour’s iconic clock tower stop working, power bills due||Mussoorie: The bells of the iconic clock tower at Landour in Mussoorie have stopped chiming since the past 10 days, say local residents. “The hourly chime of the clock used to be accompanied by good morning messages. Its chiming is intricately linked to our daily lives. But it has fallen silent for the past 10 days. We request authorities to take suitable action,” said Raj Bijalwal, a resident. Residents said both the clock and the façade lights in the tower building run on electricity, and both have stopped working due to lack of power supply. Pankaj Thapliyal, sub-divisional officer of the electricity department, said power supply to the building was cut as there is an outstanding electricity bill against the account. Ashutosh Sati, executive officer of Mussoorie Municipal Council (MMC),when queried, said that the clock tower’s power connection was merged with connections of several other government buildings. “We’ve applied for a new connection exclusively for the clock tower, which will become operational soon,” Sati said. TOI spoke to MMC chairman Anuj Gupta, who said strict instructions have been issued to MMC officials to resolve the issue. “The clock shall start working very soon. I’ve issued strict instructions,” Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bells-lights-of-landours-iconic-clock-tower-stop-working-power-bills-due/articleshow/80411622.cms||Anmol Jain
January 23, 2021||Nashik||Moneylender, 3 others held for abduction||Nashik: The Adgaon police on Thursday arrested a private moneylender and three others in connection to a case of abducting two builders, threatening them at gunpoint and beating them up. The four accused have been arrested on the charges of abduction, voluntarily causing hurt and other sections of the IPC and the Prevention of Atrocities Act. The complainant, Baban Shinde (35), who is asmall-time builder, said his partner Pravin Vibhandik and he had taken a private loan of Rs 40 lakh from one of the accused Aba Chaudhary. Instead of the loan, the two builders had given him more than half an acre of land.  Later, the builders had taken Rs 45 lakh from a construction company from which they had returned Rs 40 lakh to Chaudhary. Following which, they transferred the plot given to Chaudhary in their name. The moneylender told them they still owed Rs 28 lakh as interest. Hence as security, the builders gave him six-row houses from their on-going construction site. However, Chaudhary kept on threatening them. On January 19, the moneylender told Shinde and Vibhandik to meet him. When the two partners and their family members went to meet him at a hotel, Chaudhary and his three associates beat them up for nearly one-and-a-half hours, despite the family members telling them they will return the money immediately. Later, Chaudhary took the partners to some other place and beat them up with wooden sticks and iron rods. Meanwhile, one of Shinde’s family member called up Chaudhary’s friend Santosh Pillay and narrated him the entire incident. At around 6 pm, Pillay called up Chaudhary and told him to leave the two builders. The builders then registered a complaint. The accused were produced before a city court, which remanded them in four days police custody. The case is being investigated by Deepali Khanna, the assistant commissioner of police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/moneylender-3-others-held-for-abduction/articleshow/80410807.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 23, 2021||Pune||Covaxin response picks up in Aundh||Pune: The response to the Covaxin inoculation at the District Hospital Aundh improved on Friday with 67 beneficiaries taking the shot till 5pm — the second highest figure since the Covid-19 vaccination started last week. A total of 233 beneficiaries have taken the Covaxin at the hospital so far. The maximum turnout was on Wednesday, when 71 beneficiaries took the vaccine. The average turnout at the centre at present is about 58%. Additional civil surgeon Varsha Doiphode said the response was getting better with each passing day because the recently generated lists of beneficiaries had equal number of doctors, nursing staff and junior staff members. The situation also improved because higher authorities got inoculated on Wednesday, boosting the confidence of other staffers. “On the first two days, the lists generated had many beneficiaries from junior grades, which increased their apprehension. The recent lists have equal number of beneficiaries from all sections,” Doiphode said. A beneficiary said on the condition of anonymity that many staffers were now coming forward for vaccination because the side-effects they were expecting were not observed in any of the earlier beneficiaries. Doiphode said there were one or two walk-ins on Friday. The rest of the beneficiaries had their names in the random list generated for the day. She said the CoWIN app was experiencing server problems in the morning session, but the issues were getting resolved by the afternoon, resulting in smoother vaccination in the later part of the day. A total of 17 doses of Covaxin have gone waste so far in the hospital because a vial contains 20 doses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covaxin-response-picks-up-in-aundh/articleshow/80414500.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 23, 2021||Delhi||Man held in east Delhi with Rs 4 lakh in fake notes||NEW DELHI: A 44-year-old man was arrested by the Special Cell with fake currency notes with a face value of Rs 4 lakh. The accused has been identified as Sheikh Shehzad, a resident of Delhi and native of Motihari district in Bihar. He was arrested from east Delhi’s Anand Vihar, police said. The recovered notes have almost all the features, including security thread and watermarks, a police officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-held-in-e-delhi-with-rs-4-lakh-in-fake-notes/articleshow/80412907.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal plans to set up university for journalism||KOLKATA: The government is set to unveil a university for journalism and mass communication, aiming to begin admissions in 2022-23. The Bill has been sent to the law department for approval. The higher education department has planned to start academic activities from a building on the MAKAUT campus before finding a plot. “There is a huge scope for and interest among youngsters to study journalism and mass communication. Considering the opportunities, we have planned to set up the university,” said education minister Partha Chatterjee. A higher education official confirmed the proposal was to set up a unitary university. “We are yet to decide on the programmes, which can be taught at the upcoming university,” said the official. “New Town is likely to be the place, where the university will come up. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee wants a part of New Town to be developed into an education hub. St Xavier’s University, Presidency, Calcutta University and Jadavpur University have been allotted land,” said the official. The project will start to crystallize after the assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-plans-to-set-up-univ-for-journalism/articleshow/80412903.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Nagpur||Maha home minister set to announce ‘Jail tourism’ in Vidarbha||Nagpur: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh is likely to start ‘Jail tourism’ in Vidarbha too. He had first announced the programme for western Maharashtra after his visit to Pune’s Yerawada prison. On Saturday, Deshmukh is set to announce the plan in the city where a British era Central jail is located. Sources close to Deshmukh said the home minister was keen to start the programme after being briefed by Addl DG, Prison, Sunil Ramanand. After starting it on an experimental basis in western Maharashtra, the home minister wants to implement a similar plan in Vidarbha too where certain sections of the prisons would be thrown open to citizens for visit and study. As per a senior prison official, some of the south Indian states, especially Hyderabad, had tried to introduce ‘Jail tourism’ to serve the dual purpose of raising awareness about the reformative institution and raise fund for employees welfare. The initiative would earn revenue for the state by introducing ticket system for exploring places of historical importance in jails, rehabilitative units and marketing outlets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maha-home-minister-set-to-announce-jail-tourism-in-vidarbha/articleshow/80412908.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 23, 2021||Nashik||No recruitment of firemen in fire brigade department in past eight years||Nashik: The fire brigade department of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is facing severe manpower crisis as a total of 69 positions — 58 firemen and 11 fire officers — are lying vacant.Fire brigade officials said as the city is expanding there is an urgent need for three fire stations and recruitment of firemen and fire officers.Civic chief Kailas Jadhav told TOI they have taken up this issue with the state government requesting its nod to allow the civic administration to recruit the firemen on contract basis.“We will again pursue the issue with the state government for their permission either to recruit or hire the staff for the department under essential services like fire brigade and health departments on honorarium basis,” said Jadhav.“We have a total 151 government-approved posts of firemen, of 58 posts are vacant. Moreover, we have 15 government-approved posts of fire officers, out of which 11 are vacant. We have already urged the civic administration to either recruit on these vacant posts on contract basis,” Sanjay Bairagi, fire brigade chief of NMC, said.“Currently, we have six fire stations across the city and have proposed three more fire stations in Nashik city — Dasak-Panchak, Gangapur Road and Ashoka Marg area near Wadalagaon. But lack of manpower is the major issue for the proposed fire stations,” he added.When contacted, leader of the opposition Ajay Boraste said they recently met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for various city-related issues, including state government permission for recruitment on the vacant posts. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-recruitment-of-firemen-in-fire-brigade-department-in-past-eight-years/articleshow/80412904.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 23, 2021||Pune||Number of recipients goes up at Kasarwadi||Pimpri Chinchwad: Officials at the Kasarwadi vaccination site heaved a sigh of relief on Friday as the number of beneficiaries improved from just one on Wednesday to 50 on Friday. The morning session at the vaccination site did record a low response. However, the numbers improved at the site after 1pm. The officials said that the confidence among the beneficiaries has been increasing with each passing day. As a consequence, the officials expect the response would also increase across all vaccination sites. The low response at the site on Wednesday was largely due to goof-ups in the beneficiary list as well as apprehension among the beneficiaries, officials said. As many as 65 beneficiaries were vaccinated on January 16 and around 38 on the second day. Only one beneficiary was vaccinated on day 3 and 50 on the fourth day. So far, 16 doses of Covishield have been wasted at the Kasarwadi vaccination site. Surprisingly, the vaccination site at Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) Hospital, which leads the inoculation figures across eight vaccination sites in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits for day 2 and 3, with 49 and 42 inoculations, saw just 28 beneficiaries on Friday. When contacted, Rajendra Wabale, dean of YCM Hospital, told TOI, “There have been a few instances of repetition of names of the beneficiaries at the YCM hospital site and other sites. The repetition of beneficiary names has resulted in the low response.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/number-of-recipients-goes-up-at-kasarwadi/articleshow/80414524.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 23, 2021||Thane||Mumbai turnout hits 92% as health staff allowed to select centre||MUMBAI: The fourth day of Covid-19 vaccination saw the city turn around its lacklustre performance of the previous three rounds by registering a turnout of 92%, albeit after the count of target beneficiaries was shrunk marginally. The state, too, saw the number of recipients surge to 76% on Friday from 68% and 53% seen on Day 3 and Day 2 of the drive, respectively, which officials attributed to increasing acceptability and the option to walk into centres even without an appointment. Archana Patil, director-health services, told TOI that from January 25, the drive will be conducted at 511 centres in the state (81% up from 282 now) on five fixed days—Mondays, and Wednesdays to Saturdays. Round 1 of vax drive may end by Feb 15; 8 minor reactions seenBMC’s executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said on Friday the civic body plans to put up names of health workers on its Covid website so that they know if they have been registered on Co-WIN. They can now take the shots at any of the nine centres of their choice. Earlier, they could only go to the centre linked by the virtue of their home or work address. In Mumbai, 3,539 out of 3,852 took the vaccine on Friday at the 10 vaccination centres. A total of 21,610 of the 28,350 healthcare workers scheduled for vaccination on Friday took the shots at 282 centres. With Friday’s turnout, the state has now completed vaccinating 74,000 of the nearly eight lakh registered health workers while Mumbai has finished vaccinating nearly 9,000 of its 1.2 lakh beneficiaries. For the first time since vaccination began on January 16, there was a queue in the city. Among districts, Beed had the highest turnout at 151%. Others such as Hingoli, Amravati, Wardha, Jalna and Osmanabad saw more than 100% vaccination. In MMR, Navi Mumbai saw a 100% turnout of 400 recipients on Friday. Principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said the session in certain places started late so the final numbers could change. He added that 318 people took Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin on Friday. Although KEM Hospital, Parel, saw the most vaccinations in a single centre in a day at 685, only five out of the 10 vaccine booths worked, said dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh. The local BMC ward’s war room as well as KEM’s two-member team called up doctors from neighbouring Tata Memorial and Wadia hospitals, Hinduja Hospital, Mahim, as well as SRCC Hospital, Haji Ali. “Momentum has built up now. There is adequate confidence in the vaccine,’’ he said. At BKC’s jumbo facility, dean Dr Rajesh Dere said they had received a list of 400 from the ward office, but his own team called those who had missed out on the previous three days. “We made about 1,200 calls,” he said. Gomare said a sizable number was “walk-in” beneficiaries. At least eight cases of adverse events following immunisation were reported in the state. Jalna, Nashik, Sangli and Thane reported two cases each. While BMC also saw two minor cases, they were not mentioned in the state report. N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, said with sites increasing to 500, the state plans to finish the first round by February 15. Dr Sanjay Oak, chairman of the state Covid taskforce, said the private sector needs to be roped in for bitter turnout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/city-turnout-hits-92-as-health-staff-allowed-to-select-centre/articleshow/80416380.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 23, 2021||Pune||Vax on 5 days every week at 511 centres from Monday||Pune: The Covid-19 vaccination drive will be conducted on five fixed days every week — Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday — across 511 centres, as against 285 presently, in the state from January 25, Archana Patil, director, health services said on Friday.“Since we have the required number of doses at our disposal, we can also increase the number of sessions at big hospitals and medical colleges,” Patil said.Currently, every centre is restricted to hold only one session covering 100 healthcare workers on a given day. “We have now increased the number of centres and daily target of vaccinating healthcare workers from 285 centres to 511 centres and a daily target of vaccinating 28,500 healthcare workers to 51,100 healthcare workers from January 25,” said state immunisation officer Dileep Patil. The next Saturday (January 30) would, however, be an exception as polio vaccination drive would be held that day. Hence, Covid vaccination would not take place on January 30, Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vax-on-5-days-every-week-at-511-centres-from-monday/articleshow/80414526.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai turnout hits 92% as health staff allowed to select centre||MUMBAI: The fourth day of Covid-19 vaccination saw the city turn around its lacklustre performance of the previous three rounds by registering a turnout of 92%, albeit after the count of target beneficiaries was shrunk marginally. The state, too, saw the number of recipients surge to 76% on Friday from 68% and 53% seen on Day 3 and Day 2 of the drive, respectively, which officials attributed to increasing acceptability and the option to walk into centres even without an appointment. Archana Patil, director-health services, told TOI that from January 25, the drive will be conducted at 511 centres in the state (81% up from 282 now) on five fixed days—Mondays, and Wednesdays to Saturdays. Round 1 of vax drive may end by Feb 15; 8 minor reactions seenBMC’s executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said on Friday the civic body plans to put up names of health workers on its Covid website so that they know if they have been registered on Co-WIN. They can now take the shots at any of the nine centres of their choice. Earlier, they could only go to the centre linked by the virtue of their home or work address. In Mumbai, 3,539 out of 3,852 took the vaccine on Friday at the 10 vaccination centres. A total of 21,610 of the 28,350 healthcare workers scheduled for vaccination on Friday took the shots at 282 centres. With Friday’s turnout, the state has now completed vaccinating 74,000 of the nearly eight lakh registered health workers while Mumbai has finished vaccinating nearly 9,000 of its 1.2 lakh beneficiaries. For the first time since vaccination began on January 16, there was a queue in the city. Among districts, Beed had the highest turnout at 151%. Others such as Hingoli, Amravati, Wardha, Jalna and Osmanabad saw more than 100% vaccination. In MMR, Navi Mumbai saw a 100% turnout of 400 recipients on Friday. Principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said the session in certain places started late so the final numbers could change. He added that 318 people took Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin on Friday. Although KEM Hospital, Parel, saw the most vaccinations in a single centre in a day at 685, only five out of the 10 vaccine booths worked, said dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh. The local BMC ward’s war room as well as KEM’s two-member team called up doctors from neighbouring Tata Memorial and Wadia hospitals, Hinduja Hospital, Mahim, as well as SRCC Hospital, Haji Ali. “Momentum has built up now. There is adequate confidence in the vaccine,’’ he said. At BKC’s jumbo facility, dean Dr Rajesh Dere said they had received a list of 400 from the ward office, but his own team called those who had missed out on the previous three days. “We made about 1,200 calls,” he said. Gomare said a sizable number was “walk-in” beneficiaries. At least eight cases of adverse events following immunisation were reported in the state. Jalna, Nashik, Sangli and Thane reported two cases each. While BMC also saw two minor cases, they were not mentioned in the state report. N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, said with sites increasing to 500, the state plans to finish the first round by February 15. Dr Sanjay Oak, chairman of the state Covid taskforce, said the private sector needs to be roped in for bitter turnout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-turnout-hits-92-as-health-staff-allowed-to-select-centre/articleshow/80415358.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||BEST casual workers to be absorbed||MUMBAI: Bowing to pressure from the BEST committee, especially its BJP members who had opposed outsourcing trench-digging and cable-laying jobs of the power supply division, the administration has now decided to take in some of BEST’s casual workers as permanent staffers. BJP member Sunil Ganacharya said that on Friday, some of the workers got letters to come with their documents on Monday morning to be inducted into BEST. “The panel rejected a Rs 4-crore contract to hire outsiders for trenching jobs, etc. We are happy that workers who know the job well and have been serving BEST for years are now getting a chance to work on a permanent basis,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/best-casual-workers-to-be-absorbed/articleshow/80414589.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Mumbai turnout hits 92% as health staff allowed to select centre||MUMBAI: The fourth day of Covid-19 vaccination saw the city turn around its lacklustre performance of the previous three rounds by registering a turnout of 92%, albeit after the count of target beneficiaries was shrunk marginally. The state, too, saw the number of recipients surge to 76% on Friday from 68% and 53% seen on Day 3 and Day 2 of the drive, respectively, which officials attributed to increasing acceptability and the option to walk into centres even without an appointment. Archana Patil, director-health services, told TOI that from January 25, the drive will be conducted at 511 centres in the state (81% up from 282 now) on five fixed days—Mondays, and Wednesdays to Saturdays. Round 1 of vax drive may end by Feb 15; 8 minor reactions seenBMC’s executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said on Friday the civic body plans to put up names of health workers on its Covid website so that they know if they have been registered on Co-WIN. They can now take the shots at any of the nine centres of their choice. Earlier, they could only go to the centre linked by the virtue of their home or work address. In Mumbai, 3,539 out of 3,852 took the vaccine on Friday at the 10 vaccination centres. A total of 21,610 of the 28,350 healthcare workers scheduled for vaccination on Friday took the shots at 282 centres. With Friday’s turnout, the state has now completed vaccinating 74,000 of the nearly eight lakh registered health workers while Mumbai has finished vaccinating nearly 9,000 of its 1.2 lakh beneficiaries. For the first time since vaccination began on January 16, there was a queue in the city. Among districts, Beed had the highest turnout at 151%. Others such as Hingoli, Amravati, Wardha, Jalna and Osmanabad saw more than 100% vaccination. In MMR, Navi Mumbai saw a 100% turnout of 400 recipients on Friday. Principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said the session in certain places started late so the final numbers could change. He added that 318 people took Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin on Friday. Although KEM Hospital, Parel, saw the most vaccinations in a single centre in a day at 685, only five out of the 10 vaccine booths worked, said dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh. The local BMC ward’s war room as well as KEM’s two-member team called up doctors from neighbouring Tata Memorial and Wadia hospitals, Hinduja Hospital, Mahim, as well as SRCC Hospital, Haji Ali. “Momentum has built up now. There is adequate confidence in the vaccine,’’ he said. At BKC’s jumbo facility, dean Dr Rajesh Dere said they had received a list of 400 from the ward office, but his own team called those who had missed out on the previous three days. “We made about 1,200 calls,” he said. Gomare said a sizable number was “walk-in” beneficiaries. At least eight cases of adverse events following immunisation were reported in the state. Jalna, Nashik, Sangli and Thane reported two cases each. While BMC also saw two minor cases, they were not mentioned in the state report. N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, said with sites increasing to 500, the state plans to finish the first round by February 15. Dr Sanjay Oak, chairman of the state Covid taskforce, said the private sector needs to be roped in for bitter turnout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/city-turnout-hits-92-as-health-staff-allowed-to-select-centre/articleshow/80416381.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 23, 2021||Kochi||Five arrested for killing and eating leopard in Kerala||IDUKKI: Forest department officials arrested five people on Friday for trapping, killing and eating a leopard near Mankulam in Idukki. The arrested are Mankulam residents Vinod P K, 45; V P Kuriakose,74; C S Binu, 50; Sali Kunjappan, 54; and Vincent, 50. Vinod along with Kuriakose fixed a trap in a private land around 100 metres from the forest at Munipara. “On Wednesday morning, a six-year-old male leopard fell into the trap. The accused shifted the leopard to the house of Vinod and then killed the animal. Then they cooked and ate the meat. The teeth and skin were stored inside the house,” said Mankulam DFO Suhaib. The officials got a tip-off about it and a team led by Mankulam range officer V B Udaya Suryan nabbed the accused within four hours after got the information. The officials recovered around 10kg of meat from the house of the prime accused, Suhaib said. According to officials, Vinod led the leopard hunting and the other accused participated to eat the meat. “Leopard is listed in schedule I of Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. The accused will get 7-year imprisonment. It is for the first time in Kerala that killing and eating of a leopard was reported,” the official said. Watch Kerala: Five arrested by Forest Dept for killing and eating leopard||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/five-arrested-for-killing-and-eating-leopard/articleshow/80411676.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Nashik||Call others if beneficiaries do not show up: Officials||Nashik: The health authorities across Nashik division have been instructed to find replacements if the beneficiaries listed for the day do not turn up for vaccination. The division comprising Nashik, Dhule, Nandurbar, Ahmednagar and Jalgaon districts is expected to vaccinate 4,000 beneficiaries per day at the 40 sites. Some beneficiaries registered for the vaccination programme are concerned about the side-effects of vaccine and over media reports about the fatalities due to vaccination abroad. “The vaccination programme is voluntary in nature. If the healthcare workers listed for the day are unwilling to take the vaccine, we have decided to call other beneficiaries from the data base and vaccinate those who are willing to take the jab,” said PB Gandal, the deputy director of health, Nashik. The officer further pointed out that in order to spread awareness about the vaccination, the employees and the officers of the deputy director of health have been administered vaccines on Tuesday and Wednesday. “Since there were no recipients for the vaccines, we called up our staff that was registered and got them vaccinated,” Gandal said, adding that the site authorities have also been asked to call up the registered beneficiaries to improve the coverage. The vaccination programme has to be completed in stipulated time and it cannot be continued for long time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/call-others-if-beneficiaries-do-not-show-up-officials/articleshow/80412935.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 23, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man scans QR code sent by ‘kin of wife’, loses Rs 20,000||NEW DELHI: Tejender Chaturvedi recently received a call from a person claiming to be his wife’s relative. The man wanted to transfer Rs 20,000 of her share from the family income. For a swift transfer, the man sent a QR code to Chaturvedi asking him to scan it and click on ‘OK’ in the options of an online wallet. Unsuspecting Chaturvedi followed the instructions, only to realise that he had lost Rs 20,000 from his account. “An FIR was lodged and a team formed to investigate. What followed was a lengthy electronic surveillance comprising analysis of call detail record of suspect’s mobile and IMEI analysis. The details of the recipient account were collected and we followed the trail of money,” DCP (Southeast) RP Meena said. The probe revealed that the money changed several hands online and had at the end reached a bank account in Alwar, Rajasthan. The account was opened in the name of Hasan Mohammad. While Mohammad remained unreachable, the cops found that the siphoned money had been taken out through a Point of Sale (POS) device issued in the name of Aasaf Khan. Khan (32) was arrested on January 20 and police recovered two smartphones, two card swipe machines, a rubber stamp, five chequebooks, three debit cards and cash of Rs 2.3 lakh from him. During interrogation, it came to fore that Khan would allow the cards to be swiped by cyber crooks on his POS machine in lieu of 10% commission. Efforts are on to track Mohammad who had allegedly called up the victim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-scans-qr-code-sent-by-kin-of-wife-loses-rs-20000/articleshow/80412940.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Nashik||Healthcare workers walk long routes, inoculation rate betters in Nandurbar||Nashik: The tribal-dominated district of Nandurbar in North Maharashtra has been reporting a steady rise of Covid-19 vaccinations thanks to the enthusiasm among the beneficiaries.. As many as 11,346 healthcare workers are to be vaccinated at the four centres — Nandurbar district hospital, Akkalkuwa rural hospital, Mhasawad rural hospital at Shahada and Navapur sub-district hospital. A total of 100 beneficiaries are to take the vaccine at each site. On the first day of the drive (January 16), the four centres saw 260 beneficiaries getting the jab. This increased to 285 on January 19 and further to 313 on January 20. The overall turnout at the four session sites for the last three days of vaccination was 71.5%. The trend of healthcare workers coming forth for vaccination is improving. District civil surgeon Raghunath Bhoye told TOI, “The most remarkable thing is that the healthcare staff such as the ASHA workers are extremely enthusiastic about taking the jab. They walk long distances to visit the allocated sites to get vaccinated,” said Bhoye, expressing confidence that the vaccinations would further improve in near future. The authorities at the session sites are making calls to beneficiaries, who are hesitating to take the shot, to convince them about the usefulness of the vaccine. Interestingly, on January 19, the Nandurbar district hospital and Navapur sub-district hospital on January 20 had reported 100% vaccinations. Bhoye said he has directed health officials of Shahada taluka to put in more efforts to improve the vaccinations at Mhasawad rural hospital. “I have asked the local health officials to find replacements if the listed beneficiaries refuse to get vaccinated,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/healthcare-workers-walk-long-routes-inoculation-rate-betters-in-nandurbar/articleshow/80412926.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
January 23, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand slashes Covid-19 RT-PCR test prices to Rs 500 from Rs 900||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government has slashed the rates for RT-PCR test — conducted to detect of Covid-19 — from Rs 900 to Rs 500. The rates for the rapid antigen test has been fixed at Rs 427 for all private pathologies. According to the orders issued, late on Thursday night, by secretary (health) Amit Negi, the private labs can charge Rs 400 when the samples for RT-PCR test are sent by government or private hospitals. In case, the pathologies are collecting the samples on their own, they can charge Rs 500. The cost will be inclusive of sample pickup, documentation, and reporting charge. “Private labs charging anything above Rs 500 for RT-PCR test will be punished under the Uttarakhand Epidemic Disease Covid-19 Regulation Act of 2020,” reads the government orders. According to another order, issued by Mukesh Kumar Rai, additional secretary, the private labs have been asked to conduct the antigen test for Rs 427. The test cost Rs 719 at a private facility earlier. The private labs also have to mandatorily provide the reports and status of the sample to the district surveillance officer on a regular basis. States like Haryana and Rajasthan too have reduced the rates for the RT-PCR test to Rs 500. Meanwhile, 2,308 healthcare workers were inoculated on day five of Covid-19 vaccination drive in Uttarakhand on Friday. Till now, 10,514 healthcare staffers have been vaccinated in a total of 171 sessions held in the 13 districts of the state since January 16 (when the drive kicked off). Also, 110 new infections of Covid-19 reported in the state on Friday took the case tally to 95,464. The Covid-19 death toll reached 1,629 with three more fatalities on Friday. The state also recorded 183 recoveries on Friday. With this, the number of cured cases shot up to 90,730.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-slashes-covid-19-rt-pcr-test-prices-to-rs-500-from-rs-900/articleshow/80411680.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Congress netas march to Republic TV office, seek Arnab Goswami’s arrest||MUMBAI: Congress activists led by the party’s Mumbai president Bhai Jagtap and cabinet members Aslam Shaikh and Varsha Gaikwad marched to the office of Republic TV on Friday to demand the immediate arrest of its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami for “mischief and fraud”. Jagtap said it was high time law-enforcement agencies arrested Goswami, alleging he received confidential information and used it to enhance his channel’s television ratings point (TRP) in connivance with former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta. “This is a serious issue. Information on national security was being used for personal benefit and gain. It amounts to treason,” Jagtap said. Congress activists also staged a statewide protest to demand his arrest on Friday. “India launched an airstrike on Balakot in Pakistan after an attack on CRPF personnel at Pulwama. How did Goswami receive the entire information on it three days in advance? Did he pass on the information to anyone? These questions need to be answered. Goswami’s action blatantly violates the Official Secrets Act and amounts to treason,” Shaikh said. In Latur, the hometown of former chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh, Congress legislator Dhiraj Deshmukh led the protest. In Amravati and Nagpur, the protests were led by Congress legislators Sulbha Khodke and Vikas Thackeray. “We staged protests across the state and there was spontaneous response as people from all walks of life demanded the immediate arrest of Goswami. Our activists submitted a memorandum to the district collectors to press for our demand,” Shaikh said. Shaikh further said in the event that no action is taken against Goswami in days to come, Congress will intensify its agitation and force the government to arrest him. “Congress workers are agitated over the manner in which Goswami has misused sensitive information for personal benefit,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cong-netas-march-to-republic-tv-office-seek-arnabs-arrest/articleshow/80411691.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
January 23, 2021||Pune||Covid-19 vaccines will be in market only after DCGI seal on final data: Union health secretary||PUNE: Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the two Covid-19 vaccines given approval for restricted use would not be available in the open market till the Drug Controller General of India approved the data sought from their manufacturers. “No market authorisation has been given to any of the emergency approved vaccines currently in use in India and abroad. The market authorisation comes after the stipulated follow-up on all the trial phases,” he said. Bhushan said the vaccine manufacturers had committed on some timelines to submit data, which would be assessed and approved by the regulator. “As of now, no time frame can be set for the rollout of Covid-19 vaccines in the open market. Our focus now is only on covering the priority population in the next seven-eight months,” he said. On January 3, the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) — the country’s apex drug regulator — approved both Covishield and Covaxin for restricted emergency use. Covishield is Oxford-AstraZeneca’s vaccine being manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII). Covaxin is the indigenous vaccine being manufactured by Bharat Biotech, co-developed with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “WHO (World Health Organisation) has specified the same on the website. The full authorisation will depend on the data of phase-three trials,” WHO chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan told TOI. The vice-chair of the board of Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), vaccine expert Dr Gagandeep Kang, said the manufacturers of both the vaccines would have to submit the phase-three trial data for subsequent analysis by the DCGI. “Manufacturers, after submitting data, would have to get BLA (Biological Licence Application) approval for full authorisation, start manufacturing and then seek market authorisation. I really cannot say how long it will take,” she said. Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul said the companies conducting vaccine trials abroad would have to have local trials for getting approval in India and all these data would have to be assessed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-19-vaccines-will-be-in-market-only-after-dcgi-seal-on-final-data-union-health-secretary/articleshow/80414592.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 23, 2021||Nashik||Healthcare workers walk long routes, inoculation rate betters in Nandurbar||Nashik: The tribal-dominated district of Nandurbar in North Maharashtra has been reporting a steady rise of Covid-19 vaccinations thanks to the enthusiasm among the beneficiaries.. As many as 11,346 healthcare workers are to be vaccinated at the four centres — Nandurbar district hospital, Akkalkuwa rural hospital, Mhasawad rural hospital at Shahada and Navapur sub-district hospital. A total of 100 beneficiaries are to take the vaccine at each site. On the first day of the drive (January 16), the four centres saw 260 beneficiaries getting the jab. This increased to 285 on January 19 and further to 313 on January 20. The overall turnout at the four session sites for the last three days of vaccination was 71.5%. The trend of healthcare workers coming forth for vaccination is improving. District civil surgeon Raghunath Bhoye told TOI, “The most remarkable thing is that the healthcare staff such as the ASHA workers are extremely enthusiastic about taking the jab. They walk long distances to visit the allocated sites to get vaccinated,” said Bhoye, expressing confidence that the vaccinations would further improve in near future. The authorities at the session sites are making calls to beneficiaries, who are hesitating to take the shot, to convince them about the usefulness of the vaccine. Interestingly, on January 19, the Nandurbar district hospital and Navapur sub-district hospital on January 20 had reported 100% vaccinations. Bhoye said he has directed health officials of Shahada taluka to put in more efforts to improve the vaccinations at Mhasawad rural hospital. “I have asked the local health officials to find replacements if the listed beneficiaries refuse to get vaccinated,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/healthcare-workers-walk-long-routes-inoculation-rate-betters-in-nandurbar/articleshow/80412958.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
January 23, 2021||Dehradun||Two men held with 12 gram smack in Uttarkashi||Uttarkashi: Two men were held with 12.6 gram smack from the Mori region of Uttarkashi district on Thursday night, said superintendent of police (SP) Manikant Mishra in a press conference on Friday. While addressing the media persons, SP said, “We got the tip off on Thursday evening. Subsequently, police conducted an operation and arrested two people with 12.6 gram smack, which is worth Rs 1.5 lakh-to-2 lakh rupees (approximately) in the international market.” The official further said, “The accused were identified as Lalit Kumar and Umesh Singh, both residents of Shimla, Himachal Pradesh. They have been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. They were taken under remand for further investigation after being produced in court.” The police team, which nabbed the accused persons, will be rewarded with an amount of Rs 2,000, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-men-held-with-12-gram-smack-in-uttarkashi/articleshow/80411689.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
January 23, 2021||Kochi||Kochi: Maharaja’s College to submit revised DPR||KOCHI: Maharaja’s College administration has decided to submit a fresh detailed project report (DPR) before directorate of collegiate education for undertaking relaying and repair works at Maharaja’s College ground. Principal Mathew George said, “Though the college has submitted a Rs 6-crore worth proposal to repair and relay the ground, it has been decided to revise this proposal. The fresh proposal will go into the finer details and the college will rope in the services of experts to decide on the aspects that need to be brought in while taking up repair and relaying works.” The fresh proposal will be submitted before April, he said. A fresh estimate will be prepared after consulting experts, George said. “The plan is to get the funds sanctioned for the fiscal 2021-22,” he added. A NAAC team will visit the college on February 25-26, and once the college completed these procedures, they will start working on the fresh DPR, the principal said. As public pressure mounts on the need to relay the synthetic track at the ground, the office of Ernakulam MLA T J Vinod gathered the details from the college administration. College authorities said the matter is also taken up before finance department. However, if funds are available with the directorate of collegiate education, then it can be directly implemented by them. The principal said the senior officials from the higher-education department have involved in the issues related with Maharaja’s College ground. Following a complaint raised with the chief minister by certain citizens, the public works department has taken up the task of addressing issues related to poor lighting. “In fact, director of collegiate education V Vigneshwari contacted us on Friday,” he said. Ernakulam MP Hibi Eden said he was aware of the issue at the Maharaja’s ground. Eden said he had taken up the case of the track many years ago. “The ground is a source of revenue for the college. I had raised the matter with Kerala Sports Council. There will be conscious effort to follow up the matter,” he said. The synthetic track is completely damaged. The reasons include wear and tear and the lack of time-bound maintenance. It is not possible for people to walk or jog. The track needs to be completely relayed for hosting sporting events. Athletes say those who train here get injured. (Concluded)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/maharajas-to-submit-revised-dpr/articleshow/80411699.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
January 23, 2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal reviews status of Rani Khera IT park, other projects||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday reviewed the proposed development of upcoming high-tech technology park at Rani Khera in northwest Delhi. At the meeting, the officials from Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (DSIIDC) explained the progress to the CM, following which he asked them to ensure the construction work starts in May. He also reviewed the status of the ongoing maintenance work in different industrial areas of DSIIDC. According to the construction plan presented at the meeting, the first-of-the-kind park will be developed in seven phases. The first phase is expected to be completed by May 2023, in which a multi-storey building of 15 lakh square feet will be built. The second phase is expected to be completed by May 2025. According to the officials, all the required approvals of the departments concerned have been duly completed. The CM directed the officials to conclude all the work in a time-bound manner and asked to adhere to the timeline. The Rani Khera technology park will be spread over 150 acres and is just 15 minute-drive from IGI Airport. It will have various IT and high-tech industry services. The government is going to install modern technology to treat the industrial waste released from the plants. The park, which will be well-connected by road and the highway, will have a large workspace on every floor along with multipurpose business facilities and a generous landscape and pedestrian plazas. It will also have retail and food and beverage amenities of all kinds. The government will set up an adequate parking facility in the area. Kejriwal also reviewed the status of the ongoing maintenance work in various industrial areas of DSIIDC. The work, which got delayed due to the pandemic, now has new deadlines. The CM directed the officials to complete the pending and ongoing redevelopment and maintenance within the deadline. The redevelopment and maintenance work has been going on in Okhla Industrial Area Phase-III along with Mangolpuri, Mayapuri, Udyog Nagar, Patparganj, Jhilmil, Jhandewalan, Lawrence Road, Kirti, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-reviews-status-of-rani-khera-it-park-other-projects/articleshow/80412999.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Pune||Change in mindset leads to improved participation||Pune: Doctors performing duty at the vaccination centre located at Sassoon General Hospital on Friday claimed that the beneficiaries on the shortlist had a positive mindset about the Covishield vaccine. “Most of the beneficiaries were in a wait-and-watch mode to see whether there had been any adverse effect of the vaccine or not. However, after getting positive feedback from other beneficiaries, those on the shortlist seemed confident today,” said an in-charge of the centre, who wished to remain anonymous. “We didn’t notice this kind of positive approach among the beneficiaries during the rounds of vaccination that were conducted earlier. People were doubtful, some of them were confused about getting the vaccine administered, and some were even scared. Thus, they didn’t turn up for the vaccination. Nevertheless, today we have witnessed a positive response since morning. During our brief conversation, the beneficiaries told us that they are confident about the vaccine now. This changed mindset and approach would certainly send a positive message to others who are waiting patiently in line. We are hopeful to witness the desire response to the drive in the days to come,” the in-charge added. The Sassoon General Hospital on Friday started two vaccination booths, each targeting 100 beneficiaries on a daily basis. On the first day, they vaccinated 33 beneficiaries, including doctors. “We are in the process of opening three more vaccination booths in the days to come. We have already completed the preliminary preparation to open additional booths,” said a senior official from the hospital. The hospital administration has chalked out an elaborate plan to set up the vaccination booths. They have made available enough space at a building, while also roping in adequate staff members as well as a team of doctors at the vaccination centre. “For each section, we have made available adequate manpower. A team of four doctors will be present at the booths only to provide health care if a beneficiary develops any health issue after receiving the vaccination,” the in-charge added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/change-in-mindset-leads-to-improved-participation/articleshow/80414616.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 23, 2021||Kolkata||Prime Minister Narendra Modi likely to visit Netaji Bhawan, West Bengal CM to lead Shyambazar event||KOLKATA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Netaji Bhawan on Saturday, in addition to attending the two programmes lined up at the National Library and the Victoria Memorial Hall to mark Subhas Chandra Bose’s 125th birth anniversary. Official sources in Delhi said Modi would be visiting the ancestral house of Netaji on Elgin Road that now houses a museum, library and archives on the freedom fighter. It was from this house that Netaji had escaped on January 17, 1941. The unscheduled visit to Netaji Bhawan that draws thousands of Indians and foreigners each year was decided on Friday. Modi was originally scheduled to attend two programmes — one at the National Library and the other at the Victoria Memorial Hall. On the occasion of the freedom fighter’s birth anniversary, chief minister Mamata Banerjee, too, is scheduled to lead a rally from the Netaji statue at Shyambazar five-point crossing around noon. The march will conclude at another Netaji statue at the end of Red Road, where she will address a gathering. The PM, who is scheduled to arrive in Kolkata from Jorhat around 3pm and then take a helicopter to Royal Calcutta Turf Club, is expected to visit Netaji Bhawan around 3.30pm. He will then reach the National Library, where he will unveil a statue of Netaji and interact with artists. At 4:30pm, he is expected to reach Victoria Memorial Hall for the Parakram Divas programme. The CM is scheduled to join him there for the screening of a visual montage on Netaji, followed by the inauguration of an exhibition. Modi will also unveil a book of letters of Netaji. After the felicitation of INA veterans, Modi and Banerjee will share their thoughts on Netaji. There will be a medley of patriotic songs by leading singers like Usha Uthup, Papon and Somlata. With VIP movement around the city all day, Kolkata Police will deploy quick reaction teams, fortified bunkers, drones and over 2,000 men in uniform. Cops have announced traffic diversions on routes that either the PM or the CM will take on Saturday. Roads that will be closed for traffic during the PM’s movement include Kidderpore Road, AJC Bose Road, Elgin Road, Hospital Road, Belvedere Road and D L Khan Road. “The PM’s route has been sanitized and all anti-terror drills will be carried out hours before his arrival,” said an officer. During the CM’s march, Central Avenue will be closed to traffic that will be diverted to APC Road. North-bound traffic from central Kolkata will be diverted to APC Road through Vivekananda Road at Girish Park. Once the rally begins, vehicles will be diverted through Lenin Sarani in Esplanade. Once the rally reaches Esplanade, all vehicles will be diverted from Exide. Several roads like C R Avenue, R R Avenue and Red Road will see temporary suspension of traffic. Once Modi arrives, S P Mukherjee Road, too, will have to bear the extra load from Alipore. Vehicles will also be diverted through Strand Road from Kidderpore Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pm-likely-to-visit-netaji-bhawan-cm-to-lead-shyambazar-event/articleshow/80412937.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||BMC cuts 25% funds for gardens but gives Rs 6 crore for Shivaji Park; Congress cries foul||MUMBAI: With BMC cutting funding for open spaces by 25%, Congress is crying foul that while BMC approved a plan to spend Rs 6.1 crore on revamping Shivaji Park, which is has corporators and MLAs from Shiv Sena, it is not giving any funds to develop gardens like Kalina’s Joseph Baptista garden or Kalina talao. Congress alleged that BMC is only speeding funds on the G-North (Dadar, Mahim) and G-South (Lower Parel, Worli) wards, which are Sena strongholds. State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray is the MLA from Worli, Sena’s Sada Sarvankar is the MLA from Mahim. A bulk of corporators from the two areas are also from Shiv Sena. In a letter to BMC commissioner Iqbal Chahal, Congress corporator from Kalina, Tulip Miranda said that despite several requests, BMC refused to begin the next phase of revamping Kalina talao, citing lack of funds—but agreed to give Rs 6.1 crore for Shivaji Park’s revamp. “Distribution of funds must not be biased, especially for gardens since this is the only amenity which tax payers use and is free,” Miranda said in her letter. “I demand that justice be done to my ward no. 90 and more funds be allocated for development of the Joseph Kaka Baptista garden, spread over 4.5 acres,” Miranda said. Chahal has sanctioned a Rs 6.1-crore plan to revamp the 98,243 sq m Shivaji Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-cuts-25-funds-for-gardens-but-gives-rs-6cr-for-shivaji-park-congress-cries-foul/articleshow/80414649.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 23, 2021||Kochi||Kerala government wants hospitals to set up addl facilities for elderly||KOCHI: Kerala government wants every hospital in the state to ensure facilities to set up a vaccination centre with observation room and reception before the third phase of the vaccination drive for the population above 50 years of age and those below 50 with co-morbidities. “We had excellent coordination for Covid testing, treatment and care and now we are looking at the most important collaboration with everyone as we have reached a very decisive phase. After covering healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers, we will be vaccinating the elderly and vulnerable population and for this we need logistic and human resources,” said principal health secretary Dr Rajan Khobragade, while addressing IMA’s committee on Covid vaccines and vaccination strategy. Dr Khobragade said that there are around 45 lakh elderly population and another 20 to 30 lakh with morbidity in the state, who will be vaccinated. “We have to start planning right for this so that we can logically identify places conducive for vaccination. The vaccination site has to be either in a health institution or near to it so that they can be monitored for any complication post vaccination,” said the health secretary. The district-level officials along with private hospitals and IMA will identify strategic vaccination sites in each district for smooth vaccination drive for the vulnerable and then the common man. State expects that by March, the vaccine will be commercially available in the market. “Already through the DMO, it has been advised to create a list of vulnerable population in the state who need to be immediately vaccinated. It is a tedious process and every effort is being made to reach out to the people”, said Dr Anish T S, associate professor, community medicine, Trivandrum Medical College, who is presently posted as the public health consultant with KSDMA by the state government during Covid-19 crisis. Health officials said that unlike other immunisation drives, in Covid vaccination drive, the number of people is very large and majority of them may not go to a hospital for vaccination unless the facility is near their house. Tracking and ensuring that everyone is given the two doses of vaccination is a tedious process. “If the vaccination centres are increased four folds, then people can be vaccinated quickly. Kerala has the will power and capability to ensure that majority of its people get vaccinated against Covid-19 in time,” said Dr Jayakrishnan A V, chairman, Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) committee on Covid vaccines and vaccination strategy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-wants-hosps-to-set-up-addl-facilities-for-elderly/articleshow/80411721.cms||Preetu Nair
January 23, 2021||Kolkata||Youth shot in West Bengal after dispute over kin’s cancer treatment||KOLKATA: A youth was shot dead in the Lockgate area near Chitpore on Friday evening following a family dispute over the arrangement of a cancer patient’s treatment. Cops said the incident took place around 6pm. The victim, Hossain Deen, was shot at least twice from close range. The dispute revolved around the patient, Anjum Akhtar, and the victim was her brother-in-law. The sound of firing alerted the locals who caught three persons who were detained later. They were identified as Sahid Hossain, Mehtab Alam and Saddam Majhi. Late at night, cops detained one more person. They are the friends of Akhtar’s brother. The victim was rushed to RG Kar Hospital where he was declared dead. During the primary investigation, cops have come to know that the dispute, which resulted in the shoot-out, arose over taking the patient to her parental house at Kamarhati for her treatment, but her in-laws insisted that she stay back at Chitpore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/youth-shot-after-dispute-over-kins-cancer-treatment/articleshow/80412952.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 23, 2021||Pune||First dose a ray of hope for doctor||PUNE: Dr Prashant Darekar, who works with Sassoon General Hospital, had tested positive for Covid-19 twice over the last few months. So, when he finally got the vaccine shot on Friday, it brought a ray of hope for him and his colleagues. “After taking the vaccine and staying under observation for 15 minutes at the designated room, several scary images from the peak of the pandemic in Pune flashed before my eyes,” said Darekar. He was the resident medical officer of the Covid-19 ward at the hospital, which saw several deaths due to coronavirus, particularly in April and May last year. Darekar tested positive for Covid-19 on May 25 and September 28. “After testing positive, I was also scared since there was no vaccine. Though I remained asymptomatic and my condition was largely stable, I grew weak after losing weight during hospitalization,” he shared. He hopes that the days of performing life-saving duty in PPE kits for 12 to 14 hours will never return. “Wearing the PPE kit in the summer months was a nightmare. The hospital premises wore a sombre look for months and discharging duty was frightening and challenging. Today, the situation is slowly returning to normal,” said Dareker, who presently heads the hospital’s casualty wing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/first-dose-a-ray-of-hope-for-doctor/articleshow/80414652.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 23, 2021||Goa||Covid-19: Active tally at 853, toll touches 759 in Goa||PANAJI: On Friday, Goa reported 70 new cases of covid-19, 80 recoveries and one casualty, pushing its tally of active cases to 853 and mortality count to 759. An 85-year-old man from Nuvem died in Goa Medical College (GMC) after two weeks of treatment. The state’s positivity rate rose by a point to 4%, while the recovery rate remained unchanged at 97%. There were 16 hospital admissions, and 36 opted for home isolation during the day. Meanwhile, Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherkjee Stadium in Taleigao which served as a Covid care centre for six months, has been de-notified with patients choosing home isolation. For a month, it was without any patients while the centre in South Goa till Friday had eight patients. On Friday, the caseload of Panaji urban health centre and that of Porvorim primary health centre increased marginally. Both the centres have been reporting new cases with regularity as also the urban health centre at Margao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/active-tally-at-853-toll-touches-759/articleshow/80414638.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Chennai||Jaya memorial is a handy political tool for EPS-OPS ahead of election||Chennai: Come January 27, the ruling AIADMK-led by O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami is all set to put up a united show ahead of the assembly election. The Jayalalithaa memorial and its unveiling ahead of an election is expected to help the AIADMK leadership strike a chord with its dedicated voters. Every district secretary has been directed to make the ceremony a grand success with cadres, functionaries and the public joining the celebrations from across the state. The political leadership decided to inscribe on Jayalalithaa’s gravestone, her popular slogans that steered the party and government -- “Amaithi, Valam, Valarchi” (peace, progress and prosperity) and “Makkalal Naan, Makkalukkaga Naan” (By the People, For the people) in Tamil and English. The two leaders have sought to take exclusive ‘ownership’ of the memorial by unveiling it themselves and installing a plaque with their names etched on it for posterity. Speaker P Dhanapal’s name would find a place too. “The memorial is an exclusive party and state government affair and the leaders would like their names on the plaque,” said a source. The state government had not been too keen on inviting Prime Minister Narendra Modi to declare it open like it was considered earlier. The iconic Rs 80 crore memorial complex will be the rallying point for the AIADMK leadership and cadres who has overcome some trying times in the last four years. The unveiling day events have been lined up to coincide with the day when Sasikala would be officially “released” from Bengaluru prison -- a calculated move on the part of the CM and his deputy. Incidentally, Sasikala is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in a Bengaluru hospital. At the party's general council meeting recently, Palaniswami invited the partymen to attend the opening ceremony at the Marina, along with families, as a sign of gratitude to the departed leader. “The memorial adds glory to our leader. The state government has been implementing all welfare schemes initiated by her,” said AIADMK deputy coordinator K P Munusamy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/jaya-memorial-is-a-handy-political-tool-for-eps-ops-ahead-of-election/articleshow/80412993.cms||Julie Mariappan
January 23, 2021||Goa||Health secy,DM relievedfrom Goa duties||Panaji: The state government on Friday issued an order relieving three IAS officers, including health secretary Amit Satija whose transfer order came in October last year. Satija has been transferred to Lakshadweep. Before being appointed health secretary, he had served as excise commissioner for about two years. Rupesh Kumar Thakur, who served as secretary general administration, has also been relieved with effect from January 31 upon his transfer to Delhi. Relieving order of North Goa collector R Menaka, who has been transferred to Delhi, has also been issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/health-secydm-relievedfrom-goa-duties/articleshow/80414655.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 23, 2021||Chennai||Classes suspended indefinitely at Rajah Muthiah med college||Cuddalore: As students strike at Rajah Muthiah Medical College Hospital (RMMCH), affiliated to Annamalai University and run by Tamil Nadu government, continued for 43 days, the college management suspended classes. Annamalai University registrar (in-charge) R Gnanadevan, said classes were suspended indefinitely and students asked to vacate the hostel to defuse the extraordinary situation. Some students had left already and others would leave soon, he said. As for the students’ demand for reduction of fee, Gnanadevan said the issue was pending before Madras high court and the fees committee. “Our prospectus mentions about the fees structure and students very well know it before joining. We honour the orders and instructions of courts and fees committee," said Gnanadevan. However, the agitating students argued that the committee included the expenditure of the hospital, apart from academic expenditure, under the students' head in RMMCH. However, it considers only the academic expenditure in other government colleges under the students' head while fixing the fees, they said. "Why use different yardsticks to fix fees for RMMCH and other government colleges. RMMCH is also a government-run medical college," argued a member of students' council. The college charges Rs 5.6 lakh per annum for MBBS course and Rs 9.6 lakh per annum for MD/MS courses, whereas the private self-financing medical colleges charge Rs 3.8 lakh per annum for MBBS course under government quota and Rs 3.5 lakh for MD/MS courses per annum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/classes-suspended-indefinitely-at-rajah-muthiah-med-college/articleshow/80412972.cms||Bosco Dominique
January 23, 2021||Nashik||NMC to free part of Covid beds in pvt hosps||Nashik: With the number of Covid patients in Nashik city drastically dropping during the last one month, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is planning to free part of Covid beds that it had reserved in 84 private hospitals. NMC’s medical superintending officer Bapusaheb Nagargoje said it is true that many beds are vacant in private hospitals as the number of patients have dropped. “There are over 2,000 beds reserved for Covid patients in private hospitals in the city. But, the new cases have dropped at large and there are very less number of Covid patients admitted to civic and private hospitals as compared to the number of beds available in hospitals,” said Nagargoje. “We will take a call on the issue in the first week of February after discussing it with municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav,” he added. The NMC has closed its six Covid Care Centres (CCCs) after the drop in Covid patients in the city. Of the eight CCCs, four centres at Vilholi, Tapovan, Gangapur hospital and Wadala have already been temporarily closed around two months back. Last month, the civic body had also stopped admission of Covid patients in its CCC at the Social welfare department hostel building near the Dwarka area of the city. Recently, two CCCs of NMC — Thakker’s dome and Meri hostel building have also been closed. Meanwhile, two Covid hospitals of the civic body — Zakir Hussain and Bytco hospital — are now operational. The capacity of Zakir Hussain is 150 beds and that of Bytco is 700.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-free-part-of-covid-beds-in-pvt-hosps/articleshow/80412985.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 23, 2021||Dehradun||Rudrapur MLA files complaint against FB user for ‘instigating communal passions’||Rudrapur: BJP legislator from Rudrapur, Rajkumar Thukral, has filed a complaint with the city police against a Facebook user for “instigating communal passions”. Thukral has alleged that the accused used abusive language for Hindu Gods on a post shared by his brother, Sanjay Thukral. Thukral said that the accused, who runs a Facebook account in the name of Naresh Pal, ridiculed deities and religious practices. “He has openly abused my brother and also used dirty words for revered Hindu Gods. This may disturb peace in the area. Police should immediately arrest this man,” the legislator added. SHO of the city police station, NN Pant, said that a case has been filed against an unidentified man under section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, and the probe is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rudrapur-mla-files-complaint-against-fb-user-for-instigating-communal-passions/articleshow/80411701.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 23, 2021||Kolkata||141 not out, IIEST scoreboard begins its second innings||KOLKATA: In 1880, just after Bishop’s College shifted to Kolkata and Government Engineering College—later, BE College and now, IIEST—moved into its 150-acre campus in Shibpur, British officers and faculty members decided to turn a sprawling field into a full-sized cricket ground. The Hooghly was only a ball’s throw to the east and college lore has it that the breeze would make the ball swing naturally, leading the British to christen the ground, Oval, after its more famous counterpart in London. The Thames also flows by the original Oval. In no time, two cricket pitches were readied, galleries were built with a wooden score board and competitive cricket started. The first match recorded there was in 1891, when the college beat Walkins XI. The vintage score board that recorded the win, continued to be used for many such matches in pre- as well as post-Independent India befor finally giving up. It was, however, preserved for its heritage value. Finally, IIEST has gone in for an elaborate repair of the wooden score board, bringing back its system of spiralling numbers where the numbers have to be set by hand to record every change. The board is ready to be re-installed and will be in use this cricket season, when the campus re-starts and inter-university matches start. “A digital score board is a quick solution but we didn’t want to discard the old board, despite the elaborate repair that it demanded as it adds value to our heritage Oval ground,” said director Partha Sarathi Chakrabarti. The Oval ground is part of the heritage block of the campus with the old chapel and a clock tower on its two sides. “We are repairing the galleries that can hold 400 spectators. We are installing floodlights so that day-and-night matches can be played at Oval, which has been a long-time dream of our alumni,” he added. The history of Oval is being recreated by chronicler of the campus, Bibhor Das. He is preparing details of matches played here since inception, from hand-written registers. “We are making a list of historically important matches played here. Take for example the fact that from 1893 to 1905, the Harrison Challenge Shield was played here and the cup remained with the college,” Das said. The institute also has another field that was named Lords by the British and initially, matches used to be played there, too. The institute now uses it for myriad assemblies, like convocation, and also allows outsiders to use it for sporting events. This is, however, never the case with Oval, which is zealously guarded by the institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/141-not-out-iiest-scoreboard-begins-its-second-innings/articleshow/80413009.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 23, 2021||India||Isro likely to launch rocket dedicated to private satellites on February 28||NEW DELHI: Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) is set to launch a rocket that will solely carry private satellites, including three satellites made by Indian startups, from Sriharikota on February 28. The PSLV-C51, whose primary payload will be Brazil-developed Amazonia-1 satellite, will be launched from the first launchpad, sources said. Isro chairman K Sivan has called the upcoming PSLV launch, dedicated to private satellites, “as part of space reforms", which are aimed at increasing participation of private companies in the space sector. Amazonia-1, which Brazil took eight years to develop for monitoring the ecosystem of the Amazon forest, has already landed at the Sriharikota launch centre via Chennai from the south American country. Four members of Brazil’s National Institute for Space Research team, which developed Amazonia-1, also travelled with the satellite to oversee its successful launch. The other three privately built desi satellites are ‘ANAND’ from startup Pixel India, ‘SATISH SAT’ from Space Kids India and ‘UNIT-SAT’ by a consortium of universities. On the three satellites built by Indian startups, Sivan had said, “PSLV-C51 (mission) is going to initiate a new era of space reforms in India and I am sure that these private people will take this activity further and provide services for the entire country.” The move to allow private players in space exploration follows the Modi Cabinet’s decision in June 2020, allowing participation of the private sector in the entire range of space activities, including interplanetary missions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/isro-likely-to-launch-rocket-dedicated-to-private-satellites-on-february-28/articleshow/80415771.cms||Surendra Singh
January 23, 2021||Chennai||Veda Nilayam too to be opened to public on Jan 28||Chennai: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami will formally throw open Veda Nilayam, former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s residence in Poes Garden, to the public, on January 28. It has been decided to formally open it at 10.30am, sources said. On Friday, during a meeting with district secretaries, Palaniswami hinted at the opening of Veda Nilayam on January 28. An assessment by the revenue department suggested that the three-storey building on a ten ground plot has 32,721 movable items, including 8,376 books and 394 mementos. Fourteen items of gold weighing 4.372kgs and 867 items of silver weighing 601.424kgs and 162 silver utensils are part of the valuation. The state government enacted a law setting up a Foundation led by the chief minister to maintain the property in good condition. “We have handed over the property to the information department following the completion of land acquisition,” said Chennai collector R Seethalakshmi. The public works department and the information department are working to display selective items for the public. Senior bureaucrats of the departments visited the residence recently. Not every item will be showcased behind glass panels, but only the ones that reflect the personality of the leader, including books, mementoes and other personal belongings, sources said. The event was lined up around the time another housemate and Jayalalithaa’s close-aide, VK Sasikala would be released from prison. The party leadership on Friday issued a gag order on the ministers and functionaries, restraining them from expressing their opinions and views about Sasikala to the media at least until election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/veda-nilayam-too-to-be-opened-to-public-on-jan-28/articleshow/80413002.cms||Julie Mariappan
January 23, 2021||Bhopal||There is nothing to be scared of, say doctors who took the jab||Bhopal/Jabalpur: There is nothing to be scared of regarding Covid vaccination, say doctors who have undergone immunisation in the state on the first day. “Vaccine should be welcomed. There is nothing to be scared of. Secondly, no one should be scared of side-effects. First of all, there would be no side-effects. If there is any side-effect, it would be minor. So far, no severe adverse effect has been reported in the state capital. And more important is the fact that though we are getting vaccinated, we should not be distancing ourselves from masks and also follow social distancing norms till the government issues any guidelines about it,” said chief medical and health officer Bhopal, Dr Prabhakar Tiwari, who got vaccinated on the first day of vaccination. “In my personal experience, since the day I have been vaccinated, I have been working more and even worked on Sunday. There is absolutely nothing to worry,” he added. Similarly, Dr Ajay Goenka of Chirayu Medical College, where a Covid-19 centre was formed and who also got vaccinated on the first day, said, “By getting scared of the vaccine, people are causing harm to themselves. Vaccine is the key to fight Covid-19. There is nothing to be scared of vaccines. Anyone who is called for vaccination should undergo immunisation without giving it a second thought.” Dr Rajesh Dhirawani of Jabalpur who also took the vaccine said, “Everything is normal post vaccination, there is nothing to be worried about.” “Personally, I have felt no issues and I am fit and fine. We also meet people in the hospital and take feedback from them. No major issue has been reported by anyone who had undergone vaccination. In some minor cases, a few people have said that they felt sleepy after taking the vaccine, but nausea is a common symptom after any vaccination,” said Dr Sanjay Jain, resident medical officer at Victoria Hospital in Jabalpur. Likewise, chief medical and health officer Jabalpur, Dr Ratnesh Kuraria, said, “I am absolutely normal after vaccination and I am following my routine as it is.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/there-is-nothing-to-be-scared-of-say-doctors-who-took-the-jab/articleshow/80413004.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Kolkata||Med panel’s refund order for Covid hosps||Kolkata: The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Friday asked a few hospitals and diagnostic centres to refund “overcharged” amount to several patients. Divine Nursing Home was asked to refund Rs 35,000 to the family of a Covid patient as the commission found the hospital hiking bed charges against the commission’s advisory. The hospital has also been asked to tender a written apology to a patient’s family for harassment caused to it. Two diagnostic units — BMRI and SRL — have been asked to refund the excess amount to two patients as they had charged higher rates of Covid test. The commission also told CMRI Hopsital to offer Rs 29,000 discount to the kin of a patient who died during the Covid treatment. Apollo Hospitals was asked to refund Rs 1 lakh to the family of a patient who tested Covid positive and died of cancer later, while Daffodil Nursing Home was asked to pay Rs 25,000 to the family of a patient who died after jumping out of the hospital window.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/med-panels-refund-order-for-covid-hosps/articleshow/80412989.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai police commissioner felicitates cops for ‘best detection’||Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh felicitated a crime intelligence unit (CIU) team on Friday and gave it a certificate of commendation for “best detection of the TRP scam”. The CIU team comprises ACP Shashank Sanbhor and assistant police inspectors Sachin Waze, Nitin Londhe, Santosh Kotwal and Riyaz Kazi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cp-felicitates-cops-for-best-detection/articleshow/80413012.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Nashik||Man knocked down at Dwarka jn, notification may come out soon making use of subway mandatory||Nashik: A 60-year-old man was knocked down to death by an unidentified motorist at the Dwarka junction on Wednesday evening. The victim has been identified as Kisan Lala Saindane, a resident of Amalner taluka in Jalgaon district. Saindane and his wife had come to Nashik to meet their daughter, who stays in Nashik Road. After alighting from a bus at the Dwarka circle around 4 pm, the couple was crossing the junction when a speeding vehicle coming from the Mumbai Naka side knocked down Saindane. Saindane suffered serious injuries on his head and succumbed to them during the course of the treatment at Nashik civil hospital. His son-in-law has registered a complaint against the unidentified motorist at Bhadrakali police station. Deputy commissioner of police (traffic and headquarters) Pournima Chaugule-Sringi said, “We have been appealing to people to use the pedestrian subway instead of crossing the road at Dwarka junction. However, pedestrians are not paying heed to our appeals.” A few weeks ago, the city police even got guards from the National Highway Authority of India, Nashik office, deployed at the subway for the safety of pedestrians. “We are in the process of coming out with a notification which will make it mandatory for pedestrians at Dwarka junction to use the subway and failing to do so would invite strict action,” said the DCP. Meanwhile, a 40-year-old unidentified woman was knocked down to death, when she was crossing the road, by a speeding motorist in front of Boob Petrol Pump on the Mumbai-Agra highway around 1:30pm on Thursday. Indiranagar police have registered an office of causing death due to negligence against the unidentified motorist. Awareness drive on traffic rules and regulations As part of the 32nd Road Safety Campaign, the Ghoti highway police and the rural police on Thursday spread awareness among motorists about traffic rules. Motorists in the adjoining villages near Ghoti and Wadivarhe were told not to overspeed their vehicles. Amol Walzade, assistant police inspector of the Ghoti Traffic Aid Post (TAP), said motorists were informed about special interceptor vehicles which helped detect overspeeding and sent an e-challan to the concerned motorist.The motorists were given demonstration of the interceptor vehicle about how it can capture overspeeding vehicles. Walzade said in 2020, they challaned 11,700 motorists only for overspeeding compared to the 11,300 challans issued in 2019 for all traffic violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-knocked-down-at-dwarka-jn-notification-may-come-out-soon-making-use-of-subway-mandatory/articleshow/80412998.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 23, 2021||Dehradun||Unused buses to be turned into comfy stays, ply on Garhwal hills||The interior of a motor home will have all modern amenitiesDehradun: Uttarakhand is all set to launch “motor homes” by installing amenities in unused buses and turning them into mobile accommodations. According to Ashish Chauhan, managing director (MD), GMVN, the launch of two such “motor homes” is expected sometime next month, as soon as the facility receives the pending approval. “Each ‘motor home’ will accommodate up to four persons, be equipped with a toilet, a pantry, beds, power supply and other necessary electrical appliances. We are trying to get permission from authorities concerned so that they can be driven anywhere in Garhwal,” added Chauhan. However, if allowed to move, the stays will have to be parked at night near a GMVN campus, so they can get power supply to recharge. “Construction cost of each vehicle will be around Rs 8 lakh,” explained Harish Chauhan, a junior engineer with GMVN who is part of the project. Bookings for “motor homes” can be done at the Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam (GMVN) office in Rishikesh as well as online. The cost of booking has not been decided yet. “These buses will tour scenic hilly areas, which don’t have good places to stay,” he added. States like Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh already offer “caravan tourism”, which is similar to what GMVN is planning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/unused-buses-to-be-turned-into-comfy-stays-ply-on-garhwal-hills/articleshow/80411729.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Goa||Ayush mantrishifted to room from ICU||Panaji: Ayush minister Shripad Naik was shifted out of the intensive care unit (ICU) on Friday, ten days after he met with a road accident. “The minister is recovering well. His general condition is improving. He has been shifted out of ICU to a VVIP room,” Dr S M Bandekar, dean, Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital said in a media bulletin. The Ayush minister, though continues to be on a nasal prongs oxygenation, is maintaining a satisfactory saturation level. Four orthopaedic surgeries were performed on him immediately after his accident. The minister is also being given physiotherapy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ayush-mantrishifted-to-room-from-icu/articleshow/80414685.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Nashik||‘Work on Nashik sub-centre of SPPU to being in April’||Nashik: Claiming that the issues related to starting of the much-awaited construction of Nashik sub-centre of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) have been resolved, Maharashtra minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant on Friday said that the construction was likely to begin in April following due procedure.Samant was addressing the media during his visit to Nasik for reviewing the issues related to the sub-centre. “During his visit to Nashik in February, chief minister Uddhav Thackery had assured that the work of the sub-centre would begin at the earliest. The meetings and everything got delayed due to Covid-19. We have now resolved all the issues related to the same and the formalities related to the construction will now be completed,” said Samant.The minister has also pointed out that SPPU has allocated Rs 2 crore for the construction. The minister also held a meeting with the officials of Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University (YCMOU). He said that the open university would now cross state border as it was planning to open divisional centre in Goa and provide opportunity for locals to take lessons through the YCMOU.The extension of the open university in Goa will be a pilot project of the YCMOU and when successful, similar divisional centres will also be inaugurated in major cities across the country. “This is a pilot project. We have discussed many issues with the chief minister of Goa Pramod Sawant and are soon going to give him a presentation of the YCMOU as well. We are hopeful that we will have a centre soon in Goa,” the minister said. In case of opening up of centres in Maharashtra, the minister said that the divisional centres would be opened up in Chandgad and Mhaisal.On the issue of starting BSc Agriculture course that has already been closed by the University Grants Commission (UGC) for all open universities across the country, Samant said that the ministry would request the chief minister to start such a course at state level through the YCMOU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/work-on-nashik-sub-centre-of-sppu-to-being-in-april/articleshow/80413008.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 23, 2021||Bhopal||347 new cases in MP, tally 2,53,114||Bhopal: The count of Covid-19 cases reached 2,53,114 on Friday as 347 new cases were reported in the state. Four deaths were also reported in the state as per the state health bulletin released by the Directorate of Health Services. With these new casualties, the Covid death toll in the state reached 3,780. Districts where these deaths were reported include one death each in Indore, Bhopal, Damoh and Rajgarh districts. On Friday, new cases were reported from 45 of the 52 districts of the state. Districts where no new cases were reported on Friday include Morena, Mandsaur, Anuppur, Bhind, Ashok Nagar, Burhanpur and Agar Malwa. Fresh cases were reported in double figures from six districts. The highest number of cases were reported from Bhopal where 101 people tested positive, followed by Indore where 44 tested positive, Ujjain where 20 tested positive and Gwalior where 18 people were found positive. On the brighter side, 463 people recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals. With these new people recovering from Covid-19, the total recoveries so far in the state reached 2,44,855. A total 26,248 samples were tested on Friday, of which 347 tested positive, thus the positivity rate—which is the number of positive cases out of every 100 samples tested—for Friday stood at 1.3 per cent. As on January 22 , there were 6,957 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/347-new-cases-in-mp-tally-253114/articleshow/80413022.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Goa||BJP wants to continue with corruption: AAP||PANAJI: The BJP is amending the Lokayukta Act only because it wants to continue with its corrupt acts without any hindrance, the Aam Aadmi Party has alleged. The proposal to appoint any “eminent person” as Upalokpal is not only unacceptable as presently only a retired high court judge could be appointed, AAP Goa convenor Rahul Mhambre said. He said that “eminent person” implies that the BJP is creating a position for some of its functionaries to be appointed to the post after their retirement. He also strongly condemned BJP Goa president Sadanand Tanavade for his statement that Lokayukta was behaving like a “neta” and argued that the Lokayukta who is appointed to be a watchdog against corruption is not expected to behave like the ruling party’s cheerleader. Any dilution of the powers or scope of the Lokayukta which is a necessary watch dog is unacceptable, he added. “The BJP is trying to institutionalise corruption by public functionaries and elected representatives,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-wants-to-continue-with-corruption-aap/articleshow/80414696.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Goa||Goa: Prominent private doctors take vax jab||PANAJI: Prominent private doctors in Margao grabbed the opportunity to get vaccinated at Victor Hospital, Margao on Friday evening. Although they were informed, but at short notice, 24 doctors showed up at the hospital to receive the first jab. “We meet a lot of patients, so we have to be more vigilant especially at our age. I took the vaccine… the first opportunity I got, and so far, there have been no problems. I have been going through many reports and Covishield is very safe,” senior surgeon Dr V V Kamat told TOI after getting the first vaccine dose. “I took a photograph and I’m going to upload it as my WhatsApp display picture (DP) so that my patients who are apprehensive about the vaccine, will be more confident to take it,” he added. Indian Medical Association (IMA) Margao president and former chairperson of the Margao municipal council Dr Babita Angle Prabhudessai took the initiative to get IMA doctors vaccinated when she found that some healthcare workers at Victor Hospital had backed out. “There’s no reason not to believe in science,” she said after getting the jab. Another IMA member and senior paediatrician Dr Harshad Kamat said he strongly recommends the vaccine. “We are endorsing the vaccine by being the first to take it. It is safe enough and we have not experienced any adverse effects. Many senior IMA doctors aged 80 and below have taken it. There shouldn’t be any vaccine hesitancy,” he said. Another session will soon be organised for other IMA doctors in Margao next week as soon as the government fixes a date, he said. Senior paediatrician Dr Jitendra Nagarsenkar said paediatricians like himself have a higher chance of contracting Covid compared to other specialists as children are known to be asymptomatic carriers of Covid-19. “I feel everyone should take it unless someone has a specific contraindications or severe allergies to similar vaccines. I am diabetic, hypertensive and had heart surgery, but there was never any doubt in my mind about taking the vaccine,” he said. The doctors said they will continue to wear masks and take all the precautions they have been taking till now as immunity is expected to set in only 14 days after the next dose scheduled for February 19. Medical superintendent at Victor Hospital Dr Rajesh Jhaverani said he believes the Covid pandemic will end only with vaccination. “If you want to wait for herd immunity to take care of it, we are going to lose more lives. The only way of getting rid of the pandemic is through vaccination. It’s more of a social responsibility. The whole world has to be immunised to let this pandemic end,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/prominent-pvt-docs-take-vax-jab/articleshow/80414720.cms||Lisa Monteiro
January 23, 2021||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Gauge conversion done, but very few trains run on them||CHENNAI: Southern Railway may have completed gauge conversion and electrification of some stretches of lines in the state, but few attempts have been made to make the most of these to improve train connectivity. With no trains on at least three lines which are ready and not enough trains on two other lines, passengers want reintroduction of the trains that were running when the lines were metre gauge. There are no trains on the Chennai-Ranipet stretch, now opened primarily for freight, the Dindigul-Pollachi, Madurai-Bodi and the Thiruvarur-Karaikal lines, while there are only two services along the Sengottai-Kollam stretch.  In the coming months more lines are set to be ready after gauge conversion of Usilampatti-Andipatti, Andipatti-Theni and Theni-Bodinayakanur lines and doubling of Macheri Road-Mettur dam and Omalur-Mecheri Road lines are over.  Investments have been made to ready the infrastructure, but railways, fearinbg low patronage, is waiting for all the lines or the full stretch of a line to be completed before running trains.  Most of the scheduled express trains have resumed, connecting towns where there is demand for travel.  Edward Jeni, secretary of Kanyakumari District Railway Users' Association (KDRUA), said railways should run most trains on the lines that are ready after gauge conversion and electrification. “There is scope to run more trains on Sengottai-Kollam stretch and on Thiruvarur-Karaikal and Madurai-Theni stretch which will be ready soon. Railways can push for resuming trains that were running when lines were metre gauge.”  Since the Arakkonam-Salem MEMU was launched, people have been suggesting such services on short routes connecting small towns so that people can be encouraged to switch to trains from expensive buses.  An official said passenger services could not be introduced because of the Covid restrictions. “There is scope for passenger services on the Chennai-Ranipet and the Tindivanam-Nagari stretch and also on other lines in future.” The idea is to complete ongoing infrastructure upgrade and bring more towns into the rail network so that trains can be introduced when there is a need, he added. Sources said if private trains connecting traffic-intense towns become a success, railways may improve connections between small towns using train sets that do not need locomotives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/gauge-conversion-done-but-very-few-trains-run-on-them/articleshow/80421655.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Gauge conversion done, but very few trains run on them||CHENNAI: Southern Railway may have completed gauge conversion and electrification of some stretches of lines in the state, but few attempts have been made to make the most of these to improve train connectivity. With no trains on at least three lines which are ready and not enough trains on two other lines, passengers want reintroduction of the trains that were running when the lines were metre gauge. There are no trains on the Chennai-Ranipet stretch, now opened primarily for freight, the Dindigul-Pollachi, Madurai-Bodi and the Thiruvarur-Karaikal lines, while there are only two services along the Sengottai-Kollam stretch.  In the coming months more lines are set to be ready after gauge conversion of Usilampatti-Andipatti, Andipatti-Theni and Theni-Bodinayakanur lines and doubling of Macheri Road-Mettur dam and Omalur-Mecheri Road lines are over.  Investments have been made to ready the infrastructure, but railways, fearinbg low patronage, is waiting for all the lines or the full stretch of a line to be completed before running trains.  Most of the scheduled express trains have resumed, connecting towns where there is demand for travel.  Edward Jeni, secretary of Kanyakumari District Railway Users' Association (KDRUA), said railways should run most trains on the lines that are ready after gauge conversion and electrification. “There is scope to run more trains on Sengottai-Kollam stretch and on Thiruvarur-Karaikal and Madurai-Theni stretch which will be ready soon. Railways can push for resuming trains that were running when lines were metre gauge.”  Since the Arakkonam-Salem MEMU was launched, people have been suggesting such services on short routes connecting small towns so that people can be encouraged to switch to trains from expensive buses.  An official said passenger services could not be introduced because of the Covid restrictions. “There is scope for passenger services on the Chennai-Ranipet and the Tindivanam-Nagari stretch and also on other lines in future.” The idea is to complete ongoing infrastructure upgrade and bring more towns into the rail network so that trains can be introduced when there is a need, he added. Sources said if private trains connecting traffic-intense towns become a success, railways may improve connections between small towns using train sets that do not need locomotives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gauge-conversion-done-but-very-few-trains-run-on-them/articleshow/80413018.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu assembly elections: DMK may field at least 50 youth candidates||CHENNAI: The DMK is looking to attract young voters by fielding young candidates in the upcoming assembly elections. According to senior party functionaries, the party would field at least 50 young candidates for the assembly polls. The leadership, in fact, has revamped the party by infusing young blood over the past couple of years. Soon after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the party leadership started the process of replacing the old guards with young and active functionaries in districts where the party units were dormant. For instance, sitting MLA of Tiruverumbur assembly segment Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, who is close to Udhayanidhi Stalin, was appointed as district secretary of Trichy South after the party strongman of the region K N Nehru was made DMK principal secretary. Senthil Balaji, who had joined the party from the AMMK, was given the charge of Karur district of the party. The party’s youth wing leader Udayanidhi Stalin, during his meetings with the unit's functionaries, expressed his keenness in reserving a significant number of seats for the youth. "Each of the 20 wings of the party will on an average get three seats each. Even in this selection, importance will be given to young functionaries. The party is making a conscious effort to bring down the average age of the party candidates to re-engineer the party. Many young leaders, with good track record and popularity, stand a good chance to be fielded in the forthcoming polls,” said a state-level leader, seeking anonymity. Since the party is keen on contesting in more than 180 seats, it will have 30 to 40 seats more when compared to the previous elections. “These seats will most likely go to the youth wing and young candidates from other wings,” he added. He recalled Udhayanidhi’s speech at the first meeting after he assumed charge as youth wing secretary in August 2019, and said he (Udhayanidhi) had assured that 30 of the functionaries of the wing would be fielded in the assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmk-may-field-at-least-50-youth-candidates/articleshow/80413007.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Partho Dasgupta files second bail plea, Bombay HC seeks his health report||MUMBAI: Former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta, accused in the alleged television ratings point (TRP) rigging case, petitioned Bombay high court on Friday for bail and for an urgent hearing for relief after learning J J Hospital planned to discharge him, though his health had “deteriorated”. Justice P D Naik called for a report on Dasgupta’s “heath condition” on Monday when it will also hear his bail plea. Public prosecutor Deepak Thakare informed a bench of Justice P D Naik, at an urgent 7pm hearing, that Dasgupta had been discharged from JJ hospital and taken back to Taloja jail. Dasgupta’s lawyer Arjun Singh Thakur, while seeking the urgent hearing and relief, said, “The applicant’s wife and daughter have managed to get a video of him being transported on a stretcher”. Dasgupta was “on oxygen until Friday afternoon. He is being transferred in a very suspicious manner for reasons best known to the respondents (state)”. Thakare said jail doctors would treat him and submit a report on his health status to the court on Monday. On Wednesday, a sessions court had rejected the bail plea of Dasgupta, arrested in the alleged TRP case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dasgupta-files-2nd-bail-plea-hc-seeks-his-health-report/articleshow/80411756.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 23, 2021||Bhopal||Covaxin batch-1 arrives in Bhopal||BHOPAL: The third consignment of Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, reached Bhopal's Raja Bhok airport on Friday. This was the largest consignment that reached Bhopal airport so far. Twenty-one boxes of Covaxin reached Bhopal by regular IndiGo flight 6E211 and were handed over to health department of state government. Within eight minutes of arrival the vaccines were delivered. Earlier, two consignments of Covishield were received. Airport officials said that preparations were done as per the SOPs issued by the Union government. From airport, the vaccines were sent to the designated Centre. The only difference this time was that the instead of state health staff, cargo logistics movers were contracted for delivery of the vaccine safely to the health department storage centre. The first consignment of about 94,000 doses of the Covishield vaccine reached the Bhopal airport in Madhya Pradesh on January 16. First batch of the vaccine doses arrived at the Raja Bhoj Airport in a scheduled flight. State Medical education minister Vishwas Sarang had inspected the State Vaccine Store at Kilol Park, Bhopal. The vaccine was also made available to Gwalior on Thursday. Around 5.6 lakh vaccines are to be received in the first phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/21-boxes-of-covaxin-reach-bhopal-airport/articleshow/80413017.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Bhopal||MP: Govt withdraws proposal to open new liquor shops||BHOPAL: The state government withdrew a proposal to open new liquor shops on Friday — a day after former CM Uma Bharti expressed opposition to the idea while appealing for total prohibition in Madhya Pradesh. It was believed that monopoly in liquor sector was one of the causes of Morena hooch tragedy, that killed 28 people. Suggestions were made that market should be opened for more players across the state and more shops should be added. On January 21, the excise commissioner issued a letter to all the collectors and asked them to send proposals regarding the new shops. The collectors were asked to submit their suggestions within two days. The government was intending to increase liquor stores by 20% in urban areas and asked the collectors to find out “newly developed” areas where there are no liquor shops, on priority basis. For collectors, it was made “mandatory” to identify villages with a population of 5000 with no liquor shop.These proposals would have acted as base to formulate new excise policy for the next fiscal, sources said. Talking to TOI, the excise commissioner Rajeev Chandra Dubey termed it “a routine exercise”. “We carry out several exercises annually and it was one of them”, he said. But as soon as the letter was leaked out, it led to a stir within the government. Uma Bharti on Thursday vehemently opposed the idea of opening new liquor shops in Madhya Pradesh. Bharti, also, appealed to BJP national president JP Nadda to prepare for a total prohibition on liquor sale in all BJP ruled states. She said lives are more precious than generating revenues. Without wasting any time, the government swung into action and withdrew the order. Sources said there were major differences “within the BJP leaders and the government” over the liquor proposal. After her series of tweets, she held a press conference on Friday and said she would meet the CM for converting MP into a dry state. Liquor contributed for a major chunk of state’s revenue. Last fiscal, it added Rs10,600 crore in the state’s coffer. Interestingly, last year during lockdown when everything else was shut down, various states permitted liquor shops to operate. It was said that the move aimed to keep economy afloat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/govt-withdraws-proposal-to-open-new-liquor-shops/articleshow/80413026.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||MLC polls: Cong to finalise candidates||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress has set up a committee to finalise candidates for the two graduates MLC seats, polls of which will be held soon. The committee was formed on Friday under the leadership of MLC Jeevan Reddy. A total of 46 candidates have applied for the two seats (26 for Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates constituency and 20 for Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda constituency). While Bellaiah Naik, Ramulu Naik and Manavata Roy are strong contenders for Warangal- Khammam-Nalgonda seat, Ch Vamshi Chand Reddy, G Sampat Kumar and others are pitching for the other constituency. Meanwhile, party leaders have urged the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) to announce the mayoral candidates for the ensuing civic polls in Warangal and Khammam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mlc-polls-cong-to-finalise-candidates/articleshow/80413028.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||After outrage, TRS MLA makes a U-turn||Hyderabad: Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) Korutla MLA Vidya Sagar Rao on Friday asked the BJP not to politicise gods and religious sentiments. Making a U-turn after asking people not to donate for Ram temple in Ayodhya, the MLA said he will visit the Ram temple in Ayodhya and will also donate for its construction. “I will donate for construction of the Ram temple. The comments I made were personal and my party has got nothing to do with it,” he said. Taking exception to Nizamabad Bharatiya Janata Party MP D Arvind’s recent comments, the MLA said the MP speaks without respect for anyone and makes hurtful remarks. Meanwhile, the BJP activists staged protests in some districts opposing the comments of the MLA made on the Ram temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-outrage-trs-mla-makes-a-u-turn/articleshow/80413024.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Goa||Outrage in Vasco after neighbour assaults boy||VASCO: A 12-year-old boy was brutally assaulted by his neighbour for allegedly disturbing her siesta. The 55-year-old accused, identified only as Anita by police, was taking a nap at home in the afternoon, when the noise of children playing outside disturbed her sleep, which annoyed her. According to the complaint lodged by the father of the victim boy, on January 18, when he returned home from work, he saw his son come home crying and asking for ice. On enquiries from his mother, the child said that he was beaten up by the neighbour. The incident went viral on social media and provoked anger among Vascoites as photographs showing the assault marks on the boy’s back were being circulated online. The complaint stated that the victim along with other boys were riding bicycles when the accused came with a wooden stick and called the victim closer. When the boy went to her, the woman started assaulting him. To escape the accused, the boy ran to a friend’s house in the neighbourhood, but the accused chased him there and continued assaulting him. An elderly member of the house saw the woman assaulting to boy and intervened. The boy was left with bruise marks on his stomach, neck, head, hands and other parts. The case was registered under Section 324, 8 of Goa Children’s Act. The accused woman has been granted anticipatory bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/outrage-in-vasco-after-neighbour-assaults-boy/articleshow/80414751.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Goa||Goa: Government’s migrant support cell to help labourers||PANAJI: The state government has created a dedicated migrant cell to resolve the problems of migrant labourers who come to Goa in search of work. Goa’s migrant cell will work in conjunction with the Centre’s national migrant support portal (NMSP), said chief minister Pramod Sawant after attending the virtual launch of the portal. Sawant said creation of the NMSP would help in data collection and in turn help the state government undertake welfare programmes. Goa receives migrant workers from Karnataka, Punjab, Delhi, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odhisa, Jharkhand, and other states. These migrant workers are primarily engaged in the hospitality, construction and fisheries sectors. Sawant admitted that Goa does not have data of migrant labourers, which makes it difficult to provide support and assistance when required, such as when the Covid-19 pandemic broke and the subsequent lockdown. Minister for tribal welfare Govind Gaude said that the launch of the NMSP indicates that the Centre is concerned about the welfare of tribal people who move across the country in search of their livelihood. In May 2020, Goacan had urged the state government to set up a migrant worker facilitation centre to mark Goa Statehood Day. The state government appears to have heard the suggestion, and plans to set up the migration facilitation centre, which will bridge the gap between the state government and migrant workers, and also implement welfare programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govts-migrant-support-cell-to-help-labourers/articleshow/80414735.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Goa||Sanatan Sanstha gets notice over hill-cutting||Ponda: Bandora panchayat on Friday served a notice to Sanatan Sanstha, Ramnathi, directing it to immediately stop its ongoing hill-cutting work. The panchayat has asked the organisation to produce within seven days relevant permissions from competent authorities, if any have been obtained prior to commencing the work. The notice was issued following a representation made to the panchayat by an organisation of Ramnathi-Ponda locals. Irked with the hill-cutting activities, a large group of villagers from Ramnathi had made the representation under the banner of ‘Bokadbag Dahajan Sangarsh Samiti’, alleging that the Sanstha has been acquiring land surrounding its ashram in the village and cutting the hill. Samiti president Shashikant Naik said the hill-cutting work is going on recklessly in broad daylight. “Several trucks are coming out of the area with newly-extracted soil. Maximum portion of the hillock has already been cut. These attempts of illegal hill-cutting should be stopped immediately. The local panchayat and government should intervene,” Naik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sanatan-sanstha-gets-notice-over-hill-cutting/articleshow/80414755.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||DRDO successfully tests SAAW for ninth time||Hyderabad: DRDO has successfully conducted captive and release trial of indigenously developed Smart Anti-Airfield Weapon (SAAW) from Hawk-I of Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) off the Odisha coast on January 21.  The smart weapon was successfully test fired from Indian Hawk-Mk132 of HAL. This was the ninth successful mission of SAAW conducted by DRDO. “It was a textbook launch, which met all mission objectives. The telemetry and tracking systems installed at Interim Test Range, Balasore captured all the mission events,” the DRDO said in a release, on Friday. It was a textbook launch, which met all mission objectives. The telemetry and tracking systems installed at ITR, Balasore captured all the mission events||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drdo-successfully-tests-saaw-for-ninth-time/articleshow/80413039.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS should call for polls: Bandi Sanjay Kumar||HYDERABAD: BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar said if KT Rama Rao was made CM, there will be an explosion within TRS. “TRS should call for a polls and let people decide who should be the CM,” he said. Reacting to Sanjay’s remarks, TRS Bodhan MLA Mohammed Shakeel said that KTR has proved himself in the last two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-should-call-for-polls-bandi/articleshow/80413057.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Dehradun||Fresh spell of rain, snow to lash U’khand from Saturday night||Dehradun: A fresh spell of rain and snowfall is likely to occur in the higher reaches of Uttarakhand, especially in the Garhwal region, from January 23 night onwards, according to the forecast of the regional meteorological centre. Hill stations like Mussoorie, Dhanaulti, Chakrata and Auli — all part of Garhwal hills — are likely to receive light-to-moderate snow activity, while the foothills, including Dehradun, will witness rainfall and cloudy weather during the weekend. “A fresh western disturbance is going to impact the weather of Uttarakhand on January 23 and 24. As a consequence, high altitude places, especially in Garhwal region, will receive snowfall, while low-lying places will witness rain activity,” said Bikram Singh, director of the regional meteorological centre. Due to the rain and snow activity, the temperatures, especially during the day time, are going to witness a substantial drop of at least 3-4 degree Celsius. “The cloudy weather will make the days cooler,” added Singh. However, the weather is going to get clear and dry conditions will prevail across Uttarakhand from January 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fresh-spell-of-rain-snow-to-lash-ukhand-from-saturday-night/articleshow/80411768.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 23, 2021||Delhi||Tractor rally: Delhi Police put three alternative routes on table||NEW DELHI: Three alternative routes for the proposed tractor rally on January 26 were reportedly discussed in a meeting between Delhi Police and farmers on Friday evening, sources said. Police have requested the farmers to shift their rally to the extended Ring Road. The farmers are expected to revert to police by Saturday. The meeting was held between farmer leaders and top brass of Delhi Police, including two special commissioners. However, a source present in the meeting said police commissioner SN Shrivastava also walked in, taking both sides by surprise. Shrivastava, who himself comes from a rural background, reportedly ditched his car at the barricades and took a lift from a tractor to reach the meeting venue, a gesture appreciated by the farmers. An officer privy to developments said Delhi Police stayed firm on its request to not carry out the tractor rally on the route decided by the farmers given the security implications. “The farmers were briefed on how the movement and security of the dignitaries would be impacted due to the rally on Ring Road as multiple routes, including the contingency route, have been put in place as part of the security apparatus,” said the district-level officer. Delhi Police offered the extended Ring Road, which could be accessed by farmers protesting at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders. While one route passes through outer Delhi, the other goes from Ghazipur to Apsara border, which are quite populous areas,” said the source. The tractor rally is a major point of contention between police and intelligence agencies and the farmers with the latter being adamant on going ahead with it. Earlier, Supreme Court had lobbed the ball into the court of Delhi Police when the Centre had sought a direction to stop the rally. The court told the Centre that maintaining law and order was exclusively in the domain of Delhi Police and the constitutional court could not be the authority to deal with situations that could arise from the tractor march.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tractor-rally-police-put-3-alternative-routes-on-table/articleshow/80413098.cms||Raj Shekhar
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Borivali firm loses Rs 22 lakh to vishing||A Borivali-based marketing firm was duped of Rs 22 lakh after one of its executives unwittingly shared bank details with a cyber fraudster over the phone. The fraudster told the 28-year-old executive that he was an employee of the bank where the firm had an account, and asked for certain details on the pretext that the firm’s account was to be upgraded. An FIR has been lodged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/borivli-firm-loses-rs-22l-to-vishing/articleshow/80414794.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Goa||‘Few restaurants in Panaji will get free biogas soon’||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that a few restaurants in Panaji will soon get biogas free of cost initially from Corporation of City of Panaji’s (CCP) biodigesters being set up across the city. “In the initial stage, we will use the biogas generated by these biodigesters and supply it free of cost to restaurants located near these plants,” Sawant said. Twelve biodigesters with capacities ranging from 75 kg to 1,000 kg are being set up in the city. These will process and treat food waste in a scientific manner. The byproducts of biogas will be supplied to restaurants and canteens, while the fertilizer will be used in gardens. “The waste collection is segregated based on its criteria i.e. plastic waste, biomedical waste, etc. But this project will go one step ahead and decentralize the solid waste management system. It will provide clean energy; ease the foul smell of waste, and in coming days, it definitely will give fruitful result for sustainable development,” he said. Many projects are lined up to segregate waste and this will help support the mission of Atmanirbhar Bharat and Swayampurna Goa, Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/few-restaurants-in-panaji-will-get-free-biogas-soon/articleshow/80414769.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Dehradun||Agitating Terai farmers plant saplings, stop use of plastic at Ghazipur protest site||yyyyyyyyyyyRudrapur: The farmers of the Terai region of Uttarakhand, who have been protesting at the Ghazipur border against the three contentious farm laws for nearly two months, have now started a drive for environmental conservation at the protest site. In the last few days, the agitating farmers not only planted saplings but have also stopped using disposable items made of plastic and thermocol. Talking to TOI over phone, the spokesperson of the ‘Kisan Andolan Committee Ghazipur’, Jagtar Singh Bajwa, said, “It has been decided by the committee that we will not be using non-reusable disposable items during the everyday ‘langar seva’ (community kitchen service) for the thousands of agitating farmers here. We will now be using plates made of ‘pattal’ (leaves). Also, steel glasses will replace the plastic water bottles, which are harmful to the environment.” Bajwa said that the farmers are concerned about the conservation of the environment. “We treat nature as our mother which feeds us and it’s our duty to switch to environment-friendly practices. We have also commenced a massive plantation drive and have planted saplings of various breeds at the Ghazipur border. Farmer groups have also been formed to plant saplings everyday and take care of them,” he added. Meanwhile, Tejender Singh Virk, president of the Terai Kisan Mahasabha, said that farmers have made full preparations for the tractor march on Delhi’s outer Ring Road on the occasion of Republic Day (January 26). “The farmers have pledged for the success of this protest rally towards Delhi. The number of volunteers has also increased to prevent infiltration of any unwanted or anti-social elements. These farmers volunteers will make all kinds of security arrangements so that no one deliberately maligns the farmers' movement,” Virk added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/agitating-terai-farmers-plant-saplings-stop-use-of-plastic-at-ghazipur-protest-site/articleshow/80411776.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 23, 2021||Goa||Minor boy rescued from confinement||Bicholim: A minor boy was rescued from his house in Bicholim on Thursday night, where he is believed to have been living under confinement for the last four years. He was found kept in unhygienic conditions in the dilapidated house by his mother. The mother was sent to the Institute of Psychiatry and Human Behaviour (IPHB), while the boy has been sent to Apna Ghar. Bicholim mamlatdar Pravinjay Pandit said, “After receiving the information, he along with the police and other officials went to the house situated behind Bicholim church and rescued the minor boy.” Pandit said that the mother was to referred IPHB Bambolim on finding that she was unwell. He further said that the condition of the house in which they were residing was such that it could collapse at any moment, compelling officials to shift the two out urgently. Bicholim police are further investigating into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/minor-boy-rescued-from-confinement/articleshow/80414795.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Goa||50% capacity for Kesarbai Kerkar festival||Panaji: Participants at this year’s Kesarbai Kerkar festival — which will be held from January 29-31 at Kala Academy’s Dinanath Mangeshkar Kala Mandir — will be restricted to 50% of the 900-seater hall. Art and culture minister Govind Gaude on Friday said all SOPs meant for the organisation of such events would be followed. While the physical event is being held at the behest of the artistes, Gaude said it would be live-streamed for non-attendees too.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/50-capacity-for-kesarbai-kerkar-festival/articleshow/80414773.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Opposition slams Centre for its stand on 7.5% quota||CHENNAI: With the Centre taking a hard stance on reservation for government school students in medical education, DMK president M K Stalin and TNCC president K S Alagiri on Friday urged Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to be on his guard since the state has opted to reserve 7.5% for government students. The Centre on Thursday informed the Madras high court that providing an exclusive reservation for government schools in medical admission ‘will not be desirable’. The Union territory of Puducherry has sought 10% reservation for government school students in medical education. “In Tamil Nadu, the 7.5% reservation for government students was made possible with the support of all the political parties and it was the pressure mounted by the DMK and the intervention of the Madras high court that forced governor Banwarilal Purohit to give his nod,” Stalin said, while asking the chief minister to safeguard the interests of the government school students in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/oppn-slams-centre-for-its-stand-on-7-5-quota/articleshow/80413077.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Patna||Efforts on to trace history of Saran: DM||CHHAPRA: Saran DM Dr Nilesh Ramchandra Deore is trying to trace the history of the district so that official programmes could be organized to celebrate its establishment day. “Saran District Gazetteer has mentioned the existence of Saran ‘Sarkar’, proving its old existence as the former Champaran district and carved out in 1865,” the DM told this newspaper on Thursday. Citing reference of Saran district in ‘Ain-e-Akbari’ and the existence of a district judge office in the 17th century and arrival of the Dutch and Portuguese businessmen at Chhapra, Deore said: “Being interested in historical studies, I would try to find out more details about the origin of the district from British history.” Incidentally, the list of DMs displayed in the Saran office shows the first name in 1945, but as per the Gazetteer, the first DM of the district had been Mangal Pandey, between 1899 and 1902. The DM has also shown interest in developing an abandoned Dutch cemetery area at Karinga, 3km north of Chhapra Town, as a tourist attraction. Incidentally, most other districts in the state have confirmed history of their establishment and they celebrate the day. However, despite being one of the oldest districts in the state, Saran is still to trace the date. According to sources, Saran has remained part of Patna and Tirhut divisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/efforts-on-to-trace-history-of-saran-dm/articleshow/80412228.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Vadodara||Bhupendra Khant, Morva Hadaf assembly constituency's ex-MLA, dies||VADODARA: Former MLA from the Morva Hadaf assembly constituency in Panchmahal district, Bhupendra Khant, died on Friday morning after a prolonged illness. Khant was elected as an independent MLA in the last assembly polls, but was suspended after his scheduled tribe status was challenged. Morva Hadaf is a constituency reserved for a ST candidate. Sources said that Khant had been ill since the last several months. His condition turned critical on Friday morning and he was being rushed to Ahmedabad, but died on the way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ex-mla-bhupendra-khant-dies/articleshow/80411647.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Nagpur||Youth’s involvement in politics a brightspot for the nation, says Hema Malini||Nagpur: “The involvement of the young generation in politics is a bright spot. Their involvement in current affairs and general knowledge and the opportunities they are getting because of advanced technology and media makes me very happy,” said renowned actress and politician Hema Malini at the virtual inauguration ceremony of the 8th edition of National Student Parliament (NSP – 2021) organized by Raisoni Group of Institutions on Friday. Chief guest Malini shared her thoughts on different issues, including women empowerment. “NSP provides a platform to put forth ideas related to social issues and discuss them in detail. Such events help in enhancing good civic habits and are healthy for one’s knowledge and education too,” said Sunil Raisoni, chairman of Raisoni Group. On the spirit of being a good citizen, former MP Ajay Sancheti said, “NSP is a great platform. The contribution of NSP in shaping knowledge is huge and it helps students understand the actual working of a parliament.” Regarding the ongoing pandemic, Manish Awasthi, chief political editor of iTV Network, said, “The pandemic may have put limitations to our movements, but not to our spirit. We are at the same pace as before, the only difference is that we are interacting through screens.” The first session, titled ‘Papa kehte hain bada naam karega’, focused on the youth’s entrepreneurial skills. BVG Group head Hanumantrao Gaikwad, businessmen Ram Bhogale and Manish Patil recalled their days as young entrepreneurs. The second session, ‘Women empowerment – leadership in the Indian politics’ was graced by BJP member Medha Kulkarni, MLA Vidya Chavan, Jyotsana Ekbote, Congress member Sachin Sawant and social worker Anees Chisti. They talked about woman power and how women do not need pampering but opportunity and rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/youths-involvement-in-politics-a-brightspot-for-the-nation-says-hema-malini/articleshow/80413106.cms||Anchal Bhatia
January 23, 2021||Patna||Sand smugglers attack toll plaza employee in Rohtas||PATNA: A toll plaza employee was allegedly attacked by sand smugglers near Sasaram in Rohtas district on Thursday evening, police said on Friday. The victim, Rupesh Chaubey, is undergoing treatment at the sadar hospital in Sasaram for multiple injuries. The incident took place when Chaubey was on way to his native village Bhandrasheel after finishing his duty. The employees of the toll plaza told police that Chaubey was attacked with knives and iron rods near Auwan village. The attackers later dumped him in an adjoining agricultural field, considering him to be dead. Toll plaza manager Nishant Raj said Chaubey’s condition was out of danger. He suspected the involvement of illegal sand mining mafia in the attack as they were annoyed with Rupesh for not giving passage to overloaded trucks. Meanwhile, an FIR has been lodged against sand smugglers Golu Singh and Arjun Singh of Auwan village and their associates on the basis of the victim’s statement. Rohtas SP Asish Bharti said strict action would be taken against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sand-smugglers-attack-toll-plaza-employee-in-rohtas/articleshow/80412318.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Thane||Man kidnaps teen from Thane, held||The Thane crime branch arrested a 25-year-old man for allegedly kidnapping a 14-year-old girl from Mumbra in November 2020. Sagar Shendephal Magarz is a resident of Diva and native of Buldhana district. Police said that the girl was later traced to a hotel in Shevgaon, Ahmednagar. Magarz worked as a waiter at the hotel, while the girl was found cooking there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/man-kidnaps-teen-from-thane-held/articleshow/80414833.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
January 23, 2021||Patna||Katihar tops in paddy procurement in Bihar||KATIHAR: The Katihar administration has claimed that 57.08% of the registered farmers have sold their paddy to the primary agriculture cooperative societies (PACS) at the minimum support price (MSP), which is the maximum among the 38 districts in the state this year so far. Muzaffarpur (48.99%) was at the second spot, followed by Banka (48.69%), Araria (48.18%) and Gopalganj (47.59%) districts as far as the number of farmers selling their produce so far is concerned, authoritative sources said on Friday. In Katihar, 4,073 farmers registered themselves with PACS and 2325 of them have sold their paddy at the MSP. Around 15,924 MT (metric tonne) paddy has been obtained from farmers against the target of 37,542 MT in the district. In Muzaffarpur, 750 out of the 1534 registered farmers have so far sold their produce to PACS at MSP. The figures in Banka were 2481 out of 5095 farmers, followed by 1472 of the 3055 registered in Araria and 484 out of 1017 in Gopalganj. Muzaffarpur farmers have sold 4,291MT paddy against the target of 10,516MT. Similarly, 14,580MT paddy was procured against the 46,810MT target in Banka and 11,597MT against the target of 37,468MT in Araria 3,727 MT sold against 8,248MT in Gopalganj. Katihar DM Kanwal Tanuj said a special drive was launched in the district to survey the farmers who wanted their paddy to be procured at MSP. The first phase of this survey was conducted between December 28 and 30, 2020, whereas the second phase was held between January 7 and January 9, 2021. The DM further said, “Katihar remains ahead other districts in paddy procurement in the state. Paddy was procured from nearly 57.08% farmers in the district while Arwal recorded the lowest with 21.49%.” In the neighbouring Purnia, 10,220MT (39.84%) of the targeted 39,818MT paddy was procured. In Kishanganj, around 3,706MT paddy has been procured through PACS against the target of 17,757MT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/katihar-tops-in-paddy-procurement-in-bihar/articleshow/80412409.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Surat||Widow to get her childrens’ custody after 4 years||Surat: The district and sessions court ordered the in-laws of the widow to hand over the custody of her two minor children, under the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act 1956, as she is capable of taking care of them. Jagruti Chaudhary (40), a resident of Zankhvav village in Mangrol taluka of Surat district, filed a plea in the district and sessions court demanding the custody of her children from her sister-in-law, Sangeeta Chaudhary, brother-in-law Umed Chaudhary and mother-in-law Kanchan Chaudhary. Jagruti lives at her in-laws’ neighbourhood and runs a government-approved fair price shop. Jagruti married Arjun Chaudhary in April 2002 and has two children, 16-year-old daughter Urvashi and 12-year-old son Lakit. Arjun died in September, 2016. In her plea she said that one year after her husband’s death, her brother-in-law (Umed) and sister-in-law Sangeeta came to her residence and took her two children with them and since then her children are in their custody. She further said that her brother-in-law has two kids. She has been requesting for the custody of her children but was being denied by them and was being threatened as well by Umed, who asked her not to come to his house again. She urged that since she was the mother of the two children, she could take better care of her kids. “Even when her husband was alive, her two children were living with Umed and his family and they were doing well and were studying in school and were not in illegal custody. Umed is a member of the taluka panchayat and his wife Sangeeta is sarpanch of the village. Jagruti has filed this plea to harass them,” Umed’s advocate argued in the court. “She is not capable of taking care of her children whereas her in-laws were capable of doing it and were not preventing them from visiting their mother,” Umed’s advocate argued further. “Jagruti is the biological mother of the two minor children. Children should be in the custody of their parents. Records show that she is capable of taking care of her children. She is a widow and it is necessary to have her children with her,” the court ordered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/widow-to-get-her-childrens-custody-after-4-years/articleshow/80412795.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
January 23, 2021||Rajkot||NHRC raps Guj govt over compensation to minor rape survivor||Rajkot: The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has directed the state government to pay Rs 2 lakh as compensation to a minor Dalit rape survivor in Kutch. The NHRC also reprimanded the senior police officers for not processing the compensation as per the law despite direction the commission’s directives. In October 2018, the then 16-year-old survivor had lodged a complaint with Gandhidham police station accusing two minor boys of raping her in Jivanprabhat Ashram — an orphanage in Rajkot. Taking cognizance of the incident, the NHRC had issued notice to the state government and ordered compensation of Rs 2 lakh to the survivor. However, the said amount was not paid.The NHRC in its January 19 order stated that “The institution has failed to protect the safety of the victim while she was under the care and custody of the institution. It also noted that the human rights of the victim were violated. The NHRC earlier gave a notice asking the state government why monetary relief of Rs 2 lakh should not be granted. However, there was no response from the authorities.” Meanwhile, the complainant Vinod Khubchandani made a representation to the commission alleging that the police was threatening him and the survivor.The NHRC in its order also directed the chief secretary of Gujarat government to send the proof of compensation paid to the rape survivor. The commission has directed Gujarat director general of police to send action taken report and details of security provided to the survivor as well as the complainant. The NHRC also asked the DGP to send details of monetary relief provided to the rape survivor under SC/ST Act within four weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/nhrc-raps-guj-govt-over-compensation-to-minor-rape-survivor/articleshow/80412379.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Chennai||CBI books shrimp exporting co in Chennai for Rs 225cr loan fraud||CHENNAI: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) booked a case against a Choolaimedu-based company and four of its directors including the managing director for an alleged loan fraud to the tune of Rs 225 crore based on a complaint given by Indian Overseas Bank. According to the FIR, the investigating agency said that the bank filed a complaint against Oceanic Edibles International Ltd and its directors Joseb Raj Arokiasamy, Vimalla Joseb, Arockiasamy James Walter and Arokiasamy Dominic Savio. The company and the directors had availed of credit facilities to the tune of Rs 104.2 crore. The company ran shrimp hatchery units and established units for processing and marketing of vegetables, fruits and marine products at Marakanam, Villupuram. The company had also availed of credit facilities from SBI, IDBI, ICICI and Central Bank of India, CBI said. Loan amounts were diverted to either their own or third party accounts or paid overseas without any genuine business as claimed and were misappropriated. Securities pledged with the bank were not available despite being hypothecated to the banks for availing of credit. This had caused a loss of Rs 225.2 crore which is the total outstanding owed to all banks. According to CBI, IOB’s complaint had prima facie evidence of criminal conspiracy, fraud, cheating and corruption. The account of this company was declared as fraud on December 20, 2019. In internal notes, the banks noted that the company did not deposit any amount immediately after demonetisation in 2016 which raised suspicion of the genuineness of the cash balance on its books. Transactions with a sister concern were recorded only in the books of the latter company, which, the banks noted, was a suspicious transaction. Payments were diverted to private accounts of the directors as well. There were other suspicious transactions including crores of rupees transferred to individuals and entities which were not related to the company’s business. The banks also grew suspicious as electrical appliances in their office were found to be safe during 2015 floods due to a forewarning from Tamil Nadu Electricity Board, but their contention that book of accounts had been lost was untenable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cbi-books-shrimp-exporting-co-in-city-for-rs-225cr-loan-fraud/articleshow/80413108.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Nagpur||India on startup growth trajectory, says CA Khandelwal||Nagpur: India is at a stage of growth with respect to the startup industry. It is the next big thing as we have the necessary capital, entrepreneurs are coming on board and the government is supporting the startup ecosystem, said Venture Catalysts’ managing partner CA Poonam Khandelwal on Friday. She was the speaker for the webinar on ‘Startup investment as an emerging asset class with angel investor funding concept’, organized by the Chamber of Small Industry Associations (COSIA) Vidarbha Chapter. On how India is shaping as an economy and becoming the world’s most dynamic ecosystem, Khandelwal said, “Though Covid19 impacted the entire world, the startup ecosystem in India was lucky enough to get good companies coming out of these tough times. In 2020, India brought up 11 unicorns, startup companies with a value of over $1 billion, which was higher than China.” Regarding investments, she said, “Beyond Jio, Reliance Industries has been extensively acquiring startups. Instead of building their own business, big companies acquire one in a similar domain by investing in those projects. This is because everyone wants to expand and diversify their businesses and add new verticals.” Khandelwal went on to explain the concepts of angel investors, asset class, challenges in angel investing, capital risk, evaluating a startup, etc. In his opening remarks, COSIA Vidarbha chairman Mayank Shukla said, “The year 2020 was a turmoil for everyone. We should step into 2021 with new hope of prosperity and happiness. The topic of the seminar is novel as a startup itself is a new concept. The startup space is bubbling with new ideas and innovations. But they need funds which can be procured from angel investors.” At the outset, COSIA Vidarbha vice chairman Julfesh Shah shed light on the various seminars on MSMEs, bank funding, etc which were held earlier. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has brought the concept of startups to the fore. As a result, innovators, who are interested in entrepreneurship, have been gaining ground. The coming generation is enthusiastic, skilled, knowledgeable and have the ability to come up with innovative concepts. They face a major challenge in investment or funding. This seminar aims to guide such entrepreneurs on how to acquire angel investors and venture capitalists for their projects.” COSIA Vidarbha core member Pranav Ambaselkar was the programme coordinator. The session was followed by an interactive QnA session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/india-on-startup-growth-trajectory-says-ca-khandelwal/articleshow/80413142.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Goa||Govt has met 40% assurances of 2017 poll manifesto: Goa CM||PANAJI: The governemnt have met 40% of the assurances made in the 2017 election manifesto by the BJP, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday. Within the next one year, maximum works promised will be completed, he said, adding that said Goa will go to assembly polls only after all ongoing development works are completed, in February 2022, when the government completes its full term. “Since being elected, of the two initial years under Manohar Parrikar as CM, one year was lost due to his illness. Under my chief ministership, one year was lost due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Yet, we have been able to achieve 40% of the assurances from our manifesto. I will see to it that in the next one year maximum assurances given to the people are met,” Sawant said. The CM said there is no plan to go for mid-term polls based on the outcome of the upcoming municipal elections, as per the current speculations. “I know it for a fact that BJP supported panels will win in all 12 municipalities, including CCP. But just because our panel wins, it does not mean we will go to polls. Our elections are due in February 2022. A lot of development works are presently on. There are jobs are other issues too. We will complete all these works and only after completing a full-term the polls will be held,” Sawant said. He said that as he is set to complete two years in office in March, a report card of the works completed under him will be released. Sawant said that while Goa’s financial situation is currently a topic of discussion, the state is doing much better than perceived. “If you see the RBI monthly report, Goa has taken the least amount of loans, even among smaller states like Mizoram. Also, till date no bill of contractor is pending. The revenue generation was completely down during the peak of the pandemic, but the financial situation of the state has improved now and it is much better today,” said Sawant. He said that in the upcoming budget a provision will be made to nearly double the salaries of contractual and daily-basis teachers from the current Rs 15,000 a month to Rs 25,000 to Rs 30,000 a month. Sawant said that the work experience of contractual workers will also be taken into consideration during the upcoming recruitment drive for government posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-has-met-40-assurances-of-2017-poll-manifesto-cm/articleshow/80414851.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Enrolment of voters for MLC poll doubles||HYDERABAD: The total number of people can caste their vote in the Mahabubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad graduates’ constituency stood at 5,17,883. They exercise their franchise in 616 polling stations. Among the total electors, 3,27,727 are male and 1,90,088 female. There 68 in the third category in the constituency, The number of voter enrolments has doubled in the MLC seat. In the last election, 2.3 lakh people were enrolled as voters. The highest number of voters are from Ranga Reddy district (88,358) followed by Medchal- Malkajgiri (77,349) and Hyderabad (64,224). Mahabub Nagar, Nagarkumool, Wanaparthy, Jogulamba, Gadwal, Narayanpet, Ranga Reddy, Vikarabad, Medchal-Malkajgiri, and Hyderabad are the nine districts where election will be held. Final electoral rolls was published on Friday and the list has been uploaded in http://www.ceotelangana.nic.in/ “All the voters in the graduates’ constituency are requested to verify their names and polling station in the electoral rolls,” read a statement issued by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/enrolment-of-voters-for-mlc-poll-doubles/articleshow/80413144.cms||Nabinder Bommala
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Nalgonda accident: 2 more succumb, toll 9||HYDERABAD: The death toll in the road accident at Angadipeta in Nalgonda district has reached nine, with two more victims succumbing to their injuries while undergoing treatment at a hospital on Friday. Police said that the condition of the 11 injured victims is stable and the accused truck driver has been arrested. Six labourers and an auto driver died on the spot and 13 others suffered injuries when the auto they were travelling in was mowed down by a truck coming from the opposite direction at Angadipeta in Nalgonda district on Thursday night. On Friday, two of the injured—G Lingamma, 50 and N Alivelu, 48—succumbed while undergoing treatment at a hospital. The other deceased were the K Mallesh, 40 and labourers—N Peddamma, 40; N Saidamma, 35; G Iddamma, 48; K Paddamma; 50, K Chandramma, 35; and N Amjamma, 50, all from Chintabavi village in in Devarakonda mandal of Nalgonda district. “The condition of the 11 other passengers who suffered injuries in the accident is stable,” said Gudipally SI Gopala Rao, who shifted the injured to hospital. Police arrested the truck driver, Subramanyam of Vijayawada, under under section 304-a and 337 of the IPC. He was produced before the court and sent to judicial remand. “The victims attended labour work in Peddavoora and boarded an auto to reach their villages. When the auto reached Angadipeta, the truck coming from the opposite direction rammed into the auto while attempting to overtake a mini goods carrier vehicle. After the truck hit the auto, the driver of the mini goods carrier panicked and turned his vehicle suddenly to right, causing the mini goods carrier to also over turn,” SI Gopala Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nalgonda-accident-2-more-succumb-toll-9/articleshow/80413126.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Chennai||HC asks NHAI to collect 50% toll at two plazas till March 11||Chennai: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) can collect only 50% of the toll from vehicles at two plazas on the Maduravoyal-Ranipet section on Chennai-Bengaluru route till March 11, as the Madras high court has refused to vacate its interim orders to that effect. Rejecting the NHAI plea, a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice A A Nakkiran said, “For the past 13 years, the stretch of the highway has not been re-laid and only patch work done,” and extended the stay till March 11. It was on December 13, 2020 that the bench ordered NHAI to collect only 50% in view of bad road conditions on the stretch for years together. As the order was for two weeks, the NHAI started collecting full toll after two-week period. On Friday, however, the judges extended the 50% toll-only order till March 11, and pointed out that even lights and road markings have not been provided in the stretch. They said: “Do you (NHAI) mean to say people must travel in the stretch only when the sun is out? It is your (NHAI) consistent stand that you will not re-lay the road since expansion of the stretch into 6-lane is in progress. But we cannot accept such a stand.” Earlier, filing a status report on behalf of NHAI, assistant solicitor-general of India G Karthikeyan said, “immediate action is being taken to close potholes and undertake repair/renewal works without any delay.” “Further, bids have been invited on January 15 to carry out the operation and maintenance of Maduravoyal to Sriperumbudur section for Rs 8 crore,” he added. Every effort is being sincerely made to keep all the three sections of the NH in good condition by attending to the repair work and potholes and maintain them in a reasonably good condition, he added. He further added that due to non-cooperation on part of the state government authorities in acquiring land for the extension work is also delaying the 6-lane work of the stretch. Recording the same, the bench suggested that the NHAI file a memo to impleading the state government authorities concerned as parties to the proceedings, and adjourned the hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-asks-nhai-to-collect-50-toll-at-two-plazas-till-march-11/articleshow/80413133.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 23, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Keep an eye out for post-Covid danger||NEW DELHI: If you suffered from Covid-19 in the past and now have vision-related problems, be watchful. The vision could be affected due to fungal infection inside the eye. Ophthalmologists at Centre for Sight and Shroff Eye Centre—two major chains of hospitals providing eye care in Delhi—say they have come across five patients who suffered significant damage to the retina due to fungal infection post-Covid. Two patients had fungal infection in both eyes. Dr Ritesh Narula, a senior consultant ophthalmologist at Centre for Sight, said the first such case was detected by them in June when a 30-year-old man, who had recovered from severe Covid-19 few days ago, reported to their centre with blurring of vision in both eyes. “Eye examination showed yellowish fluffy lesion on the retina — the innermost layer of the eye. We took a sample of the vitreous, gel-like substance that accounts for 80% of the volume of the eye, for a biopsy that confirmed fungal infection,” he added. According to Dr Narula, they had to conduct a surgical procedure on an urgent basis to remove the fluid of the eye and inject anti-fungal inside to salvage the 30-year-old’s vision. “He has 70% to 75% vision now,” the doctor said. Later, Shroff Eye Centre also picked up similar cases. Patients suffering from fungal infection of the eye included a 62-year-old man with no comorbidities presented who came with complaints of floaters and decreased vision in the right eye for one month. “He was treated for severe Covid-19 disease two months ago. He was kept on oxygen and treated with antibiotics and antivirals,” Dr Daraius Shroff, medical director at Shroff Eye Centre said. He added that another patient who came with a similar problem was a 67-year-old doctor. “Few other patients have also been diagnosed with fungal infection of the eye post-Covid. The main reason behind this is prolonged ICU admission to manage Covid-19 related complications and the administration of steroids, which lower immunity and increase the risk of opportunistic fungal infection,” Dr Shroff said. He added that “while the treatment or hospitalisation cannot be avoided, it is important to watch out for vision-related problems for early treatment.” Dr Mahipal Sachdev, chairman of Centre for Sight group of hospitals, said, fungal infection in the eye is an uncommon, but potentially devastating condition in which pathogens reach the eye via the bloodstream. “It is important to recognise early signs of this so that prompt and aggressive therapy can be initiated. It is also important for all ophthalmologists to be aware of this post-Covid entity and hold back additional oral and steroid therapy to avoid worsening of infective entities, especially fungal infection in the eye,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/keep-an-eye-out-for-post-covid-danger/articleshow/80413103.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
January 23, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Need medical advice? You won’t need to queue up||NEW DELHI: Though Delhi government runs 38 hospitals, over 200 dispensaries and polyclinics and 500 mohalla clinics, the Covid-19 outbreak demonstrated that the best of physical infrastructure was of no use to patients during such an unprecedented event due to fear of infection. Delhi government’s ambitious cloud-based Health Information Management System (HIMS), which is likely to be launched in August, will have a tele-advisory component at a later stage. As a part of the project would be a mobile app and a 24x7 centralised helpline number supported by a 50-seater call centre with trained responders to answer queries related to healthcare facilities. The department of health and family welfare would provide the tele-advisory service using this helpline. During the implementation phase, the department would also be offering non-emergency tele-advisory services at broadly two levels. Apart from the trained call centre staff attending to general healthcare requests at the first level, the second level would have dedicated healthcare staff, on a need basis, during a specific time of the day. The tele-advisory service would be provided by a panel of healthcare staff, primarily including nurses, paramedics, etc nominated by Delhi government. The escalation matrix would include junior and senior doctors, hospital administration, department of health and family welfare officials and even the health minister and chief minister, if the resolution of a call requires it. If a person calls the proposed helpline for emergency cases, the staff will connect them to ambulance services of Centralised Accident & Trauma Services. In emergency situations, they would be connected to the emergency department of the nearest government hospital or healthcare facility. This would be possible thanks to the geo-location facility that would be available at the call centre. The scope of non-emergency services of the helpline would vary and range from providing information of all health service providers, healthcare facilities, diagnostic service centres, schedule of doctors and their availability, service availability, etc, to registering complaints about people, healthcare institutions, deficiency of service, negligence, corruption, etc. Coming to medical advice, the helpline responders would be trained to provide information or advice on chronic illnesses like asthma, diabetes, heart issues, etc, or even general well-being and healthy living tips. Keeping Covid-19 in mind, the responders would also provide information, precaution and response to health scares and other local or national epidemics. The responders would also function as basic health and symptoms checkers, but this would be limited only to initial assessment, advice related to flu and general illness, pregnancy and related best practices for maintaining good health of mother and child, etc. They would also provide first aid information and advice related to general hygiene good practices, apart from any other general health or service-related information, suggestions, inputs, feedback, etc. In future, the services would cover general advice on stress, depression, anxiety, post trauma recovery (non-critical), HIV/ AIDS, reproductive tract infections, including sexually transmitted infections, epidemic, pandemic, etc related precautions and good practices. The callers would need to be mandatorily verified, which may include voice verification as implemented by certain banks. The health helpline would adhere to data privacy, data sharing and related legal provisions based on Data Protection Bill and related guidelines or as defined by Delhi government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/need-medical-advice-you-wont-need-to-queue-up/articleshow/80413212.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 23, 2021||Chennai||TNPSC’s petition against TV news channel junked||Chennai: A private TV news channel acted as a whistleblower and helped TNPSC uncover a scam and tighten leaks in the system, a special court for cases under the Prevention of Corruption Act observed while dismissing a petition from the commission to include the channel as an accused in the 2017 exam paper leak case. The TNPSC had contended that the channel telecast fabricated documents alleging a scam in the selection process of Group 1 services and tarnished its reputation. However, the court said the TV acted as a whistleblower and exposed the fact that unused answer sheets can be procured from the commission. The case pertains to an aspirant who tried to change his original answer booklet in connivance with a TNPSC section officer for the Group 1 exams in 2016. During subsequent investigations, police found that of the 74 people who cleared the exam, 62 were from a single coaching center and the center was raided by police. In July 2017, the channel received original marksheets of the Group 1 exam along with a letter detailing the scam. On July 18, the channel broadcast a bulletin detailing the scam. However, TNPSC contended that the documents received by the channel were fabricated and the original answersheets which were shown in the bulletin were with TNPSC and filed a complaint against the channel. The prosecution, in response said during the course of their investigation, they found that a section officer in TNPSC had received Rs 9lakh and 10 sovereigns gold as bribe to change the original answer sheets of the prime accused, Ramkumar. However, the candidate failed in the Group-1 examinations. Both of them were arrested. Since the section officer refused to return the bribe, Ramkumar procured unused answersheets by bribing another official and filled in the answers with his friend and sent them to the channel, the investigation officer submitted. Special judge J Omprakash said by the channel has helped TNPSC to tighten all loopholes in their institution and that there is no criminal act committed by the channel in broadcasting the news item.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tnpscs-petition-against-tv-news-channel-junked/articleshow/80413171.cms||Srikkanth D
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Bal Thackeray ward pride awards given||Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Friday gave the Shiv Sena Pramukh Balasaheb Thackeray Ward Committee Pride Awards 2019. Sachin Padwal, chairperson of F-South and F-North was awarded best chairperson. Assistant civic chiefs Sharad Ughade G-South, Kiran Dighavkar G-North and Superintendent of Gardens Jitendra Pardeshi were awarded. Winners were honoured with mementos, certificates, and cash prizes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bal-thackeray-ward-pride-awards-given/articleshow/80414900.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Chennai||TN appoints chairperson for TNSCPCR, finally||Chennai: The state has finally appointed a new chairperson to the Tamil Nadu State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (TNSCPCR). Saraswathi Rangaswamy took charge earlier this week. The appointment was made a year after the previous heads’ tenure ended in January 2020. Five new members have also taken charge and will address cases concerning child safety. This will be Saraswathi's second stint at the commission as she had previously served in the same post between 2013-15. This time, she took charge from MP Nirmala who headed the commission for more than two years since May, 2017. As an immediate measure, Saraswathy said she and her team will be addressing all pending grievances of parents and children. “We have started to list out all the pending petitions and pleas. And we will also be having a meeting with the heads of social defence, social welfare, and all the line departments to implement child safety policy and protect their rights,” she said. Child rights experts however said that the commission must expedite and pro-actively work since the pandemic led to several child rights violations across the state. For instance, data received from Childline revealed that the 1098 helpline received 2,666 distress calls to stop child marriages from Tamil Nadu between January and July 2020, which was the third-highest in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-appoints-chairperson-for-tnscpcr-finally/articleshow/80413193.cms||Aditi R
January 23, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Two men held for beating 21-year-old to death||NEW DELHI: Two men have been arrested for allegedly beating a man to death after he had uploaded a video on an online platform challenging the duo and their dominance in Rohini’s Prem Nagar. The accused, identified as Gaurav (28) and Sawan (25) from Prem Nagar, were reportedly involved in multiple criminal cases. On December 30, four men had allegedly beaten to death 21-year-old Subhash, a resident of Begumpur, using a stick. The other two accused, Tinku and Manish, were arrested earlier. Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) P K Mishra said that after the first two arrests, “multiple informers were deployed and technical assistance was also used to track down the remaining accused”. A team also went to Jakhar in Fatehabad to interrogate Gaurav’s wife. “A suspicious phone number was identified on her phone and, with the help of technical assistance, Gaurav was finally nabbed from Makhan Majra in Punjab on Thursday,” Mishra said. Similarly, Sawan was also arrested with the help of technical surveillance as he was in regular touch with his girlfriend and used to talk to her over phone. “Several mobile phone numbers from which calls were received on his girlfriend’s phone were verified and it was established that one of them was registered in the name of Sawan’s cousin, Daroga. Subsequently, Sawan was arrested from Dabri Mod in Delhi,” the DCP said. Gaurav told police that Subhash had snatched Rs 200 from his uncle. When the uncle told Subhash about Gaurav, he started abusing him and Gaurav both, Gaurav said. “He said Subhash further made a video and uploaded it on Facebook abusing Gaurav and challenging his dominance in the area. This infuriated Gaurav and he planned to eliminate Subhash along with his friends,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-men-held-for-beating-21-year-old-to-death/articleshow/80413147.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Reopen Hanuman temple: Cantt BJP||Secunderabad: The BJP wing of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) on Friday urged the local military authority to reopen the Hanuman temple at Lal Bazar and restart daily rituals. Over 30 local BJP workers, led by state BJP executive committee member and former SCB VP J Rama Krishna, protested near the temple. The LMA had closed the temple in March last year due to the pandemic. “Despite the ministry of home affairs saying that places of worship can be reopened, the LMA has not reopened the temple,” S Gangadhar, a temple committee member, told TOI. The committee also urged TRS Cantonment MLA G Sayanna to reopen the temple, he said.  Rama Krishna said: “All the daily rituals have been halted at the temple for the past 10 months. Military authorities have to reopen the temple on priority to continue daily rituals.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/reopen-hanuman-temple-cantt-bjp/articleshow/80413213.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Goa||MV Act to be enforced after roads are repaired: Goa CM||PANAJI: The new Motor Vehiscles Act will be implemented in the state after the road repair works and the ongoing highway projects are completed, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday. “Due to heavy rainfall, there were many potholes on the roads in many parts of the state. We have begun work on it. National highway works which are presently on will be completed in the next three to four months. We will have to implement the new Motor Vehicles Act,” Sawant said. He said the state government does not have much scope to alter a central act and will have to implement it as is. “For quite some time, we have been putting off its implementation. We are going to take up discussion over its implementation with bus owners and such associations. Our road conditions are much better as compared to most other states,” he added. The chief minister also said that the Rs 100 crore borrowed from the Centre to mark Goa’s liberation will not be used only for the purpose of conducting celebratory programmes, but the funds will be utilised to ensure basic necessities reach citizens in the remotest corners of the state. “As per Swayampurna Goem programme, we will try to achieve a 16-point programme. Different workshops will be held for those into agriculture, horticulture and dairy farming on innovative methods to improve their production,” Sawant said. He admitted that though Goa was declared as a state with 100% tapped water supply to rural areas under Centre’s Har Ghar Jal programme, there are some homes which are not yet receiving the supply. “Some of the news that appeared in dailies is correct that some homes are not getting water supply. We have asked the PWD to check for leakages. Within the next two months, the issues will be resolved and these households will get pure, treated water,” Sawant said responding to a question during an interview on the state-run DD network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mv-act-to-be-enforced-after-roads-are-repaired-sawant/articleshow/80414903.cms||---
January 23, 2021||India||Inoculating 50-60% of population enough, officials tell House panel||NEW DELHI: Senior government functionaries on Friday told a parliamentary standing committee on health and family welfare that India has no plan to vaccinate the entire country against coronavirus as yet and that covering 50% to 60% of the country’s population should be enough to safeguard the population. Government’s principal scientific adviser, Vijay Raghavan, and AIIMS director, Randeep Guleria, told the panel that India does not see any foreseeable possibility of avaccine shortage. Some members sought toknow the government’s strategy to tackle side effects of vaccines and whether persons facing adverse effects will be compensated. Raghavan is understood to have told the panel that while the government is still working out a strategy for managing such instances, there have been no cases of adverse effects so far. Sources said he also told the House panel that the government has done its due diligence before granting approval to Covishield and Covaxin vaccines. Committee members who spoke to TOI said the government’s submissions on its preparations for the vaccination drive were “satisfactory”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/inoculating-50-60-of-population-enough-officials-tell-house-panel/articleshow/80415779.cms||Swati Mathur
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||3 cycle to Kanyakumari & work from highway to beat WFH monotony||Bengaluru: What do you do when work-from-home gets monotonous and taxing? If you’re Bakcen George, Allwyn Joseph or Ratish Bhalerao, chances are you will be logging in to workstations from a highway dhaba. When Covid-induced work-from-home got boring, the three friends took off on their cycles, pedalling over 1,600km across three states including Karnataka. They never missed their office duties along the way. For George, a digital marketing executive and adventure buff from Kalyan, the lockdown was trying. “I was slipping into depression and the dream of cycling from Mumbai to Kanyakumari was on my mind,” the 37-year-old said. “I knew I wasn’t going to get 20 days leave, so I thought why not work from a highway instead.” On 19 November 2020, George told childhood pals Joseph (37) and Bhalerao (36) about his plan. The two didn’t even own bicycles, but decided to join him. “It sounded adventurous and a change from the routine,” laughed Joseph, an executive at a Mumbai-based logistics firm, who bought a second-hand cycle. Bhalerao was engaged in freelance work online. The trio began started from Kalyan on November 21, with a plan to pedal along the coast till Kanyakumari. It didn’t go quite to plan though. “Barely hours into the trip, Ratish’s second-hand cycle broke down,” said George. “But he refused to give up. We found a cycle store in Pune. Allwyn and I pedalled there, while Ratish took a bus.” In Pune, they halted for George and Joseph to work. The trio then rode through Satara and crossed Kolhapur, and entered Belagavi. “We would ride from 4am to 11am and halt at dhabas or teashops to finish work. We used hotspots from our phones for internet,” George said. They reached Bengaluru on December 4. Their bike tyres were worn by then, so a pitstop was in order. Bikes fixed, they continued towards Tamil Nadu the next day and reached Kanyakumari on December 14. “It was the ride of a lifetime,” Joseph said. Having completed an adventure without needing to take a break from office, the three took a train back to Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3-cycle-to-kanyakumari-work-from-highway-to-beat-wfh-monotony/articleshow/80413311.cms||Petlee Peter
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Eight more free diagnostic centres in city||Hyderabad: Free diagnostic service centres launched in eight places in GHMC will be expanded to another eight soon. Launching one such facility at Sriram Nagar near Borabanda on Friday, municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao and health minister Eatala Rajender said the services will be expanded to districts soon. Eight sample pooling points serving as mini hubs for diagnostic services have been set up. KT Rama Rao said that apart from 57 different blood tests and imaging services, efforts will be made to offer more services under this project. “It was increased to 319 spokes consisting of basthi dawakhanas, PHCs, urban PHCs, community health centres, urban CHCs, wellness centres and dispensaries,” KT Rama Rao said. Rajender, who inaugurated the centre, said the diagnostic centres are integrated with basthi dawakhanas and reports will be sent to top-notch facilities to check if patients need any treatment. He said a state-of-the-art organ transplant centre is being set up in Gandhi Hospital at a cost of Rs 35 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eight-more-free-diagnostic-centres-in-city/articleshow/80413262.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Delhi||Delhi government draws up list of 189 vaccination centres||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has drawn up a tentative list to scale up the number of vaccination centres to 189 from the 81 in the current first phase of the campaign. The number of locations of these will go up to 144, implying that many will have multiple vaccination booths. “A list of 189 vaccination centres in 144 hospitals, dispensaries and other healthcare facilities have been finalised for the initial scaling-up phase. The list has been submitted to the central government and the final list of centres will be notified by the central government,” a Delhi government official said on Friday. At present, vaccination is being carried out from 81 hospitals, both government-run and private. They mostly have one booth each, but now many hospitals would have more than one vaccination booth. District authorities have already finalised plans for scaling up the inoculation programme, which would eventually see 1,000 vaccination centres across the city. “There are two aspects that need attention for this,” said Arun Kumar Mishra, district magistrate (East). “The first is availability of infrastructure. Of course, this is already in place in the shape of cold chains, fridges, vaccinators, etc. The second aspect is the human one, which means ensuring that people come voluntarily to get vaccinated. In our district, the plan is get all our doctors vaccinated, particularly those in charge of dispensaries. Photographs of the heads of departments and doctors in-charge has been displayed prominently at the centres, so that whoever comes to the centre, can see that the head of the clinic has taken the vaccine.” An official of the South district administration said inter-hospital counselling session groups have been formed as part of the scaling-up exercise. “Teams of two to three healthcare professionals from major hospitals will go to the smaller centres at dispensaries and clinics from next week to counsel healthcare workers there,” the official said. Out of the 189 proposed vaccination centres, 74 are in 45 government-run hospitals, ranging from major super specialty hospitals to secondary hospitals, apart from Delhi government’s six maternity & child welfare centres, two dispensaries and one polyclinic. The number of vaccination centres in private healthcare facilities is higher than in government-run facilities, with 106 identified at 90 medical care facilities, including major multi-speciality hospitals, nursing homes, eye care centres and diagnostic centres. While many hospitals and clinics have two vaccination booths, five booths have been tentatively identified at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences in South district, highest for a vaccination centre in Delhi. Other major hospitals with multiple booths include Delhi government’s Lok Nayak Hospital, Burari Hospital and Jag Pravesh Chandra Hospital and the private Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, all with four booths each. Hospitals where three booths are proposed are AIIMS, BL Kapoor Memorial Hospital, Max Hospital, Saket, Okhla ESI Hospital and Ambedkar Nagar Hospital. According to sources in Delhi government, the number of centres in each district has been chosen keeping in mind the number of healthcare workers registered in each particular district. That is why Central district, which has the highest number of tentative sites (30), also has the highest number of registered healthcare workers at 34,653. It is followed by the West and South districts, with 24 vaccination centres each and the South-East district, which has 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-draws-up-list-of-189-vax-centres/articleshow/80413354.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 23, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: After backlash, revenue, civic body officials begin Putheri lake restoration||CHENNAI: After huge backlash from local residents, officials from Pallavaram municipality, local administration wing and the revenue department removed encroachments on Putheri lake on Thursday. Officials said they removed some borewells, a board, few pipes and some temporary structures. A soil excavator was brought in to remove a portion of the construction debris that was periodically dumped on the lake beside Vels University Road, off the Pallavaram-Thoraipakkam Radial Road. A temporary bund-like structure has been erected. Two different officials told TOI on Friday that a second round of inspections and encroachment removal are pending, which would be done on Sunday and Monday. The hurried work on Thursday was probably done because chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami was to pass through the road for an election rally, said activist David Manohar. The lake, which had only recently been restored by local NGOs, was found to have mounds of trash on December 30. After protests and petitions by residents and activists, a police case was filed against unknown people. Construction debris have also been dumped on the eastern end of the lake and seven people have registered the land to an extent of 2,182sqft in July 2020. These people protested a week ago, asking the officials to avoid ’restoration’ of the lake as it was their property. A revenue official said that in all likelihood, it is a fraudulent patta, but their grievance needed to be looked into. David Manohar, who has been following up with local officials on the issue, said that what happened on Thursday was only a cosmetic change. “The authorities need to dredge the debris till they reach water to restore the lake,” he said. Conflicting versions have emerged in the whole issue with regard to who the likely culprits are. While a receipt issued by Pallavaram municipality is available, which indicates a fine of 25,000, was purportedly imposed on the garbage lorry driver who dumped the garbage, the municipality commissioner had earlier denied any such fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/after-backlash-revenue-civic-body-officials-begin-putheri-lake-restoration/articleshow/80413230.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
January 23, 2021||Delhi||North Delhi Municipal Corporation announces release of salaries a day after staff protest||NEW DELHI: A day after sanitation workers angered by the non-payment of salaries shut down the garbage truck depots and dumped trash outside North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s Civil Lines zonal office, the mayor announced the release of their salary for November and December on Friday. While urging the workers to end their strike, mayor Jai Prakash said, “I have been receiving complaints from residents about irregularities in clearing of garbage. We have somehow managed to arrange the funds and the sanitation workers will receive their November and December salaries. It will be credited in their accounts soon. Salaries of nurses, teachers and other staff in C and D categories will be released by January 28.” Sant Lal Chawariya of Akhil Bhartiya Shramik Sangh, the workers’ union, however, claimed that till late Friday, the salaries hadn’t been transferred. “We can’t trust anyone, so we won’t end the strike until the salaries are paid. We also demand the regularisation of contractual staff. We shut down the depots at Mubarakpur, Narela, Nangloi, Karol Bagh and Shanti Van,” claimed Chawariya. Hundreds of agitated corporation workers marched in protest on Rithala Road on Friday. “So far mostly teachers, engineers, pensioners and nursing staff of hospitals were on strike for non-payment of 5-6 months’ salaries,” said AP Khan, convenor, Confederation of MCD Employee Unions, “but now sanitation workers are actively protesting. To express their resentment, they dumped garbage outside the front gate of the Civil Line zone office on Thursday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corpn-announces-release-of-salaries-a-day-after-staff-protest/articleshow/80413217.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||No new Covid case in Dharavi for a second day||MUMBAI: No new Covid-19 case wasereported from Dharavi on Friday for the second time, officials said. On Christmas Day, Asia’s largest slum had reported zero cases — the first time since April 1, when the first coronavirus case was reported in Dharavi. According to data from the BMC, so far Dharavi has reported 3,904 cases of which only 10 are currently active. While 3,582 patients have recovered and been discharged from Covid centres, 312 people have died in Dharavi so far. BMC officials said that with the number of new cases declining, Covid care centres are being vacated. On April 1 last year, a 56-year-old Dharavi resident had tested positive — the first Covid case in the slum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-new-covid-case-in-dharavi-for-a-2nd-day/articleshow/80413314.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 23, 2021||Pune||Pune: Schools in PMC area can reopen from February 1 for Standards V to VIII||PUNE: Schools can reopen for standards V to VIII from February 1 following all safety precautions and guidelines. The state education department had earlier announced the reopening from January 27. A notification issued by the PMC on Friday said schools should be prepared with a thermometer, thermal scanner/gun, pulse oximeter, santisation provision, hand wash and others precautions. The schools have also been told to ensure that the transport vehicles are duly sanitised at least twice and the schools’ managements must monitor the provisions made by the bus owners. All teaching and non-teaching staff will have to undergo the RT-PCR test and they must submit the test report to the school. Seating arrangements in classrooms and staff rooms must follow social distancing norms. Parents’ consent is necessary before students come to school. The PMC has also notified that the schools must regularly clean their campuses and maintain hygiene. Teaching and non-teaching staff must start reporting to schools from January 23. The primary education office will inspect the schools regarding compliance of the safety norms. The classrooms need to be properly ventilated and those rooms that do not have enough ventilation cannot be used for teaching.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/schools-in-pmc-area-can-reopen-from-february-1-for-stds-v-to-viii/articleshow/80413298.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu adds 574 fresh cases, 8 deaths to its tally||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 574 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, which pushed the cumulative case tally to 8,33,585. With eight death, the death toll touched 12,307. There were 5,073 people still under treatment for the viral infection as per public health registry. While Perambalur was the only district to report zero fresh cases of the viral infection on Friday, at least 32 districts reported zero deaths. While Chennai reported four deaths, four other districts — Chengalpet, Coimbatore, Ranipet and Vellore — reported one death each. Chennai, which was the worst affected district, continued to top the fresh cases table with 155 cases followed by 58 cases in Chengalpet and 55 cases in Coimbatore. All other districts reported cases below 50. "There were 21 districts reported cases in single digits on Friday. On an average, at least 18 districts report zero cases almost every day in the last one week," said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. The eleven northern districts reported 303 cases and seven deaths, of which there were five deaths and 260 cases in the Chennai Region. There were 129 cases and one death in western districts, while the ten south districts reported 91 cases, and the central districts reported 50 cases. The central and the southern districts reported no deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-adds-574-fresh-cases-8-deaths-to-its-tally/articleshow/80413287.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu adds 574 fresh cases, 8 deaths to its tally||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 574 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, which pushed the cumulative case tally to 8,33,585. With eight death, the death toll touched 12,307. There were 5,073 people still under treatment for the viral infection as per public health registry. While Perambalur was the only district to report zero fresh cases of the viral infection on Friday, at least 32 districts reported zero deaths. While Chennai reported four deaths, four other districts — Chengalpet, Coimbatore, Ranipet and Vellore — reported one death each. Chennai, which was the worst affected district, continued to top the fresh cases table with 155 cases followed by 58 cases in Chengalpet and 55 cases in Coimbatore. All other districts reported cases below 50. "There were 21 districts reported cases in single digits on Friday. On an average, at least 18 districts report zero cases almost every day in the last one week," said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. The eleven northern districts reported 303 cases and seven deaths, of which there were five deaths and 260 cases in the Chennai Region. There were 129 cases and one death in western districts, while the ten south districts reported 91 cases, and the central districts reported 50 cases. The central and the southern districts reported no deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tamil-nadu-adds-574-fresh-cases-8-deaths-to-its-tally/articleshow/80419410.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana professor in Japan gets Pravasi award||HYDERABAD: A professor in Japan with roots in Mahbubnagar district has been honoured with the Pravasi Bharatiya Samman Award for 2021 by President Ram Nath Kovind. From among the 30 who have been selected for the award this year, nine are Indians. Professor Miryala Muralidhar is the only one from Telangana among them. He was bestowed the honour in the field of science and technology. The Pravasi Bharatiya Samman Award (PBSA) is the highest honour conferred on overseas Indians. The 16th edition of the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas (PBD) convention was held virtually on January 9. A jury-cum-awards committee with Vice-President as chairman and external affairs minister as vice-chair selected the awardees. Speaking to TOI from Japan, Muralidhar said this year he proposed to facilitate more students pursue their research in Japan. Through his efforts, 18 top educational institutions in India, including IIT Madras, IIT Delhi and IIT Guwahati, established collaborations with Japanese universities. “As a global educational leader, I am currently investing great efforts to bridge top-ranked Indian and Japanese universities to focus on bilateral relations between India and Japan in the area of science, technology, R&D and higher education,” he said. While as many as 100 students have benefited from this, Muralidhar said this year students of some higher educational institutions in Hyderabad too would be facilitated to pursue their research in Japan. The professor, who was born in Karveni village, has a doctorate in physics from Osmania University. He is now professor at the Graduate School of Engienering and Science, Shibaura Institute of Technology, Tokyo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-professor-in-japan-gets-pravasi-award/articleshow/80413268.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Stop fighting, KT Rama Rao tells TRS leaders||HYDERABAD: With internal differences in the TRS Khammam unit coming out in the open, party working president KT Rama Rao told the warring leaders to quickly reach a rapprochement and show unity. He also reminded them that the party’s performance in undivided Khammam in the 2018 assembly elections was dismal as it had won only one seat. According to TRS sources, the working president put the onus on transport minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar, who represents Khammam assembly constituency, to mend fences with those opposing him. Ajay himself has been at the receiving end of criticism from party colleague and former MP Ponguleti Srinivas Reddy. Sources said KTR called them for a meeting in Hyderabad on January 21 and explained to them on the importance of winning the graduates MLC election in Khammam. He also emphasised on the bigger task of winning the next assembly elections in 2023. “The goal is to all win 10 assembly seats in Khammam district. Everyone will have to work towards this by putting the interests of the party first and not go by personal egos,” KTR reportedly told the leaders at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stop-fighting-ktr-tells-trs-leaders/articleshow/80413292.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 23, 2021||Chennai||Housing board to build 570 flats at Nerkundram for government officers||Chennai: The Tamil Nadu Housing Board is set to construct 570 apartments for All India Service officers, state government officers and judicial officers at Nerkundram, a decision that has left social activists wondering about the priorities of a government reeling under the economic impact of Covid-19.  The TNHB has invited applications from AIS officers of Tamil Nadu cadre, state government officers and Judicial Officers for the apartments to be constructed under the Own Your Housing Scheme. As per the prospectus, each apartment, with a plinth area ranging from 1,531 sq ft to 1,877 sq ft, is estimated to cost between Rs 95lakh and Rs 1.16 crore excluding the registration fee. The massive housing project comprises five blocks, each with stilt + 19 floors near the existing TAISHA Complex at Nerkundram. The development comes at a time when the Tamil Nadu government has said that Covid-19 had caused considerable economic disruption and placed the finances of all departments in disarray. During a recent pre-Union budget meeting, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, who holds the finance and housing department portfolio in the state, informed the Centre that while the early signs of economic revival are apparent, the finances of state governments will take more time to recover. But, the TNHB, which comes under the housing and urban development department, is going ahead with the project that will impose a huge immediate expenditure on the government, say activists. TNHB managing director B Murugesh did not respond to repeated queries from TOI for a reaction on the plan. Senthil Arumugam of Satta Panchayat Iyakkam charged that construction of flats for government officers appeared to be a plan to appease them during an election year. “There is no second opinion that government officials cannot be denied houses. But, several rural local bodies are facing severe financial constraints and are running from pillar to post to meet expenses such as purchasing bleaching powder for sanitation after the outbreak of Covid-19,” he said. Against this backdrop, devolving funds to local bodies must be the government's priority, not building apartments for officials, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/housing-board-to-build-570-flats-at-nerkundram-for-government-officers/articleshow/80413324.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 23, 2021||Delhi||Confessional statement to police not admissible: Delhi court||NEW DELHI: Hearing the plea of former JNU student Umar Khalid regarding a “media trial”, a Delhi court on Friday said that it was the duty of the media to inform and educate its readers or viewers of all relevant facts relating to a case. It stressed that self-regulation was the best mode of regulation. Khalid had stated that several news reports had mentioned a “confessional statement” that he had allegedly made to the police but he had never signed it. He added that a supplementary chargesheet filed by the police was leaked even before the court had taken cognisance of it. “The adversarial media reports, painting me not only as an accused, but almost guilty, have continued. It is causing me deep distress and clearly affecting my right to a fair trial. It is continuing even after you being informed and is a deliberate design to malign me,” Khalid has said at an earlier hearing. Chief metropolitan magistrate Dinesh Kumar noted that a confessional statement made to the police was not admissible as evidence in law. “The news reports haveonly highlighted that accused Umar Khalid had confessed his involvement... However, none of the news items has made a clarification to readers/viewers that such a statement, even if actually made, could not be used by the prosecution as evidence,” the court added. Referring to a news report that portrayed the Delhi riots as “anti-Hindu”, the order stated, “In fact, this does not appear to be the case as all communities felt the consequences of the riots.” The court observed that such a news report might convey to the public at large that Khalid had, in fact, confessed or admitted to his role in the riots. The court, therefore, underscored: “A reporter should have such basic knowledge of law as readers/viewers consider news items as true without verifying the facts.” It further noted that the general public might not be aware of the law and, therefore, it was the duty of the media to inform and educate readers and viewers of all relevant facts and circumstances of a news report published or shown on a news channel. Observing that the press was the “fourth estate” in a democratic society, the order also stressed that they were regarded as one of the sentinels guarding the existence of society. “It is the duty of the judicial system to decide a case on merits after trial. I hope that reporters use self-regulation techniques while publishing or showing a news item related to a case pending investigation or trial so that no prejudice is caused to any accused or any other party,” said the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/confessional-statement-to-police-not-admissible-court/articleshow/80413279.cms||Aamir Khan
January 23, 2021||Goa||Having IIT in SEZ land not feasible: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday shot down suggestions that the IIT project should be set up in one of the SEZ lands. After he had to move it from Melauli, Sattari, after protests, he said that SEZ land is “revenue-generating” land for industries, and setting up an IIT there is not feasible. “We will have the IIT on other government land itself, where industries cannot come up,” said Sawant. Sawant said that protesters should respect the sanctity of the CM’s post, and that expecting the CM to turn up at the protest site is a bad trend. “We are trying to see that benefits of different schemes reach 100% of the people,” he said. “But people should not take disadvantage. Some days back, we saw that people sit for protests and say that the CM should come here and talk to me. What is this?” “We saw that sugarcane farmers sat on a protest and said CM should come here, then someone else also did the same,” Sawant continued. “This is a bad thing. I have never refused anyone who has come for a discussion. They should come and discuss it.” He said the IIT project was shifted out of Melauli because the construction will be taken up over several years, and this would be difficult amidst the protests which were growing increasingly aggressive in nature in the village. “Goa needs an IIT and it should be on government land, and therefore Melauli was identified,” he said. “From the start, we were trying to go ahead by taking locals into confidence. But they started getting aggressive and local MLA Vishwajit Rane requested (me) to shift the project out as locals were having too many agitations. The project would be constructed over many years, and it would not be possible with locals protesting, hence the decision was taken to shift it out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/having-iit-in-sez-land-not-feasible/articleshow/80414935.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra releases Rs 4 crore for sanitisation||PUNE: The state government’s approval for reopening of schools for standards V to VIII has gained momentum with the state government releasing Rs4 crore for the sanitation and cleanliness. There are over 1.6 lakh government schools in state that will benefit from this funding. Schools heads will have to make all provisions to sanitise classrooms, campus, washrooms, provide hand wash facilities, sanitisers at the entrance, and thermal guns, and other measures for reopening. The state education department has allowed schools in the state to reopen for standards V to VIII from January 27. Schools had already reopened for standards IX to XII in several parts of the state from November 23. There are nearly 78.4 lakh students studying in the government schools of Maharashtra in the middle school segment. Director of primary education Dinkar Temkar said the funding has been approved and distributed to regional education directorates in the 34 districts. “The district-level distribution of these funds will be conducted so that the schools can undertake sanitisation activity and purchase thermal gun, sanitisers among others,” he added. Of the 34 districts, 15 in western Maharashtra have received Rs 2.19 crore, eight districts in Marathwada have received Rs 98,000, whereas 11 districts in Vidarbha region have received Rs 1.21 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/state-releases-rs-4cr-for-sanitisation/articleshow/80420427.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 23, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra releases Rs 4 crore for sanitisation||PUNE: The state government’s approval for reopening of schools for standards V to VIII has gained momentum with the state government releasing Rs4 crore for the sanitation and cleanliness. There are over 1.6 lakh government schools in state that will benefit from this funding. Schools heads will have to make all provisions to sanitise classrooms, campus, washrooms, provide hand wash facilities, sanitisers at the entrance, and thermal guns, and other measures for reopening. The state education department has allowed schools in the state to reopen for standards V to VIII from January 27. Schools had already reopened for standards IX to XII in several parts of the state from November 23. There are nearly 78.4 lakh students studying in the government schools of Maharashtra in the middle school segment. Director of primary education Dinkar Temkar said the funding has been approved and distributed to regional education directorates in the 34 districts. “The district-level distribution of these funds will be conducted so that the schools can undertake sanitisation activity and purchase thermal gun, sanitisers among others,” he added. Of the 34 districts, 15 in western Maharashtra have received Rs 2.19 crore, eight districts in Marathwada have received Rs 98,000, whereas 11 districts in Vidarbha region have received Rs 1.21 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-releases-rs-4cr-for-sanitisation/articleshow/80413349.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 23, 2021||Kolhapur||Maharashtra releases Rs 4 crore for sanitisation||PUNE: The state government’s approval for reopening of schools for standards V to VIII has gained momentum with the state government releasing Rs4 crore for the sanitation and cleanliness. There are over 1.6 lakh government schools in state that will benefit from this funding. Schools heads will have to make all provisions to sanitise classrooms, campus, washrooms, provide hand wash facilities, sanitisers at the entrance, and thermal guns, and other measures for reopening. The state education department has allowed schools in the state to reopen for standards V to VIII from January 27. Schools had already reopened for standards IX to XII in several parts of the state from November 23. There are nearly 78.4 lakh students studying in the government schools of Maharashtra in the middle school segment. Director of primary education Dinkar Temkar said the funding has been approved and distributed to regional education directorates in the 34 districts. “The district-level distribution of these funds will be conducted so that the schools can undertake sanitisation activity and purchase thermal gun, sanitisers among others,” he added. Of the 34 districts, 15 in western Maharashtra have received Rs 2.19 crore, eight districts in Marathwada have received Rs 98,000, whereas 11 districts in Vidarbha region have received Rs 1.21 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/state-releases-rs-4cr-for-sanitisation/articleshow/80420424.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 23, 2021||Nashik||Maharashtra releases Rs 4 crore for sanitisation||PUNE: The state government’s approval for reopening of schools for standards V to VIII has gained momentum with the state government releasing Rs4 crore for the sanitation and cleanliness. There are over 1.6 lakh government schools in state that will benefit from this funding. Schools heads will have to make all provisions to sanitise classrooms, campus, washrooms, provide hand wash facilities, sanitisers at the entrance, and thermal guns, and other measures for reopening. The state education department has allowed schools in the state to reopen for standards V to VIII from January 27. Schools had already reopened for standards IX to XII in several parts of the state from November 23. There are nearly 78.4 lakh students studying in the government schools of Maharashtra in the middle school segment. Director of primary education Dinkar Temkar said the funding has been approved and distributed to regional education directorates in the 34 districts. “The district-level distribution of these funds will be conducted so that the schools can undertake sanitisation activity and purchase thermal gun, sanitisers among others,” he added. Of the 34 districts, 15 in western Maharashtra have received Rs 2.19 crore, eight districts in Marathwada have received Rs 98,000, whereas 11 districts in Vidarbha region have received Rs 1.21 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/state-releases-rs-4cr-for-sanitisation/articleshow/80420423.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Academy to publish works of Urdu writers||Hyderabad: The Telangana State Urdu Academy said it will publish works of well-known Urdu poets and writers of Hyderabad who have passed away and whose works have not been chronicled. “We need to acknowledge their services for the cause of Urdu promotion through their life and works and also keep those intact for future generations,” said director and secretary, Telangana State Urdu Academy, Dr Ghouse Mohammed, during a virtual conference to pay homage to Urdu writers and poets. Participants from different countries also paid homage to eminent Urdu writers and poets including professor Shamsur Rahman Farooqui, Hasan Chisti, Khan Lateef Mohammed Khan (editor, Munsif Daily), Rahman Jaami, K M Arifuddin, eminent poet Dr Raahat Indori, Dr Ziauddin Shakeeb and Narendra Luther were paid homage. Canada-based renowned research scholar from Hyderabad Dr Taqui Abedi in his keynote address highlighted Hyderabad’s contribution to Urdu in memory of the departed souls. “Great poets and writers must be honoured with a chair named after them in state and national universities. While some can be honoured posthumously, the works of those alive must also be duly acknowledged,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/academy-to-publish-works-of-urdu-writers/articleshow/80413347.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra releases Rs 4 crore for sanitisation||PUNE: The state government’s approval for reopening of schools for standards V to VIII has gained momentum with the state government releasing Rs4 crore for the sanitation and cleanliness. There are over 1.6 lakh government schools in state that will benefit from this funding. Schools heads will have to make all provisions to sanitise classrooms, campus, washrooms, provide hand wash facilities, sanitisers at the entrance, and thermal guns, and other measures for reopening. The state education department has allowed schools in the state to reopen for standards V to VIII from January 27. Schools had already reopened for standards IX to XII in several parts of the state from November 23. There are nearly 78.4 lakh students studying in the government schools of Maharashtra in the middle school segment. Director of primary education Dinkar Temkar said the funding has been approved and distributed to regional education directorates in the 34 districts. “The district-level distribution of these funds will be conducted so that the schools can undertake sanitisation activity and purchase thermal gun, sanitisers among others,” he added. Of the 34 districts, 15 in western Maharashtra have received Rs 2.19 crore, eight districts in Marathwada have received Rs 98,000, whereas 11 districts in Vidarbha region have received Rs 1.21 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-releases-rs-4cr-for-sanitisation/articleshow/80420426.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Startup policy for students to innovate||Hyderabad: Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTU-H) has launched a student startup policy from the ensuing academic year in line with the national innovation and startup policy by the Union ministry of education. Announcing the policy shortly after the approval in the executive council, JNTU-H in-charge vice-chancellor, Jayesh Ranjan, said the policy would play a crucial role to support student-led innovations and technology startup incubation. As part of this policy, student innovation and entrepreneurial activities as a mini/major project would be considered. “Allow students to work on innovative prototypes/problem validation, case study report, projects on open-ended problems, participate in social entrepreneurship right from first year to earn credits equivalent to mini-project,” the university said in an official release on Thursday. Students would also be allowed a maximum of 10% exemption in all years to participate in events, boot-camps, conferences etc. “Allow gap year facility after second year, subject to the condition of completion of the degree within the stipulated time. Application and prior approval by the review committee (within the first one month of the semester) is mandatory,” the release added. Also, students would be able to specialise in minors such as entrepreneurship, innovation and products, design engineering by earning 18-20 credits over and above the credits for the award of the BTech degree. The courses have to be taken through massive open online courses (MOOCs) over fifth-sixth semesters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/startup-policy-for-students-to-innovate/articleshow/80413379.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Pune||Pune airport misses chance of transporting Covishield||PUNE: The Covishield vaccine, manufactured by city-based Serum Institute of India, was not exported from Pune Airport, despite the facility having an international cargo export unit started three years ago. Earlier this week, the Covishield vaccine was exported to Bhutan from the Bagdogra airport on an Indian Air Force aircraft. During the early hours of Friday, two million doses of the vaccine departed from the Mumbai International airport to Brazil via Emirates SkyCargo and two million doses to Morocco on Royal Air Maroc. A senior official with the Airports Authority of India (AAI) in Mumbai said he didn’t have any information of any airline requesting export of the vaccine from Pune. A message regarding the matter was sent to Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh, but his answer was awaited till the time of going to press. A Pune customs official, requesting anonymity, said, “The AAI has not provided any cold storage facility at the international cargo export unit, which is important for vaccine storage. We cannot comment more on this.” The facility was made operational by the AAI in July 2017. Anant Sardeshmukh, the former director general of the MCCIA, said, “Pune is not connected well to many domestic and international destinations. Secondly, I don’t think the airport has cold storage and other facilities.” “By now, Pune could have got a brand new 24-hour operational airport and also a full-fledged cargo import and export hub. The Pune airport could have become a leader for the import and export of the vaccine, but it has missed the opportunity,” Dhairyashil Vandekar, aviation analyst and expert, said. An airline representative said they haven’t heard of any international exports from Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/airport-misses-chance-of-transporting-covishield/articleshow/80413363.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||JNTU-H & OU seek sanitation, logistical plans from colleges||HYDERABAD: Merely a week before reopening of institutions in Telangana, state universities such as the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTU-H) and Osmania University (OU) have sought sanitation and logistical plans from all the colleges. Following the government guidelines issued on January 12, all colleges were instructed to prepare a customized plan for the conduct of physical classes duly keeping the premises of the colleges clean and tidy by January 18. This included the sanitation plan, medical plan, logistical plan and academic plan. “Many colleges are preferring to commence classes in batches by giving preference to third and fourth year students for the first 15-20 days of February and subsequently calling first and second year students. The idea is to focus on laboratory work and continue theoretical classes online,” said Manzoor Hussain, registrar, JNTU-H, which is in the process of collating all the information being submitted by colleges. Many colleges are planning to adopt shift system with only 50% students allowed at any given point of time within college premises. Not just that, colleges are also in the process of making plans for hostels, dining/dormitories and washrooms. “We have decided to reopen the campus as well as the hostels only for final year students for now. Accommodation of students will be based on the renewal of hostel facility. Not just that, the OU registrar has instructed us to sanitise college premises twice a day,” said professor LB Laxmikanth Rathod, principal, Nizam College. Institutes are also planning to review semester and mid-term arrangements once they reopen for physical classes. University registrars are expected to hold a meeting with all the principals and directors of colleges to assess the preparations for reopening institutes between January 25 and January 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jntu-h-ou-seek-sanitation-logistical-plans-from-colleges/articleshow/80413392.cms||Preeti Biswas
January 23, 2021||Delhi||Budget session: Seven teams to do tests in sanitised complex||NEW DELHI: New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has prepared an elaborate plan for Covid-19 testing of members of Parliament, officials and staff. It will also sanitise the Parliament complex before and after the budget session, which will begin from January 29. There will be 22 testing teams, comprising members from District Disaster Management Authority and NDMC, deployed on various locations. No intimation for administering the Covid vaccine has come so far, said an NDMC official. “Of the total 22 teams, seven will be deployed at the gates inside the Parliament boundary for testing of MPs and officials visiting the sessions,” said the official. “Remaining 15 teams will be deployed at North Avenue, South Avenue, Dr Bishambar Das Marg, Pandara Park, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha secretariats. At the testing centre, MPs/officials visiting them can get themselves tested. MPs’ staff, security personnel, drivers, etc, can avail the facility too. One camp will be set up near Vijay Chowk,” the official added. The first phase of the sanitisation drive has already begun. On Friday, the civic agency also started conducting Covid tests for officials and staff deployed at the Parliament, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha secretariats. Deep cleaning of the Parliament whenever there is an adjournment, and regular sanitisation of the entire complex are planned. “Provision for 22 mobile toilets, tents and water ATMs for mediapersons will be made,” said another NDMC official. The horticulture department has also been asked to beautify the roads leading to the Parliament, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/budget-session-7-teams-to-do-tests-in-sanitised-complex/articleshow/80413348.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 23, 2021||Delhi||Test mode: You can virtually join physical hearing||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Friday launched a hybrid system of hearing on an experimental basis where parties/lawyers can virtually join a hearing being conducted in the physical mode in court. According to a circular issued by the high court administration, the hybrid system, started in Chief Justice D N Patel’s courtroom, will allow lawyers to argue their case from their office or home even if the judges and other parties in the case are present in the courtroom. In recent days, opinion has been divided among lawyers on opening up the high court for physical hearings, with a few senior advocates and lawyers even challenging the same in the Supreme Court. On the first day, the system was tested successfully, said a source, indicating that it is likely to be expanded to cover other courts sitting physically and may even continue even after Covid-19 is over. The order states that when a particular bench is conducting virtual hearing, a lawyer may opt for it by giving prior intimation. Following the request, s/he will be provided with a link to participate in physical proceedings. In the process, the court modified its January 14 office order relating to the resumption of physical hearings. “This court has already initiated steps for hybrid hearing so that in a given case, one party may join the proceedings through virtual mode while the other is present physically in the court,” the current circular stated. In courtroom one, the administration has placed extra television screens to enable advocates opting for the new system to appear virtually. While the judges can see them on their computer screens, other lawyers/litigants present in court will be able to hear and see them on two screens. Eleven benches of the high court — two division benches of two judges each and nine single-judge benches — have been conducting physical proceedings as per roster from January 18, and the rest are hearing matters via videoconferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/test-mode-you-can-virtually-join-physical-hearing/articleshow/80413423.cms||Abhinav Garg
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Rescued children fear going home, want to study & be independent||HYDERABAD: After a man allegedly set his 10-year-old son, who was rescued through Operation Smile, ablaze a few days ago for delay in getting beedis, TOI spoke to several rescued children who said that they don’t want to return to their homes as they are worried that they will forced to continue as child labour. Twelve-year-old Saritha (name changed), who was rescued from a doctor’s home in the city last year after being physically abused and had worked as a child labourer for several years, said she wants to study. “I was tortured, beaten up, and branded with a hot iron by the doctor. Every time the kids failed to finish their food, I used to be punished,” said the 12-year-old, adding that along with babysitting two children—a five-year-old and a four-year-old—she also used to take care of the cooking and other household chores. Saritha, who was rescued through Operation Smile programme from a villa and is currently staying at a children’s home in the city, said that she has a mother and two sisters back in the village. “I started working from a very young age. If I stay at home, I will at least get to study and all my needs will be taken care of,” she added. Though Saritha was rescued before the lockdown commenced, she was not enrolled in school as her mother failed to produce her Aadhaar card. Officials said that Saritha would be admitted in class 5 as she has no exposure to school till date. The same is the case with Anitha (name changed), who was made to discontinue her studies after her father’s death and forced to work by her mother. Anitha, a class 7 student, said that she wants to learn tailoring and stand on her own feet. “I am the eldest among the three children. If I go home, I will be forced to work,” said Anitha. She said that when her father was alive, her mother used to make her work only on Sundays. “My father died about three years ago. We hail from an economically backward family and my mother has no means to feed three children. So, soon after my father’s death, I was made to discontinue my studies and work as domestic help,” said Anitha, adding that she talks to her mother and siblings over the phone and meets them at times, but doesn’t want to live with them. While a district-level official from the women and child welfare department said that they conduct monthly inspections to check on children rescued through Operation Smile and Operation Muskaan, several others said that they don’t maintain complete details of children who were sent back to their parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rescued-children-fear-going-home-want-to-study-be-independent/articleshow/80413355.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 23, 2021||Pune||CoWIN snags will be sorted out in a week: Tech expert||PUNE: The chairman of the empowered group of technology and data, Ram Sewak Sharma, said the complaints regarding enrolment for Covid vaccine through CoWIN would be sorted in a week’s time. “Like any software, there are issues in this also. These will be ironed out. We have told states to carry out vaccination only through online process and they are adhering to it. The complaints received are being resolved,” he said. Sharma said no “stress test” of CoWIN was conducted to address the sudden volume and so there were bound to be some initial glitches. “We are trying to make it user-friendly,” he told TOI. Sharma said they had received several complaints related to log-in issues and they were being addressed. He said the Centre had already allowed registered but non-allocated individuals to walk in for the shots, especially at centres where less than 100 people per day were taking the jabs to avoid wastage of vaccine. He said while the data of healthcare and frontline workers were being entered by the government officials, plans were being made to use the Aarogya Setu app or an IVRS system or some mobile app for reaching out to the public. “This is for the third category people — above 50 with comorbidities and senior citizens. We are working on it and should be ready in some months’ time,” he said. Sharma said an Aadhaar-based enrolment process could also be rolled out for the elderly and those with comorbidities on the CoWIN platform, which might be integrated with the Aarogya Setu app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cowin-snags-will-be-sorted-out-in-a-week-tech-expert/articleshow/80414930.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Some schools in Telangana making offline exams mandatory: Parents||HYDERABAD: Not just for students of class 9 and above, parents say that some schools are making it compulsory for even younger students too to appear physically for final examinations. Some of the schools have given no option to parents to opt for online exams and are citing ‘proper assessment of students’ as a reason for conducting offline examinations. “The final exams for class 8 students will be conducted offline in the school premises from February 16 to March 1 taking all necessary safety measures and precautions. The exam will be conducted offline to ensure proper assessment of the children as they have to be registered with the CBSE board in class 9,” read a circular sent by a school in Begumpet. In the consent form, the school gave no option for parents to opt out of offline exams. Likewise, another school in Secunderabad has also scheduled offline exams for students of classes 8, 9 and 10 from February 9. Parents said that even after the state has asked schools to not make it mandatory for parents to send their wards to schools from February 1, some of them are not giving a choice to parents. “Schools are not supposed to make it mandatory even for class 9 and above students to attend schools physically. Who asked them to conduct exams in offline mode? Why are they asking parents to risk their kid’s life amid a pandemic,” questioned Uma V, whose son is studying in class 9 at a private school in Kukatpally. Another parent, Ram M, whose son is in class 8, said: “The school did not even give an option to opt for the online exam instead of physically appearing for them in the school. Anyway, what is the need to conduct exams when the Right to Education Act makes it clear that no student below class 8 can be detained.” As per the state government guidelines, schools can conduct physical classes only for students of class 9 and above. However, they can’t make it mandatory and students should be allowed only after taking written consent from parents. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/some-schools-making-offline-exams-mandatory-parents/articleshow/80413418.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 23, 2021||Chandigarh||UT health workers to get 2 chances at getting jabbed||Chandigarh: Only two chances will be given to the health workers for vaccination. “In case they do not come after registration, they will get another chance. Thereafter, we will give preference to other groups so that the masses can be inoculated soon,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director health services, UT. There is less zeal in this group, so the UT health department has decided not to reach the target, but start the vaccination drive for other priority groups as well. She said, “We cannot suspend any site even if the target is not achieved.” Sources informed that doctors are coming forward for the Covid-19 shots, but the nursing staff and the class III and IV employees have refused for the vaccines in most of the hospitals. “We have told the staff that once this drive is over for the health workers, those who did not give the consent, can later on buy free vaccines for Rs 2,000 for complete immunisation,” said the DHS. Meanwhile, the vaccination drive at the PGI witnessed good response with about 150 health care workers getting inoculated at two vaccination centres functional at the Advanced Paediatric Centre and Nehru Hospital Extension. The next drive at the PGI will be held on Monday. 924 jabbed in Mohali Mohali: In a major Covid-19 vaccine drive on Friday a total of 51.33% of the total registered beneficiaries were jabbed at 18 centres. Civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said a total of 924 beneficiaries were vaccinated out of the total 1,800. Of these, 826 were vaccinated at eight centers in Mohali city, 20 at Kurali Civil Hospital, 38 at Derabassi Civil Hospital, 30 Dhakoli Civil Hospital and 10 at Lalru Civil Hospital. She said vaccination was given at 12 centres, while none of the registered beneficiary turned up at the other six centers i.e. at Kharar, Gharuan, Boothgarh, Banur, Mullanpur and Nayagaon. “Beneficiaries have not come with any symptoms like mild fever or tenderness,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-health-workers-to-get-2-chances-at-getting-jabbed/articleshow/80411970.cms||Shimona Kanwar
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Concessions to parents if fee dues cleared||Hyderabad: To encourage parents to clear fee dues of the current academic year, some of the schools in the city are offering concessions to parents. They are asking parents to clear dues before the due date and threatening to remove students from online classes if dues are not cleared. “The management is very kind enough to understand the present situation and ready to give a concession of Rs 600 for classes PPI and PPII and Rs 500 for classes I to V for every month from July to May 2020-2021. The concession is applicable to the students who pay the fees before the due date of January 31, 2021,” read a circular from a private school in Himayatnagar. Parents said the schools must offer concession of at least 40% of the total fee. “Giving a discount of Rs 500 or Rs 1,000 will not make much difference. They must consider parents’ demands and reduce fee by 40% to 50%,” said Lalitha M, whose daughters are in classes 5 and 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/concessions-to-parents-if-fee-dues-cleared/articleshow/80413433.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||PV’s native place to be tourist spot||Hyderabad: As part of former PM PV Narasimha Rao’s centenary celebrations, the state has decided to develop Vangara, Rao’s native place, as a tourist destination. V Srinivas Goud, minister for exercise, sports, tourism, and culture said that the government has allotted Rs 7 crore for the construction of PV Science Forum (PV Vignana Vedika). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvs-native-place-to-be-tourist-spot/articleshow/80413409.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Pune||Pune: Petrol & diesel prices again increase, spark discontent||PUNE: Petrol and diesel prices in the city increased again on Friday after remaining unchanged for two days. A litre petrol in Pune cost Rs91.71 on Friday, an increase of 24 paise. The price of diesel also went up to Rs80.83 for a litre, an increase of 25 paise. “The fuel prices remained unchanged on Wednesday and Thursday in Pune, “ said Ali Daruwalla, national spokesperson of the All India Petrol Dealers Association. The price of a litre of petrol in Parbhani was Rs94.12, an increase of 23 paise over Thursday’s rate. The prices of petrol and diesel also increased marginally by 25 paise in Nashik. The rise in the petrol and diesel prices has started fuelling discontent among the residents of Pune, especially the vegetable vendors who said transporters at the Market Yard were adamant about increasing the carriage costs. “The rise in the prices is alarming. We bring our vegetables in three-wheelers. The transporters are now insisting on increasing the fares,” said Datta Jagtap, who sells vegetables in the NIBM Road area. A Hadapsar-based retailer, who brings vegetables almost everyday from Market Yard, said, “If the increase in the fuel prices continue, we may have to adjust accordingly. This means the mean prices of vegetables may go up. Prices of vegetables like onion, garlic and ginger are already high due to the unseasonal rain”, he said. Those transporting vegetables to the vendors also expressed their anguish problems. “We make long trips to the retailers delivering vegetables. It is becoming impossible to bear the rising fuel prices. The transportation charges have to go up,” said Sharad Yevale, who owns two goods carrying autorickshaws. Earlier, several transporters had said prices of many commodities might go up if the fuel prices continued to increase. The Federation of All Maharashtra Petrol Dealers’ Association, had said though the crude oil prices were going down, the government has increased the excise duty. In 2013, the crude oil prices were the highest but the excise duty was low. The association said though crude oil prices started coming down after 2013, the government increased the excise duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/petrol-diesel-prices-again-increase-spark-discontent/articleshow/80413402.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 23, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Police: Two fake call centres busted, 30 women among 37 held||NEW DELHI: In major crackdown on BPO scams, Delhi Police on Thursday busted two fake call centres in separate operations and arrested 37 people in total, including 30 women. More than 60 mobile phones, laptops, SIM cards and documents of several bank accounts were seized in the crackdown. In the first operation in which 34 people were arrested, Cyber Cell received a tip-off about a fake call centre in Shahdara district in a building near GT Road. Those arrested also included 30 women tele-callers. Additional deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) Sanjay Kumar Sain said a police team raided the premises. “Enquiry revealed that the BPO employees used to call people and offer them jobs in banks. The victims were asked to register themselves on a website www.bankinstantjob.com and pay only Rs 10 as registration fee,” Sain said. During the registration process, the BPO employees would acquire the bank details of the targets and then deduct Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000 from their accounts. In the second incident, reported from Dilshad Garden, two men were arrested for luring people on the pretext of job offers in a motor company and then duping them. “The accused led us to the third associate, who was also held,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-fake-call-centres-busted-30-women-among-37-held/articleshow/80413390.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Money laundering case: Shiv Sena MLA’s aide denied bail by court||MUMBAI: Arrested in a money laundering case, Amit Chandole, the alleged aide of Shiv Sena MLA from Thane Pratap Sarnaik, had told the special PMLA court that he was pressurized to implicate the politician and was deeply stressed and was scared that if he did not comply, the ED would keep him in their custody for many years. In a detailed order rejecting his bail plea, a special PMLA court has said that while he could be provided medical assistance for his poor health, he was not entitled to be released on bail on such feeble grounds. The court said if he is released on bail, considering he was connected to politicians, he may hamper the investigations. The ED’s money laundering case against Chandole and others is based on a Mumbai police FIR registered in October, alleging the private security firm Tops Grup had cheated MMRDA, which had awarded it a contract in 2014 to provide security guards for foot-overbridges. Chandole’s defence claimed the motive of arrest was to extract names of political figures like Sarnaik. However, ED said Chandole was involved in money laundering by receiving cash from Tops Grup Services and Solutions Ltd, who allegedly provided fewer security guards than claimed to MMRDA sites. It said he raised unattended guards bills and money was diverted and laundered by him for and on behalf of Sarnaik. Rejecting Chandole’s bail plea, the court said, “Involvement of the applicant is prima facie, clearly shows receipt of the amount, that too by creation of false and fabricated documents drawn from the public department, ie, MMRDA. Definitely this racket must be busted including the persons hand-in-glove with the culprits, who have benefited and enjoyed fruits of proceeds of crimes. At this moment, considering the aspect that involving huge crores of public money (sic), showing prima facie involvement of this applicant in proceeds of crime dis-entitled him to be enlarged on bail,” the court said. The court said the possibility cannot be ruled out that MMRDA officials were hand-in-glove with big corporate groups or political bigwigs to siphon off funds from public authorities for their personal gains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/money-laundering-case-sena-mlas-aide-denied-bail-by-court/articleshow/80414949.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 23, 2021||Pune||32 vaccination sites in district today, 55 from January 25||PUNE: Deputy director of health services Dr Sanjay Deshmukh said 32 vaccination sites would operate in the district from Saturday. The PMC areas will have eight sites and nine will operate in the Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits on Saturday. There will be 15 centres in the rural areas. One additional vaccination site each would function at Sassoon hospital, a private health hub near Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital and at a hospital in Pimpri Chinchwad. On Friday, the state operated with 285 sites and the district with 29. From Monday, 511 sites would be operational in Maharashtra. Deshmukh said the number of sites in Pune district would also rise to 55 — a total of 16 each in the two civic areas and 23 in the rural areas. Removing the cap of 100 beneficiaries at each site is also on the radar of the administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/32-sites-in-dist-today-55-from-jan-25/articleshow/80414936.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 23, 2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu violating election code of conduct, alleges SAD||Mohali: The Mohali unit of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has lodged a complaint with the election commission against local MLA-cum-cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu for violating the election code of conduct. They said the minister has put up hoardings displaying his as well as pictures of other politicians, thus prompting the developmental works in Mohali. The complaint has been filed by Charanjit Singh Brar, political advisor to Sukhbir Singh Badal and district assistant observer, Mohali. He complained to the election commission that minister Balbir Singh Sidhu is openly violating the code of conduct despite knowing that no party should claim development works done by them while campaigning. But the health minister, with the help of his brother, has displayed hoardings in the city. Balbir Sidhu has fielded his brother Amarjit Singh alias Jeeti Sidhu as the mayoral candidate from Ward Number 10. Brar complained to the election commission that strict action should be taken against the minister and the hoardings should be removed from the city as soon as possible. He said the hoardings also display photographs of the cabinet minister along with other ministers thereby wooing voters through advertisements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sidhu-violating-election-code-of-conduct-alleges-sad/articleshow/80411998.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 23, 2021||Pune||Water quota meeting next week||Pune: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday held a meeting to review the water stock in four dams supplying water to Pune, but the meeting ended without any decision on distribution of water for the city and rural areas or revision in the city’s annual water quota. “It was decided to hold another meeting for discussion on water availability for the city,” said Suresh Jagtap, additional commissioner, PMC. Shivajinagar MLA Siddharth Shirole said that the existing water quota should not be curtailed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/water-quota-meeting-next-week/articleshow/80413485.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Delhi||Delhi high on plan to lower drinking age||NEW DELHI: Many people support the idea of reducing the legal drinking age in Delhi from 25 to 21 years and want bars in clubs and restaurants to remain open till 3am for a good nightlife in the city. They also want to reduce the number of dry days. Delhi government’s excise department has received over 10,000 suggestions from the public on the proposed changes in the excise policy, including reduction in the age limit, greater private participation in the liquor business, and other points recommended by its committee of experts. “People want the legal drinking age lowered in Delhi because it is the highest among the neighbouring states. They have argued that when the legal age of voting is 18 and marriage 21, why should it be 25 for drinking,” said an official. Because of the age factor, many youngsters venture towards Gurgaon, Noida, Ghaziabad and other NCR towns for consuming liquor. This results in loss of revenue to Delhi government. Multiple suggestions urge the government to increase the timings of bars and clubs from the existing 1am to 3am so that the capital’s residents can have a better nightlife. They argued that it would boost business and also generate more employment opportunities. An official said the analysis of the large number of suggestions had begun. The initial ones were in favour of the committee’s recommendations. “A conclusion will be made only after all suggestions are analysed,” added the official. Currently, Delhi has 25 dry days in a year, which is eight times more than Haryana and Punjab and six times more than Faridabad, Noida and Ghaziabad. The number of dry days is capped at three in Haryana and Punjab and four in Uttar Pradesh. People agree with the committee’s recommendations that the number of dry days could be reduced to three. The committee of experts was formed by deputy CM Manish Sisodia in September 2020 with the objective of suggesting reforms for liquor trade so that quality could be improved and revenue generation boosted. The committee members believed that the number of people consuming liquor was likely to increase by another 2 million in the next five years. As a result, excise reforms were needed to cater to the demand. The comments and suggestions were sought from people based on the committee’s recommendations and placed in the public domain by January 21. After analysing the feedback, a report would be prepared to explain the summary of the suggestions and submitted to the government, which would take the final call on the recommendations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-high-on-plan-to-lower-drinking-age/articleshow/80413560.cms||AlokKNMishra
January 23, 2021||Pune||Pune home sizes grow by 12%, driven by needs & affordability||PUNE: A report by property consultancy firm Anarock said the average size of homes in the Pune metropolitan region grew by 12% in 2020, the second-highest in the country, as affordability and prolonged work-from-home drove demand in the premium sector. The average size of an apartment in Pune was 986sqft in 2020 against 878sqft in 2019. While being significantly smaller than India’s largest average homes in Hyderabad at 1750sqft, it is the second largest increase in size in India, followed by homes in the Mumbai metropolitan region, where the average size of a home in 2020 was 932sqft. Overall, average apartment sizes in India grew by 10%, with Anarock claiming that an average home in India was 1150sqft in 2020. Observers said that despite growth in smaller and low-maintenance homes in previous years due to sky-high real estate prices, the pandemic and changes in work setting is driving real estate buying trends in the opposite direction. “The two main reasons for apartment sizes reducing in previous years were affordability and millennials’ preference for low-maintenance homes. Keen to generate more buyer interest with smaller pricetags, developers whittled down their flat sizes. The year 2020 saw an almost immediate reversal of buyer preferences. With the accent suddenly being on accommodating WFH and learn-from-home culture, flat sizes began increasing for the first time in four years,” said Anuj Puri, chairman of Anarock. Other real estate players said affordability also drove increased demand for larger, premium houses — costing Rs50 lakh and above. Real estate observers Knight Frank had said earlier this month that the state government’s stamp duty cut for the last quarter of 2020 by 3%, coupled with cheap home loans from banks and increased savings, had pushed affordability to its highest in a decade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-home-sizes-grow-by-12-driven-by-needs-affordability/articleshow/80413447.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Chandigarh||Parida launches e-carts at Sukhna||Chandigarh: The UT forest and wildlife department introduced solar powered e-carts at Sukhna Lake for the elderly, pregnant women and the disabled, on Friday. The facility was inaugurated by UT adviser Manoj Parida. Parida said the solar operated battery system e-carts will help in providing pollution-free service to citizens of Chandigarh. He also distributed cotton bags to the public in order to make them aware about the adverse effects of plastic bags. UT’s chief conservator of forests (CCF) Debendra Dalai said the facility will be provided free of cost and preference will be given to senior citizens, disabled and pregnant women. “The e-carts will take people from Sukhna Lake main entry, near the police post, to the regulator end. Passengers will also be taken to Sukhna Lake nature trail, where the UT forest and wildlife department has made arrangements for migratory bird watching through binoculars. The department will run this facility between 10am and 5pm,” he said. There are two solar-powered carts, each with a seating capacity of eight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/parida-launches-e-carts-at-sukhna/articleshow/80411983.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 23, 2021||Chandigarh||Pkl body for solar plants, like UT ones||Panchkula: Members of the Citizens Welfare Association (CWA) sent a request letter to the Haryana power minister as well as the chief minister requesting to install and adopt solar energy system in Panchkula on the patterns of Chandigarh. S K Nayar, president of the CWA, said V P Singh Badnore, Governor of Punjab-cum-UT administrator, has approved the Renewable Energy Service Company (Resco) model for installation of solar plants on the rooftops of houses in Chandigarh free of cost as residents were not coming forward to install the plant due heavy investment. The Chandigarh Renewable Energy, Science and Technology Promotion Society (Crest) has decided to install solar plants under the Resco model. Nayar said, “Keeping in view the project, the Haryana government must come forward for similar scheme for Panchkula and other cities of Haryana.” Members of the CWA also urged chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and power minister Ranjit Singh, chief secretary Vijai Vardhan, speaker Gian Chand Gupta to go ahead and adopt the solar energy system in Panchkula as a pilot project in the city and later adopt the same in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pkl-body-for-solar-plants-like-ut-ones/articleshow/80412007.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
January 23, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Devotional singer Narendra Chanchal no more||NEW DELHI: Singer Narendra Chanchal, whose distinctive voice soared like an eagle and attracted nationwide notice with Beshak mandir masjid todo (film: Bobby, 1973) and who went on to become a charismatic, crowd-pulling performer of devotionals, passed away at the Apollo Hospital on Friday. He was 80. “He was admitted on November 27 after suffering from brain complications,” PTI reported quoting “sources”. Composer Vishal Dadlani tweeted, “I doubt anyone will ever walk up to Vaishnodevi without hearing his voice resounding through the hills.” Two popular film songs by Chanchal — Tuney mujhe bulaya Sherawaliye (film: Asha) and Chalo bulawa aaya hai (film: Avtaar) — were dedicated to the goddess. Lata Mangeshkar posted that he was “a very talented singer and a devotee of Mata Rani”. However, two of his biggest chartbusters were non-religious numbers. Yaara o yaara (film: Benaam, 1974), the cri de coeur of a nameless man, was poignantly rendered. The track was also filmed on the singer. Mehngai maar gayee (film: Roti Kapda Aur Makaan, 1975), a satirical protest composed in qawwali style, included major singers like Lata, Mukesh and Jaani Babu Qawwal. But Chanchal’s “ojpoorn aawaz (vigorous voice)” to use PM Modi’s description on Twitter, stood out. The song topped the Binaca Geetmala countdown show in 1975. Chanchal grew up in a family of seven brothers and one sister in Amritsar. His father dabbled in shares but money was always in short supply. As an 8-year-old, he loved shouting into a well in the courtyard of his house and listen to his echo. He sang at impromptu gatherings in his locality, where his talent was first noticed. Chanchal would also sit outside the record stores, listen to film songs and reproduce them. “The gramophone was my guru. My favourite singer was Manna Dey. I also loved singing Rafi saab’s Chal ud ja re panchhi,” he had once said. Film songs, mata ki bhent (bhajans) and kafi, a genre of sufi poetry in Punjabi— Chanchal sang all at local gatherings to earn money. His talent gave him early popularity and turned him into a travelling performer. A visit to Bombay led to a meeting with Raj Kapoor. The result, Beshak mandir masjid todo, became his signature and earned him the Filmfare award for best singer. Chanchal sang for several years in films, including in Punjabi, Marathi, Gujarati and Bengali. But after he lost his voice for a few months, as the singer said in a Rajya Sabha TV interview, Chanchal concentrated on devotional songs, especially at jagrans, where he rendered bhajans at night. His rousing performances were an enlivening experience. Over the years, he released a clutch of non-film albums and became a superstar of the genre spawning several imitators. His shows were booked for months in advance. Narendra Chanchal’s death leaves a gaping void in the world of devotional songs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/devotional-singer-chanchal-no-more/articleshow/80413428.cms||Avijit Ghosh
January 23, 2021||Chandigarh||UT in no hurry to open schools for classes I to V||Chandigarh: As the Punjab government has given nod to open primary schools in the entire state, the UT is in no hurry and claims that there is no such proposal for now. Physical classes of students from classes I to V have been non-operational since the Covid-19 outbreak erupted last year in March. Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director school education, said, “There is no such proposal regarding opening of primary schools as of now.” Sources revealed that the UT officials mostly follow the pattern of Punjab, but there is no such decision as of now. According to the officials, classes for students of classes IX to XII started in the last week of September last year. Initially, students were only called for two hours and since November 2, classes are being held in full swing. Orders were passed by the officials recently that the UT government schools will now be opened from February 1 for students of classes VI to VIII, but with the permission of parents as per the protocol of the government. However, private schools officials claimed that they are still waiting for a proper notification from the government. H S Mamik, president of the Independent Schools Association, said, “We are awaiting instructions from the government officials. Once we get the nod, we will begin the survey and try to guide parents. We need a long term plan.” Meanwhile, on Friday, officials of the education department issued order regarding reopening of schools for classes VI to VIII at all government aided schools and recognised private schools. It has mentioned that the timings will be from 9 am to 2 pm from February 1. It also stated that as per the SOP by the Government of India, online classes will continue and students will attend schools only after consent of their parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-in-no-hurry-to-open-schools-for-classes-i-to-v/articleshow/80412017.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Goa||Tunnels to cover 40% of second SWR track in Goa||MARGAO: Over 40 per cent of the proposed second railway track on the Goa side of the Hospet-Hubballi-Tinaighat-Vasco double tracking project of the South Western Railway (SWR) will be covered by tunnels — a course of action aimed at saving a considerable number of trees in the Western Ghat section from being axed. While the existing single track is just 2.3 km long within the Goa section under tunnels, 8.3 km of the second line within the state border will now be through tunnels. This was disclosed during the discussions held by the Supreme Court-appointed Central Empowered Committee (CEC) with senior officials of the Railways and forest department during the inspection of the double-tracking project along the Tinaighat-Kalay section on Friday, sources told TOI. The inspection team travelled through the section by the rail inspection car. Railways sources told TOI that the Dudhsagar section of the second track will also be through tunnels. “Though the increase in tunnelling work will lead to corresponding increase in the cost of construction, this has been done to save the trees in the Mollem forest from being cut and to allow unhindered movement of wildlife,” a senior railway official told TOI. As tunnelling will eliminate the need for surface cutting of the hills, the existing trees along the location will remain unaffected. The CEC, it is learnt, raised several queries, particularly over the tunnelling work, animal underpasses and other mitigation works that will be undertaken by the Railways in the forest section. The CEC also inspected locations of the proposed animal underpasses and canopy bridges to be built along the route that cuts across forest areas between Castlerock and Collem. Chief public relations officer of SWR, E Vijaya, told TOI that the environment impact assessment report and the mitigation measures suggested therein were discussed by the CEC with the Railways officials during the inspection. The inspection team comprised CEC chairman P V Jayakrishnan, member secretary Amarnatha Shetty, member Mahendra Vyas and amicus curiae A D N Rao, additional general manager of SWR, P K Mishra, chairman cum managing director of Rail Vikas Nikam Ltd Pradeep Gaur, RVNL chief project manager, P K Kshatriya, RVNL (Goa) general manager S B Sahoo, and senior officials of the forest department. The CEC inspection is with regards to the complaint filed in the Supreme Court by Goa Foundation against the approvals granted to the three linear infrastructure projects by the Standing Committee of the National Board of Wildlife (NBWL). The CEC is conducting hearings on the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tunnels-to-cover-40-of-second-swr-track-in-goa/articleshow/80414961.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
January 23, 2021||Pune||Education official to look into 3 failed students’ case||PUNE: The parents of three children from the Hutchings High School and Junior College failed by the school in standard IX have taken the matter to the education commissioner. The parents said the hearing conducted by the Pune zilla parishad (ZP) on December 31, 2020 was biased and their children should be allowed to appear for the standard X board examination this year as they would lose the academic year. The school has refused to allow the three students to fill the board exam form, the parents said. The hearing followed a complaint by the parents. Pune ZP CEO Ayush Prasad and the school’s principal Rita Katawati were also present. One of parents, who filed the complaint, said, “The school deliberately failed my twins in standard IX. They have given retests but the school said the students copied in the retests conducted online, and again failed them.” Prasad, who conducted the hearing, in his report that the answer papers of the semester 1 and 2 of the students were rechecked by an external team of experts and there was not much of a difference in the evaluation done by the panel and the school. “The expert panel has said that the academic level of the students does not match standard IX and hence the action taken by the school is justified. However, we have offered that the parents give a written application to allow the students to appear for the examination through national open school so that their year is not wasted,” Prasad told TOI. The recommendation could be done to the open school by Pune ZP and if they agree the students will be able to appear for the board exam through the open school. The parents were not satisfied with this report and approached the education commissioner. When contacted, director of the state secondary education, Dattatraye Jagtap, said the regional education office is conducting an enquiry into the matter. “Once it is conducted, a fair result will be given,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/edu-official-to-look-into-3-failed-students-case/articleshow/80413521.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 23, 2021||Chandigarh||4 convent schools hold draw of lots||Chandigarh: Four convent schools of the city held draw of lots for admission to Kindergarten for the session 2021-22 on Friday. The four schools were St John’s High School, Sacred Heart Senior Secondary School, St Anne’s Convent School and Carmel Convent School. An online link was sent to parents and draw was held in front of them. Officials of St John’s school that there are a total 160 seats for KG and 31 seats are reserved under different categories such as Christian minority, siblings, management quota and alumni and the rest are for the EWS. “We had received a total of 488 admission forms. A total of 19 parents had attended and the procedure was aired live for other parents,” said the official. Meanwhile, officials of Sacred Heart Convent School alloted 160 seats and one in waiting. At Carmel Convent School, 120 seats were alloted through draw of lots. Authorities of St Anne’s School could not be contacted. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-convent-schools-hold-draw-of-lots/articleshow/80412027.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Online gambling: Chinese national wants cases clubbed||HYDERABAD: Chinese national Yan Hao, who was the first to be arrested for organising online gambling, and is presently lodged in Chanchalguda jail, is now waiting for High Court’s intervention. He feels that he is facing the heat of police questioning repeatedly as a result of multiple cases being registered against him over the same type of offence. Hao moved an application in the HC in September. Later, Hyderabad police filed a counter opposing it. The court is yet to pronounce its decision on Hao’s plea.  Hao in the petition told court that following his arrest in a case registered by cyber crime in August, four cases were registered in Santosh Nagar, SR Nagar police stations and two cases each by cyber crime sleuths of Rachakonda and Hyderabad. Since the nature of complaints in all registered cases is similar, he wants either all four cases to be clubbed with the first case registered by cyber crime, Hyderabad, or all the four petitions to be quashed. City police have already filed chargesheet against Hao and three others for organizing online gambling and they are accused of allegedly manipulating the outcome against the user. Meanwhile, Zhu Wei alias Lambo, an accused in the instant loan app case, too is expected to face the same situation as police are planning to make him an accused in multiple cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chinese-national-wants-cases-clubbed/articleshow/80413584.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Pune||With 76% taking jab, Maharashtra sees best vaccination day||PUNE: Maharashtra reported its best Covid-19 vaccination coverage on Friday with 76% beneficiaries taking the jab. A total 21,610 healthcare workers took the vaccine on Friday, pushing the total count from Day 1 to nearly 74,000. Pune district reported 63% vaccinations on Friday, while the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas had 60% and 41% vaccinations. From January 25, vaccinations will be done on five fixed days every week — Monday and Wednesday to Saturday. The number of centres has been increased from 285 to 511 in the state. Three health centres in Pune district’s rural parts reported 100% vaccinations. On Friday, 318 beneficiaries in the state were given the Covaxin vaccine. Marathwada and Vidarbha region continue to report maximum vaccinations, though Mumbai and Pune districts, which were lagging behind, also improved on their coverage. Till 7pm, the highest vaccination was reported from Beed district (151%), followed by Hingoli, Amravati, Wardha, Jalna and Osmanabad districts reporting over 100% vaccinations. Kolhapur district had 64% coverage, Nashik district 70%, Mumbai 91% and Mumbai suburban district 85%. Authorities in Aurangabad, Nashik and Kolhapur said senior officers from the health department and hospitals led from the front by taking the vaccine on Friday, spreading a reassuring message to all healthcare workers to take the jab. In the North Maharashtra region, Dhule district continued to be on top with 97% vaccinations, followed by Jalgaon with 77%, Nandurbar 76% and Nashik district 70.4%. Two centres of the Nashik Municipal Corporation registered 107% vaccination, while another two registered 100% coverage. Two centres in Malegaon Corporation were poor performers for the day. Two centres in Jalgaon had 100% coverage, while Dhule registered 108% in the district hospital. The Mhasavad rural hospital in Nandurbar registered 100% turnout. In Aurangabad, almost all senior health authorities took the vaccine on Friday. Among them were World Health Organisation’s surveillance officer Sayyed Mujeeb, Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s health officer Neeta Padalkar and district civil surgeon Sundar Kulkarni. “By taking the vaccine, we want to convey that all the listed beneficiaries can and should opt for vaccination. It will eventually be their shield against the deadly infection,” said Padalkar. Kolhapur city reported its highest vaccination on Friday, with 464 healthcare workers turning up at the five vaccination centres. Amol Mane, Kolhapur city’s health officer and coordinator of the vaccination, also took the jab at one of the centres on Friday. (Inputs from Abhilash Botekar in Nashik, Mohammed Akhef in Aurangabad & Abhijeet Patil in Kolhapur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/with-76-taking-jab-maha-sees-best-vaccination-day/articleshow/80414952.cms||Swatee Kher
January 23, 2021||Delhi||EOW case against Manjinder Singh Sirsa, he alleges political vendetta||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing on Thursday registered a case against Shiromani Akali Dal functionary and Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa for allegedly misappropriating funds during his tenure as the secretary general of DSGMC. Sirsa and a few others have been booked under Indian Penal Code sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 120B (punishment of criminal conspiracy). According to the FIR, the case was registered for cheating and embezzlement of Gurdwara funds up to the tune of Rs one crore by making huge unjustified payments against purchase of tents, blankets and tarpaulin from sham companies. The FIR was registered after a complaint was received against Sirsa and others by one Bhupinder Singh. Speaking to TOI, Sirsa said: “It is a malicious attempt to ruin my reputation and a political vendetta being meted out on me like this. The alleged incident mentioned in the FIR took place when Manjit Singh GK was the signing authority and the president but strangely his name is missing from the FIR. I am aware that this is just the beginning of a failed attempt to stop me from serving farmers who are the annadata of our nation. Many such cases can be slapped to stop me but all such attempts will fall flat.” “This is a witch hunt launched by the opponents with the support of the government but they have forgotten that it is the truth that always prevails as said by Guru Sahiban,” added Sirsa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/eow-case-against-sirsa-he-alleges-political-vendetta/articleshow/80413577.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||‘Central government funds diverted by security firm owner for own use’||MUMBAI: The ED has alleged that Rahul Nanda had diverted, for personal and corporate use, funds that his private security firm—Tops Grup---received from the Central government under the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Grameen Kaushalya Yojana. Under the scheme, the government roped in private firms to provide training to rural youth to cater to their career aspirations. The ED alleged that on Nanda’s instructions, the accounts department of the security firm had transferred Rs 5 crore of the fund to another company with ‘tacit understanding’. Holding that there was sufficient material to proceed against Nanda, his daughter Rasshi Nanda and arrested accused M Sashidharan and Amit Chandole, under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, a special court has issued process against them. The ED’s findings were part of the court order. The ED’s money laundering case is based on a Mumbai police FIR registered in October, alleging that the private security firm had cheated state agency MMRDA, which had awarded it a contract in 2014 to provide security guards for foot-overbridges in the city. The ED had also cited several other instances where Nanda, with help of others, diverted company funds for personal use and to purchase properties abroad. The agency alleged Nanda had transferred his equity holding in the company Tops Grup Services and Solutions to the Mauritius-based Nanda Family Trust, and he along with his wife Raneeta were withdrawing Rs 8 crore as salaries from the company. The order said Amit Chandole is alleged to have played an active role in money laundering in the contract between Tops Grup and MMRDA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/govt-funds-diverted-by-security-firm-owner-for-own-use/articleshow/80414969.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Rogue loan apps: Three arrested for Hyderabad employee’s suicide||HYDERABAD: Twenty days after the death of Chandramohan, a resident of Petbasheerabad, allegedly due to harassment by instant loan app representatives, one person from Gurugram and two persons from Karnataka were arrested by Cyberabad police on Friday. They were involved in operating companies that are into the recovery of loans from people who used instant financing apps. On January 2, Chandramohan, a employee in a godown, hanged himself. Based on a complaint given by his family members, Cyberabad police, during the investigation, arrested Hemanth Kumar Jha, who is the director of a company located in Gurugram; V Manjunath, an human resources manager in a company located in Koramangala in Bengaluru; and Abdul Lauk a team leader in a private company at JP Nagar also in Bengaluru. Police said Michael, a Chinese national, had developed the apps and shared it with three companies with which the arrested accused are associated. Police said that they are also probing the role of Kalsang Tenzing, a Bhutan national, who lives in India, and is the director of a company associated with the disbursement of loans through the apps. “Chandramohan took a loan of ?70,000, and following pressure from app representatives, he repaid ?2 lakh. Despite that, he was being treated as a defaulter and being defamed by app representatives. Unable to take the pressure anymore, he killed himself,” PV Padmaja , deputy commissioner of police (Balanagar), said during the press meet. Chandramohan had taken loans from 11 different apps. The Balanagar DCP said that the police had found that these apps have tied-up with non-banking financing companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-make-three-more-arrests-in-instant-loan-apps-case/articleshow/80413573.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Delhi||Virtual reality: Simulation to test RRTS possibilities||NEW DELHI: The trains on the country’s first Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) corridor connecting Delhi to Meerut will have a design speed of 180kmph with stations at every 5-10 km. As these trains will be the first of their kind in India, a simulation technology is being used to run “virtual” trains from Sarai Kale Khan station in Delhi to Modipuram station in Meerut to understand the operational complexities. “Metro services run at an average speed of around 30kmph with stations at a distance of about one or two km, while the average speed for RRTS is about 100kmph,” said a spokesperson of National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC), which is executing the project. “NCRTC is using a world-class network simulation technology to identify constraints and bottlenecks in the network, optimise operation plans and test different layout configurations for the RRTS corridors,” he said, adding that such simulation is being carried out in India for the first time. NCRTC is using OpenTrack Virtual Railway system software, a microscopic model that simulates rail system operations based on a predefined database of train, infrastructure and timetable. The simulation helps in knowing the actual achieved speed of the train on a particular section, speed at various sections with respect to curves and gradients, reversal times, time taken to complete the journey at different speeds and consumption of energy by trains. “The simulation helps in deciding the optimum operation plan and preparing appropriate contingency plans in case of any breakdown,” he said. The outputs are based on infrastructure inputs that include civil, track, signalling and rolling stock. NCRTC on Friday announced that it would adopt European Train Control System Level 2 signalling, one of the most advanced systems in the world. It will help ensure interoperability so that a Delhi-Meerut train can switch to Delhi-Panipat or Delhi-Alwar route in future without the need for the passenger to change trains at the Sarai Kale Khan terminal. Platform screen door operation will also be a part of this system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/virtual-reality-simulation-to-test-rrts-possibilities/articleshow/80413644.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Gaming scam: Gujarat-based accused says he is cryptocurrency trader||HYDERABAD: Justice G Sri Devi of Telangana high court on Friday posted to February 4 the bail plea filed by Naisar Shailesh Kothari, an accused in the China gaming scam. The Gujarat-based accused was arrested by the Hyderabad Enforcement Directorate following his alleged role in the scam. Stating that he is a 26-year-old engineer from Bhavnagar in Gujarat, his counsel sought bail from the court. The judge observed that it is unfortunate that youngsters are committing such crimes and and said that the case will be heard in February. Kothari in his bail plea said that he is a trader in cryptocurrency which is not a banned activity. He cited an order from the SC that disapproved non-cooperation of the banks to deal with cryptocurrency. He said that his credentials and profile as a trader can be verified on cryptocurrency websites. He contended that upon a request from Dokipay company, he purchased cryptocurrency through a mediator called Kamalesh Trivedi who facilitated the entire transaction. He contended that he verified the credentials of Dokipay and ascertained from the website of the Union ministry of corporate affairs itself that it was operating with the consent of the Centre. ED’s counsel B Narasimha Sarma said they would file a counter on the role played by the accused in the scam and sought time for the same. The judge observed that it is unfortunate that youngsters are committing such crimes and and said that the case will be heard in February||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/guj-based-accused-says-he-is-cryptocurrency-trader/articleshow/80413596.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||‘Complainant against Kangana Ranaut has Maharashtra govt sanction?’||MUMBAI: During Friday’s hearing on a lawyer’s sedition complaint against actor Kangana Ranaut, a magistrate court asked if he had sought and received sanction from the state government to invoke serious charges like promoting enmity between groups and waging war against the government. As per CrPC, sanction is necessary before court can take cognisance of charges. The matter was adjourned to March 10 for Ali Kaashif Deshmukh to show if he got the sanction. The lawyer had filed the complaint last year, objecting to the actor’s controversial posts. He said he would write to the state government seeking sanction. In his complaint Deshmukh said that while every Indian citizen had the right to freedom of speech it did not include freedom of “hate speech”. “We all have limitations to use the right to freedom of speech and expression, yet several people, including the present accused, have been spreading hate...,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/complainant-against-kangana-has-govt-sanction/articleshow/80413610.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Dehradun||Cabinet decisions: Kumbh officials can extend costs by 50%; move to speed up works||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand cabinet, which met on Friday evening, gave nod to a proposal to speed up Kumbh works by allowing the Mela Adhikari and the Kumbh Commissioner to extend the cost of ongoing projects by 50%, invite tender bids within a week, and if required, split the work among different bidders. Cabinet minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said that the Centre will soon issue an SOP for Kumbh Mela after the state government approached the Union government in this regard. In other major decisions, the cabinet gave a nod to increase the pay of 155 Sanskrit teachers teaching in different colleges and universities. “Those teaching for five years will get Rs 15,000 per month, those with 5-10 years of experience will get Rs 25,000 per month, those teaching for over 10 years will get Rs 30,000 per month and those with M.Phil degree would be given an additional Rs 5,000,” Kaushik said. The cabinet also approved a scholarship amount for students of SC and OBC communities studying in Classes IX and X. It was also decided to allot 4.384 hectares of land for bhoo samadhi (burial) of seers in Haridwar. Earlier, a number of seers were given jal samadhi (water burial). “The land for bhoo samadhi of seers will be given on the banks of Ganga river at Haridwar,” Kaushik said. As many Uttarakhand locals have been working in several government offices in Uttar Pradesh (UP) since the creation of the Himalayan state, the cabinet also framed guidelines to accommodate some of these employees in the state cadre. Further, the names of UP Rajikya Nirman Nigam, UP Samaj Kalyan Nigam, and UP Samaj Kalyan Nigam have been removed from the list of organisations to be awarded miscellaneous construction works in departments of Uttarakhand. For the construction of a central school, the government has given 0.26 hectare land worth Rs 21.65 lakh in Almora district.The cabinet also approved six technical posts in Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cabinet-decisions-kumbh-officials-can-extend-costs-by-50-move-to-speed-up-works/articleshow/80412099.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||PhD row: Panel seeks report||Hyderabad: After receiving a representation from students alleging that JNTUH is deviating from the rules for the selection of PhD candidates, the Telangana State Commission for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes has directed the varsity to take necessary action and submit the action taken to the commission within 30 days. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/phd-row-panel-seeks-report/articleshow/80413621.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 4 aides of Keshav Gujjar held for planning to kill Bari MLA||JAIPUR: Dholpur police has arrested four aides of dreaded criminal Keshav Gujjar for plotting to kill Congress MLA Bari Giriraj Singh Malinga on Friday after a fierce gun battle at Pyarepura area under Rajakhera police station. Gujjar, who is wanted in several criminal activities in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, slipped from the police during a gun battle that started around midnight on Tuesday and lasted till the early hours. Kesar Singh Shekhawat, SP Dholpur, said that intel reports informed that Gujjar along with his aides was coming to a complex in Pyarepura as part of the plan to kill the MLA and to attack police on Republic Day. “The tip-off also said that he will be extorting money from a contractor to arrange resources for the attack. The police team fielded commandos impersonating as beggars to nab him. Gujjar, arrived at the place as expected and sensed trouble not to see any guard at the complex. He fired at one of the commandos to check whether he is a beggar or police. The fierce gun battle followed in which all the aides of Gujjar got injured. He along with one of his aides with the help of miscreants escaped from the scene,” said Shekhawat. Police arrested four accused including his brother Chotu alias Gabbar and his cousin brothers Hari Om, Bhola, Saytaveer. “A massive combing operation is underway to arrest Gujjar. One of the aides who escaped with him was late arrested in the combing operation. Shekhawat confirmed that they have enough evidence to prove that Gujjar was plotting to kill the MLA. “He was under impression that Malinga is building pressure on the police to finish his gang and also many of his criminal activities were made in the Bari constituency,” said Shekhawat. Dholpur, Agra and Gwalior police has reward on him for his involvement in the criminal cases. In the past three months, Dholpur police had a three-gun battle with the Gujjar and his gang to break his criminal network. The first encounter has taken place on November 26, 2020. During the gun battle at Munakhuri forest, a police constable Avdesh Sharma got injured. Here Gujjar escaped while the police could arrest three aides—Bhura, Gangaram, Afsar and three others. Exactly after a month, Gujjar came face to face with the police on December 27 GSS Pongli Road to extort money from a contactor and to kill him in a bid to spread terror in Dang region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-aides-of-keshav-gujjar-held-for-planning-to-kill-bari-mla/articleshow/80413639.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: ‘BJP distributing AAP govt’s midday meal kits for schools in own name’||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party MLA Kuldeep Kumar on Friday said that BJP-led municipal corporations are distributing dry midday meal kits of the Kejriwal government in municipal schools under the banner of BJP and termed it a “shameful act”. Kumar cited examples of distribution from east Delhi areas and said it is unfortunate that BJP is misusing the school premises. However, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the AAP MLA should know that midday meal has been distributed in municipal schools for several decades from municipal funds received through Delhi Finance Commission’s recommendations. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-distributing-aap-govts-midday-meal-kits-for-schools-in-own-name/articleshow/80413597.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Chandigarh||HC reserves verdict on Nikita case accused’s plea||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday reserved its verdict on the plea filed by main accused in the Nikita Tomar murder case, seeking re-investigation. Accused Tohsif has been claiming that the FIR against him was registered at the behest of Nikita’s family to cover up their own act of “honour killing”. The state, however, has been denying the allegations and informed that the charge sheet against the accused has been submitted after proper investigation with concrete evidence. After hearing the accused as well as the state, Justice Sudip Ahluwalia reserved the verdict. Tohsif, 21, and his accomplice Mohommad Rihan, 23, had sought directions for re-investigation of the case under the supervision of DGP in a fair and unbiased manner. They said they were implicated in the matter of which they had no knowledge. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-reserves-verdict-on-nikita-case-accuseds-plea/articleshow/80413606.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Goa||Goa: 144 imposed around House||PANAJI: The North Goa district magistrate has imposed section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in view of the legislative assembly session scheduled from January 25-29. As per the notification, the government has prohibited assembly and gathering of five or more persons, organising of processions, carrying of firearms or other weapons, use of loudspeakers, shouting of slogans and burning of fire in any open space within a 500-metre radius of the assembly complex at Porvorim and the area under the jurisdiction of the Panaji police station. These restrictions will not apply to public servants on duty and to bonafide marriage or funeral processions or any special occasion for which prior permission in writing has been obtained from the district magistrate or the sub-divisional magistrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/section-144-imposed-around-house/articleshow/80414979.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Dharani portal: 3.5L mutation applications, pending for years, cleared in 40 days||HYDERABAD: Due to the enlisting of non-agricultural properties in the Dharani portal, over 3.5 lakh mutation applications have been cleared within 40 days. Among these applications, several were pending since years. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials, and in some cases, applicants did not show interest in transferring ownership rights on GHMC records after registration of the property in sub-registrar’s office. The applications were cleared in December 2020 and January.  “Though I paid the mutation fee while registering a flat on my name four years ago, the previous owners’ name was being reflected in GHMC records. In January my name was finally reflecting in the records,” said G Sankeerth a resident of Banjara Hills. In fact, he approached civic officials this month to avoid confusion when his property details were being entered into the Dharani portal. Sources suggested that there was a lot of confusion as mutation applications were not being cleared by civic officials to avoid errors while enlisting properties in Dharani portal. Speaking to TOI, GHMC officials said the process is underway and is going on without any hassle. “Mutation of properties has not been halted. The process is being executed as per norms. People with queries can approach their GHMC circle office,” said Gopala Krishna, GHMC valuation officer, Serilingampally circle. The Mutation Fee 0.1 per cent of market value has to be be paid through demand draft in favour of the commissioner, GHMC. Only after the property is mutated the property tax identification number (PTIN) is generated on the name of new owners. Based on the PTIN, people can apply for changes in in water bill, electricity bill among other such requirements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dharani-3-5l-mutation-applications-pending-for-yrs-cleared-in-40-days/articleshow/80413626.cms||Nabinder Bommala
January 23, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: Couple allowed to divorce without separation period||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has made it clear that if marriage between two parties has broken down irretrievably, they cannot be denied the right to live their lives in the manner they like. The court made these observations while waiving off the statutory period of six-month separation that is mandatory before divorce can be granted on ground of mutual consent. In this case, the Hisar family court had rejected the couple’s plea seeking waiver of this six-month period. “I am of the view that the approach adopted by the court below, to insist on the waiting period of six months for the second motion, was uncalled for. The marriage between the parties has irretrievably broken. They have decided to part their ways amicably. Opportunity to live their lives in the manner they like, including remarriage, cannot be denied. In the peculiar facts herein, insisting on waiting another six months would result in adding to their woes,” Justice Arun Monga of the high court ruled while granting relief to the Hisar-based estranged couple. The couple got married according to Hindu rites in December 2018 at Jhajjar in Haryana. They cohabited as husband and wife at Hisar and did not have a child. Due to temperamental differences, they started living separately from August 2019. There being no chance of reconciliation despite efforts, the couple filed a joint petition for dissolution of their marriage by way of mutual consent under Section 13-B of the Hindu Marriage Act before the family court in Hisar on October 13, 2020. All the disputes pertaining to their matrimonial life were settled between the couple. At the time of the hearing of the first motion on December 13, 2020, their statements were also recorded and the case was adjourned to April 19, 2021 for the hearing of second motion. Meanwhile, the woman’s re-marriage was on the cards, but could not be finalized due to the pendency of the mutual consent petition for divorce. Both the petitioners then moved an application for the waiver of this six-month period, which was dismissed by the Hisar family court on December 22, 2020. Aggrieved from this, the couple approached the high court, contending that the court below had not appreciated the facts and circumstances of the case in the right perspective, while declining their plea. Once the parties have amicably consented to part, they cannot be forced to wait for another six months, the petitioners argued. Allowing their plea, the high court has set-aside the December 22 order issued by the family court in Hisar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/couple-allowed-to-divorce-without-separation-period/articleshow/80413599.cms||Ajay Sura
January 23, 2021||Jaipur||Jodhpur: CDS General Bipin Rawat takes part in Indo-French drill||JAISALMER: Many sorties of Rafale and Sukhoi were organized as part of the Indo-French joint exercise ‘Desert Knight-21’ in Jodhpur on Friday. Mid-air refilling of Rafales, Su-30s and Mirage was also part of the exercise. Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat flew French multi-role transport aircraft (Airbus-330) and witnessed the exercise. CDS Rawat also visited Jodhpur Air Force Station. He interacted with both the contingents and complimented the synergy and interoperability achieved between the two forces. Indian Airforce chief Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadoriya will reach Jodhpur on Saturday to review the ongoing exercise. Official sources said that Rawat took part in the war exercise on Thursday. He experienced the thrill of fighter flight in France's multi-role tanker transport A330 along with French Air Force team commander Major General Laurent Lherbette. He was accompanied by South Western Command Air Commanding Chief Air Marshal S K Ghotia and other Army, IAF and French Air Force senior officers. CDS Rawat said that he also flew in a French multi-role transport aircraft (Airbus-330) in which they can ferry passengers, do mid-air refueling and convert it into a medical facility for medical emergencies. We also saw how our Rafales, Su-30s and Mirages were refueling from it. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cds-takes-part-in-indo-french-drill/articleshow/80413647.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Amritsar||Eight girls sold to slavery in Dubai rescued||AMRITSAR: Eight Punjabi girls, who were allegedly sold to slavery in Dubai, were brought back to India after clearance of their dues to their ‘owners’. Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust president S P S Oberoi told media persons that these girls were allegedly sold by agents to the locals in Dubai who had paid expenses for their legalisation and were made to work in a family of around 20-25 persons and tend to animals for 16 to 17 hours a day. He said the trust had paid the amount to their employers and taken back their passports. The girls are from Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Muktsar Sahib, Jalandhar, Nawanshahr and Kapurthala. Oberoi said one girl from Kapurthala could not travel to Amritsar owing to health reasons and would arrive within a week or 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/8-girls-sold-to-slavery-in-dubai-rescued/articleshow/80413650.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder to launch Patiala heritage hotel project next week||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh is likely to virtually launch, next week, a Rs 8.58-crore project for maintenance of Ran Baas, Qila Mubarak, Patiala, as a heritage hotel to be operated in public-private partnership (PPP) mode. The project is expected to take 18 months. He will also launch the PPP project for operating and maintaining of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Memorial, Chappar Chiri, at an estimated cost of Rs 2.54 crore with a concession period of 15 years. Meanwhile, Amarinder directed Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) to expedite all development works in the state at a meeting of its board, which gave ex-post-facto approval to Rs 27.16 core worth of urban environment improvement projects, along with development, upgrade and maintenance of historic sites. It was pointed out during the meeting that the construction of the Patiala bus stand had commenced and would be completed by November this year at a a cost of Rs 60 crore. Discussing the renovation of Amritsar circuit house, at an estimated cost of Rs 3.94 crore, Amarinder also asked chief secretary Vini Mahajan to work on a proposal to appoint a protocol officer to manage dignitaries visiting the holy city. He asked Mahajan to present the proposal in the next meeting of the council of ministers. Besides giving post-facto approval to the cabinet’s decision to impose special ID levy of 25 paisa on petrol, diesel and immoveable property, the board meeting also formally approved Rs 27.16 crore worth of projects under urban environment improvement programme of Phase 1 and 2, as well as raising of term loans from banks for funding UEIP Phase II projects. These projects were earlier cleared by the CM, in his capacity as the board chairman. The 36th meeting of the PIDB Board, held virtually amid Covid today, also gave ex-post facto approval to a Rs 125-crore project for establishing an exhibition centre in Ludhiana in PPP mode. To be developed at an estimated Rs 125 crore, with a concession period of 99 years, the project is expected to be launched by March, an official said after the meeting. The meeting also discussed the status of other PPP projects in the pipeline, including track and trace mechanism for manufacturing, transport, distribution and consumption of liquor; development of international standard tourism/ theme destination in Punjab on Pathankot-Dalhousie Road around Ranjit Sagar Lake; development of Mohali commercial complex cum convention centre (GMADA) and Amritsar commercial complex cum convention centre (ADA); and operation and maintenance of PWD rest house, Bhupindra Road, Patiala as heritage hotel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/amarinder-to-launch-patiala-heritage-hotel-project-next-week/articleshow/80413641.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Farmers to start ‘vehicle march’ from Nashik to Mumbai||MUMBAI: Thousands of farmers will leave Nashik on Saturday to head towards Mumbai in a vehicle march as part of a 4-day protest to support the farmer agitation near Delhi. The programme will culminate in a rally at Azad Maidan and a march to Raj Bhavan on Monday. NCP chief Sharad Pawar, revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray are expected to address the rally. Around 20,000 farmers are expected to participate in the march when it leaves Nasik on Saturday, according to the Kisan Sabha, the union which has organized it. The march will coincide with the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose. The march will leave Kasara ghat on Sunday morning (January 24) to make its way towards Mumbai. By Sunday afternoon, the vehicle march will merge with the joint sit-in or ‘mahapadav’ at Azad Maidan called by the Samyukta Shetkari Kamgar Morcha. Trade unions, women’s groups, student groups and members of mass movements are expected to participate in the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/farmers-to-start-vehicle-march-from-nashik-to-city/articleshow/80414987.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
January 23, 2021||Jaipur||No illegal construction in ESZ at Mt Abu, NGT told||JAIPUR: In a response to National Green Tribunal (NGT), the Sirohi district administration has written for construction in the eco-sensitive zone at Mt Abu. The report sent by them stated that they are taking all measures to ensure that no illegal construction is being done on ESZ and such structures are demolished if found. A committee has also been constituted for the same. A petition had been filed last year in NGT alleging that construction was being done in the ESZ against the notification and the master plan 2030 following which the local civic body prepared a reply which was sent to the apex green body. According to the reply given by the district administration comprising of 12 points, no permission is given by them for any construction going against the rules. In cases of repair work, the permission is given only after all the requisite documents are found to be in order and new construction in ESZ is demolished. The reply also mentioned that all the plastic collected in the zone is handed over to a cement factory in Sirohi and a sewerage treatment plant is already functional in the area while two pumping stations will be established soon. For solid waste management, the locals were distributed dust bins for wet and dry garbage. To prevent illegal construction, a seven member monitoring committee has been formed which inspects the area regularly while one person has been designated for every ward who gives daily report to the nodal officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-illegal-construction-in-esz-at-mt-abu-ngt-told/articleshow/80413718.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Police raid gambling den||Hyderabad: SOT Malkajgiri team raided a gambling den at Hanuman Nagar colony in Malkajgiri and arrested B Vijay (48), D Gopin (54), Chandrapal (60) and Ch Vijayendar Singh (52) for indulging in three cards gambling. Police seized Rs 6,870 and five cell phones from the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-raid-gambling-den/articleshow/80413651.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 23, 2021||Nashik||Farmers to start ‘vehicle march’ from Nashik to Mumbai||MUMBAI: Thousands of farmers will leave Nashik on Saturday to head towards Mumbai in a vehicle march as part of a 4-day protest to support the farmer agitation near Delhi. The programme will culminate in a rally at Azad Maidan and a march to Raj Bhavan on Monday. NCP chief Sharad Pawar, revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray are expected to address the rally. Around 20,000 farmers are expected to participate in the march when it leaves Nasik on Saturday, according to the Kisan Sabha, the union which has organized it. The march will coincide with the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose. The march will leave Kasara ghat on Sunday morning (January 24) to make its way towards Mumbai. By Sunday afternoon, the vehicle march will merge with the joint sit-in or ‘mahapadav’ at Azad Maidan called by the Samyukta Shetkari Kamgar Morcha. Trade unions, women’s groups, student groups and members of mass movements are expected to participate in the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/farmers-to-start-vehicle-march-from-nashik-to-city/articleshow/80417358.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
January 23, 2021||Udaipur||No illegal construction in ESZ at Mt Abu, NGT told||JAIPUR: In a response to National Green Tribunal (NGT), the Sirohi district administration has written for construction in the eco-sensitive zone at Mt Abu. The report sent by them stated that they are taking all measures to ensure that no illegal construction is being done on ESZ and such structures are demolished if found. A committee has also been constituted for the same. A petition had been filed last year in NGT alleging that construction was being done in the ESZ against the notification and the master plan 2030 following which the local civic body prepared a reply which was sent to the apex green body. According to the reply given by the district administration comprising of 12 points, no permission is given by them for any construction going against the rules. In cases of repair work, the permission is given only after all the requisite documents are found to be in order and new construction in ESZ is demolished. The reply also mentioned that all the plastic collected in the zone is handed over to a cement factory in Sirohi and a sewerage treatment plant is already functional in the area while two pumping stations will be established soon. For solid waste management, the locals were distributed dust bins for wet and dry garbage. To prevent illegal construction, a seven member monitoring committee has been formed which inspects the area regularly while one person has been designated for every ward who gives daily report to the nodal officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/no-illegal-construction-in-esz-at-mt-abu-ngt-told/articleshow/80419350.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Falaknuma police arrest bike thieves||Hyderabad: Falaknuma police arrested two bike thieves, Md Sirajuddin and Md Hameed. Police recovered 10 stolen bikes worth Rs 9 lakh from their possession. The duo committed the offences in Falaknuma, Kalapathar, Balapur, Chandrayangutta and Shahalibanda in the past few months. After committing the thefts, they change the registration number to avoid detection. Police analysed footage from 190 CCTV cameras to zero in on the offenders. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/falaknuma-police-arrest-bike-thieves/articleshow/80413655.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Goa||Goa government red-flags app-based bike taxi service||PANAJII: While black and yellow motorcycle pilots in Goa are still struggling to make ends meet even months after the lockdown, an app-based two-wheeler taxi - Uber Moto - has been found to be operating illegally in the state. Transport director Rajan Satardekar said that no permission was given for the two-wheeler taxi service to operate in Goa. “We need to examine the app, the owner details, the IP address and from where it is hosted through proper sources. We are gathering evidence of the operations.” he told TOI. Officials cracked down on the operation of the app service by sending a decoy customer and recording the statement of a bike rider working for Uber Moto. The government is yet to grant permission for app-based two-wheeler taxi operators in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-red-flags-app-based-bike-taxi-service/articleshow/80415017.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Delhi||Manoj Tiwari to start rath yatra on February 1 to seek donations for Ram Mandir in Ayodhya||NEW DELHI: BJP parliamentarian Manoj Tiwari will start a rath yatra on February 1 to collect donations from all sections of people in his Northeast Delhi constituency for the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. Everyone is requested to donate for the construction of the temple, which is an epochal development, said Tiwari on Friday. A specially designed bus will take him and local BJP functionaries across the constituency, including minority-dominated areas many of which were hit by the communal riots last February. The drive, named Sri Ram Janmbhumi Nirman Nidhi Abhiyan, will end on February 27. Delhi BJP will also launch a door-to-door campaign in the city from February 1 for the same purpose and it will end on February 28. Tiwari said the dream of crores of people would be fulfilled after a long wait. “People are excited that Ram Mandir is being constructed and everyone wants to contribute to it.” The former Delhi BJP president said “several brothers and sisters from the minority community also want to contribute. I will go to their houses, shops and establishments, and seek donations”.  “No overall target has been fixed. Whatever amount people want to contribute will be accepted,” said Neelkant Bakshi, a BJP worker. The funds will be handed over to Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra, which has been mandated to collect funds for the construction. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tiwari-to-start-rath-yatra-on-feb-1-to-seek-donations-for-ram-mandir-in-ayodhya/articleshow/80413631.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Chandigarh||Trader held for Rs 5.6 crore GST evasion||Chandigarh: In a first-ever interstate arrest for GST evasion and fraud, the Panipat unit of the department of excise and taxation has arrested a trader from Meerut for allegedly filing bogus claims. He is among the eight persons who have been booked and arrested in the case, as the remaining seven have been arrested from Panipat and other districts of Haryana. Vikram Garg is alleged to have evaded and frauds worth Rs 5.57 crore on the account of bogus transactions and credits. He was among those arrested by the department for a fraud worth Rs 89 crore this month. Two cases under Section 132 of Haryana Goods Servcies Tax (HGST) Act has been registered against all accused in Panipat. “We had been getting police cases registered and then police would affect arrests after investigation under the guidance of officers. Since our officers are also empowered to affect arrest in cases of more than Rs 5 crore of fraud or invasion, they have power to arrest and charge sheet. This is the first time our team has travelled inter state to arrest the accused,” said deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, while referring to arrest. Vikram was among those eight persons who had been arrested by Panipat unit, which has detected an overall evasions of over Rs 89 crore. The second case has been registered against seven persons who have created 18 firms to claim tax benefit without supply and by adopting fraudulent means.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/trader-held-for-rs-5-6-crore-gst-evasion/articleshow/80413652.cms||Manvir Saini
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||ED lens on Chinese e-gambling racket||HYDERABAD: In what could be one of its biggest investigations involving laundering of Rs 1,100 crore, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has begun a probe into Chinese companies resorting to fraudulent online betting, cheating people in India and transferring the proceeds of the crime to China through multi-layered transactions involving cryptocurrency. The firms allegedly laundered Rs 1,100 crore from just two accounts. ED’s probe is an offshoot of Hyderabad cybercrime police investigation that started with a complaint in July 2020 by S Praveen Kumar of Sitaphalmandi in Secunderabad who said he was cheated of Rs 97,000. Kumar said he was cheated through the gaming website baronclubs.com after being made part of a 5,000-member Telegram app group. Soon after a Chinese national Yan Hao was arrested, the ED made him accused No. 1 in the case and later named two Gurugram-based companies — Dokypay Technology and Linkyun Technology — Delhi-based Jagadamba Trading Company along with their directors and associates as accused in its enforcement case information report (ECIR). Naisar Sailesh Kothari, a cryptocurrency trader from Bhavnagar in Gujarat, was added as an accused later. In the ECIR, the ED said the accused created multiple websites that look like e-commerce platforms. “If any player wants to bet and gamble, he has to come through a referral code given by the Telegram groups. All those who add new members into these gaming groups will be paid incentives. These groups offer predictions to the gamblers and lure them into investing in betting and dupe them in the process. Most of the websites will remain inactive and the admins of these Telegram groups would indicate to their members where to gamble and which site is active,” the ED said. The ED further said, “This is done to avoid any legal tussles. The name of the game where members play and place their bets is called Colour Prediction. Dokypay and Linkyun collect money from the members through Paytm and CashFree payment gateways. Growing Infotech, Sily Consulting Services, Pan Yun technology Services, etc., are also associated with these two main companies.” The domain name servers of these companies are China-based and data hosting servers are cloud-based in the US but are operated from China. “All these entities are controlled by China-based Beijing T Power Company,” the ED said. Sources said the ED is now going all out to find all the accused and also the victims in this massive fraud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ed-lens-on-chinese-e-gambling-racket/articleshow/80415001.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Trichy||Maran sees BJP hand in delay in Rajiv case convicts’ release||Tiruvarur: DMK MP and former Union minister Dayanidhi Maran, on Friday said that the delay from Tamil Nadu governor in releasing seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case has led to the suspicion that BJP is behind it.“The governor has been delaying the release of the seven convicts unnecessarily. DMK had already petitioned the governor over the issue. Being a representative of the central government, his decision is equal to the decision of the central government. It leads to suspicion that BJP is behind this issue,” he told the reporters in Tiruvarur.On the second day of his four-day Vidiyalai Nokki Stalin’s voice campaign in Tiruvarur district, Maran garlanded the statues of former chief minister C N Annadurai, rationalist leader EVR Periyar and paid tributes at the memorial of Anjugam Ammal.Responding to the question about the rumours of BJP-AMMK alliance, Maran said, “It is for sure that DMK president M K Stalin will become the chief minister in the upcoming assembly election. BJP was already ignored in Tamil Nadu in 2019 general election.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/maran-sees-bjp-hand-in-delay-in-rajiv-case-convicts-release/articleshow/80413666.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Hunger strike over PRC report||Hyderabad: Demanding that the state discloses the Pay Revision Commission report and hold negotiations with the unions immediately, the members of the United Platform Steering Committee have decided to go on a hunger strike on Saturday at Dharna Chowk. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hunger-strike-over-prc-report/articleshow/80413663.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Man dies as bike rams into truck||Hyderabad: A 50-year-old mason, V Sammaiah, died and his co-worker sustained injuries when their bike rammed into a truck coming from the opposite direction at Hakimpet on Friday morning. Alwal traffic SI Vishwanath received an alert about the accident at 8.15 am. The SI rushed to the spot and noticed that a truck had turned turtle and a bike was crushed under the rear portion of the truck. “When the truck with a load of sand was travelling from Shamirpet to Lothukunta, a bike coming from the opposite direction suddenly turned right towards a petrol pump. To avoid the bike, the truck driver turned the vehicle to the left and applied sudden brake, following which the truck overturned and part of the bike was crushed under the truck,” said police. The bike rider Yellaiah did not have a driving licence and based on a complaint of traffic police, Alwal police registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-dies-as-bike-rams-into-truck/articleshow/80413673.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Fine arts have no borders, says Gulzar||HYDERABAD: Fine arts have no borders. Our languages — Sindhi, Punjabi, Urdu, even Bangla and Tamil — cross borders. With this foreward from, A Poem A Day, acclaimed poet and lyricist Gulzar set the tone for the 11th edition of the Hyderabad Literary Festival (HLF) that opened virtually, on Friday. Opening the event on an encouraging note, Gulzar said how its heartening to see that a literary festival is kept alive, even duing a pandemic. “The wish to see, hear a writer or poet, hear him read out from his works and the music of the language, even if physically it cannot be done at present...the digital medium has made possible,” he said remarking on how the pandemic has altered modes of interaction. He added: “The literature of India is the history of India, the culture of India. Every language is a nation by itself. It carries the nuances of a culture, yet is bound within another culture...that is Hindustan’s culture. Language and culture keep us bound to each other.” While the literary festival has moved to an entirely digital format this year, festival director, said Ajay Gandhi said that it has retained most of its usual events — including storytelling sessions, workshops and film screenings. Film screenings, workshops and panel discussions will be streamed live on the festival’s YouTube channel. Day 1 of the event also saw acclaimed author, Amitav Ghosh, speak about his latest offering, Gun Island, that has been translated into various languages. “All my previous works have been translated into 35 to 40 languages — including Russian, Mandarin, complex Chinese, Italian etc. But given that India itself has 18 languages, I am not sure if that’s an impressive number,” he said in jest adding that he no problems will his books being adapted into films as well. The HLF will continue till January 24. While the literary festival has moved to an entirely digital format this year, festival director, said Ajay Gandhi said that it has still retained most of its usual events — including storytelling sessions||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fine-arts-have-no-borders-says-gulzar/articleshow/80413671.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Jaipur||Call centre running loan racket busted in Ajmer||AJMER: City police on Friday busted a call centre racket that cheated people in the name of easy loans and arrested the owner and seized his car. Jaipur police had tipped off city police about this racket working in Ajmer. According to police, Jaipur police commissionerate gave information about a report lodged in Maharashtra by Anita Joshi about a fake loan racket in Rajasthan. Anita was duped of Rs 73,000 by this racket and this call centre had mentioned their head office in Jaipur, but after investigation it was found that the racket was being operated out of Ajmer. Police raided the office at Civil Lines near the office of Rajasthan Legal Aid Authority and seized computers and documents and arrested Sanwar Singh Rawat, 35, a resident of Bhavanikheda of Nasirabad, who operated the call centre Canopus Total Service Private Ltd. Police also seized the office and car of the accused. Police said the accused had hired around 30 people who used to call people to offer easy loans on low interest rates. When people showed interest in their loans, they charged Rs 10,000 to 30,000 as processing fees and duped them. Police said that they made around 200 calls every day. Interestingly, they mostly made calls to people residing in South India. The CO North Priyanka Raghuvanshi raided the premises with her team and seized the office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/call-centre-running-loan-racket-busted-in-ajmer/articleshow/80412114.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Chandigarh||AAP MLA writes to CM to take action in Nakodar killings of 1986||Bathinda: Aam Aadmi Party MLA from Kotkapura, Kultar Singh Sandhwan has written to Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, asking him to take immediate action in Saka Nakodar of February 1986. Sandhwan wrote that nearly 35 years after the incident, which took place on February 4, 1986, it is highly regrettable that the Gurnam Singh Commission inquiry report has not been made public and no action has been taken on the findings of the report. Sandhwan said, “I have made a request to the chief minister to take immediate action in the matter as the family of the deceased are running from pillar to post for the last 35 years to get justice”. Four protesters, Ravinder Singh Littran, Baldhir Singh Ramgarh, Jhilman Singh and Harminder Singh were killed on February 4, 1986 while protesting against an act of sacrilege. The Justice Gurnam Singh commission submitted a report on October 31, 1986.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aap-mla-writes-to-cm-to-take-action-in-nakodar-killings-of-1986/articleshow/80413661.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Trichy||Man, 32, held for attacking stepdaughter||Trichy: Trichy city police on Friday arrested a 32-year-old man for assaulting his minor stepdaughter who he tortured frequently for opposing his plan to marry her younger sister. Airport police arrested V Venkatesh of Santhosh Nagar on charges of assaulting the 17-year-old girl with a cricket bat, verbally abusing her and threatening her with dire consequences. The matter came to light after she lodged a complaint with airport police on Thursday. According to the it, her 40-year-old mother had got married to Venkatesh after the death of her first husband with whom she had six children including the complainant. The woman later gave birth to two children with Venkatesh. While the couple lived with all the children, Venkatesh expressed a desire to marry the 16-year-old sister of the complainant. Inspector of police Periyasamy said the girl was not interested and her elder sister opposed his move vehemently. The complainant girl picked up a quarrel with Venkatesh over the issue during which he assaulted and abused her. Acting on her complaint, the police registered a case and arrested Venkatesh on Thursday night and was slated to produce him in court. The inspector said there was no complaint of sexual harassment of the girl by him as of now. “We will investigate if he had committed any sexual offence in which case we will alter the case,” he said adding that Venkatesh had already been jailed for attacking the same girl three months ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-32-held-for-attacking-stepdaughter/articleshow/80413669.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Cops arrest two cell phone thieves||Hyderabad: Hayathnagar police arrested two cell phone thieves, U Aravind, 19, a fruit vendor from Madannapet and A Varun Sai, 20, an auto driver from Karmanghat at Word and Deed school in Hayathnagar on Friday. According to the police, the accused used to target people walking alone at night and snatch their cell phones. Police seized 15 stolen cell phones and a bike, all worth Rs 2 lakh from their possession. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-arrest-two-cell-phone-thieves/articleshow/80413665.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Delhi||North Delhi Municipal Corporation to set up cowshed in Rani Khera||NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation plans to set up a cowshed in Rani Khera after facing problems due to lack of space at gaushalas that are run by NGOs and supported by Delhi government. The facility will be developed on a portion of the land that was earlier marked for developing a scientific waste-to-energy plant. However, the plan was later put on hold. At present, the civic body doesn’t have its own facility to keep stray cattle permanently, only cow shelters where stray cattle are kept for a couple of days before being shifted to gaushalas. “We propose to establish our own cowshed on 15 acres of land in Rani Khera,” said standing committee chairman Chhail Bihari Goswami. He will propose the project in his budget speech to be presented in house on Saturday. The civic agency aims to hand over the site to an NGO, which will provide all facilities at the cowshed. “As per the proposal, the NGO will arrange for a shed for keeping the cows, storing fodder, a mortuary and a veterinary hospital,” said Goswami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/north-corpn-to-set-up-cowshed-in-rani-khera/articleshow/80413664.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 23, 2021||India||Daily count stays below 15,000, Kerala reports 6.7k new cases||NEW DELHI: India reported fewer than 15,000 fresh Covid-19 cases for the second day running as the pandemic continued to recede in almost all states of the country, with the exception of Kerala. There were 14,413 cases of the coronavirus detected in India on Friday, almost the same count as 14,617 on the previous day. The day’s death toll from the virus was 157. Only once has the daily case tally crossed 15,000 so far this week — Wednesday, when more than 15,200 infections had been recorded. The daily count was above 15,000 on five days last week, pointing to the continuing drop in infection numbers. The pandemic, however, rages on in Kerala. The state recorded 6,753 new Covid-19 cases, nearly 47% of the national count. This was the fourth consecutive day of 6,000-plus fresh cases in the state, a discernible rise as compared to the numbers reported last week. Maharashtra reported 2,779 new cases, the count staying below 3,000 for the second straight day. As in the past few days, no other state apart from Kerala and Maharashtra reported fresh cases in four figures. Tamil Nadu had the third highest number at 574. All other states recorded fewer than 500 cases, with Gujarat at 451, Chhattisgarh 440 and Bengal 406. The daily numbers dropped sharply in Karnataka, which reported 324 new cases as opposed to 674 on the previous day. Maharashtra continued to report the highest deaths, with 50 fatalities on Friday. The next highest toll was 19 in Kerala, followed by 12 in Chhattisgarh and eight each in Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Bengal and Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/daily-count-stays-below-15000-kerala-reports-6-7k-new-cases/articleshow/80415849.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Meerut||Edu dept pulls up officials for delay in report card distribution by schools||Meerut: In an inspection conducted by the state education department to seek the status of report cards distributed by UP government schools so far, it was found that nearly 60% of students were yet to receive them. The government authorities have sought clarification for the delay in report card distribution from basic shiksha officials. “It was found during inspection conducted through IVRS that nearly 60% of parents have so far not got the report cards of their wards. The statistics are disappointing and the districts which do not follow the instructions will face action as per the norms,” said Vijay Kiran Anand, director general, school education, UP. District-wise data of the report cards distributed among the students has been shared by the authorities and instructions have been given to complete the report card distribution or face action. Despite Covid-19 induced lockdown, the government authorities had planned to ensure that hard copies of report cards are given to students without fail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/edu-dept-pulls-up-officials-for-delay-in-report-card-distribution-by-schools/articleshow/80411211.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 23, 2021||Trichy||21 injured as pilgrims’ bus turns turtle near Trichy||Trichy: As many as 21 people suffered injuries when a tourist bus carrying 43 pilgrims from Hosur turned upside down near Gunaseelam in Trichy district on Friday.The accident happened around 11am when they were on a pilgrimage to Thirunallar. The driver lost control of the bus when it was proceeding between Gunaseelam and Manjakorai. The vehicle fell into a canal and turned upside down. Local people rescued all the passengers. Police sources said that 10 people suffered severe injuries while 11 others had minor injuries. The injured were admitted to government hospitals in Musiri and Srirangam.The Vaathalai police said that they are yet to find out the exact number of injured passengers, but said that there was no casualty. The cause of the accident was also to be ascertained. However, police suspects that the bus driver must have dozed off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/21-injured-as-pilgrims-bus-turns-turtle-near-trichy/articleshow/80413674.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Amid vaccine fears, nearly zero cases from Telangana's Wanaparthy in a week||HYDERABAD: Amid fears and apprehensions over Covid-19 vaccine, Wanaparthy district has reported nearly zero cases in the last one week, except for January 16 when a mere two cases were recorded. On Friday also, the district reported zero cases, indicating a near normal situation. The district has always been reporting a low case load since the pandemic broke out. Till now, it has reported about 6,000 positive cases. Interestingly, out of 2,000 health care workers in the district, only 50 have been infected so far, indicating a very low positivity rate among healthcare workers. Another interesting fact is that there are no actual super-spreaders in the district where instances of one person infecting more than five or six persons are reported. “We have only two or three instances of families being infected during the pandemic. We made use of folk troupes, students and self-help groups to speared awareness among people about the measures to be taken during the pandemic,” Dr A Srinivasulu, Wanaparthy DMHO said. Dr Subodh Kandamuthan, professor and director, Centre for Health Care Management, ASCI, said this trend is a good sign. “Even then, we need to be watchful about new variants spreading,” he told TOI.  Health experts said intensity of infection has come down. “People with comorbidities are also getting discharged earlier,” Dr Y Sridhar, critical care physician, Apollo Hospitals, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amid-vaccine-fears-nearly-zero-cases-from-wanaparthy-in-a-wk/articleshow/80413678.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 23, 2021||Pune||PMC mask rule relief for families in personal car||PUNE: Mayor Muralidhar Mohol said on Friday that there will be no compulsion for family members travelling together in personal car to use masks in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits. Mohol, however, said that the decision was applicable only if all passengers in a personal car are members of one family. Those travelling in hired or commercial cars will have to continue to wear masks. Bike riders, too, have to wear masks. For people visiting public places, wearing of masks is compulsory, he said. “A discussion was held during a meeting under the chairmanship of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday in the presence of city police commissioner and municipal commissioner and a decision was taken to introduce some relaxation on use of masks,” Mohol said. In the evening, municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar issued an order stating that masks will not be compulsory if passengers in a car are from the same family. Use of masks will, however, be compulsory if the car’s driver is not a family member and in case any other person other than family members is travelling in the car. The mayor said that citizens should continue to wear them to tackle Covid-19 infection. “I appeal to people to while stepping out,” Mohol said. Some elected representatives in PMC recently approached the civic administration with a demand to give relief to those travelling in private car. Former mayor Ankush Kakade had written a letter to city police commissioner and municipal comsmissioner in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/masks-not-compulsory-for-family-members-travelling-in-personal-car/articleshow/80415023.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Goa||Two Bihar natives get bail in Walke murder case||COLVA: The additional sessions court in Margao on Friday granted bail to two more Bihar natives arrested for their involvement in the Swapnil Walke murder case. The third accused from Bihar, Kundan Kumar was released on January 8. Shani Kumar and Rahul Kumar were released by the fast track court (FTC) judge Cholu Gauns. Advocate Rajeev Gomes appearing for Shani argued that his client has no role in the commission of the murder, but has been implicated for abetting procurement of arms allegedly used for committing the murder through Kundan Kumar. Public prosecutor Dayanand Korgaonkar submitted that the applicant helped the main accused in securing the arms. The prosecutor also pointed out that there is material evidence against the applicant to prove that he helped the three main accused - Omkar Patil, Mustafa Shaikh and Evander Rodrigues - to procure the firearms, which were used to commit the crime. Judge Gauns agreeing with the defence advocates stated that no direct role is attributed to the applicants for commission or abatement of the murder. The judge directed Shani and Rahul to be released on bail, on executing personal bonds of Rs 20,000 each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-bihar-natives-get-bail-in-walke-murder-case/articleshow/80415040.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Petrol crosses Rs 92-mark, per km cost rises by a Re||MUMBAI: Petrol price here crossed the Rs92-mark for the first time, with people fearing it could soon hit a century if hikes are not kept in check. The rate of petrol was hiked by 24paise on Friday to retail at Rs92.04 per litre. Diesel also escalated to Rs82.40, an all-time high, on Friday. Sources said the per km cost for petrol for motorists during peak hours had gone up by a rupee, from an average Rs4.75 per km to Rs5.75 per km in nine months. This was due to a proportional increase in fuel prices from Rs76.31 in April to Rs92.04 now. This will pinch pockets of office-goers whose monthly petrol bills have gone up by at least Rs 1,100 in Mumbai. If one travels 25km from home to office (to and fro would be 50km daily), one would spend around Rs5,225 per month (Rs4.75x50) on petrol in May last year, and the cost has escalated to Rs6,325 in January 2021. Petrol price in Thane and Navi Mumbai was higher at Rs92.16. NCP activists protested against the petroleum ministry with a symbolic bicycle rally and placards recently. In the wake of increasing petrol and diesel costs, some people have opted for electric vehicles, whose running and maintenance costs are cheaper. But there are not many takers for electric cars as the city lacks a robust e-charging infrastructure, said a transport official. “We are getting more registrations for e-scooters than cars, but overall a little over 2,000 electric vehicles have registered in the city in the past few years,” he said. Petrol dealers’ association president M Venkat Rao said there was no drop in customers for petrol across Mumbai metropolitan region, but there was around a 15% drop of those coming to refill diesel at some pumps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/petrol-crosses-rs-92-mark-per-km-cost-rises-by-a-re/articleshow/80413692.cms||Somit Sen
January 23, 2021||Ajmer||Pick-pocketing gang busted, 3 held in Ajmer||AJMER: Police on Friday arrested three members of a pick-pocketing gang from dargah region and seized a knife, six mobile phones and Rs 15,000 and some jewellery from their possession. The gang came from Surat in Gujarat. Police said the gang remains active mostly during the yearly Urs of dargah. As devotees started coming to dargah, some complained to police about pick-pocketing or loss of mobile. The SP Ajmer formed a special team to investigate the matter and arrested the three accused. Other members of the gang are still active in the dargah region and police are investigating the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/pick-pocketing-gang-busted-3-held-in-ajmer/articleshow/80419624.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Jodhpur||‘Operation Alert Sard Hawa’ begins on western border||JAISALMER: Looking to the cold wave, fog and Republic Day, BSF has started ‘Operation Alert Sard Hawa’ in the entire western border from Thursday which will continue till January 27. Officers and jawans of all branches of BSF are taking part in this exercise. Additional personnel are being deployed in the sensitive places. Four layer security system is in place with modern weapons and gadgets. Vehicle and foot patrolling has been increased. Every year, this campaign is carried out to intensify vigil at the border. According to information, the border areas are covered in fog from morning to evening. This operation helps thwart intrusion bids. Joint patrolling is done with police and BSF. According to sources, BSF officers are continuously patrolling in the fenced area. Camel patrolling has also been increased. Intelligence wing of BSF is also at work. Jawans and officers of all branches of BSF have been deployed at border outposts under this operation. Sector South Commandant, operation, J S Sandhu, said, that intensive vigil is being kept in the entire border area looking to threat from across the border on Republic Day. BSF Jaisalmer Sector North DIG Arun Kumar Singh said that they are doing day-night border domination. Review has been done on border tactics and internal planning. He said that in the exercise, 20-30% additional security personnel have been deployed at sensitive places where there is heavy fog along with all commandants and other officers. He said that orders have been given to foil any kind of possible intrusion and untoward activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/operation-alert-sard-hawa-begins-on-western-border/articleshow/80417272.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Jaipur||‘Operation Alert Sard Hawa’ begins on western border||JAISALMER: Looking to the cold wave, fog and Republic Day, BSF has started ‘Operation Alert Sard Hawa’ in the entire western border from Thursday which will continue till January 27. Officers and jawans of all branches of BSF are taking part in this exercise. Additional personnel are being deployed in the sensitive places. Four layer security system is in place with modern weapons and gadgets. Vehicle and foot patrolling has been increased. Every year, this campaign is carried out to intensify vigil at the border. According to information, the border areas are covered in fog from morning to evening. This operation helps thwart intrusion bids. Joint patrolling is done with police and BSF. According to sources, BSF officers are continuously patrolling in the fenced area. Camel patrolling has also been increased. Intelligence wing of BSF is also at work. Jawans and officers of all branches of BSF have been deployed at border outposts under this operation. Sector South Commandant, operation, J S Sandhu, said, that intensive vigil is being kept in the entire border area looking to threat from across the border on Republic Day. BSF Jaisalmer Sector North DIG Arun Kumar Singh said that they are doing day-night border domination. Review has been done on border tactics and internal planning. He said that in the exercise, 20-30% additional security personnel have been deployed at sensitive places where there is heavy fog along with all commandants and other officers. He said that orders have been given to foil any kind of possible intrusion and untoward activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/operation-alert-sard-hawa-begins-on-western-border/articleshow/80412131.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Meerut||Lab technician commits suicide inside OT after tiff with fiancée||Meerut: A lab technician committed suicide inside the operation theatre at a private hospital in Meerut on late Thursday night.The technician allegedly injected himself with a ‘suspected medicine’ after having a tiff with his fiancée over phone. A probe has been ordered, police said.Dr Sandeep Garg, doctor at the hospital, said, “It seems that he had injected the anaesthesia medicine on himself, but the police will probe the matter. His wedding was fixed a few days ago and a roka ceremony was done. It is said that there were some 30 calls from his fiancée on Thursday night and there was a tiff between the both.”The deceased, Fateh Singh, was a resident of Kandhla village in Bulandshahr’s Sherkot area and worked at Nutema Hospital. He was working there for the last two years. When the hospital staff was going to sleep on Thursday night, Singh went inside the operation theatre around 1:30 am on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday.Devesh Singh, circle officer, Civil Lines, said, “A probe has been ordered in the matter and the body has been sent for post-mortem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/lab-technician-commits-suicide-inside-ot-after-tiff-with-fiance/articleshow/80411206.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 23, 2021||Dehradun||Two red sand boas rescued, traffickers held from Ramnagar||Depending on their weight, the snakes fetch over lakhs and sometimes even more than a crore in the international marketNainital: The wildlife crime control unit on Friday rescued two red sand boas – also known as two-faced-snake – and arrested two people suspected to be traffickers from Ramnagar. Speaking to TOI, RK Tiwari, head of wildlife crime control unit, Kumaon, said that they were tipped off by a source about the smugglers in the area trying to make a sale. Tiwari asked the Terai forest division for additional help and posed as potential buyers to catch the smugglers. “We had been receiving information about these traffickers for the past few days. When we got a concrete lead, we posed as buyers and invited them to the Maldhan area of Ramnagar. The two accused came in a car and were carrying bags. As soon as we were sure that they were traffickers, we arrested them and took them into custody,” he said. The two accused have been identified as Amit Kumar and Saddam. While Kumar is from Bijnor district of Uttar Pradesh, Saddam is from Moradabad. “We found two red sand boas in their bags and a scale as well. On questioning, we found that the price of the snakes depends on its weight and a healthy snake can fetch over lakhs and sometimes even more than a crore in the international market,” he said. The forest department, however, said that these two men were mere carriers and that the head of the traffickers’ gang is still to be caught. “We are questioning both Kumar and Saddam. They have not yet revealed the name of their chief. We are further investigating the matter and their leader will be caught soon,” Tiwari said. Notably, the wildlife crime control unit was created by the state government keeping in mind the increased cases of animal trafficking. While one team functions in Garhwal, another is for Kumaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-red-sand-boas-rescued-traffickers-held-from-ramnagar/articleshow/80411207.cms||Prashant Jha
January 23, 2021||Trichy||Woman found dead under suspicious circumstances||Trichy: A 24-year-old married woman was found dead under suspicious circumstances at Sengulathan Colony in Trichy in the early hours on Friday. Police were on the lookout for her husband. The deceased has been identified as S Rajeswari. A neighbour found her dead inside her house. Her five-year-old son and two-year-old daughter were weeping near the body. Her husband, Thavaseelan, 27, was missing. Acting on the complaint of Rajeswari’s father Sathaiah, the Thilllai Nagar police registered a case of suspicious death. Rajeswari, a native of Trichy, was married to Thavaseelan of Mannargudi in Tiruvarur district. Both of them fell in love with each other when they were working in Tirupur five years ago. After living in Mannargudi for a short period, the couple settled in Trichy. Thavaseelan was working in a restaurant in Thillai Nagar. On Thursday night, he returned home around midnight. But he was missing on Friday.The body was sent to the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital for the postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/woman-found-dead-under-suspicious-circumstances/articleshow/80413675.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh mystery illness spreads to new areas, 25 more in hospital||ELURU (ANDHRA PRADESH): The mystery illness that was first noticed in Eluru town in December last year has spread to new areas after lying in hibernation for about a month. On Friday, 25 people were hospitalised with complaints of sudden convulsions. The illness was reported from Pulla village last week and spread to Komirepally village in Denduluru mandal on Friday. These places are within a radius of 25 km from Eluru, district headquarters of West Godavari. In December, the state government had formed an expert panel to decode the mystery but the experts, drawn from leading national institutions, gave different causes for the acute seizures. Some pointed to a possible virus attack, while others blamed the presence of heavy metals in the water. In the Eluru case, about 600 people were hospitalised while one person had died. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy held a review meeting with senior officials and directed principal secretary (health) Anil Kumar Singhal and health commissioner Katamaneni Bhaskar to visit the affected villages for a first-hand assessment of the ailment. Health minister Alla Nani suspected a conspiracy behind the episodes of sudden convulsions, seizures and frothing. “Many people in the affected area see a conspiracy behind the mystery ailment. I also feel the same. I suspect a political conspiracy,” Nani told reporters. He, however, did not elaborate on who he suspected to be behind the alleged conspiracy. Andhra Pradesh chief secretary Adityanath Das, who visited the affected villages along with Singhal and Bhaskar on Friday, met people and patients. Das said samples collected from the patients have been sent to national research laboratories. “We will act based on the reports,” he added. Villagers told the team that they had been consuming healthy food and there was no reason for their sudden ill health. Special health camps were opened in the affected areas for round-the-clock monitoring. Water and vegetable samples from all markets in the affected villages were collected for chemical analysis. In the Pulla incident, the blood tests of the patients did not show any abnormality. Pothunuru primary health centre medical officer Dr Jyothi said the onset of the symptoms were sudden and without an underlying cause. “Of the 25, four persons showed severe symptoms. We have treated and discharged 10 patients so far,” she told TOI. She added that a proper diagnosis of the mystery illness can be done after chemical and biological reports arrive from the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) and the National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) in Hyderabad. Incidentally, in the Eluru incident, NIN found pesticide residue in vegetables. CCMB did not find any known pathogen in the blood samples of Eluru patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-mystery-illness-spreads-to-new-areas/articleshow/80415025.cms||Samson Raj
January 23, 2021||Jaipur||Pick-pocketing gang busted, 3 held in Ajmer||AJMER: Police on Friday arrested three members of a pick-pocketing gang from dargah region and seized a knife, six mobile phones and Rs 15,000 and some jewellery from their possession. The gang came from Surat in Gujarat. Police said the gang remains active mostly during the yearly Urs of dargah. As devotees started coming to dargah, some complained to police about pick-pocketing or loss of mobile. The SP Ajmer formed a special team to investigate the matter and arrested the three accused. Other members of the gang are still active in the dargah region and police are investigating the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pick-pocketing-gang-busted-3-held-in-ajmer/articleshow/80412126.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Kolkata||Four clubs helmed by Netaji join hands to celebrate his 125th birth anniversary||KOLKATA: Four north Kolkata clubs which were once helmed by Subhash Chandra Bose and organize some of the most iconic and famous Durga Puja and Kali Puja in the city every year, have joined hands to urge the Centre to declare Netaji’s birthday a national holiday and give his legacy the rightful space in the discourse of the country. Bagbazar Sarbojanin Durgotsab, Kumartuli Sarbojanin Durgotsab, Pathuriaghata Sarbojanin Kali Puja and Shimla Byayam Samity have decided to come together to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji on Saturday and emphasis on the demand to declare his birthday as a national holiday through a cultural procession in the morning and several programmes throughout the weekend. The cultural procession where members of the four clubs and other followers of Netaji will participate will start at 8.30am from Simla Byayam Samity on Beadon Street and will conclude at Bagbazar after visiting Pathuriaghata and Kumartuli. “Netaji was the president of all these four clubs and that common, yet very strong strand, binds us together. Every year, we observe his birth anniversary by organizing several programmes for local residents. On the occasion of his 125th birth anniversary, we decided to organize the celebrations together,” said Debasish Bhattacharya, convenor of Kumartuli Sarbojanin Durgotsab. Netaji was the president of the club in 1938-39 and it was during his tenure that the club shifted from ‘ek chala thakur’ to ‘panch chala thakur’. Kumartuli Sarbojanin Durgotsab, which started in 1931, is one of the oldest community durga puja in the city. Netaji was one of the founding members of Simla Byayam Samity in 1926, which was formed with the objective of training freedom fighters. It soon emerged as the hub of physical training and yoga for young boys joining the freedom movement. “His contribution to the freedom movement was immense. It is our request to the governments to declare his birth anniversary as a national holiday to pay respect to his legacy. This is the least we can do respect his efforts to liberate this country,” said Sohini Roy, joint secretary of Simla Byayam Samity. Netaji was the president of Pathuriaghata Sarbojanin Kali Puja in 1930. Pathuriaghata Byayam Samity, as the club, was established by Baghajatin Jatindranath Mukherjee. It was an important centre of the Indian National Movement. “This is what had attracted Netaji to the club,” said Indranil Banerjee, secretary of the club. Netaji was instrumental in shifting the iconic Bagabazar Sarbojanin Durga Puja to the Bagbazar Park as its president in 1938. “Earlier, the venue of the puja was on a roadside in Bagbazar,” said Goutam Niyogi, general secretary of the club. “Netaji’s legacy and his contribution has never received its due respect and space in the discourse of our country. Our only request to all the governments is to make more and more people aware of it,” said Niyogi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4-clubs-helmed-by-netaji-join-hands-to-celebrate-his-125th-birth-anniv/articleshow/80413680.cms||Zeeshan Javed
January 23, 2021||Meerut||Youth in selfie aiming pistol at mother’s head arrested||Muzaffarnagar: A youth posing for a selfie with a pistol aimed at an elderly woman’s head was arrested by Shamli police and the weapon seized from him after the picture went viral on social media. The woman turned out to be his mother. He has been booked under the Arms Act. After taking cognizance of the matter, Sukirti Madhav, superintendent of police, Shamli district, ordered an inquiry into the matter. The cyber cell of the police traced the youth to Sunheti village under Kairana police station. He was identified as Deepak Kumar, 20. He was arrested and a countrymade pistol which was used for the selfie seized. Kumar had uploaded the picture on social media, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/youth-in-selfie-aiming-pistol-at-mothers-head-arrested/articleshow/80411216.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Ostracised earlier, 28-year-old gets jab||HYDERABAD: Shunned by villagers when he contracted Covid-19 in June 2020, Chenigalla Shekar (28) was one among those vaccinated on Day 5 of the vaccine rollout. The data entry operator at Balanagar PHC, said although he was apprehensive about taking the vaccine, he was motivated after seeing senior health workers. Shekar who hails from Allor village in Rangareddy said that he now feels relieved as he – or his family - will not need to go through the rough times again. “I was not allowed to step out of my house for a month even to get myself tested after two weeks. I felt bad when village sarpanch and ward members said they wanted to put a fence around my house,” said Shekar. The 28-year-old has been working in the rural health centre from eight years. “It was discriminatory attitude of the villagers which used to hurt more,” Shekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ostracised-earlier-28-yr-old-gets-jab/articleshow/80413686.cms||Moulika.KV
January 23, 2021||Trichy||Highways dept begins work to relay roads in Gandhi Market||Trichy: The state highways department has launched road construction work in the Gandhi market locality. The department has also proposed to mark boundary lines with ropes to prevent encroachments.Most parts of the locality, particularly the roads connecting Palakkarai with the Thanjavur Main Road via Thanneerpandhal and Dharbarmedu were in an unmotorable state. The recent rains aggravated the situation. Following public outcry, the department launched the work on Friday under the comprehensive infrastructure road development programme (CIRDP). The 3km stretch between Palpannai junction and Palakkarai RoB will be redeveloped. The road laying work will continue for a week time during the night hours to prevent traffic chaos. “We have discussed the encroachment prevention plan by marking boundary lines on either end. Goods placed by the shops exploiting the motorable road space will be confiscated,” P Vadivel, division engineer, state highways said. Shops will be sensitised and warning boards placed on Quaid-E-Millath Road and Thanjavur Main Road stretch to prevent encroachments, the official added. A truck will be utilised to evict and confiscate the encroachments if the shopkeepers disregard the instructions. Meanwhile, commuters have urged the department to mark centre and boundary lines as soon as the civil work is completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/highways-dept-begins-work-to-relay-roads-in-gandhi-market/articleshow/80413681.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Trichy||Trichy corpn to install modern garbage bins||Trichy: Facing backlash from residents for removing garbage bins from public places in the city, which has resulted in garbage being littered in the open, the Trichy Corporation has decided to reinstate them. Around 175 modern semi-underground garbage bins and five crane-mounted waste collection vehicles are to be purchased under the smart cities mission for Rs 14 crore for the purpose. Made of galvanised steel, the waterproof bins with sensors and a pedal to open and close the lids, will be placed in localities with a significant floating population, and markets. Around 40% of the bins will be placed beneath the surface level, over a concrete platform. Each bin can accommodate 4 cubic metres of waste. The sensors will send an alert to the civic body if the capacity is full. Subsequently, the waste collection vehicle will reach the spot to empty the bins. The vehicles will be fitted with a GPS tracking system to ensure that the waste heads only to the recovery centres. “If the first phase of the proposal fetches desirable results, we will consider expanding the same. The bins will have lids and remain closed so that stray cattle will not feed,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian told TOI. The civic body has floated a tender for the proposal. The contractor will train the corporation workers to operate the cranes. Between April 2018 and September 2019, the corporation had removed around 99% of the total 1,172 container and compactor bins from the 65 wards despite opposition from the residents. The civic body had said that effective door-to-door waste collection will eliminate the need for bins and secondary waste collection. Since then, corporation is struggling to control the garbage menace. Meanwhile, residents have welcomed the move. “Removing the bins was a grave mistake. Bins should be placed in residential localities too,” H Ghouse Baig, a resident of Khajamalai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-to-install-modern-garbage-bins/articleshow/80413695.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Mayor poll on February 11; TRS may deny deputy to AIMIM||HYDERABAD: Even as the Telangana State Election Commission (SEC) issued a notification on Friday for the mayoral election of Greater Hyderabad which will be held on February 11, the ruling TRS in a change of heart said it may not offer the deputy mayor post to its ally AIMIM. The TRS said it has enough numbers to sail through and secure the mayor seat since simple majority is enough to bag the first citizen post. Confirming this, a senior TRS leader told TOI that “there is no proposal to hold talks with AIMIM leaders and offer deputy mayor post to them.” Sounding optimistic, he said: “The TRS is the single largest party in the GHMC council. We have the numbers.” Intense speculations started soon after the GHMC poll results came out last month with the TRS not faring well and BJP putting up a solid show. The talk was that the TRS may give the deputy mayor post to the AIMIM so that it would keep the mayor seat with the latter’s support. However, party leaders are now dismissing any such proposal. In the GHMC elections held on December 1, 2020, the TRS bagged 56 wards, the BJP secured 48 (one corporator expired) and the AIMIM won 44. Congress was confined to two seats. GHMC election authorities explained that for the election of mayor, quorum (50% of total members) is required. If the election is not held due to lack of quorum, it would be held on Feb 12. “If there is no quorum on that day also, election can be held on some other day. During that time, quorum is not required. Any candidate with a simple majority can be declared the winner,” an additional commissioner of GHMC said. Official sources said since ex-officio members like MLAs, MLCs and MPs have voting right in the mayor and deputy mayor elections, the authorities have started updating the list. The final list will be prepared before February 6. In GHMC, nearly 45 MLAs, MLCs, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs have earlier enrolled themselves as members. But many of them like MP K Keshava Rao have utilised their vote in the municipal elections last year. According to the GHMC officials, the TRS has 31 ex-officio members, AIMIM has 10 members and BJP and Congress have two each as ex-officio members. The TRS is confident that it would bag the mayor seat without the help of ex-officio members like in 2016 elections. Meanwhile, the government is mulling to create one more deputy mayor post (two posts) to have representation from all castes. Towards this end, an amendment to the GHMC Act will be made. The mayor post is reserved for women (general) candidate. “If the mayor post is given to the upper castes candidate, one deputy mayor will be a BC candidate and another an SC or a Muslim candidate. If it is given to a BC candidate like Yadava (highest numbers among BC population in the city), the party is considering giving the floor leader post to a Muslim candidate,” a senior TRS leader said. Similarly, the government is also considering enhancing co-opted members from six to 15 to accommodate more TRS leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mayor-poll-on-feb-11-trs-may-deny-dy-to-mim/articleshow/80415035.cms||Koride Mahesh
January 23, 2021||Pune||Pune Metropolitan Region active Covid caseload at 7-month low||PUNE: Higher Covid-19 recoveries and fewer cases have helped bring down the active caseload to seven-month low in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday. The number of active cases in PMR have dipped to 4,869, with Pune municipal limits sharing the maximum burden at 2,173 cases, followed by the Pimpri Chinchwad areas (1,504) and the rural parts (1,192). The region had last recorded less than 5,000 active cases in June 2020. Since then, the active cases showed consistent rise in the region till November last year. Over the last three months, the cases have reduced continuously. At the beginning of December, the region had around 11,500 active cases, which reduced to around 6,000 at the start of January. In the last 21 days, the cases have further reduced by 1,200 to reach 4,869. Health department officials said less than 1,900 patients were being treated at various Covid-19 designated hospitals, while about 3,000 patients were in home isolation in PMR. Sanjeev Wavre, assistant health chief at PMC, said no alarming spurt has been reported in the number of cases in the last one month. “Daily new cases have been around 250 to 300, while the daily testing has been maintained at 3,500. The number of critical patients and those on the oxygen support have also reduced considerably. The positivity rate has also dropped to a single digit,” he said. A drop in cases recently spurred the administration to close down the jumbo Covid facility on temporary basis. PMC officials said over 25 Covid Care Centres had been shut down. “We have closed down Covid Care Centres for the time being due to drop in cases. However, the machinery has been kept ready to tackle the situation in case of any spurt,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-active-caseload-at-7-month-low/articleshow/80415027.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 23, 2021||Jaipur||Barmer youth had strayed to Pakistan after fleeing from lover’s home: BSF||JAISALMER: The 19-year-old youth from Barmer district, who had illegally crossed over to Pakistan around 2.5 months ago is in the custody of Sindh police in Pakistan and an interesting angle has emerged from the incident. Gemra Ram (19), a resident of Beenjrad in Barmer district had gone missing. The family of youth revealed that in November, he had gone to meet his lover at his neighbourhood and after being caught, he was scared of humiliation, and thus he ran away to Jodhpur and from there, he crossed the border illegally to go to Pakistan. It is not revealed as to how he managed to cross the border. While staying with his relatives there, Pakistan rangers caught him and handed him over to Sindh police. The BSF and cops have confirmed this too. BSF has written a letter to DIG of Pakistan rangers to return the youth and the BSF has made efforts for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/barmer-youth-had-strayed-to-pak-after-fleeing-from-lovers-home-bsf/articleshow/80412170.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Kolkata||Rename icon’s birthday as Deshnayak Diwas: Niece||KOLKATA: Netaji’s niece Roma Ray believes that January 23 should be declared a national holiday during the 125th year of the icon’s birth. Daughter of Sarat Bose, Roma had accompanied her parents to Vienna in 1948 to grant recognition to Emilie Schenkl and her daughter, Anita. That was on the basis of a letter left behind by Netaji with Emile for Sarat. According to the senior-most surviving relative of Netaji, Deshnayak Diwas is the most appropriate for renaming January 23 because the epithet “Deshnayak” was conferred on her uncle by Rabindranath Tagore. “January 23 should be declared a national holiday. I prefer the option Deshnayak Diwas for renaming January 23 only because Tagore had conferred this epithet on him,” she said At 91, Roma’s memories about Netaji are still very vivid. In her views, the best way of remembering Netaji is to appreciate and uphold “his patriotism, sacrifice and secularism” and “spread his message of unity and equality across the country”. “October 21 – the day Bose announced the establishment of the Provisional Government of Free India – should be celebrated appropriately as its significance is unmatched in the Indian freedom struggle,” she said. Roma also wants Netaji’s contribution to find “its proper place in history books across the country”. Talking about her uncle, whom she fondly addressed as Rangakakababu, brings back precious memories. Apart from her recollections of playing hide and seek with him at her father’s holiday home in Kurseong’s Gidda Pahar, Roma also has memories of how her father, who was aware of Netaji’s plans, had “pretended” to be “shocked” when news first broke out of his great escape. Then, there are her recollections of the night when Netaji was unanimously elected president of the Congress in 1938. The evening the results were coming in, the wedding reception of her eldest brother, Asoke, was being held at the South Club. “There was tension and Netaji was yet to make an appearance at the reception. He finally arrived. With the full weight of Gandhiji behind his opponent, it wasn’t easy. But Rangakakababu triumphed by 1,580 votes to 1,375 votes. I remember him saying: ‘Our new niece-in-law has been lucky for us,’” she recalled. Memories of spending time with Emilie and Anita, whom she had first met in Vienna in 1948, have a special significance. “My father wanted them to come to Kolkata and settle down here. This was not to be, as my father died prematurely in 1950,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rename-icons-birthday-as-deshnayak-diwas-niece/articleshow/80413688.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
January 23, 2021||Kolkata||One journalist dies, another injured in bike accident||Kolkata: A young journalist was killed and another seriously injured in a road accident on Prince Anwar Shah Road near Lake Gardens around 4.15am on Friday when their motorcycle skidded and hit a tree near Lords crossing. Police suspected that Soham Mallick (29), who was riding the two-wheeler, had either hit a speed-breaker or was blinded by the headlight of a vehicle coming from the opposite side and lost control of the bike. While Soham was declared dead at SSKM Hospital, his close friend riding pillion, Mayukhranjan Ghosh (32), is undergoing treatment at the Institute of Neurosciences Kolkata (INK). Both Soham and Mayukhranjan, who have worked with some of the biggest news networks in the country and were known faces in the Bengali news television industry, had recently joined the news desk of a vernacular news channel. “Soham, a resident of Kasba, was declared brought dead, while Mayukhranjan, a resident of Naktala, has been admitted to the ICCU at INK. His condition is critical,” police said. A senior doctor at INK said Mayukhranjan had received serious injuries in one of his eyes. “The two were best of friends. Mayukhranjan had shifted out of the city for his career but had returned recently and was excited about his new project. Soham had picked him up from his home on Thursday night and two went for a JU professor’s house. They were probably returning home in the morning,” said the police. A police officer said they were scanning CCTV footage from the area to find out whether the bike had skidded or was hit by a vehicle. “So far, all injuries and damage on the bike indicate they had hit a speed-breaker following which the bike got disbalanced and hit a tree by the road,” said a fatal squad officer. According to Soham’s relatives, the accident was first noticed by app-based food delivery boys who took the two friends to MR Bengur Hospital, from where they were shifted to SSKM, where Soham was declared dead. Mayukhranjan, who suffered head injuries, was admitted to the Mullickbazar hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/one-journalist-dies-another-injured-in-bike-accident/articleshow/80413706.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 23, 2021||Trichy||Black spots on Trichy roads inspected||Trichy: As part of observance of the ongoing road safety awareness month, stakeholders including National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), state highways and city police officials on Friday inspected the black spots identified in Trichy. Corrective measures such as relocating median openings, closing the median openings and facilitating additional street lights were suggested by the district road safety council after the inspection. Supervising the accident-prone spot on Trichy-Madurai national highway near Mannarpuram intersection, the stakeholders found that a median opening was used by commuters to violate the one-way rule. As a solution, the opening was suggested to be relocated. The NHAI has identified three blackspots while city police have recognised 18 locations as accident-prone localities. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/black-spots-on-trichy-roads-inspected/articleshow/80413687.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Heera Gold ponzi scam: Nowhera Sheik released on interim bail||HYDERABAD: Heera Gold ponzi scam accused Nowhera Sheik was released from Mumbai jail on an interim bail on Friday. She is the key accused in the Rs 5,600 crore deposit scam. Nowhera Sheik was released on six weeks interim bail after spending two-and-a-half years in judicial custody. Supporters of Nowhera Sheik welcomed her at the Mumbai jail. As per the Supreme Court orders, she has to return the deposits to the complainants. The Supreme Court in the bail order said that Nowhera Sheik should return the deposits of all the complainants in cases where chargesheets have been filed or complaints have been made. Nowhera was accused of collecting Rs 5,600 crore deposits from 1.72 lakh investors in the name of gold ponzi scheme. The scam’s tentacles are spread over Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala. The apex court ordered that to make payments to the complainants, the amounts attached by State of Maharashtra of over Rs 21 crore and by the Enforcement Directorate of over Rs 22 crore apart from Rs 6 crore of Nowhera Sheik could be utilised. Investigating agencies of various states, including the central crime station (CCS) Hyderabad and the Crime Investigation Department of AP, are working on the list of complainants to facilitate the return of deposits to those who had filed complaints. However, there is confusion on who would be considered as complainants. There is no clarity on those who filed a complaint but an FIR is not issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nowhera-released-on-interim-bail/articleshow/80413701.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 23, 2021||Jodhpur||Barmer youth had strayed to Pakistan after fleeing from lover’s home: BSF||JAISALMER: The 19-year-old youth from Barmer district, who had illegally crossed over to Pakistan around 2.5 months ago is in the custody of Sindh police in Pakistan and an interesting angle has emerged from the incident. Gemra Ram (19), a resident of Beenjrad in Barmer district had gone missing. The family of youth revealed that in November, he had gone to meet his lover at his neighbourhood and after being caught, he was scared of humiliation, and thus he ran away to Jodhpur and from there, he crossed the border illegally to go to Pakistan. It is not revealed as to how he managed to cross the border. While staying with his relatives there, Pakistan rangers caught him and handed him over to Sindh police. The BSF and cops have confirmed this too. BSF has written a letter to DIG of Pakistan rangers to return the youth and the BSF has made efforts for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/barmer-youth-had-strayed-to-pak-after-fleeing-from-lovers-home-bsf/articleshow/80416805.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Jodhpur||Two held in Barmer for firing at cops||JAIPUR: Pachpadra police of Barmer district succeeded in catching two notorious criminals who ran away breaking the blockading and even fired at the police on Friday. They recovered 579kg doda post, two pistols and 53 cartridges from the accused. SP Anand Sharma said that information was received from Pali police that two wanted culprits were hiding in Pachpadra. Teams were formed which raided Jay ki Dhani in Moolji Ki Dhani in Pachpadra police station area. Jamaram and his colleague Karnaram tried to flee and fired three shots on police. In self defence, Pachpadra SHO fired two shots in air. Following this, police teams surrounded the culprits and caught them. Police recovered a Scorpio vehicle and found 470kg doda post, two pistols and 53 cartridges. A case has been lodged against them under NDPS Act, Arms Act and for causing hindrance in government work. The SP said that Jamaram is a notorious criminal and smuggler. There are four cases of attempt to murder lodged against him in Pali, one case of attempt to murder in Rajsamand, a case under Arms Act in Chittorgarh. Three cases of loot and beating are lodged against Kanaram at Sheo, Gida and Balotara police stations. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/two-held-in-barmer-for-firing-at-cops/articleshow/80419609.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 23, 2021||Jaipur||Two held in Barmer for firing at cops||JAIPUR: Pachpadra police of Barmer district succeeded in catching two notorious criminals who ran away breaking the blockading and even fired at the police on Friday. They recovered 579kg doda post, two pistols and 53 cartridges from the accused. SP Anand Sharma said that information was received from Pali police that two wanted culprits were hiding in Pachpadra. Teams were formed which raided Jay ki Dhani in Moolji Ki Dhani in Pachpadra police station area. Jamaram and his colleague Karnaram tried to flee and fired three shots on police. In self defence, Pachpadra SHO fired two shots in air. Following this, police teams surrounded the culprits and caught them. Police recovered a Scorpio vehicle and found 470kg doda post, two pistols and 53 cartridges. A case has been lodged against them under NDPS Act, Arms Act and for causing hindrance in government work. The SP said that Jamaram is a notorious criminal and smuggler. There are four cases of attempt to murder lodged against him in Pali, one case of attempt to murder in Rajsamand, a case under Arms Act in Chittorgarh. Three cases of loot and beating are lodged against Kanaram at Sheo, Gida and Balotara police stations. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-held-in-barmer-for-firing-at-cops/articleshow/80412136.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Kolkata||File 58: Top draw at Kolkata Police Museum||KOLKATA: From an average visitor count of 120 when the 64 classified files on Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose were thrown open to public viewing at the Kolkata Police Museum on APC Road almost six years ago, authorities said there were hardly a dozen visitors during the pandemic. But for those walking up to the second floor after signing the relevant forms, File 58 still remains the main draw. “We get the more serious researchers coming here now. The initial adrenaline rush amongst commoners to read the files is now gone. But for the odd non-academic background visitor here, their biggest draw is to study how Netaji managed to hoodwink the British and leave the city. The relevant clippings along with the Special Branch and Intelligence branch notes and comments on the same are all in File 58,”said an officer. A news of Netaji’s wife Emily Bose, which originated in Vienna on February 20, 1953, is also a sought-after clipping. “Perhaps the language in these news clippings are easier to comprehend than government file details that are meant for mostly academic research,” said an officer. Another area of interest are those news clippings about claims that Netaji was alive long after India’s Independence. The police officers at the museum though rued the fact that not too many turned up on to the second floor compared to the first floor of the museum. “The entire second floor has 64 declassified files on Netaji. It carries all information about the police surveillance that had been carried out on Bose prior to his house arrest and escape. The museum has archived soft copies of those files for research scholars as the hard copies are prone to damage,” an officer pointed. For Saturday though, police are expecting a few more visitors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/file-58-top-draw-at-police-museum/articleshow/80413697.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 23, 2021||Meerut||Need to forget the past and rebuild our ties,say Muslims as many donate for Ram Mandir||Bijnor: In a show of solidarity, many Muslim groups in Uttar Pradesh's Amroha and Bijnor have joined hands with volunteers of Hindu organisations in collecting donation for the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya."This is the time when we all need to forget the past and rebuild a relationship based on mutual trust and harmony," Jubair Chaudhary, one of the Muslims from Amroha who contributed, said. While Imran of Khad Gurjjar said, "We can only take our country forward if we start respecting each other's sentiments and leave behind anger and hatred. Lord Ram is a source of inspiration for all of us. We are contributing in our own way towards the construction of the Ram Mandir. Besides, we are urging others to come forward as well."Senior member of 'Alpsankhyak Morcha' in Bijnor, Badar Khan, said, "We are happy to get this opportunity to donate for the grand temple. This is an honour. It is high time we forget the past and unite against all the other challenges."Notably, Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust has deputed around 400,000 volunteers to meet families across the country for donation.On Friday, Mayank Mayur, spokesman of RSS in Bijnor, said that volunteers are making the people aware and requesting them to contribute for the construction of Ram Mandir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/need-to-forget-the-past-and-rebuild-our-tiessay-muslims-as-many-donate-for-ram-mandir/articleshow/80411225.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 23, 2021||Pune||Covid death tally reaches 4,900 in Pune civic limits||Pune: The Covid-19 fatality count reached 4,900 in the PMC limits on Friday, with four more patients succumbing to the infection in the municipal areas in the last 24 hours. Nine more deaths took the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR)’s toll to 8,996. PMR continued to report more recoveries than new cases on Friday. A report released by the district health officer, Bhgawan Pawar, stated that 576 patients were declared cured in PMR on Friday as against 568 new cases. The PMC and PCMC limits reported 290 and 119 recoveries, respectively, while 167 patients were declared cured in the rural areas on Friday. The maximum infections were reported in the PMC limits (232), followed by the rural areas (170) and the PCMC limits (166). The tally of positive cases in PMR increased above 3.75 lakh on Friday, while its total recoveries reached 3.61 lakh. Sample testing for detecting Covid-19 infections increased above 20.40 lakh in PMR on Friday evening. The region conducted 7,334 tests on Friday. The PMC has checked more than 9.96 lakh samples so far, followed by the the PCMC areas (6 lakh) and the rural parts (4.43 lakh). The active caseload decreased marginally to 4,852 in PMR on Friday. Of these, as many as 1,911 patients were admitted in various hospitals, while 2,941 patients were in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-death-tally-reaches-4900-in-pune-civic-limits/articleshow/80415034.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 23, 2021||Jaipur||Kota: Leopardess run over by goods train, survival chances ‘dim’||KOTA: A two-and-a-half-year-old leopardess sustained critical injuries, with its one of the forelimbs, tail separated from the body and a deep wound into its forehead, after a goods train reportedly ran over the animal on Bundi–Chittor railway track near Bheemlat tunnel at pole number 61-62 on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. The injured animal was on Friday operated upon in Abheda Biological Park in Kota and its condition was stated to be extremely critical. The traffic on Bundi–Chittor railway track remained suspended for around 6.30 hours till Friday morning when the animal was tranquillised and taken to Abheda Biological Park in Kota for treatment. The railway guards informed about the incident around 2am on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, following which the forest team reached the spot early Friday morning, Bundi forest ranger Rajendra Vijay said. The animal was found in a state of coma with its tail and one of the forelimbs completely separated from the body, with a deep wound into the skull on its forehead, said Dr Vilasrao Gulhane, who treated and operated upon the animal in Abheda Biological Park in Kota on Friday. The condition of the leopardess was said to be ‘very very critical’ and chances of its survival are ‘very dim’ as several parts were severed from the body and it was bleeding profusely, leading to heavy blood loss, Dr Vilasrao said. Besides, there are internal damages and injuries including severe brain damage that has diminished the chances of its survival as there is no option of blood transfusion, nor any option of diagnostic examination like CT Scan to diagnose internal injuries, he added. “We are in the state of ‘wait and watch’ and the animal is being treated,” he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/leopardess-run-over-by-goods-train-survival-chances-dim/articleshow/80412175.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Pune||No mass travel in local trains: Central Railway||PUNE: Senior officials from the Central Railway on Friday said the state government had not given permission or approached them to start the local and inter-city trains for common citizens. Sanjeev Mittal, the general manger of the Central Railway, said the call had to be taken by the state government. “In case of inter-city trains between Mumbai and Pune, unreserved travel has not been allowed,” he said. Mittal said they were in touch with the state government and there was no conflict of interests. “Around 80% of the Mumbai suburban network has started. Once the state government takes a decision, the proposal will be forwarded to the railway board” Mittal said during the lockdown, work on 19 railway bridges in the Pune division was completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-mass-travel-in-local-trains-cr/articleshow/80415037.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 23, 2021||Kolkata||Ancestral home in Kodalia ready for year-long events||KOLKATA: Last-minute touches are being given to the ancestral house of Netaji in the sleepy locality of Kodalia. The roof tiles that were damaged in cyclone Amphan have been replaced. A year-long celebration to commemorate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji will begin this Saturday. On that day, visitors will be allowed entry into the house. They can also take a tour of the first floor. One room has some belongings of the family, including a bed, a bookcase, a kettle, a mirror, a glass made of stone, a bracket and chairs. Even a few years back, this house was in dire need of restoration. Now, it’s difficult to miss this red-bordered yellow house once one is in Kodalia. A paved road leads up to a black gate. A post, neatly painted in the Tricolour, has been readied for Saturday’s flag hoisting session. Celebrating January 23 by members of Netaji Krishti Kendra is a yearly ritual. Due to the pandemic, the night-long programmes and the sit-and-draw competition have been dropped this year. Said Pallav Kumar Das, who is also the secretary of the Netaji Krishti Kendra, “At 12.15pm, women of this locality will blow the conch shell. This will mark the time of Netaji’s birth on January 23, 1897. All year long, Netaji Krishti Kendra will have programmes, including debates and seminars.” Netaji’s ancestral house, which finds a mention in the list of heritage sites declared by the West Bengal Heritage Commission, was painted more than a year ago. According to Das, who is also the chairperson of the Rajpur Sonarpur Municipality’s board of administrators, the chief minister has personally been involved in ensuring that this renovation gets done. “Some 35 tiles were broken because of the cyclone. They too have been replaced now. Except for the restoration of the barn, the renovation of the entire house is complete,” he said. Way back in the 18th century, ancestors of Netaji had settled down in this place. Some place the date to 1759. The Kodalia house was built by Netaji’s grandfather, Haranath Bose, in the 18th century. Netaji's father, Janakinath, had spent his childhood there. One room upstairs was used by Janakinath and wife Prabhabati before they moved to Cuttack where Netaji was born and spent his early years. Arpita Chowdhury, who lives in the adjoining house, has heard her father-in-law, Debidas Chowdhury, mention about Netaji’s visit there. “Our families are distantly related. My father-in-law has passed away but the stories remain,” she said. Debidas would often narrate stories of Netaji visiting that house in 1924, 1937 and 1939. While the 1937 visit was during Durga Puja, he had gone there briefly in 1939 and also given a speech, saying that he would have to leave the country in order to gain Independence. Just next to the Chowdhury residence is the thakur dalan of the Bose family where Durga Puja and Saraswati Puja are held. There is also a small puja room where Narayan Seba is carried out daily by a family priest. The practice was started by Netaji’s mother, Prabhabati Bose. Opposite the thakur dalan is a door with a plaque mentioning “Haranath Lodge”. This portion is yet to receive a fresh coat of paint. A few steps ahead is a library built by Netaji’s father Janakinath Bose that has been dedicated to his grandfather, Haranath Bose. “We also have a museum dedicated to Netaji. On Saturday, visitors can take a tour of all these places while maintaining social distancing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ancestral-home-in-kodalia-ready-for-year-long-events/articleshow/80413703.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
January 23, 2021||Trichy||Aerial survey on for excavation in Gangaikonda Cholapuram||Trichy: The state archaeological department on Friday launched a field study in the vicinity of Gangaikonda Cholapuram in Ariyalur district to commence archaeological excavations next month. The study in collaboration with various educational institutes and using unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) will look for potential places for unearthing the archaeological remains of Chola dynasty, particularly of emperor Rajendra Chola I.Since the previous excavations conducted between 1980 and 2008 at Maaligaimedu near Gangaikonda Cholapuram retrieved archaeological remains of palaces such as burnt bricks, ivory carvings and porcelain sherd, the scope of launching another study was on cards. As there are hamlets named Ayuthakalam (weapon depot) and Meikaavalpudur (village of bodyguards), officials said they are surveying such spots in an area of 18 square kilometres to locate spots for excavation. Thermal analysis, undulation of the landscape and study of channels and water streams will be carried out continuously to narrow down the area of excavation. Since Rajendra Chola I shifted the capital of the dynasty from Thanjavur to Gangaikonda Cholapuram, officials said they are hopeful of finding centuries-old Chola era remains and documentation of water management practice. Cholagangam tank and Kumbakonam-Vadalur road localities will be surveyed.“Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) approval for excavation was obtained last month. The study in Gangaikonda Cholapuram will be one of the major excavations by us after Keeladi and Adichanallur,” Dr R Sivanandam, deputy director, state archaeology department, told TOI. Resource persons from the Central University of Tamil Nadu, Institute of Remote Sensing, Anna University and Madurai Kamaraj University were involved in the field study. The Chola kingdom’s contact with China was established in Maaligaimedu with the identification of celadon and porcelain remains, both having origins in China. In September last year, T Udhayachandran, principal secretary and commissioner of the state archaeology department, had inspected the Maaligaimedu site to carry out excavation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/aerial-survey-on-for-excavation-in-gangaikonda-cholapuram/articleshow/80413705.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Trichy||Survey on birds, butterflies to start in Trichy today||Trichy: The forest department has planned a detailed bird and butterfly survey in the district for two days from Saturday. This is the first time that an exclusive survey for birds and butterflies is being carried in Trichy district to identify diversity of species and their numbers by engaging the NGO-- Act for butterflies. The entire district will be covered under the survey by a team of 60-70 members comprising volunteers and forest department staff in all the five forest ranges in the district. “Two teams, with 6-7 members each, will carry out the survey in each forest range. Places known for flocking of birds and butterflies in district have been identified in these forest ranges for intensive survey,” said P Mohan Prasath, founder, Act for Butterflies. There are also several tanks in Trichy which attract good number of birds. Similarly, Pachamalai in Thuraiyur range has also been an ideal location for butterflies. Besides these places, the survey will be carried in Manapparai and Thuvarankurichi forest range as well as the outskirts of the district. Trichy district forest officer D Sujatha said that the last time that a detailed survey was conducted in 2015. “The last time butterfly census was conducted for Pachamalai alone, where 105 butterfly species were spotted,” she said. While new butterfly species were recorded in the tropical butterfly conservatory Trichy (TBCT), the survey will help learn the diversity in other forest ranges in other parts of the district, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/survey-on-birds-butterflies-to-start-in-trichy-today/articleshow/80413709.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Trichy||Trichy firm gets FICCI innovation award||Trichy: A Trichy-based information technology (IT) solutions provider has received Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry’s (FICCI) smart urban innovation award for devising a quick response (QR) code enabled waste collection system. The award was conferred to eQuadriga Software Private Limited for the innovation under the solid waste management category. In September 2018, the IT company designed software for tracking waste collection in Trichy city using QR code. All houses and commercials were provided with a QR code sheet with a unique pattern that ought to be scanned by sanitary workers while collecting waste. The method will identify houses that skip handing over waste to the civic body and also tracks source segregation. The process also consolidates per day’s waste generation data. The award was given to the solution as it can be replicated in other cities to streamline and manage solid waste woes. “Accountability can be ensured in our method. Erring houses that fail to hand over waste at doorstep and waste collection vehicles that skip streets can be identified to initiate action,” Leo Ananth J, managing director, eQuadriga said. The award was announced in a virtual summit held on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-firm-gets-ficci-innovation-award/articleshow/80413702.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Bhiwandi man arrested with Rs 12 lakh opiate||Mumbai: A 34-year-old man, suspected to be a part of a larger gang from Bhiwandi, was arrested by Sakinaka police recently after the gang ordered an opiate ‘Codein’ in large quantities from other states with an intention to peddle the drug. Over 7,200 bottles of the drug (in syrup form) worth Rs 12 lakh were seized. Police said the batch number, expiry date and price had been scratched off the bottles.The police were first alerted about the case by the Food and Drugs Adminitration (FDA) after a chemist approached them with a complaint. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bhiwandi-man-arrested-with-rs-12-lakh-opiate/articleshow/80413716.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Trichy||‘Rahul’s visit intended to herald change’||Trichy: The purpose of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s visit to TN is to call upon the people to initiate change, said Congress MP from Karur, S Jothimani on Friday. Rahul Gandhi is visiting Karur district on Monday after touring Coimbatore and Tirupur districts. Speaking to reporters in Karur, Jothimani said the slogan of Rahul’s tour will be- ‘Tamilagam Meetka, Vivasaayam Kaaka, Vaanga Oru Kai Paarpom’-- Let us challenge and join with ‘hand’ to retrieve Tamil Nadu and save agriculture. “The tradition, language and culture are under threat in BJP ruled-states and Rahul doesn’t want the state of Tamil Nadu to face the threat. Therefore, he is meeting people ahead of assembly election,” she said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rahuls-visit-intended-to-herald-change/articleshow/80413711.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 62 oxen being illegally transported rescued||KOTA: Baran's Sadar police rescued at least 62 oxen being illegally transported by a truck on NH-27 on Friday. However, seven animals were found dead. The driver and helper of the truck succeeded in escaping from the spot. "On the report of the bovine being illegally transported by a truck on Kota-Baran route near SK Factory, the police team reached the spot and rescued at least 62 oxen packed tightly in a truck," said Anis Ahmed, SHO, Baran Sadar police station. At least seven oxen of the total 62 rescued from the truck were found dead, he added. On suspicion of cows being transported illegally by the truck, the members of Gourakshak Dal chased the truck on NH-27, however, truck driver and helper, abandoned the truck and disappeared in the roadside forest taking advantage of darkness early on Friday morning. Police seized the truck bearing MP no. plate and handed over rescued oxen to local cow shelter while lodging a case against the truck driver and helper, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/62-oxen-being-illegally-transported-rescued/articleshow/80412208.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Trichy||TN students win gold medal at Indo-Nepal Rural Youth Games||Trichy: A city college student has won the gold medal in the senior doubles badminton event in the 7th Indo-Nepal Rural Youth Games 2020-21 held in Pokhara in Nepal on Thursday. 19-year-old J Santhosh, a first-year student of B Sc Physical Education at National College Trichy (NCT), won the medal along with his partner K Darshan Kumar of Sathyabama University. The duo played four games in the tournament and registered a victory against tough competitors from Nepal to win the gold medal.Santhosh had almost missed out on the 7th National Rural Youth Games 2020, held in Goa in November 2020 – a gateway to the Indo-Nepal Rural Youth games - after his family members contracted the Covid-19 infection. Remaining in quarantine for a month, he fought back, restarted his training and went on to win gold in the National Rural Youth Games. Santosh won all the six games in the tournament including won a hard fought final against a team from Jammu & Kashmir “It was indeed a tough phase as some of my family members had tested positive. I missing training for a long time. Support from my coach and teachers helped me bounce back,” said Santhosh.He said that he was trying to remain fit and take his game to the next level. “Like all the other athletes, I have also set my sight on the Olympic medal. Right now, I am looking forward to the upcoming tournaments,” added Santhosh.Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu (SDAT) badminton coach E Rajiv Gandhi said the medal is the result of over six years of hard work. Prasanna Balaji, head of physical education and sports science department at NCT, said that registering a victory in the international arena was no ordinary feat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-students-win-gold-medal-at-indo-nepal-rural-youth-games/articleshow/80413713.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC sets up board to examine 14-year-old’s pregnancy, MTP plea||MUMBAI: Bombay HC on Friday set up a medical board to examine a 14-year-old before it decides on an NGO’s plea to allow medical termination of her 27-week pregnancy and asked her parents to remain present before the court. “The child requires emotional support. She is a minor,” said a bench of Justices Amjad Sayed and Madhav Jamdar. Rescue Foundation’s petition said the girl along with her parents and siblings live a difficult life with scarce financial resources in a tribal area of Palghar. The plea said due to their impoverished condition, she was forced to marry a man from their community and compelled to have physical relations with him against her wishes. On January 8, an FIR was lodged against the man under IPC and Pocso sections after the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), Palghar, learnt she had undergone an ultrasound test and was between 3-4 months pregnant. The CWC sent her to the rural hospital for medical examination. It also passed an order stating it was of the opinion that MTP should be performed and sought medical opinion. The girl was brought to JJ Hospital, Byculla, on January 7. The judges questioned if the foetus had any abnormality. NGO’s advocate Ashley Cusher said CWC has recommended MTP for the welfare of the child. The judges sought to know if her parents had consented. “It is better if her parents are here. Makes it easy for us to pass orders,” said Justice Sayed. The judges constituted the medical board and sought its report on January 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-sets-up-board-to-examine-14-yr-olds-pregnancy-mtp-plea/articleshow/80415043.cms||Rosy Sequeira
January 23, 2021||Kolkata||Backbenchers heckle CM, interrupt main Kolkata event||KOLKATA: The audience seated on the Victoria Memorial lawns adjoining Citizens’ Park were enjoying the programme organized to mark Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s 125th birth anniversary when someone in the crowd shouted: “Jai Shri Ram!” Coming after the harmonious notes struck by singer Papon and diva Usha Uthhup, the shrill cry sounded rather discordant. As others standing at the rear joined in, the audience turned around and glared at the youths. Unperturbed, the youths continued to shout “Jai Shri Ram!” The shouts began just before chief minister Mamata Banerjee was invited to speak and ended after she stormed back to her seat, angry over the slogan associated with BJP invading an apolitical event. When the Prime Minister rose to speak and began with “Jai Hind!”, the very crowd repeated, “Jai Hind!” Most of the youths who chanted the slogans stood at the back weren’t invitees of Victoria Memorial Hall but appeared to be those carrying passes distributed from the BJP office for the high-decibel function. The seating arrangement for the audience at the programme was divided in three parts, with the VVIP’s in the first five rows, followed by invitees in the rest and some rows at the rear left for indirect invitees. The chants and jeers initially came from the rear mid-section but soon spread. Many among them were wearing saffron jackets, a favourite among a section of BJP workers who hang around party leaders. Embarrassed by what was happening, some BJP leaders rushed back to control the crowd. But by then the damage was done. Security personnel manning the gate said many BJP leaders insisted on their supporters being allowed to enter the venue, even if they did not have a pass. The SPG officers allowed them in after frisking by police. “Usually at a high-profile programme such as this, the number of entry passes is strictly regulated. More often than not, the number of invitees is always lesser than the number of chairs. But at Victoria Memorial Hall on Saturday, so many were let in that there weren’t enough chairs and people had to stand at the rear,” a security officer said. While a section of the audience, identifiably BJP supporters, felt they had scored a brownie point when the CM lost her cool and decided not to give her address, most of those present, including some BJP supporters, condemned what had happened. Anant Tiwari, a BJP supporter from central Kolkata, rued: “This is shameful. It was an insult to Modiji. She is our CM. She may belong to another political party. How can we shout at her as long as she is the CM?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/backbenchers-heckle-cm-interrupt-main-kolkata-event/articleshow/80426846.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Akhila Priya gets bail in kidnap case||HYDERABAD: Nearly two weeks after the arrest of former AP minister Bhuma Akhila Priya, who is accused by Hyderabad police of being the prime conspirator in the kidnapping of three persons in Bowenpally, she was granted bail on Friday by a local sessions court in Secunderabad. Akhila Priya was declared arrested by city police after she was taken into custody for questioning. On January 5, three brothers — Sunil Rao, Praveen Rao and Naveen Rao — who are the relatives of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s personal assistant, were forcefully taken away by a group of persons from their Bowenpally residence on claims that they are Income Tax officials. However, later, police during their investigation came to know some fake IT officials had taken the three brothers away. Police said that Akhila Priya and her husband Bhargav Ram, with the support of 28 others, planned and executed the kidnapping since they have a property dispute with the victims in Hafeezpet. The accused allegedly tried to take signatures from the victims on some papers, to claim ownership over the property. Akhila Priya was questioned by Hyderabad police in the past after seeking local court’s permission for custodial interrogation. Hyderabad police filed their counter in bail application moved by her and the Secunderabad court, after hearing the arguments of both the sides, granted bail to Akhila Priya. As per the police, the initial planning for the kidnapping took place in the couple’s residence in Kukatpally and later, at a school premises owned by Bhargav Ram’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/akhila-priya-gets-bail-in-kidnap-case/articleshow/80413726.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Trichy||VAO seen seeking bribe from farmers, suspended||Trichy: A village administrative officer (VAO) from Pudukottai district was placed under suspension after a video, where she was caught demanding bribe of Rs 200 from farmers for accepting applications seeking compensation for crop loss, went viral. The district collector P Uma Maheswari ordered for an inquiry and placed the VAO under suspension. Farmers across 1.5 lakh acres of land under cultivation in Pudukottai district have suffered losses because of the incessant rains over the last month. In the video, Vembarasi, the VAO of Kodivayal village near Aranthangi, could be seen asking Rs 200 from farmers. When the farmers asked for the reason, she said that the money will be utilized for the stationary work to process their applications. There was no such direction from the government or revenue department to collect money from farmers after receiving their applications, said a revenue official from Pudukottai. Speaking to TOI, sub collector Anand Mohan said that the VAO is placed under suspension as an inquiry is initiated against her. Necessary action will be initiated based on the outcome of the inquiry. The officials from revenue and agriculture department have assessed the extent of damage and sent a report to the government. Farmers, who have suffered losses, were asked to apply to the revenue officials seeking compensation. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/vao-seen-seeking-bribe-from-farmers-suspended/articleshow/80413714.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Petrol crosses Rs 92-mark; per km cost rises by a rupee||Mumbai: Petrol price here crossed the Rs92-mark for the first time, with people fearing it could soon hit a century if hikes are not kept in check. The rate of petrol was hiked by 24paise on Friday to retail at Rs92.04 per litre. Diesel also escalated to Rs82.40, an all-time high, on Friday. Sources said the per km cost for petrol for motorists during peak hours had gone up by a rupee, from an average Rs4.75 per km to Rs5.75 per km in nine months. This was due to a proportional increase in fuel prices from Rs76.31 in April to Rs92.04 now. This will pinch pockets of office-goers whose monthly petrol bills have gone up by at least Rs 1,100 in Mumbai. If one travels 25km from home to office (to and fro would be 50km daily), one would spend around Rs5,225 per month (Rs4.75x50) on petrol in May last year, and the cost has escalated to Rs6,325 in January 2021. Petrol price in Thane and Navi Mumbai was higher at Rs92.16. NCP activists protested against the petroleum ministry with a symbolic bicycle rally and placards recently. In the wake of increasing petrol and diesel costs, some people have opted for electric vehicles, whose running and maintenance costs are cheaper. But there are not many takers for electric cars as the city lacks a robust e-charging infrastructure, said a transport official. “We are getting more registrations for e-scooters than cars, but overall a little over 2,000 electric vehicles have registered in the city in the past few years,” he said. A transport expert said, “Unless we create a strong infrastructure for vehicle charging and battery replacement, we cannot expect the e-car or e-bike population to grow faster. Besides, electricity at charging points is not completely green not all is derived from renewable sources.” Petrol dealers’ association president M Venkat Rao said there was no drop in customers for petrol across Mumbai metropolitan region, but there was around a 15% drop of those coming to refill diesel at some pumps. Parbhani district continues to have the highest rate of petrol in India at Rs94.45. Transporters’ associations are gearing up for a protest as diesel is nearing the Rs85-mark (Rs83.48 in Parbhani) and they may have to increase freight charges by 7-10%. “Despite the Centre assuring us it will look into our demands, including quarterly review of fuel prices, reduction in tax/excise duty/cess and bringing fuel prices under GST, nothing has been done,” a transporter added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/petrol-crosses-rs-92-mark-per-km-cost-rises-by-a-rupee/articleshow/80412377.cms||Somit Sen
January 23, 2021||Goa||Goa defends amendments, says they don’t weaken Lokayukta||PANAJI: Amid heavy criticism of the state cabinet’s decision to dilute the Lokayukta Act, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday that the new amendments wouldn’t weaken the institution in any way. “Only the issue of eligibility criteria for the post of Lokayukta has been addressed in the amendments,” he said. The cabinet decision on Wednesday sparked a flood of protest, with former judges, lawyers and citizens slamming the government’s apparent pro-corruption move. Sawant also said that citizens of the state should ensure that the Supreme Court-appointed Central Empowered Committee (CEC), which is presently in the state, is informed of Goa’s need for the three linear infrastructure projects. “We have placed the facts before the CEC, and how important the projects are,” he said. “The public should also convey the same to the CEC, or else if the state faces a power shutdown in two years’ time, the people should not abuse the government. If some NGOs speak against the project, the loss will be for the people of Goa, not me personally.” Later on Friday, Sawant said in an interview that the opposition to the three projects is “by some NGOs and opposition parties” with the upcoming assembly elections in sight. “The opposition (to the projects is brewing) because elections are near,” he said. “This is political opposition and not out of love for the environment. Goans should be alert about this. The projects have come to us because we are a coastal state. The projects are with national security and tourism in sight. There are some people and even some NGOs that are opposing the projects. Some forces are operating here against the state’s interest.” He said the government would go ahead with all three projects. “All three linear projects will go ahead and they will be completed. It will be seen that least damage is done,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-defends-amendments-says-they-dont-weaken-lokayukta/articleshow/80413764.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Traffic curbs as Bal Thackeray statue to be unveiled||MUMBAI: The Mumbai Traffic Police issued restrictions on vehicular movement for 4.30pm to 8pm on Saturday, as the Bal Thackeray statue will be unveiled in south Mumbai. The south-bound arm of Mahatma Gandhi Marg-Kalaghoda Jn to Regal Cinema Jn and north-bound arm of Regal Cinema Jn to Kalaghoda Jn will be closed and parking will be prohibited. On Madam Cama Road, from Dr Ambedkar Jn to Regal Cinema Jn will be closed. Parking will also be prohibited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/traffic-curbs-as-statue-to-be-unveiled/articleshow/80415055.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||NGO’s petition on transfer of mangrove land||MUMBAI: In a fresh petition, NGO Vanashakti has sought orders from Bombay high court to ensure transfer of all mangrove lands in possession of various departments of the state, to the state forest department. More than 1,500 hectares of such mangrove lands are to be transferred, the petition says. The HC on Friday issued notices to Cidco, JNPT, MMRDA and all district collectors and posted the matter for hearing after three weeks for interim orders. Swati Deshpande||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ngos-petition-on-transfer-of-mangrove-land/articleshow/80413817.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Sonu Sood came to court with ‘unclean hands’: Bombay HC||MUMBAI: Bombay high court held that actor Sonu Sood (48) had come to court with “unclean hands’’ to seek its protection from civic action against “illegal alterations” to a six-story building which he was using as a hotel in Juhu. Sood’s plea for relief on grounds of ‘equity’ was found to be sans merit. ‘Equity’, in law, is concerned with fairness and justice granted by directing the other side to abide by orders when ordinary legal remedies, including awarding damages, may be inadequate. Justice P K Chavan said, “There is no question of equity being granted to appellants (Sood and wife) as they have approached court with unclean hands, seeking relief of temporary injunction against respondents by repeatedly committing breach of provisions’’ of civic law and Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act. “Equity cannot supplant law,’’ said the Judge in his order made available on Friday. HC accepted BMC’s submission that the actor was a “habitual offender’’. It said it “can be seen’’ that Sood “neither discontinued carrying out additions and alterations’’ but “went on re-erecting the same in the absence of authorization...’’ HC said, “Since there is no application seeking permission, there is no question of retaining the offending structure.’’ The January 21 order held Sood’s appeal to be “devoid of merits and stands dismissed.’’ He had challenged a city civil court order which had last December declined him interim relief against an October 2020 notice issued by BMC to remove “unauthorized development’’ in the building. The HC said BMC can act on the notice and Sood cannot resort to section 43, MRTP Act, to say “no permission is necessary’’ as it contemplates that such permission is not necessary for maintenance or other alterations or work in compliance with any order by an authority. The Soods “themselves have come with a case that they want to convert the offending structure into a residential hotel,’’ noted HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sonu-sood-went-to-court-with-unclean-hands/articleshow/80412375.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Patna||Bihar social media gag uncorks political storm||Patna: The Bihar government’s decision to take action against any individual or organisation if they make “objectionable, inappropriate or misleading” comments on social media against the state government, its ministers or government officers, has sparked a political storm in the state. The directive issued by the state police’s economic offences unit (EoU) has drawn the ire of the opposition parties, which have strongly condemned the order calling it a violation of the constitutional right to freedom of speech. The main opposition RJD launched a frontal attack on the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government with the leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav saying the CM was following in the footsteps of Hitler. Similar reactions came from Congress and other opposition parties. “CM Nitish Kumar has forgotten that democracy started from Bihar and freedom of expression is a fundamental right. If the government, ministers or officials are indulging in corruption why shouldn’t people raise it? Why is he scared of a democratic exercise? If anyone criticises the state government, its schemes or fault in their execution, what is wrong in it? Why is Nitish Kumar Ji scared so much?” Tejashwi told reporters, adding the government should withdraw the order immediately. Tejashwi went on to dare Nitish to arrest him as he accused the government of protecting liquor smugglers. On Thursday, the EOU’s additional director-general, Nayyar Hasnain Khan, had issued a letter to all government departments asking them to inform the EOU if they come across any such report so that necessary legal action taken against such persons or entities. The letter says continuous information is being received about some people or organisations that are involved in making “objectionable, inappropriate or misleading” comments against the government, ministers, MPs, MLAs and government officers. “This is against the law and falls under the category of cybercrime. For such acts, it seems proper to take legal action against such persons or organisations. Notably, EOU is the nodal agency for cybercrimes in the state,” the letter issued by Khan read. Khan told TOI over the phone on Friday that the letter has been completely misinterpreted as an attempt to curb freedom of speech. “Of late, misuse of social media has increased. It is being used with impunity to harm dignitaries and government officials by posting abusive or misleading contents which might even affect tranquillity and peace. Common people approach police but government authorities either ignore such incidents or don’t have knowledge that EOU handles such issues categorised as cybercrime,” Khan said. He further said that the letter is aimed to make them aware of approaching EOU as it’s the only nodal wing of the state police that can interact with social media companies in cybercrime cases. “It has been only suggested that any such incident be brought to EOU’s light so that it may inquire into the matter and take action if found to be a cognizable offence,” the ADG said. However, the Opposition led an all-out attack on the government over the letter. “This letter would not have been issued without the instruction of the CM. He wants to snatch the fundamental rights of the people,” said Congress Legislative Party leader Ajit Sharma. AIMIM state president and MLA Akhtarul Iman said such steps taken by any wing working under the government was dangerous to democracy. “Anyone can criticize the government for their failure. But that does not mean action should be taken against them. Media of any kind, print, electronic or social media should have the freedom,” Iman said. The ruling NDA leaders, however, defended the government’s order. BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal said those writing correct news or information should not be worried. “Why should anyone be afraid if one is not posting anything wrong,” said Dr Jaiswal. JD (U) MLC Neeraj Kumar said everyone had the right to express, but the use of defamatory language or wrong information is not allowed. Neeraj hit back at Tejashwi saying the latter had no idea about constitutional rights and the letter written by the ADG never talked about intruding on anyone’s rights. “As far as the comparison with Hitler is concerned, Tejashwi is not aware of the fact that during Hitler’s time there was no democracy, but we are living in a democratic country,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-social-media-gag-uncorks-political-storm/articleshow/80412301.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 23, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Metrowater will earn 30% more with new meters||CHENNAI: Metrowater is set to earn 30% more revenue from its commercial water connections as the project to introduce automated water meters nears completion. Of the 12,708 commercial connections, about 10,500 have been fitted with these meters. Commerical establishments include hospitals, institutions, marriage halls and multistorey complexes that use more than 5,000 kilo litres of water a day. The project to introduce these meters began in June 2019 and Metrowater hopes to complete it by February. They cost around Rs 6,500 each and Metrowater is footing the bill. The project is funded under the smart city mission and Rs 9.5crore has been spent on it. “Earlier, we had mechanical meters that had several errors in reading. In some locations, it was difficult to manually go and take the reading. This resulted in not just wastage of water but also loss of revenue. So we came up with this project in 2018 and a pilot study was conducted in one locality in Anna Nagar. We found that the savings in water was about 5% and revenue increased by 30%,” said a Metrowater official. At present, Metrowater earns Rs 3,600 a month from each commercial establishment. Already there has been a revenue increase in Adyar, Velachery and other localities where the new meters are in place. Over time, they would be introduced in for partly commercial and residential connections as well. “We are also setting up sensors in every location that would be connected to the servers. This way, the consumer and Metrowater can both check the water consumption and charges on the website itself,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/metrowater-will-earn-30-more-with-new-meters/articleshow/80413795.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Duo coming from Dubai held with Rs 1.2 crore gold at Mumbai airport||MUMBAI: Two passengers, including a woman who arrived from Dubai, were caught with 2.7kg gold worth around Rs 1.2 crore at Mumbai international airport on Thursday morning. AIU arrested Vishal Ramesh Oberoi (35), a resident of Sion-Koliwada, who had a Mauritian passport, and Tarannum Khan. The accused had walked through the green channel without declaring anything. Officials said the gold was hidden inside their clothes in baggage. Officials said the two knew each other and were accompanying each other. The accused have been booked under sections of Customs Act. Both were produced before a local court and remanded to judicial custody. Officials are trying to figure out if the couple acted as carriers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/duo-coming-from-dubai-held-with-rs-1-2cr-gold-at-airport/articleshow/80412374.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 23, 2021||Goa||520 more get jab in Goa, 7 centres to inoculate today||PANAJI: Over 500 more healthcare workers received their first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine on Friday. The second day of vaccination after last weekend, 520 got the jab at seven centres, while on Saturday, seven more centres are set to inoculate HCWs. Goa Medical College (GMC), which held two sessions, vaccinated 100 HCWs in each session. The hospital’s nodal officer, Dr Jagadish Cacodkar, said that they could achieve 100% results due to excellent teamwork under the leadership of the dean and heads of departments. On the launch day of the vaccination drive last week, GMC could only vaccinate 42 candidates, as many did not report for vaccination. On Friday, community health centre, Valpoi, vaccinated 62 persons, North Goa district hospital 57, community health centre, Pernem, 59, Vision hospital 48 and Victor hospital 94. A directorate of health services (DHS) official said that he has no idea why after registering their names for vaccination, some candidates did not report to take shots. Last week, some centres claimed they could not achieve 100% results because the beneficiary list was not shared with them in advance. This week, however, the official said that the list was provided to all centres well in advance so that they could contact the beneficiaries. Also, the official said the DHS has not received guidelines from the Union ministry of health and family welfare yet as to whether candidates who missed the opportunity to get the shot on their appointed day can be called again. From Goa, over 18,000 HCWs have registered on the CoWin portal. No adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) was reported from any of the centres, the DHS official said. The persons who were vaccinated last week are scheduled to get their second and final shot on February 13. In the coming days, more centres will be involved in the vaccination drive, and the exercise will be held at least four days a week. “But we haven’t fixed the vaccination days for next week,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/520-more-get-jab-in-goa-7-centres-to-inoculate-today/articleshow/80413798.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Bhopal||Abiding by all bird flu protocols: Madhya Pradesh tells HC||BHOPAL: The state government responding to a petition seeking effective measures to control the bird flu in MP said that guidelines issued by the Centre for the purpose are being followed. The petitioner, Nagrik Upbhokta Margdarshak Manch, in its petition said that in 2006, MP high court in response to its petition had directed the state government to constitute an expert committee to suggest measures to control bird flu but recommendations of the committee were not followed by the state government. The division bench of Chief Justice, Mohammad Rafiq and Justice V K Shukla had issued notice to the state government in the previous hearing seeking response to the petition. The state government, in its response presented on Friday, said that guidelines issued by the Central government for control of bird flu are being followed and as suggested by the animal husbandry ministry, a committee headed by the district collector and comprising officials of health, forest and urban bodies of the respective districts has also been constituted. Samples are being regularly sent to the High Security Animal Disease Laboratory in Bhopal for testing of bird flu and other precautionary measures to contain the spread of bird flu are being taken. The court after taking the state government's reply on record deferred the case for hearing on January 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/state-says-in-hc-abiding-by-all-bird-flu-protocols/articleshow/80413824.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Boy, bedridden after biker knocks him down, gets Rs 49 lakh||MUMBAI: Six years after a 15-year-old boy, walking to school at Mahim was knocked down by a 20-year-old biker, leaving him in hospital for three months and 100% disabled, a Motor Accident Claims Tribunal recently ordered the biker and his father to pay a compensation of Rs 49 lakh to the victim. The bike was owned by Hardhad Gosavi’s father Aknath. “The vehicle was not insured, so there is no question of liability of the insurance company. The owner and driver are jointly and severally liable to pay compensation,” the tribunal said. The now 21-year-old victim, Jayesh Solanki, requires life-long medical care and assistance. He had suffered severe head injuries. The tribunal said 50% compensation was to be paid to Jayesh and the balance invested in his name in a fixed deposit of any nationalised bank for five years. The claim was submitted by Jayesh’s father Naresh in 2014. He said at the time of the accident, Jayesh was living with his grandmother at Mahim. On July 11, 2012, when Jayesh was crossing the road, the bike rammed into him. He became unconscious. The biker and another person took him to hospital. An FIR was filed against the biker at Mahim police station. Until September 22, 2012, Jayesh was admitted and treated at city hospitals for head, face and lung injuries. As the biker and his father were absent despite summons the tribunal proceeded ex parte. It relied on the FIR and eyewitness statements to find that the biker was riding rashly and negligently. Jayesh’s father showed the tribunal three videos about his condition and the neurosurgeon said he will require regular physiotherapy, nursing care, speech therapy and medication for the rest of his life. The neurosurgeon said Jayesh was 100% disabled. While calculating the compensation, the tribunal awarded Rs 1 lakh towards pain, suffering and trauma. “Medical evidence and electronic evidence clearly established that he is unable to lead a normal life due to injuries in the accident. An amount of Rs 5 lakh will be appropriate as compensation to the applicant, including for loss of expectation of life,” the tribunal said. As Jayesh was a student, a monthly notional income of Rs5,000 needed to be considered. “As his injuries caused 100% disability, this is a fit case for application of multiplier. Considering his age a multiplier of 18 is applicable, which comes at Rs 10.8 lakh,” the tribunal said. Other components included past and future medical expenses, cost of conveyance and special diet, and interest on the total.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/boy-bedridden-after-biker-knocks-him-down-gets-rs-49l/articleshow/80412367.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Complainant against Kangana asked if he has govt sanction||Mumbai: During Friday’s hearing on a lawyer’s sedition complaint against actor Kangana Ranaut, a magistrate court asked if he had sought and received sanction from the state government to invoke serious charges like promoting enmity between groups and waging war against the government. As per Criminal Procedure Code, sanction is necessary before court can take cognisance of charges. The matter was adjourned to March 10 for Ali Kaashif Deshmukh to show if he got the sanction. The lawyer had filed the complaint last year, objecting to the actor’s controversial posts. He said he would write to the state government seeking sanction. In his complaint Deshmukh said that while every Indian citizen had the right to freedom of speech it did not include freedom of “hate speech”. “We all have limitations to use the right to freedom of speech and expression, yet several people, including the present accused, have been spreading hate, breaking brotherhood, integrity of country... through their time and again provoking hate speeches, they are disrupting peace in the country,” the plea said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/complainant-against-kangana-asked-if-he-has-govt-sanction/articleshow/80412358.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu govt to assess learning of classes X, XII students||Chennai: The school education department has begun conducting basic learning assessment tests for students of Classes X and XII students in government schools before starting physical classes to know where they stand in terms of learning. Due to Covid-19, the department broadcast lessons for Classes I to X in Kalvi TV and uploaded video lessons on laptops for those in Classes XI and XII. After schools reopened for Classes X and XII on January 19, after students were taught online for several months, the department has decided to conduct initial learning level assessment tests. “Before starting classes for students who are to appear for the board exams, we wanted to know where they are in terms of learning outcomes. This assessment would help teachers know where students are lacking and plan their classes,” a school education department official said. In the first phase, students of Class XII will take the online test at hi-tech labs in more than 6,000 government high and higher secondary schools. The two and half hour test will consist of 120 multiple choice based questions, with 30 each from the four key subjects. For example, biology-maths group students will get questions from physics, chemistry, maths and biology. After entering the login ID and password, the student’s picture, name and school name will appear on the screen. “The questions will assess the knowledge and understanding of portions covered in the video lessons. It is not an exam,” an official said. For students of Classes XI and XII, the department has created 2,100 video lessons for both English and Tamil medium and uploaded it on their laptops. For students of Classes I to X, more than 4,500 video lessons have been broadcast on Kalvi TV and some private channels. In the second phase, the online assessment for students of Class X students will be done. These students will get 100 questions from all the five subjects in the test that will be two and half hours long. On the first day, the conduct of the online assessment test was marred by a few technical glitches. “Our students waited for a long time for the test to begin on Friday. But, they could not take the test due to server issues. The internet speed at the hi-tech lab is very slow and we are not sure whether they can take tests with such a slow speed,” a headmaster from a city school said. In most of the government higher secondary schools, the hi-tech lab has 20 computers and in government high schools the lab has 10 computers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-to-assess-learning-of-classes-x-xii-students/articleshow/80413861.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Pune||Youth held for possessing illegal drugs||Pune: The Sinhagad Road police on Friday arrested a 25-year-old youth besides seizing 72gm OG Kush (marijuana) and 1kg ganja, collectively worth Rs3.5 lakh, from him. The man, Akshay Shelar of Bavdhan, was held from Vadgaon Budruk. “OG Kush is mainly produced in Pakistan, Afghanistan and the US. It is the first time that this contraband substance has been seized in the city,” senior inspector Devidas Gheware of the Sinhagad Road police said. Sub-inspector Kuldeep Sankpal said OG Kush was brought to the city from Mumbai. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-held-for-possessing-illegal-drugs/articleshow/80413847.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||Now, healthcare workers can take shot at any centre in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Healthcare workers can now walk into any of the hospitals offering Covid-19 vaccines for their shots. In a bid to quicken the pace of vaccination, BMC health authorities on Friday eased the earlier rule that healthcare workers could only get vaccinated at the hospital-centre assigned to them by the Co-WIN software. “The only requirement is the healthcare worker should be pre-registered with the Co-WIN app,’’ said BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare. This is the second time the BMC has relaxed rules since the vaccination drive began on January 16. A few days back, it allowed walk-in appointments for pre-registered medical staff, doing away with the need for a prior appointment (assigned by Co-WIN). The new measure was welcomed by doctors. “I got an SMS from the BMC stating I could go to any of the centres for my vaccine,’’ said a doctor waiting at KEM Hospital, Parel. BKC jumbo facility dean Dr Rajesh Dere said that allowing doctors to walk into centres of their choice would not only make it convenient for most, but also add to the footfall. On Friday, 238 of the 350 who got vaccinated at the BKC centre had walked in. They could be vaccinated using the ‘allot beneficiary’ option despite their names not being there in the daily list that ward offices share with the vaccination centres. However, 64 beneficiaries were sent back as their names were not registered in Co-WIN. To make things smoother, the BMC also plans to put up the names of the pre-registered healthcare workers on its Covid website. At the centre in Sion Hospital, Dr Sanjay Oak, who is the head of the Covid taskforce, couldn’t find his name in Co-WIN initially. “There are software issues still. But what will really drive up the numbers is starting more sites and centres, including in the private sector, for more flexibility,” he said. Dr Oak said that once the issue of registration was sorted out, his vaccination went on smoothly at Sion Hospital. A prior intimation sent out 2-3 days before the vaccination day could also help with turnout. “At present, people have less than two to 12 hours to come to the centres. For doctors and staffers who have planned surgeries, this could be a hindrance,” Dere said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-healthcare-workers-can-take-shot-at-any-centre/articleshow/80415080.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 23, 2021||Lucknow||Round 2: Lucknow hesitant, but 58% take shot||LUCKNOW: The second round of phase I of Covid vaccination drive for healthcare workers on Friday witnessed over 12% percentage points dip in attendance to get the jabs in comparison to 70% in the first session on January 16. Though many senior health officers and doctors lined up for vaccination to motivate others, the overall turnout in the city was 57.8% — only 4,833 out of total 8,354 beneficiaries on the list took the shot. The drive was held at 35 centres. Covidshield was administered at 32 centres and Covaxin at three. As many as 4,496 (57.9%) out of 7,754 selected beneficiaries turned up for the Covidshield vaccine, 337 (56.1%) came against 600 selected for Covaxin. At SGPGIMS, out of 600 in the list, 320 turned up. However, 288 were vaccinated as others were not found to be fit for inoculation because either intended beneficiary was pregnant/lactating mother or had some other health issue. In KGMU, 480 ( 68.5%) out of 700 in the list were vaccinated and at RMLIMS 296 (59.2%) out of 500 selected took vaccines. The turnout was good at some centres. Era’s Lucknow Medical College witnessed 304 (76%) beneficiaries out of 400 in the list taking the shots. Similarly at Balrampur Hospital, 258 (86%) out of 300 opted for the jabs. At Lokbandhu Hospital, where Covaxin was administered, 154 (77%) out of 200 selected took vaccines. Health officials said two cases of mild reaction to the vaccine were recorded at Veerangana Jhalkari Bai Womens’ hospital. The recipients felt dizziness and dryness in their throats. It was found out that they had skipped the breakfast. No serious side effects were reported. The CoWin app too worked smoothly this time unlike January 16 when it had crashed within an hour after the inauguration. Aked about the low attendance, district immunisation officer, Dr MK Singh said, “A number of aganwadi and ASHA workers were on Friday’s list. We had sent them out messages on their official phone numbers and had also made calls, but many did not report. We will ensure they take their shots in round III on January 28.” Chief minister Yogi Adityanath inspected proceedings at RMLIMS in the afternoon. Health minister Jai Pratap Singh visited Bhaurao Devras Hospital and medical education minister Suresh Khanna went to SGPGIMS, Lokbandhu hospital and KGMU. After getting the jab, paediatrician Dr IB Tripathi (63), who had undergone liver transplant surgery recently and is a patient of diabetes and hypertension, said, “Initially I was apprehensive about taking the vaccine but my colleagues motivated me in doing so.” Chief medical superintendent at Veerangana Avanti Bai Womens Hospital, Dr Seema Srivastava (57), said, “Even though I have thyroid issues, doctors said that getting vaccinated will not come in the way of ir and so I was the first person of round II to get vaccinated.” At SGPGI, after inoculation, deputy nursing superintendent Covid-19 ward, Neelam Khokher, said, “The fear of contracting the virus while working is now history. There is no no side effect.” (With inputs from Pranchal Srivastava, Pragati Shukla, Yashita Arora, Niharika Ranjan, Anahita Chauhan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/round-2-city-hesitant-but-58-take-shot/articleshow/80415068.cms||Yusra Husain
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||A few smaller airports witnessed bigger decline||Mumbai: Mumbai airport witnessed a massive drop in passenger traffic as well as flight movement between April and December 2020. In terms of flight movement, other major airports witnessed a lower dip than Mumbai. While Delhi airport saw a 62% drop, it was 60% in Bangalore and 61% in Hyderabad. But the numbers are improving with flight volumes and passenger traffic on a steady rise. From the time domestic air travel restarted in May last year after the lockdown, the Central government has allowed airlines to steadily add more flights. Currently, airlines are allowed to operate 80% of their pre-pandemic schedule. In case of Mumbai airport though, the numbers are down due to added restrictions on flight movements imposed by the state government. The drop in number of flights (domestic and international included) in December 2020 as compared to December 2019 for Mumbai was 44%. In comparison to the nosedive in flight numbers in preceding months —50% in November, 60% in October and 68% in September— things have certainly started looking up. Similarly, passenger traffic decline for Mumbai in December 2020 as compared to December 2019 was 64%. But, in November, it was much higher at 66 %, for October it was 73 %, and in September it was 81%. The only airports that saw a higher decline in passenger traffic than Mumbai in December were smaller ones like Port Blair (87%), Hubli (87%), Pondicherry (99%), Agra (94%), Shimla (93%) etc. The only major Indian airports standing neck to neck with Mumbai (83.2%) were Chennai and Trivandrum airports with an 83.1 % decline in passenger traffic. Though the percentage drop was similar for the three airports, Mumbai being the country’s second largest airport witnessed a comparatively heavier drop in passenger volumes. For instance: Mumbai airport handled 35 million passengers between April-December 2019 as compared to 5.9 million in the same period last year, which is a drop of about 29 million. In comparison, the passenger traffic numbers for Chennai were 17 million in April-December 2019 as compared to 2.9 million in the same period last year, a drop of about 14 million. Similarly, the decline for the same period for Trivandrum airport was 2.5 million passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/a-few-smaller-airports-witnessed-bigger-decline/articleshow/80413878.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Pune||Duo carjack vehicle worth Rs 7 lakh in Pune's Chakan||PUNE: A youth, with the help of his accomplice, drove away with a multi-utility vehicle worth Rs7 lakh after threatening and dragging out the driver of the four-wheeler on Wednesday nightin Chakan. The incident occurred along the Spicer Road in Chakan when the driver, Ganesh Chinchane, was driving to his home. The Chakan police have traced the MUV at Udgir in Latur district. “We are in the process of taking the carjacker and his accomplice into custody,” an officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad police said. Assistant inspector Maheshkumar Chitampalle of the Chakan police said the driver worked with a transport operator. “On Wednesday night, when Chinchane was returning home, two youths on a scooter waylaid and dragged the driver out of his vehicle,” Chitampalle said. The officer said the duo then beat up Chinchane and one of two youths swiftly entered the vehicle and drove away with the MUV. “The other youth also fled at the same time on his two-wheeler,” Chitampalle said. Another officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad police said, “We suspect the incident was fallout of some dispute. Our probe is on.” Chinchane refused to comment on the incident when contacted by TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-carjack-vehicle-worth-rs-7l-in-chakan/articleshow/80413834.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||CM to open Patripul bridge online on Monday||Kalyan: Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) finally completed work on the Patripul rail overbridge here after 26 months and has decided to inaugurate it on January 25. Completion of an additional two-lane bridge will help over two lakh commuters. It is crucial connector between Kalyan and Navi Mumbai, as well as the east and west of the city. MSRDC officials, who on Friday along with Kalyan MP Dr Shrikant Shinde visited the bridge for an inspection, said work had been completed and it will be inaugurated online by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray. While demolishing the 104-year-old British era bridge in August 2018, MSRDC had claimed work on the new bridge would be completed in eight months. Work was delayed due to technical difficulties and five deadlines had passed. People had faced heavy traffic on the two-lane bridge resulting in Shiv Sena facing flak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-to-open-patripul-bridge-online-on-monday/articleshow/80412355.cms||Pradeep Gupta
January 23, 2021||Pune||DIAT launches incubation centre for tech startups on campus||Pune: The Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT), the deemed university of the defence research and development organisation, has opened its door for entrepreneurship and startup programmes as part of its Innovation and Incubation Centre (IIC) policy.DIAT has framed IIC policy and is promoting faculty members and alumni to launch startup companies on the DIAT campus. The idea is to develop indigenous solutions for various technological challenges within the country. The IIC-DIAT hosted its first company on campus — Navyukti Innovations Private Limited.The company is led by Sangeeta Kale of DIAT along with medical professionals, market experts and DIAT alumni. Navyukti mainly works on development of bio-medical devices, drug delivery vehicles and advanced sensors. The company was inaugurated by-vice chancellor CP Ramanarayanan.“Under the IIC-DIAT policy, our endeavour is to establish and promote entrepreneurship and start-up centres in the field of futuristic technologies, in addition to defence technology. The policy aims to engage students and faculty in IIC activities,” Ramanarayanan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/diat-launches-incubation-centre-for-tech-startups-on-campus/articleshow/80413855.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan Budget session to kick off on February 10||JAIPUR: The budget session of the assembly will begin on February 10, according to an official release issued by the Raj Bhavan on Friday. According to the release, governor Kalraj Mishra gave approval for the sixth session of the 15th assembly from February 10 after declaring the conclusion of the fifth session on January 21. The fifth session of the assembly was adjourned sine die on November 2 after a debate over the Centre's new agriculture laws. The state government had sent a proposal to this effect on Thursday which the governor accepted. The session will begin with the address of the governor as it is the first session the year. The assembly will miss four MLAs who had passed away after the previous session. In between the two sessions the strength of the assembly has been reduced to 196 in the 200-strong assembly. Congress MLAs Master Bhanwarlal Meghwal, Kailash Trivedi, Gajendra Singh Shaktawat and BJP MLA Kiran Maheshwari passed away during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/budget-session-from-feb-10/articleshow/80412322.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Chennai||I begged, but none helped: Girl, 7, who saw mother’s murder in Chennai||CHENNAI: Clutching her eight-month-old half-sister, a seven-year-old girl (name withheld) wailed in vain to stop her step-father Madhan, 42, from hitting her mother with an iron rod and killing her at their little home near Avadi in the city’s western suburbs. She even rushed out and pleaded with some of their neighbours and onlookers to stop her step-father. But no one dared to intervene. The incident occurred was on Thursday. Now, her mother Saritha is dead and Madhan is in jail, leaving the girl and her toddler-half sister under the care of a relative. “I was crying and pleading (with my stepfather) to not assault her. But, he kept on hitting her. I ran to neighbours and even to next street pleading for help. But nobody came,” she said. “They told me they can’t help,” said the child, sobbing inconsolably. The Avadi police who listened to the sad story of the child and several social media regulars were moved when the seven-year-old’s recorded deposition went viral. Madhan, a divorcee, married Saritha, 35, who had the seven-year-old daughter from her previous marriage. The couple lived near Avadi. Seven months ago, Saritha and Madhan became parents of a girl. On Thursday, an argument broke out between the couple over Saritha’s plan to work in a private firm. “Initially, the girl assumed that it was one of the usual fights between her parents. She was least prepared for her mother’s murder being committed right in front of her. The incident would surely leave her in shock for the rest of her life,” a police officer told TOI. All that the girl could recall was her mother crying for help even as blood oozed from her ears and head. Minutes later, she collapsed on the ground. Though scared herself, the seven-year-old held on to her little sister and ensured that she did not get hit in the melee. The child held her eight-month-old sister in her hand as she began to cry helplessly. She ensured the child did not get scared seeing her mother in a pool of blood. Madhan, however, fled with the eight-month-old girl after the murder, only to be nabbed by police within two hours in connection with the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/i-begged-but-none-helped-girl-7-who-saw-moms-murder/articleshow/80413919.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt school students can opt for third language||JAIPUR: The education department has decided to give options to government school students to opt for a third language. According to an order issued on Friday, if any upper primary school have 10 or more than 10 students willing to learn a third language, then a third language teacher will be appointed. The order is said to be a big relief after controversy on an earlier order of the state government in 2020 in which government allowed students to study only one subject of third language which is available in the schools. This severely questioned the relevance of Udru, Sindhi, Punjabi and Gujarati languages as by default only Sanskrit is available in government schools. Now, government has taken the earlier order back and have decided to promote appointments of minority language teachers. School education minister Govind Singh Dotasra in a press conference on Friday said that this decision will create around 500 additional posts in schools for minority language teachers. “There has been a demand for this and we have complied by it as our government always want to encourage the minority language promotion. With the creation of new gram panchayat, rescheduling of schools will be done and 1350 posts will be made,” said Dotasra. According to the new education policy, a student must be encouraged to study in his/her mother tongue. President of Urdu Shiksha Sangh, Rajasthan, Ameen Kayamkhani, said, “This is our right which government has just repeated in words as according to rules a student should be taught in his or her mother tongue. Now, government must improve the condition of minority schools in the state. There is a need to appoints more teachers, publish school books that are out of print of many years and give proper infrastructure to Urdu schools in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-school-students-can-opt-for-third-language/articleshow/80412320.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan Budget session to kick off on February 10||JAIPUR: The budget session of the assembly will begin on February 10, according to an official release issued by the Raj Bhavan on Friday. According to the release, governor Kalraj Mishra gave approval for the sixth session of the 15th assembly from February 10 after declaring the conclusion of the fifth session on January 21. The fifth session of the assembly was adjourned sine die on November 2 after a debate over the Centre's new agriculture laws. The state government had sent a proposal to this effect on Thursday which the governor accepted. The session will begin with the address of the governor as it is the first session the year. The assembly will miss four MLAs who had passed away after the previous session. In between the two sessions the strength of the assembly has been reduced to 196 in the 200-strong assembly. Congress MLAs Master Bhanwarlal Meghwal, Kailash Trivedi, Gajendra Singh Shaktawat and BJP MLA Kiran Maheshwari passed away during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/budget-session-from-feb-10/articleshow/80416358.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Pune||Suffocation cause of workers’ death||Pune: Police on Friday said suffocation was the cause of the five workers’ death inside the Serum Institute of India’s (SII) plant at Manjari near Hadapsar when a fire broke out in the facility on Thursday. Senior inspector Balkrishna Kadam and in charge of the Hadapsar police said, “The workers died due to suffocation. There were reports that the fire brigade had recovered charred bodies of the workers. This information was based on the fact that the colour of the bodies had turned black due to the fumes.” The deceased were identified as Mahendra Prakash Ingle (30) from Akola, Pratik Sanjay Paste (21), a resident of Deccan Gymkhana in the city, Sushilkumar Pande (26) from Bihar and Ramashankar Chotelal Harijan (21) and Vipinlal Bahadur Saroj (31) from Uttar Pradesh. The police said they were engaged in insulation, wiring, uninterruptible power source and air-conditioner installation at different places in the building at the time of the fire.  SII’s human resources head, Ramesh Shankarrao Patil, has registered a complaint relating to the accidental fire under Section 174 of CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/suffocation-cause-of-workers-death/articleshow/80413910.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 23, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan Budget session to kick off on February 10||JAIPUR: The budget session of the assembly will begin on February 10, according to an official release issued by the Raj Bhavan on Friday. According to the release, governor Kalraj Mishra gave approval for the sixth session of the 15th assembly from February 10 after declaring the conclusion of the fifth session on January 21. The fifth session of the assembly was adjourned sine die on November 2 after a debate over the Centre's new agriculture laws. The state government had sent a proposal to this effect on Thursday which the governor accepted. The session will begin with the address of the governor as it is the first session the year. The assembly will miss four MLAs who had passed away after the previous session. In between the two sessions the strength of the assembly has been reduced to 196 in the 200-strong assembly. Congress MLAs Master Bhanwarlal Meghwal, Kailash Trivedi, Gajendra Singh Shaktawat and BJP MLA Kiran Maheshwari passed away during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/budget-session-from-feb-10/articleshow/80416359.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Mumbai||UP police teams in Mumbai as complaints filed against 2 web series||MUMBAI: A team from Uttar Pradesh police in city to investigate a complaint against the web series 'Tandav' recorded the statements of the director, writer and producer on Friday. The UP police had separately registered FIRs against the show's makers and the OTT platform Amazon Prime Video's content head for hurting religious sentiments and portraying the police poorly. Later, the Ghatkopar police in Mumbai also lodged a case. Portions from at least two controversial scenes of the web series have already been snipped off. "We had visited the residence of the show's director, Ali Abbas Zafar, on Thursday. As he was unavailable, we left behind a notice asking him to appear before the investigating officer at Lucknow by January 27 and record his statement," said Anil Kumar Singh, a UP police officer. The UP police's contact numbers were mentioned on the notice. "Zafar got in touch with us and expressed his willingness to get his statement recorded in Mumbai itself. It was agreed that statements of Zafar, writer Gaurav Solanki and producer Himanshu Mehra would be recorded at one place-- their office in Andheri West-- on Friday. Accordingly, their statements have been recorded. The fourth accused, Aparna Purohit from Amazon Prime Video, is not in town," Singh said. The Bombay High Court has already granted three weeks' transit anticipatory bail to all four accused. There has been demand from several right wing groups for the need to regulate online content. In October 2020, the Supreme Court had issued a notice to the central government and the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IMAI), in a petition to regulate OTT platforms by an autonomous body. Another UP police team which is in the city to probe a complaint against the web series 'Mirzapur' began their investigation on Friday after waiting for two days for a nod from the Mumbai crime branch. A complaint has been registered against the show's makers at UP for outraging religious sentiments. "We have verified the addresses of the accused and visited the OTT platform's office in BKC, but none of them were available on Friday. We may return to UP and send them notices by post," said inspector VK Chaurasia. On Thursday, the UP police team had ventured on its own to the residence of one of the show's producers, but the Mumbai Police intervened and asked them to obtain the necessary permissions first. A nod was finally given on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/up-police-teams-in-mumbai-as-complaints-filed-against-2-web-series/articleshow/80412352.cms||Nitasha Natu
January 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Poor drain network triggered last October Hyderabad floods: Osmania University study||SECUNDERABAD: An inefficient sewage system, decades-old nalas and stormwater drain network led the city go through a disaster in the floods occurred in October 2020, said by a survey report prepared by the civil engineering department, Osmania University. After floods devastated the city, OU had taken up a pilot study through online information mode by inviting all sections of residents. “The survey was conducted online through different platforms such as WhatsApp, Facebook, and LinkedIn on floods which occurred between October 13 and 15. The main aim of the survey was to understand the severity of the disaster and help in formulation of a proper flood management plan. A total of 315 responses were received and analysis from these details was carried out to study the impact of floods,” M Gopal Naik, OU, former head of civil engineering department, who carried out the study, told TOI. From the study, it is observed that the 46.07% of affected area were first-time inundated areas. 32.72% areas had suffered from 2 to 5 times inundation. Around 7% areas had been affected with 6 to 10 times inundation and 14% areas had suffered more than ten times inundation. Less than 40% areas had waterlogged areas of 2 feet depth. whereas around 46% areas had waterlogging of 2 feet to 5 feet depth and 12% areas suffered above 5 foot inundation, said Naik. The study, which was also done on existing sewerage system and nala system, revealed that the existing sewer network system in the core city areas is very poor and due to the increased load of sewage flow, the existing system is not able to cope up with the required facilities. During the study, it was noticed that most of the natural nalas and road side drains are clogged with garbage. Due to the rapid urbanization, most of the storm water drains were encroached, resulting in narrowing of the width of the original stream. In fact, most of the slum dwellers and residents of weaker sections occupy and reside on the banks of the major drains, causing obstructions to the free flow of storm water, said Naik. Apart from sewerage system and nala system, the study was done on lakes too. “There are 184 lakes (tanks) in Hyderabad and they have a fixed full tank level (FTL). The water holding capacity of all these lakes/tanks has decreased gradually over the years due to all the industrial waste and sewage being dumped into the lakes. Moreover, sensitive catchment areas like lakes and tanks have been illegally occupied without proper permission,” according to the survey report. Certain recommendations include a pilot study in catchment areas and designing of a proper drainage system according to contour levels. “Identify the illegal encroachment across nalas, river embankments and immediately clear critical areas of encroachments, and prepare risk mapping of areas of the city by using gsespatial technology, the report suggested. We have submitted the survey report to the vice-chairman of Telangana State Planning Commission, B Vinod Kumar to implement it to save the city from future floods, added Naik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poor-drain-network-triggered-last-oct-city-floods-ou-study/articleshow/80413904.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 23, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan Budget session to kick off on February 10||JAIPUR: The budget session of the assembly will begin on February 10, according to an official release issued by the Raj Bhavan on Friday. According to the release, governor Kalraj Mishra gave approval for the sixth session of the 15th assembly from February 10 after declaring the conclusion of the fifth session on January 21. The fifth session of the assembly was adjourned sine die on November 2 after a debate over the Centre's new agriculture laws. The state government had sent a proposal to this effect on Thursday which the governor accepted. The session will begin with the address of the governor as it is the first session the year. The assembly will miss four MLAs who had passed away after the previous session. In between the two sessions the strength of the assembly has been reduced to 196 in the 200-strong assembly. Congress MLAs Master Bhanwarlal Meghwal, Kailash Trivedi, Gajendra Singh Shaktawat and BJP MLA Kiran Maheshwari passed away during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/budget-session-from-feb-10/articleshow/80416357.cms||---
January 23, 2021||Pune||Pune: Four arrested on charge of abusing traffic cops||PUNE: Four residents of Sayyadnagar were arrested on Thursday on the charges of abusing traffic policemen and beating up two men, who tried to intervene. The accused also allegedly helped a trio, who were stopped by the traffic police for riding triple seat in a No Entry zone, to escape from the spot. The incident happened on Wednesday night at Mohammedwadi Road in Hadapsar. The arrested suspects Mohsin Shaikh (24), Faijal Ansari (25), Shakil Ansari (24) and Shahbaz Ali (24) were produced before the court on Thursday and remanded to police custody for one day. Sub-inspector Ankush Dombale of Wanowrie police station said that, on Wednesday night, assistant inspector (traffic) Umaji Rathod and his team were manning traffic near the railway gate at Sayyadnagar. “One of the constables noticed three youths riding a bike in the No Entry zone. When the constable told them to stop, the trio dodged him and drove further. API Rathod too tried to stop them. In an attempt to avoid the officer, the motorcyclist lost his balance and they fell off the vehicle,” Dombale said. The four suspects, who were in the area, began creating a scene and abused the cops. “The suspects helped the trio escape from the spot,” Dombale said, adding, “When the police tried to nab the trio, the suspects did not allow them to do so.” The police also said other accomplices of the suspects remain on the run. “We will arrest them too,” Dombale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-arrested-on-charge-of-abusing-traffic-cops/articleshow/80413917.cms||---
