January 24, 2021||Goa||10-man FC Goa hang on for a point as Gonzalez sees red||Playing the last 30 minutes with 10 men, FC Goa trooped out with mixed feelings after settling for a 1-1 draw against Kerala Blasters at the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim on Saturday. Jorge Ortiz fired home a freekick in the 25th minute to give Goa the lead, and even though the league champions allowed KP Rahul – the shortest player in the box – to jump high and nod the equaliser in the 57th minute, they were still in control. Against a make-shift Kerala defence with three regulars missing, Goa fancied their chances. Star striker Igor Angulo had also taken the field at the start of the second half for the first time in three games. It was advantage Goa, yet everything changed within a matter of seconds, in the 65th minute. Defender Ivan Gonzalez first got booked for an innocuous foul on Gary Hooper and then another yellow card followed as he touched referee Ranjit Baksi. His sending off crippled Goa. Left with an all-Indian defence – with James Donachie limping off early in the game – Goa held on for a point. The draw kept Goa third with 20 points from 13 matches, while Kerala moved to seventh with 14 points. For the third successive game, coach Juan Ferrando left Angulo on the bench. The Spanish sharpshooter, leading the goalscoring charts with nine goals, was sacrificed as Goa opted for pace and control in midfield. It seemed to work in the first half when Edu Bedia, Alberto Noguera and Princeton Rebello all played their part. Quite unexpectedly, it were Kerala who had the first chance. They were almost gifted a goal. That a woefully out of form Gary Hooper failed to capitalise on goalkeeper Naveen Kumar’s blunder just outside the box is a different story. Ortiz is fast turning out to be the signing of the season and he almost gave Goa an early lead, against the surprisingly defensive opponents. Edu and Noguera combined well to set Ortiz free, but the Spanish winger, and everyone else, could not believe their eyes as his shot from a narrow angle hit the goalpost, crossbar, and again the goalpost, before bouncing back into play. Ortiz, though, was not to be denied a goal, his fifth goal in the league. His freekick saw the ball take a slight deflection off Sahal Abdul Samad's head and goalkeeper Albino Gomes misjudged the flight of the ball. Kerala didn’t have a shot on goal in the first 45 minutes and just two touches inside the box. In the second session, Kerala were much better. They created chances too and had Rahul to thank for throwing them a lifeline, as he jumped high to head the ball into the Goa net from a corner. Gonzalez’s red card should have handed the initiative back to Kerala. Instead, when it mattered the most, they were found wanting in front of goal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/10-man-fc-goa-hang-on-for-a-point-as-gonzalez-sees-red/articleshow/80426873.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
January 24, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Residents panic as leopard spotted in apartment||BENGALURU: Fear gripped residents of Prestige Song of the South, an apartment complex off Bannerghatta Road, after a leopard strayed into the premises in the early hours of Saturday. The development sent police and forest officials into a tizzy as the big cat couldn’t be tracked even after a six-hour combing operation. #Video: CCTV footage of the Prestige Song of the South apartment, located off Koppa-Begur Road, shows the #leopard… https://t.co/J4CRGeeeyj— TOI Bengaluru (@TOIBengaluru) 1611470927000The leopard entered the complex, which is spread over 33 acres at Yelenahalli, from the nearby Bannerghatta forest around 5.30am. CCTV cameras captured its movement in the open car park. Following this, police and forest officials were alerted and they rushed to the spot around 6am. Meanwhile, apartment authorities informed residents about the leopard’s presence and warned them against venturing out. The notice shared at 6.43am on WhatsApp groups of Prestige Song of the South read: “Dear residents, Spotted a leopard near tower 12/14. Police have arrived and combing operations started. Forest officials on the way. Please do not come out of your apartment and panic until further notice. Will update the status.” Soon, news spread and residents of neighbouring apartment complexes were also alerted through WhatsApp. One such message from Raj Serenity apartment read: “Dear residents, there was a leopard spotted in Prestige Song of South and police and forest officials are doing the combing operations. Given the proximity, we would request all residents of Raj Serenity to exercise caution. Measures like not to send kids outside alone.. etc could be few aspects that residents may ensure. Management committee will keep you posted as we hear further updates on the combing operations.” G Venkatesh, assistant conservator of forests (Bengaluru Urban), said they scoured the area till 11.30am and found that the leopard had gone. “However, we made an announcement in neighbouring localities, including Chikkatogur, Doddatogur, Kyatanahalli and Electronics City. Forest officers will continue patrolling the localities for two days,” he said. Asked what could be the reason for the leopard to venture into human habitation, Venkatesh said “There are many poultry farms in and around these localities. The smell emanating from them attracts leopards in nearby forests. Also, stray dogs in these areas are leopards’ favourite food,” he explained. During the operation, occupants of the complex were seen glued to their windows, watching police and foresters in action. The forest officials were equipped with large nets and tranquilisers. “We tried our best to track the leopard through its pug marks. But they were not present everywhere. They could be seen only on muddy surfaces,” a forester said. The combing operation resumed after the leopard was spotted again around 8.30pm, this time behind the complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/residents-panic-as-leopard-spotted-in-apartment/articleshow/80426961.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru firm duped us, say healthcare workers seeking jobs abroad||BENGALURU: Twenty healthcare workers from across the country have approached Bengaluru police and Protector of Emigrants (POE) after they were allegedly cheated by a city-based consultancy, which claims to help health professionals get employment overseas. Cases have been booked against Sendhil Siddthan, director of Bioplannet India Private Limited (located in Koramangala), and the firm at several police stations. Sources in POE said the scam runs into more than Rs 1 crore. “We have received complaints from many people,” said an officer. STOI has accessed a complaint by Gujarat-based orthopaedic surgeon Bhuvanesh Chaturvedi, written to the ministry of external affairs (POE comes under MEA). It claims he was lured with a job in Ireland and paid Rs 4.7 lakh to Sendhil in two instalments in 2018. Eventually, Chaturvedi realised he had been cheated and ended up filing a complaint at Koramangala police station October last year. “Sendhil lured me by saying he will get me a licence to practise in Ireland and sought all the necessary documents. But when I went back to his office in HSR Layout, I discovered he had shifted to Koramangala. I have registered a complaint but no action has been taken,” Chaturvedi said. Biju ES, a pharmacist from Kochi in Kerala, said he had paid Rs 2 lakh to get a visa for Canada but till date there has been no progress. The victims include residents of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Gujarat and Maharashtra. Sendhil has been summoned by POE and HSR Layout police, but is yet to show up. HSR Layout police said he has changed his mobile number. When STOI contacted Sendhil over phone, he denied the allegations, stating his firm only helps people register with the respective authority to carry out healthcare work abroad. “We assist them with immigration, but don’t do it,” he said. Regarding the cases, he said, “The countries where these people had applied have not accepted their applications and will be refunding the money. As soon as they do, we will give it back to the clients. I will appear before POE with the responses I have received from foreign agencies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/firm-duped-us-say-healthcare-workers-seeking-jobs-abroad/articleshow/80426966.cms||Kiran Parashar
January 24, 2021||World||Chopper scam-accused Christian Michel pens 35-page letter to British govt||LONDON: AugustaWestland chopper scam accused British national Christian Michel who has been languishing in Tihar Jail for two years has written a handwritten letter to UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, foreign secretary Dominic Raab and home secretary Priti Patel calling on the UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) to intervene in his case, claiming his extradition from Dubai to India was politically-motivated and that he has been tortured. In the 35-page correspondence, which his lawyer, Toby Cadman, of Guernica 37 International Justice Chambers, released on Saturday, Michel, 54, sets out his dismay at the failings of the British government to help and claims he was handed over to the Indian authorities “unlawfully” by the UAE “as part of a quid pro quo for the return of Sheikha Latifa”. In March 2018, the 35-year-old daughter of Dubai’s billionaire ruler was intercepted on a yacht about 50 miles off the coast of Goa in a joint India-UAE operation and sent back to Dubai. Michel was extradited from Dubai to India on December 4, 2018. In the letter, dated January 7, Michel writes that the first request for his extradition from the UAE to India failed and the second request “coincided with the handing over of Sheikha Latifa to Dubai by the Indian authorities”. He states that the Indian government “reinstated the extradition procedure” two days after a meeting took place between him and a senior CBI official in May 2018 after he “refused to cooperate in signing a 20-page confession incriminating himself”. Michel also claims that whilst imprisoned in Dubai, awaiting extradition, he was prevented from accessing his lawyer and denied private consular access. In Tihar jail, he claims he has been subjected to “repeated and prolonged interrogations aimed at securing a confession by way of duress”, as well as “inhuman or degrading treatment that… constitutes torture.” In April 2019, Cadman filed an urgent communication with the United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and with the UN Special Rapporteur on Torture against both the UAE and India with regard to Michel. “We fully expect the UN Working Group to rule that Christian is being arbitrarily detained and recommend his immediate release. That ruling is imminent,” he said. “The process that led to his removal from the UAE was a politically motivated decision. This extradition process can only be defined as a political extradition or better, a political rendition. The complete lack of due process is utterly unacceptable. He has been detained in conditions that can only be described in flagrant breach of the fundamental guarantees under national and international law. The FCDO must take immediate steps to intervene,” Cadman said. Michel is accused of bribing and criminally conspiring with Indian officials to win a contract on behalf of British helicopter manufacturer AgustaWestland for 12 VVIP helicopters in 2010 and of receiving Rs 375 crore (€ 42.27million) in kickbacks for securing the deal. A UK government spokesperson said: “Our staff continue to support a British man who has been detained in Delhi since 2018 and regularly raise his case with the Indian authorities. The Foreign Secretary raised it with India’s Minister of External Affairs, Dr Jaishankar, during his visit to India in December 2020. Minister of State for South Asia and the Commonwealth, Lord (Tariq) Ahmad of Wimbledon has met with his family based in the UK, and we continue to provide them with updates on his case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/chopper-scam-accused-christian-michel-pens-35-page-letter-to-british-govt/articleshow/80426964.cms||NAOMI CANTON
January 24, 2021||Bengaluru||2,000 illegal quarries active in Karnataka: Officials||BENGALURU: The recent blast that killed six people in Shivamogga district is a sad pointer to unbridled illegal quarrying and stone crushing happening in the state. No government has so far succeeded in ending the menace and the 2018 report of the state mines and geology department underlines the severity — there are about 30,000 such violations. After the report which was prepared following a three-year survey, Karnataka Lokayukta Justice P Vishwanatha Shetty had directed officials to take measures to protect natural resources and prevent environmental imbalance. The officials had ordered to stop all kinds of activities and even registered cases against violators after collecting a fine of Rs 110 crore. Yet, authorised quarries continued to operate. Mines department officials said the government has so far given licence to only 450 decorative stone quarries and 300 stone quarries. And, there could be over 2,000 illegal quarries. “We had stopped monitoring for a year or so since the outbreak of the pandemic. We’re contemplating initiating proceedings against illegal quarries,’’ Justice Shetty told TOI. In Bengaluru too, such quarries and crushers are brazenly operating within the 1-2km radius of sensitive installations like the Isro Space Centre in Byalalu, Arkavathi river catchment, Manchanabele dam and Bannerghatta National Park, said Praveen Bhargav, former member, National Board for Wildlife. “These have come up under the façade of economic development. Politicians cutting across the party lines lobby to facilitate environmental clearances for redundant railway and highway projects and then secure lucrative contracts for supplying stone and jelly to project proponents through benami operators,’’ he alleged. Though chief minister BS Yediyurappa has promised a crackdown, Bhargav said it may have little or no impact as many of the operators are proxies for politically connected people. Unregulated use of high-intensity explosives is another issue. A case in point is Mandya district where there are 80 stone-extraction units, a majority of them owned by politicians in Srirangapatna and Pandavapura taluks. Most operators use powerful explosives to extract stones, posing a grave threat to Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam. Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) had submitted a report to the district administration in September last year after tremors were felt close to the dam. A ban on use of explosives was then imposed temporarily. The issue was also raised in Lok Sabha by Mandya MP Sumalatha, but nothing much has changed on the ground. According to green activists, some operators use high-power electric detonators and caps in the absence of proper monitoring, besides employing untrained migrant workers. “At least three trained persons — mine manager, shot firer, and blaster — should supervise blasts, but the rule is hardly followed,’’ they said, pointing out the negligence of police in checking such practices. The situation is more alarming in environmentally sensitive areas of Western Ghats or Malnad region, where quarries are built by removing soil from the surface level.  This affects natural absorption of water into soil and results in mudslide and tremors. Karnataka had experienced several landslides and tremors between 2017 and 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/2k-illegal-quarries-active-officials/articleshow/80426980.cms||ManuAiyappa Kanathanda
January 24, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 30 calves abandoned at fair, taken to goshala in Hassan||HASSAN: Days after the anti-cow slaughter law came into force, some farmers in Hassan abandoned 30 male calves after the weekly cattle fair at the APMC campus in Channarayapatna on Friday as they didn’t find buyers. Members of pro-farmers and pro-labourers’ organisations took the calves to the tahsildar’s office where they were treated by veterinarians before they were taken to a goshala in Mysuru under police cover. "On Friday at 11.30am, 30 abandoned male calves were brought to my office premises. As no one bought the calves, their owners were upset and left the calves behind,” said Channarayapatna tahsildar JB Maruthi. “As the calves were weak and pale due to long exposure to sunlight in the morning, veterinarians were summoned to treat them. The calves were provided milk,” Maruthi added. Social activist Mahesh said with the new law in place, farmers are wary of buying male calves. He said: “I noticed stray dogs trying to attack the unguarded calves. There were reports of 70 calves initially at the spot, but some other farmers took a few away as they could be useful for ploughing in future. We shifted the remaining calves to the tahsildar’s office.” “We have submitted a requisition to the government, asking for possible ways of purchasing male calves through the dairy system and this will reduce the burden on farmers,” he added. As per provisions of the new anti-cow slaughter law, people need to take permission from authorities before transporting cattle and there are restrictions in disposing them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/30-calves-abandoned-at-fair-taken-to-goshala/articleshow/80426982.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Bengaluru||Setback for Mysore Minerals Limited as high court quashes Bengaluru court order||BENGALURU: In a setback to state-owned Mysore Minerals Limited (MML), the high court has quashed a city court order, allowing it to raise a counterclaim for damages of about Rs 1,172.8 crore from M/s JSW Steel Limited. On November 10, 2020, the 82nd Additional City Civil Judge, Bengaluru, allowed MML’s application, along with the written statement, filed in response to the suit filed (in 2012) by JSW which had sought refund of excess premium of Rs 272 crore paid for supply of iron ore. JSW challenged the civil court’s order, contending that the counterclaim submitted by MML is an after-thought and courts cannot entertain it as it runs contrary to the Limitation Act. While MML argued that the foundation for the counterclaim had already been laid in the written statement and it was acknowledged by the civil court. Justice Krishna S Dixit pointed out that what the law of limitation bars is the remedy and not the grounds on which it is founded. “Even if the respondent (MML) had taken up all the grounds in the written statement, a prayer for counter decree cannot be belatedly superadded once it becomes time-barred,” he noted. Quashing the civil court order, the judge said when a (civil) court had no discretion to disobey the mandate of law namely, section 3(i) r/w 3(2)(b)(ii) of the Limitation Act-1963, it could not have granted leave to make a counterclaim by amending the written statement. Keeping all other contentions of the parties open, the judge has directed the civil court to try and dispose of the suit within one year and report compliance to the Registrar General of the HC. MML had entered into an MoU in 1997 to attract investments in the steel sector and revive its finances. When the Supreme Court banned mining in the state, it was kept on hold. Thereafter, JSW filed a civil suit against MML claiming refund of excess premium of Rs 272 crore paid by it for supply of ore .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/setback-for-mml-as-hc-quashes-city-court-order/articleshow/80426988.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Bengaluru||Sandalwood drug scandal: Ragini Dwivedi may be released from Central Prison tomorrow||BENGALURU: Actress Ragini Dwivedi, who was granted bail by the Supreme Court on Thursday in the drug-peddling case with alleged Sandalwood links, may have to wait till Monday before walking out of Central Prison. “The apex court hadn’t mentioned any conditions for bail. The trial court heard the matter on Saturday, 3pm, and spelt out terms, including providing surety of two persons and furnishing a personal bond of Rs 3 lakh. The process will be completed by Monday,” Ragini’s advocate Mohammed Tahir said. Read AlsoSupreme Court grants bail to Ragini Dwivedi in drug peddling caseThe apex court on Thursday granted bail to Sandalwood actress Ragini Dwivedi, arrested in alleged drug peddling case on September 4, 2020. Earlier, her bail petitions were rejected by local courts including Karnataka high court after which she had approached Supreme Court in second week of December.If Ragini is released on Monday, it will be her 144th day of imprisonment. Central Crime Branch (CCB) sleuths had arrested her on September 4 for alleged involvement in peddling drugs. Her bail petitions were rejected by a special court for Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS), 1985 as well as the Karnataka High Court. She moved the SC in the second week of December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ragini-may-be-released-from-central-prison-tomorrow/articleshow/80426989.cms||---
January 24, 2021||World||UN cautions staff against flying by any Pakistan-registered airline||ISLAMABAD: The United Nations has cautioned staff of all its agencies across the world against using any Pakistan-registered airline, including the national flag carrier Pakistan International Airlines (PIA), due to concerns about the dubious flying licences of its pilots. The news about fake licenses of PIA pilots was revealed by the country’s aviation minister Ghulam Sarwar Khan on the floor of the National Assembly last year in July. An advisory issued by the UN Security Management System (UNSMS), stated: “Due to an ongoing investigation of the CAA (Civil Aviation Authority) Pakistan…due to dubious licenses caution is advised on the use of Pakistan-registered air operators.” The UN advisory against flying on Pakistan-registered carriers was recommended to all the UN agencies, including the UN Development Programme, World Health Organization, UN High Commission for Refugees, Food and Agriculture Organization, UN Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization and others. It signifies that UN officials working in Pakistan cannot travel by any Pakistan-registered airline even domestically. The Pakistan-registered airlines listed in the advisory include PIA, Air Eagle, Air Indus, Air Blue, Aircraft Sales and Services, Askari Aviation, Hawk Adventure Air, Hybrid Aviation, IAMC Airline, Meezab Aviation, Rayyan Air, Serene Air, Star Air Aviation and Vision Air International. The UNSMS has allowed its personnel to travel even by the Afghanistan-registered Kam Air. However, it noted that Afghanistan has an under-performing civil aviation authority as per the International Civil Aviation Authority (ICAO)’s audit programme, but the airline is authorised to conduct flight operations into multiple international airports. It is subject to an external audit. The advisory said that the air operator information is the result of a newly launched automated system, linked to a newly revised methodology and global air travel safety policy. Information and analysis generated by the Commercial Air Travel Safety Unit (CATSU) in relation to aviation safety is intended for UNSMS use only and is confidential. Such information may be shared with other UN recipients and third parties strictly on a need-to-know basis and provided suitable mechanisms are in place to maintain confidentiality. The advisory was issued sometime after the Pakistan aviation minister had dropped a bombshell alleging that hundreds of Pakistani pilots had dubious licences. Additionally, Pakistan has paid around $7 million to the Peregrine Aviation Charlie Ltd in the case pertaining to two jets leased to it by the Dublin-based AerCap. It’s over the same case that the Malaysian authorities last Friday seized a PIA Boeing-777 at the Kuala Lumpur airport on the orders of a local court over the non-payment of aircraft lease dues owed to the AerCap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/un-cautions-staff-against-flying-by-any-pakistan-registered-airline/articleshow/80427002.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
January 24, 2021||India||Secret border tunnel busted in Jammu||JAMMU: Less than a fortnight after a cross-border tunnel used by terrorist infiltrators was unearthed in the Hiranagar sector of the LoC in Jammu, the BSF on Saturday detected another such underground passage around 150 metres long and 3 feet deep. The secret underground route is the fourth one to be detected in the last six months along the Samba, Hiranagar and Kathua axis of the international border. "Acting on specific intelligence inputs, the BSF found another tunnel in the Pansar area of Kathua district early Saturday. The tunnel is located between border outposts 14 and 15," a BSF spokesperson said. On January 13, a 150-metre-long tunnel had been unearthed at Bobiyaan village of the same sector. The BSF had shot down a Pakistani hexacopter carrying weapons and ammunition in the same area last June. The other two tunnels discovered in J&K last year are in Samba district. The first passage was found on August 28 and the other one on November 22. "In Jammu, 10 underground terrorist routes connecting either side of the border have been dug out over the past decade," the BSF spokesperson said. Meanwhile, a joint team of the BSF, the Army and police busted a terrorist hideout and seized a cache of arms and ammunition in the Hari Buddha area of Poonch district. The haul includes an AK-47 rifle, three AK-47 magazines, three Chinese pistols, five pistol magazines, four hand grenades, a UBGL grenade, 82 rounds of AK-47 ammunition, 33 rounds of pistol bullets and a radio set.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/secret-border-tunnel-busted-in-jammu/articleshow/80427038.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
January 24, 2021||India||In a 1st, Bangladesh troops to march on Rajpath on R-Day, thank India for 1971 help||NEW DELHI: When the 122 personnel of the Bangladesh armed forces will be marching on Rajpath alongside their Indian counterparts on January 26, they will not only feel proud to be participating in India’s Republic Day parade for the first time but will also be “expressing gratitude and respects to all those Indian military personnel who sacrificed their lives for the liberation of our country”. Talking to TOI after the full-day parade rehearsal on Saturday, Bangladesh Army Colonel Mohtashim Hyder Chowdhury, who is heading the contingent, said, “It’s a great honour for us to become part of India’s 72nd Republic Day parade. Most of the parade personnel are from those Bangladesh units that were raised during the 1971 Liberation War. In fact, we are very fortunate to be part of the parade of “our friend” India at a time when our country is celebrating 2020-21 year as the birth centenary of our father of nation, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, and also the 50th year of Bangladesh’s independence.” Col Chowdhury, an infantry officer with 26 years of service, said, “There will be two contingents, one marching contingent and one military band. The military contingent will comprise personnel from three services and will be led by a flight lieutenant, navy lieutenant, one Major and 3 Lt Colonels and there are a few reserves.” This will be the third time India will be hosting a foreign contingent to participate in the parade after the French troops in 2016 and the UAE personnel in 2017. Chief of staff (Delhi area) Major General Alok Kacker, who is also the parade second-in-command, told TOI that it “is a proud and emotional moment for me as well as I welcome the Bangladesh contingent. This is because my father, Brig P N Kacker (SC, VSM) commanded the second battalion in 9 Gorkha Rifles that fought in the Bangladesh war. In fact, his battalion fought pitched battles against Pakistani troops and crossed the Madhumati river for which his unit later won a battle honour ('Kamarkhali'). I feel proud to be a second-generation officer from the same unit.” On difficulties faced while travelling to a foreign country amid the pandemic, Col Chowdhury said, “Due to Covid restrictions, we have to stay in quarantine for some days after landing in India on January 12 and thereafter we all have undergone Covid tests. For the last few days, we have been practising as the (cold) weather in Delhi is different from that of our country. We are not venturing out much from our hotel so as to remain isolated and fit for the parade,” he said. A Bangladesh Army doctor is also accompanying the contingent to provide medical support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-a-1st-bangladesh-troops-to-march-on-rajpath-on-r-day-thank-india-for-1971-help/articleshow/80427054.cms||Surendra Singh
January 24, 2021||Bengaluru||Bernie Sanders in city as Bengalureans join global meme trend||BENGALURU: From relaxing on the garden in front of Vidhana Soudha to sitting amid flower stalls in KR Market, Bernie Sanders seems to be ‘virtually’ everywhere. The senator’s casual appearance at US presidential inauguration has sparked a global trend of netizens photoshopping him at the most unlikely spots, and even Bengalureans have hopped on the bandwagon. Read also: Bernie Sanders spawns splash of memes with inaugural attire          View this post on Instagram            A post shared by Bernie Sanders (@berniesanders)  It began after Sanders was spotted at the January 20 ceremony wearing mittens and maintaining strict social distancing. Since then, his memes — from roads and stadiums to weddings and movie sets — have taken social media by storm. Wow. What an insane week. All of your positivity, generosity, and support has been overwhelming. However, the maint… https://t.co/ECkv31VThi— nick (@nick_sawhney) 1611424542000In fact, Twitter user Nick Sawhney has developed a website where one can just type in the location and Sanders will appear there. “I made a website where you can put Bernie in places using google maps street view. Enjoy! https://bernie-sits.herokuapp.com,” Sawhney tweeted. #bernie #berniesanders what is bernie doing in bangalore ??? https://t.co/8xw5twPvSv— Free-Spirit (@murthybs) 1611216562000Bengalurean Murthy B tweeted a photo of Sanders sitting in in front of Vidhana Soudha with the caption: “What is Bernie doing in Bangalore?” Another netizen, Sonia Dhanpal, shared a photo of Sanders in KR Market. “Flower vendor from the USA in KR Market this morning,” she tweeted. I am amused by #BernieMeme But couldn’t resist sharing this with him travelling with the iconic Sholay pair on th… https://t.co/HD9HatwybW— ಎಲ್ ಕೆ ಅತೀಕ್ L K Atheeq (@lkatheeq) 1611367774000LK Atheeq, principal secretary, rural development and panchayat raj department, also joined the trend with a photo that showed Sanders join the Sholay duo of Jai and Veeru (Amitabh Bachchan and Dharmendra). He tweeted: “I am amused by #BernieMeme. But couldn’t resist sharing this with him travelling with the iconic Sholay pair on the Bengaluru Mysuru road.” Lo and behold, #BernieSanders in Marathahalli! 🔥 #BernieSandersmemes https://t.co/kBoC6WIPOY https://t.co/FWIsNMA0M6— Sabari (@Sabari_says) 1611212505000Twitter user Sabari posted a photo of Sanders on Marathahalli bridge with the caption: “Lo and behold, #BernieSanders in Marathahalli!” Rohit Suratekar posted one with the US senator at National Centre for Biological Sciences. “Bernie Sanders waiting for the buggy to start at NCBS Bangalore.” Bernie Sanders waiting for buggy to start at @NCBS_Bangalore :P https://t.co/Lz5gZPZ2AU— Rohit Suratekar (@rohitsuratekar) 1611241031000Some, like Vartika Agarwal Dinakar, photoshopped him in their family photos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bernie-sanders-in-city-as-bengalureans-join-global-meme-trend/articleshow/80427144.cms||Farheen Hussain
January 24, 2021||India||This year's R-Day parade will witness several firsts & several first time misses||NEW DELHI: This year’s Republic Day parade will be unique as it will witness several firsts and several first-time misses. From the participation of troops deployed in the Andaman & Nicobar Islands, India’s first woman fighter pilot, a tableau of newly formed UT of Ladakh to the flypast by the country’s newly acquired multirole Rafale fighters over Rajpath, visitors will be enthralled to see many things for the first time. However, the country’s 72nd R-Day parade will have no chief guest after more than five decades, no participation of military veterans and even no stunts by motorcycle daredevils. “Due to Covid restrictions, even the route of the parade has been curtailed till National Stadium (C-Hexagon of India Gate) unlike previous years when it was till Red Fort. Also, the size of marching contingents has been reduced from regular 144 to 96 so that marching personnel can maintain social distancing. Even the number of spectators has also been cut down to 25,000 from 1.5 lakh,” Chief of staff (Delhi area) Major General Alok Kacker, who is also the parade second-in-command, announced on Saturday. Mask has been made mandatory for all personnel marching in rows. Flight Lieutenant Bhawana Kanth, who became one of the first three women fighter pilots on May 22, 2019, will be part of the IAF’s tableau featuring mock-ups of an light combat aircraft, a light combat helicopter and a Sukhoi fighter jet loaded with made-in-India missiles that will showcase the air force’s Atmanirbhar Bharat capabilities. Ft Lt Kanth, who hails from Bihar’s Begusarai and used to dream about flying during childhood, is currently posted at an airbase in Rajasthan where she flies MiG-21 Bison jets. Major Manish Verma, who is leading the 172 Madras contingent from the Andamans, told TOI, “For the first time, any contingent from the (A&N) islands is participating in such a big event on the mainland and therefore boys are very excited. Over 95% personnel are locals who are from different tribes. Our unit, which is part of Madras Regiment, was raised for the sons of the soil and its objective is to create a robust intelligence in the area as these people are from tribes and fishing communities that have a hold on their islands.” The contingent comprised 96 personnel, 2 JCOs and one officer, said Major Verma, who himself belongs to UP’s Bulandshahr. The star attraction of the parade will be in the sky when IAF will display the country’s air prowess amid times of the LAC standoff with China. A total of 42 aircraft will fly in different formations but all eyes will be on a Rafale fighter when it will do a “vertical charlie” at the end of the flypast. A vintage Dakota aircraft, the squadron of which had helped Indian troops ‘save’ Srinagar from tribal militants backed by Pakistan in 1947 and also played a key role in Bangladesh's liberation war, will also fly over Rajpath. Apart from two Rafales, Sukhoi-30s, MiG-29s, Apache and Chinook choppers will also catch visitors’ attention on Republic Day. The Ladakh tableau, which is making its debut in the parade, will depict the iconic Thikse Monastery and the region’s rich cultural heritage, and the UP tableau will display a model of the upcoming Ram temple. A tableau of the Department of Biotechnology will showcase the indigenous production of Covid vaccine showcasing India’s self-reliance in the fight against the pandemic. A total of 32 tableaux — 17 of states and UTs, nine of ministries and six from the defence arm — will roll down Rajpath. Watch Republic Day: This year's parade to witness several firsts||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/this-years-r-day-parade-will-witness-several-firsts-several-first-time-misses/articleshow/80427146.cms||Surendra Singh
January 24, 2021||Bengaluru||After 5 months & Karnataka high court order, girl scores 100 in II PU paper||BENGALURU: After five months of running from pillar to post, 18-year-old Dharini HR has got the one extra mark she deserved in her II PU accountancy paper, taking the total to 100/100, thanks to the high court’s intervention. It all began in July 2020 when II PU results were announced and Dharini, from Haniya village in Hosanagara taluk of Shivamogga district, was ecstatic to get her scores. But something was amiss. She had secured 99 in accountancy but was confident there was no room for any mistake in her answerscript. “My lecturer was even more confident and decided to get the paper rechecked... Accountancy is my favourite subject and our lecturers had put in a lot of effort. I had studied day and night and was sure of notching up a perfect score. That’s why I decided to apply for re-totalling,” she explained. But to her shock, instead of 100, her marks were reduced to 88. Upset, she again applied for re-totalling but was given the same result. She then travelled to Bengaluru to visit the department of PU education but was sent away saying there was no provision for another round of re-totalling and this was the final score. “I was upset thinking what is the use of such rules if they can’t help students. With my father’s support, I approached the high court and in December, DPUE was ordered to do the needful and declare the result in two weeks,” Dharini said. As per the HC order, if the department failed to declare the result in two weeks, it would have to pay a fine of Rs 2,000 for every week of delay thereafter. Though the department took two more weeks after the deadline expired, they did not pay any fine, she said. Finally, her result was announced on January 15, and she secured 100 out of 100 in accountancy. But it is not just her botched result that troubles Dharini. The girl said she had her parents’ support and financial help, but there are several students who don’t have the means to fight and have to bear the brunt of someone else’s mistake. Dharini’s father Ravi HG is an agriculturist and mother Anitha Ravi is a homemaker. Highlighting other unfair rules, Dharini said the department refuses to make changes after revaluation/re-totalling if the difference between the original and revised marks is less than five. “Even for economics, I was supposed to get four marks more than 93 after re-totalling, yet it was not changed,” she said. She has scored 96 in Kannada, 92 in English, 93 in economics, 98 in history, 100 in accountancy and 98 in business studies. She is now pursuing first-year BCom (with CA) at Trisha Vidya College in Katpadi, Udupi and hopes to become a CA. Dharini even sourced data from the PU board website and found revalution requests were made with regard to 12,287 answerscripts and only 2,200 of them resulted in change of marks. “One can imagine the cost students are forced to bear,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/after-5-months-hc-order-girl-scores-100-in-ii-pu-paper/articleshow/80427149.cms||Farheen Hussain
January 24, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Boy who shared girl’s private photos arrested||BENGALURU: A 19-year-old boy who allegedly shared a 16-year-old girl’s private photos and videos with inmates of her PG accommodation has been arrested.  According to police, the girl had befriended the accused, Aman, when she was 14 and was studying in Belthangady, Dakshina Kannada district. The duo reportedly exchanged their nude photos and videos. However, Aman later began to harass the girl and she stayed away from him after she shifted to a PG accommodation in Bengaluru to pursue her studies. Recently, Aman shared her photos with the PG inmates and with the parents. The girl and her parents approached Kengeri police and filed a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/boy-who-shared-girls-private-photos-arrested/articleshow/80427150.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Bengaluru||Differences in sugar levels drive breast cancer invasion: IISc study||BENGALURU: A recent study by researchers at Indian Institute of Science shows that a specific sugar called 2,6-linked sialic acid (2,6-Sial) is expressed at different levels on the surface of different breast cancer cells. “Malignant tumors are increasingly being understood and interpreted as ecosystems of heterogeneous cellular entities — a patchwork of cells that look and behave differently, and cooperate or compete with each other as the cancer spreads. Understanding the causes and consequences of such heterogeneity is a clear and present challenge for researchers,” an IISc statement read. In the paper published in ACS Central Science, a peer-reviewed journal, a group led by Ramray Bhat, assistant professor, department of molecular reproduction, development and genetics, shows that cells showing higher levels of 2,6-Sial stick less strongly to their surroundings and, therefore, are less likely to invade through them. On the other hand, cells showing moderate levels of 2,6-Sial adhered strongly and invaded more efficiently. Using an in-house 3D culture technique, the researchers reconstructed the tumor microenvironment on a dish to film the tumoroid – cluster of cancer cells – as it grows. Then, they separated the two cellular populations with different levels of 2,6-Sial, labelled them and then recombined them. The team found that the cells with higher 2,6-Sial levels move slowly and form the central bulk of the tumoroid, whereas the ones with moderate levels move fast and form the invading front. “The researchers then recreated the tumor in a computer model and simulated its spread. They show that having a slow-moving central bulk boosts the efficiency with which fast moving cancer cells can ‘unjam’ and spread outwards in a circular fashion, thereby justifying the need for heterogeneity,” the statement added. This study, researchers said, deepened their understanding of a difficult problem in cancer biology and opened the doors to identifying insidious subpopulations within a crowded tumor environment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/differences-in-sugar-levels-drive-breast-cancer-invasion-iisc-study/articleshow/80427158.cms||Chethan Kumar
January 24, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Assistant executive engineer raided; assets valued at 428% more than income||BENGALURU: Sleuths from the Anti-Corruption Bureau on Saturday raided properties of an assistant executive engineer attached to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). CT Anjinappa’s properties in Davanagere and Bengaluru were found to be valued at 428 per cent more than his actual income. Anjinappa is an AEE (assistant executive engineer) working with BBMP-Bommanahalli subdivision. The searches were carried out at four places, including his office in Bommanahalli and properties at Lokikere village in Davanagere. Apart from documents relating to eight acres of agricultural land in Lokikere and 15 acres in Channagiri, three cars, five two-wheelers, one tractor, machinery used in agriculture, eight kg of silver, 1.3 kg of gold ornaments, home appliances worth Rs 13.7 lakh and Rs 50 lakh were seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/aee-raided-assets-valued-at-428-more-than-income/articleshow/80427159.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Vaccinated or not? Co-WIN confusion||BENGALURU: Many health workers who have already taken one dose of Covid-19 vaccine are receiving text messages with the date of first-stage inoculation, while those still waiting for the first jab are receiving confirmation for partial completion of the process. This has created confusion and some registered beneficiaries are worried that they may be mistakenly left out. As per the protocol set by the central government, a schedule with the list of beneficiaries is uploaded on the Co-WIN portal. Co-WIN stands for the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network. The beneficiaries receive an SMS one day before the date of vaccination, with the text mentioning their name, age, address and the location where they will get the shot. But since January 18, when the Co-WIN server suffered glitches, a number of beneficiaries have been getting the wrong message and reminders. Ranjita Kumar, a 38-year-old health worker at a private hospital in east Bengaluru, received a message that she had been inoculated on January 19. In reality, she has not taken the vaccine yet. “I was on Covid duty and I could not take the jab that day, though my name was on the beneficiary list. Later, I received a text that I had been vaccinated,” she said. Mohammed Aman, a health worker at a government hospital in Shivajinagar, received an SMS that his vaccination was pending when in fact he had taken the jab on January 18. “I was among the first few people at the hospital who underwent vaccination. I was very surprised when I received the message later,” said Aman. BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad told STOI that a technical glitch in the portal had caused the confusion. “There was an existing list. When certain beneficiary failed to take the vaccine, we could not make necessary changes as the system had a problem. This is why people are getting such messages,” Prasad said. “The SMSes could not be stopped and we did not have an option. But the technical issue has been resolved now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/vaccinated-or-not-co-win-confusion/articleshow/80427205.cms||Nithya Mandyam
January 24, 2021||Bengaluru||KPSC cancels FDA exam after Q-paper leak; six arrested||BENGALURU: The Karnataka Public Service Commission cancelled the examination on Sunday to select First Division Assistants (FDA) after a question paper leak on Saturday. Over 2.8 lakh candidates were scheduled to take the exam to fill 1,114 vacancies in different government departments. Central Crime Branch sleuths arrested six people, including a person who claimed to be a commercial taxes inspector, and seized Rs 24 lakh cash, electronic gadgets and three vehicles from him. The exam saw a record 3.7 lakh applications, of which 2.8 lakh downloaded the admission tickets. Police: Accused hatched plot to get question paper 2 months agoA release from KPSC stated: “The exams have been deferred in the backdrop of information that the question paper has been accessed by miscreants prior to the exam. The new date will be notified later.” Police identified the accused as Rachappa (top right) and Chandrappa, both kingpins, and their aides Mahesh, Santosh, Srinivas and Nikith. Police said a few were arrested from Ullal near Jnanabharathi while others from different parts of the city following a tip-off. During questioning, Chandrappa claimed to be an inspector in the commercial taxes department in Gandhinagar. Police said the accused plotted two months earlier to get the question paper. “We’re not sure from where the paper was leaked but it was distributed to several aspirants in Bengaluru and other parts of the state,” sources said, adding: “We found hard copies and PDFs.” Joint commissioner of police (crime) Sandeep Patil said probe is on to ascertain source of the question paper. G Sathyavathi, secretary, KPSC, in a press statement confirmed the question papers reached a few miscreants before the exam and both Kannada and English papers have been cancelled. “We checked the leaked question paper with controller of exams Divya Prabhu. The contents of the leaked paper were similar to the actual question paper.” Police are ascertaining if the arrested are part of a new gang or members of the Shivakumaraiah gang. He is prime accused in the question paper leak of constabulary exams in November 2018 and also behind the PU paper leak in 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kpsc-cancelsfda-exam-afterq-paper-leak-six-arrested/articleshow/80427206.cms||Kiran Parashar
January 24, 2021||Goa||In Covid-19 times, clubs show faith in youth for Goa Pro League||Panaji: Everything seemed so unusual. There used to be crowds buzzing in villages for Inter-Village football matches in North and South Goa. The Goa Football Association (GFA) was on its toes conducting daily matches in either the age groups or senior divisions. But life during the coronavirus pandemic came to a standstill and football took a backseat. Things are now slowly getting back on track. While the Inter-Village tournaments have not yet resumed, there is some solace for fans as the GFA gears up for the Goa Professional League which will kick off on Wednesday. Corps of Signals pulled out of the 12-team league, but they were soon replaced by First Division side Youth Club of Manora. And they are relishing the chance. “We had the opportunity to take part and we grabbed it. We are building a good team and will definitely be competitive. Our coaches and players are giving their best and we are there to support them,” said Youth Club of Manora president Srikant Sawant. Fielding a team in the league during Covid times is a financial burden for village clubs. Whether it’s Manora, Velsao Sports and Cultural Club or Guardian Angel SC, it’s the passion for football that keeps them going. Others have had to work out their finances. One of Goa’s oldest clubs, Vasco SC, for example, have stitched a partnership and are even looking to participate in national tournaments, if more sponsors show interest. “It was a bit difficult for everyone, but we have managed to cope up with the situation. We have signed some senior players and are hoping for a successful season,” said club director Ravish Narvekar. While the Indian Super League (ISL) is entirely being conducted in Goa from November within a bio-secure bubble, the Pro League cannot be conducted on such a scale. The GFA, however, has come up with Standard Operating Procedures that will help them conduct the 66 matches till April, hopefully without any hiccup. Clubs have been directed to maintain social distancing, while sanitisation and other precautionary measures will be in place. Players and officials will have to go through the Covid-19 RT-PCR test 48 hours prior to their first match. “The cases in Goa are not rising and are under control, so it was okay to go ahead with the league. We must start somewhere and see how it goes. AIFF has sent a notification saying there are no youth leagues which is fair enough,” said Salgaocar FC secretary Adlear D’Cruz. With no youth leagues, Pro League teams have promoted their youngsters. Sesa FA, FC Goa’s developmental team, Dempo SC, Sporting Clube de Goa and Salgaocar have all put their faith in youth for this season. Goa’s only I-League representative Churchill Brothers FC, who were joint winners of the last edition with Sporting, have assembled a separate squad, exclusively for the state league. This edition of the Goa Pro League may not be as competitive or glamorous as some in the past. But with clubs giving youth a chance, and football finally making a return, there is little to complain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-covid-19-times-clubs-show-faith-in-youth-for-goa-pro-league/articleshow/80427365.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
January 24, 2021||Delhi||With fewer cadets, compulsory masks, social distancing at the camp: NCC cadets prep for Republic Day amid COVID||It is a dream for every NCC cadet to be a part of the Republic Day Camp (RDC). While for some, it is the first step to make their way into the armed forces, for others, it is a way to be disciplined and live a life like a fauji. This year, due to the coronavirus pandemic, cadets have not only gone through three COVID tests before joining the camp, but were also in quarantine for 14 days before starting their rehearsals for RDC. This year, the number of cadets participating has also been reduced – from the usual 144, the strength has been reduced to 100. As we meet the NCC contingent for Republic Day Parade at Rajpath during their practice, the cadets tell us what brings them to the parade, the lessons they have learnt, and how the camp and experience are different this year due to the pandemic. (L to R) Dhananjay Chandu Mendhe, Parshwa, Aniket S More, Hari Prasad, Prateek ChauhanParshwa | 18 Directorate: Karnataka and Goa ‘Not mingling a lot at camp in these pandemic times’I joined NCC because the uniform excites me. When I go to college wearing my uniform, it separates me from other students as I am not only a student, but also a cadet. As a cadet, it feels prestigious to be a part of the largest youth organisation. From maintaining social distancing to wearing masks and not mingling with other people, all COVID protocols are being taken care of here at the camp. Dhananjay Chandu Mendhe | 20 Directorate: Maharashtra ‘From sanitisation to maintaining social distancing, the cadets are adhering to all covid norms’I joined NCC in college with no specific goal but when I joined, I got to know more about the organisation. RDC is important for me as cadets from different states come, and it shows us what national integration is. From compulsory masks to sanitisation and social distancing, all protocols are being followed. Hari Prasad | 20 Directorate: Andhra Pradesh and Telangana ‘This is the first time we are maintaining social distancing among cadets, too’I want to join the armed forces after my studies, so NCC is like a platform to head towards that. I’ve learnt discipline at RDC. And I feel this is the first time that we are maintaining social distancing among cadets, too, at the parade. Aniket S More | 19 Directorate: Maharashtra ‘Difficult to march wearing a mask, but it is important to follow COVID protocols’I am getting a chance to represent my college as well as my state. It is difficult to march in a mast, but to maintain COVID protocols, we have to wear it. Prateek Chauhan | 20 Directorate: Delhi ‘Cadets strength less this year’RDC motivates you and gives you the exposure you need for overall growth. This year, due to COVID, overall strength of cadets is also less. Earlier, we had 144 cadets but this year, there are only 100. (L to R) Raksha Anchan, Seema Rajkhowa, Surela Manna, Sonakshi Dhankhar, Avika Choudhary, Deeksha SethiSeema Rajkhowa | 19 Directorate: Gujarat ‘My parents asked me to be careful, but did not stop me from participating in the parade’RDC has always been my dream because as a kid, I had promised my father I will be a part of the Rajpath parade one day. Due to COVID, my parents asked me to be careful and responsible, but they never stopped me from joining the camp. Sonakshi Dhankhar | 19 Directorate: Delhi ‘The mask is a part of our uniform now’My reason for joining NCC and participating in the camp was that it makes you a resource for your country in times of emergency. In times of COVID as well, NCC volunteers have helped distribute food packages. Our mask is part of our uniform now. And do gaj ki doori humein camp mein bhi maintain karni hai. Surela Manna | 20 Directorate: West Bengal and Sikkim ‘Not allowed to mingle with people from other contingents for covid’I joined NCC because I knew it’ll give me an insight into a fauji’s life. RDC was my dream camp. Not everyone gets the chance to march at Rajpath, and I feel proud that I could make it here. Apart from other COVID protocols, we are also not allowed to mingle with people from other contingents (for safety reasons). Avika Choudhary | 19 Directorate: J&K, Ladakh ‘Following COVID rules everywhere, be it the camp or practice area’I was wanted to join NCC because it’ll give me a base to join the armed forces. We came to Delhi on December 20, and we are following social distancing and COVID protocols everywhere, be it the camp or our practice area. Deeksha Sethi | 20 Directorate: Karnataka and Goa ‘Maintaining a distance of 1.4 metres while marching’I am living my dream, being at the RDC. I am also a silver medallist in all-India cadet competition, Army wing. Nobody from my family is in the armed forces, but I always wanted to do this. At the camp. after submitting our negative COVID certificates, we had to be quarantined for 14 days. Our rehearsals started after that. During the parade, we earlier kept a one-hand distance, but now we will have to maintain a distance of 1.4 metres from everyone – be it a cadet or any officer. Watch NCC cadets prep for Republic Day amid COVID||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-fewer-cadets-compulsory-masks-social-distancing-at-the-camp-ncc-cadets-prep-for-republic-day-amid-covid/articleshow/80423238.cms||Riya Sharma
January 24, 2021||Bhubaneswar||Sabyasachi conducts cleanliness and plantation drive at historic Bakul Bana||Ollywood star Sabyasachi Mishra conducted a cleanliness and plantation drive at the historic Bakula Bana at Sakhigopal in Puri district yesterday. He along with several eminent people and local youths planted saplings and cleaned the premises of this erstwhile gurukul set up by Utkalmani Pandit Gopabandhu Das in 1909. The actor, through a video message posted on his social media accounts a day ago, had urged the locals to clean this historically significant place clean. “Since the statues of Gopabandhu Das and his contemporaries known as panchasakha were lying neglected and surrounded by wild grass, bushes and dirt, I decided to take up the cleanliness drive and conduct a plantation programme with the locals. Following my video message, many youths came forward and cleaned up the place,” said Sabyasachi, who has earned a good reputation for helping others and standing up for such causes. Several eminent people like Janardan Pattajoshi Mahapatra of Chhatisha Nijog of Jagannath Temple, Puri, Swami Ramakrushna Das Maharaj of Radhaballavi Math, Swami Balram Das Maharaj of Ganga Math, Pandit Biswanath Mishra, working president of Mukti Mandap, Jagannath temple, Bhaskar Mahapatra, chief priest of Batamangala temple, Deba Prasad Dash, HoD Panchakarma Department, Gopabandhu Ayurveda Mahavidyalaya, Sushant Kumar Sahu, president of Sri Jagannath Society, UK and few others had all joined hands with the actor in the plantation drive. “There were hundreds of volunteers who had come forward for this cause. It was really a matter of pride for us. Since this place bears so much historical importance for Odia people, we all took pledge to protect this Bakula Bana till our last breath,” said the Pagal Premi actor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/sabyasachi-conducts-cleanliness-and-plantation-drive-at-historic-bakul-bana/articleshow/80427771.cms||Sandip Bal
January 24, 2021||India||Police give ‘in-principle’ nod to farmers tractor rally on Republic Day||NEW DELHI/BATHINDA: Protesting farmers will enter the capital and hold ‘Kisan Gantantra Parade’ (Farmer Republic Day), driving tractors on five different routes covering around 100 km, on January 26 with the Delhi Police on Saturday finally allowing them to hold the march in a peaceful manner. Farmers will, however, not be allowed to remain in the city after their tractor march, having trolleys as tableaux, depicting state of farmers and farming in India. They will have to leave the capital and return to the border points where they have been stationed since November 26. Police will remove barricades at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders for the march on January 26. “Farmers will move inside Delhi from five different points – Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur, Palwal and Shahjahanpur – and cover around 100 km. The march will be completely peaceful. Finer points of the routes will be released on Sunday. It’ll be a historic parade,” said Yogendra Yadav of Jai Kisan Andolan after fifth meeting of farmers’ unions leaders, including Darshan Pal, Yudhvir Singh and Gurnam Singh Chaduni, with the Delhi Police over the issue. Delhi Police sources confirmed that an ‘in-principle’ approval had been given to the protesting farmers for the tractor rally on January 26. Police received a written request from the farmers late on Saturday and said they were examining it. While the exact routes have not been disclosed yet, farmers’ unions had largely agreed on not taking any route that would impact Republic Day security and law and order. Delhi Police had briefed the farmers on how the movement and security of the dignitaries will be impacted due to the rally on Ring Road as there are multiple routes including the contingency route put in place as part of the security drill. Calling it a “step towards victory”, Rajinder Singh Deep Singhwala of Kirti Kisan Union said, “It has become clear today that the people are stronger force in the country. The Delhi Police and central government had to bow down to might of the farmers. Our fight will continue till the farm laws are not repealed.” The union leaders said though police had not given a time-frame to complete the march, it may be from 24 hours to 72 hours beginning January 26. They said it won’t disturb any official function with Yogendra Yadav saying the protesting farmers will not in “any way compromise with the security and prestige of the country”. “Nitty-gritty is being worked out. All farmers coming to border points from different parts of the country will participate in the march. They will return to the border points after the march. Exact time-frame will be given on Sunday,” said Darshan Pal. The permission for tractor march inside Delhi comes a day after the farmers’ talks with the government failed to make a headway when the Centre asked them to “reconsider” its proposal of putting the implementation of laws on hold for 18 months for making further progress. Meanwhile, farmers’ unions from Punjab discussed the government’s proposal in a separate meeting at Singhu border on Saturday and reiterated their stand to reject any such offer. Although certain farm unions from Punjab had earlier wanted to accept the government’s proposal, the consensus on Saturday remained against the proposal. Unlike January 21, when 17 farm groups from Punjab rejected the proposal and 15 were in favour of accepting it, no voting took place on Saturday. A senior farm leader, on condition of anonymity, said, “No farm leader, even if they might have been in favour of accepting the Centre’s proposal, will speak about it in open as the proposal was rejected with voice vote." (With inputs from Sakshi Chand)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/police-give-in-principle-nod-to-farmers-tractor-rally-on-republic-day/articleshow/80427802.cms||Vishwa Mohan
January 24, 2021||India||Greeted with ‘Jai Shri Ram’ chants, Didi refuses to speak||KOLKATA: West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday cried “humiliation” as chants of “Jai Shri Ram” by a section of the crowd rent the air in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi just when she got up to speak at the official event commemorating Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s 125th birth anniversary in Kolkata. Mamata, who had been invited to address the gathering before the PM, termed the sloganeering “politicisation of a dignified event” before returning to her seat. Modi made no reference to the row in a speech laced with Bengali sentences. Mamata hadn’t even started speaking when she was greeted with the “Jai Shri Ram” chant from the crowd seated on Victoria Memorial’s eastern lawn. Security and protocol officials said the first five rows were reserved for VIP guests, but the rest of the crowd — numbering around 5,000 — comprised “mostly BJP supporters”. A visibly angry Mamata immediately protested against the alleged heckling. “This is not a political event. I am grateful to the PM for organising this in Kolkata. But it does not suit you to invite someone and then insult that person. I refuse to speak as a mark of protest. Jai Hind! Jai Bangla!” Mamata said. #WATCH | I think Govt's program should have dignity. This is not a political program....It doesn't suit you to insu… https://t.co/o7X5HPNDEZ— ANI (@ANI) 1611402420000The turn of events cast a shadow on the celebrations and sparked a bitter political row on the birth anniversary of one of India’s most-revered freedom fighters. Trinamool Congress condemned the sloganeering at a solemn ceremony. “It was pre-planned. No word is enough to condemn the indiscipline and lack of decency while remembering Netaji,” Trinamool MP Saugata Roy said. BJP found itself divided on the issue, with some calling it unfortunate and some others questioning the CM’s response. “She felt insulted when some people welcomed her with ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogans. What kind of politics is this?” BJP Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya said. Senior BJP functionary Shamik Bhattacharya, however, differed. “The slogans at the programme were undesirable and unfortunate,” he said. PM Modi’s speech in Hindi was peppered with Netaji quotes in Bengali. “I bow before the sacred land of Bengal that brought up little Subhas and taught him to grow through sacrifice. Netaji’s sacrifice and perseverance are today’s youth’s source of energy. We want generations to remember him. His birthday will be celebrated as Parakram Diwas (day of valour),” he said. Wondering how Netaji would have felt had he seen the new India taking shape today, Modi remarked: “From LAC to LoC, the world is witnessing a powerful avatar of India once envisioned by Netaji. India today is giving a befitting reply wherever attempts are made to challenge its sovereignty.” The PM pointed out that Netaji used to treat poverty, illiteracy, disease and lack of scientific innovation in the country as its primary problems. “Today, our nation is striving to make women and farmers self-reliant and strengthening education infrastructure. We are introducing a new national education policy,” he said. Modi said Netaji would have been proud to see India help other nations with Covid-19 vaccines. “Netaji once asked people not to lose hope of a free India. Similarly, no one can stop India from being self-reliant,” the PM said, adding that India would continue to walk the path shown by Netaji to create “Sonar Bangla”. Watch Don't invite and insult, this is not a political programme: Mamata Banerjee||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/greeted-with-jai-shri-ram-chants-didi-refuses-to-speak/articleshow/80428090.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
January 24, 2021||Bhubaneswar||Singer Swayam Pravash and actress Prakruti Mishra entertain fans in a city mall with their melodious voices||National award-winning Ollywood actress Prakruti Mishra and singer Swayam Pravash Padhi entertained their fans with some mesmerising songs at a city mall recently. Both of them crooned few lines of a popular Hindi song for the public. They had recently sung cover of this song that had garnered a lot of views and appreciations for them. For the Odia film and music fans, their favourite singer and actress performing live for them, was like a breath of fresh air after such a long period. They got to witness such an event after around 10 months, since the lockdown was declared last March due to Covid-19 pandemic. “It’s around 10 months and we had not seen them performing for us in public. Though it’s not a concert, but listening to them singing live for the public, was something we have been missing. Hope things get normal soon and we get to see them performing everywhere,” said Nigam Nayak, a fan. A host of celebrities from the Odia film and music fraternity had gathered at the event that was organised to celebrate the launching of a new Hindi music. The singer, who is known for his melodious voice, crooned some lines from few of his songs and entertained the gathering. Celebs like Tapi Mishra, Ankit Kumar, Chinmay Mishra, Pupul Bhuyan, and Antara Chakraborty also were in attendance at the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/singer-swayam-pravash-and-actress-prakruti-mishra-entertain-fans-in-a-city-mall-with-their-melodious-voices/articleshow/80428367.cms||Sandip Bal
January 24, 2021||India||File signed by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray tampered||MUMBAI: In a case that points to a serious breach within the state headquarters Mantralaya, a file with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s signature was tampered with to scuttle a probe. A case of cheating and forgery has been registered at Marine Drive police station. Thackeray had signed a file to endorse a departmental inquiry against a PWD superintending engineer. However, a forged remark was later written in red ink above his signature, saying that the inquiry should be closed. “An FIR has been registered against unknown persons and investigations are on,” said DCP Zone 1 Shashikumar Meena. The unprecedented case has caused a major stir in the Mantralaya. “The chief minister’s signature is sacrosanct and very powerful. It is the final assent on key decisions which have been scrutinised by senior officers and the department’s minister,” said a senior bureaucrat. “Once the chief minister gives his signature, funds worth crores can be released. Tampering with a file signed by the chief minister has major implications.” In this case, the former BJP-led government had recommended a departmental inquiry against several PWD engineers for alleged financial irregularities in work done at the JJ School of Art building a few years ago, sources said. Among those to be probed was then executive engineer Nana Pawar who is now a superintending engineer. After the MVA government came to power, PWD minister Ashok Chavan endorsed the probe and it was sent to the chief minister’s office for his assent. However, when the file was returned to the PWD department, Chavan was surprised to find that the chief minister had made changes in the department’s proposal, senior PWD sources said. While the departmental inquiry against the other engineers was to continue, that against Nana Pawar was to be dropped. Chavan became suspicious when he saw that the remark above Thackeray’s signature was squeezed into a narrow gap. “Typically, when you make a remark and sign below it, there is enough space for the remark to fit,” said a senior PWD officer. Chavan sent the file to Thackeray’s office to cross-check. “Thackeray’s office keeps scanned copies of all documents that he signs. They found that the document he had signed did not have this remark. So, Thackeray had only signed the file to give a go-ahead for the inquiry. That is how the forgery was discovered,” said another senior PWD officer. When contacted by TOI, Chavan declined comment on the case. Senior bureaucrats say they cannot recall an incident like this in the past. “It is an extremely audacious act. There have been some episodes in the past when file notings made by officers have been changed, which is why we keep copies of key decisions. But overwriting and forgery of the chief minister’s assent is something we have not seen before,” said an officer. Typically, when there is a difference of opinion on an issue on which the chief minister has taken a view, the file is re-routed to him with suggestions. In 2018, the file noting of the BMC chief was changed regarding a plot of land at Jogeshwari east, worth Rs 500 crore, leading to arrests. The high court had held that the reservation on the plot had lapsed and the owners were free to develop the property. Then BMC chief Ajoy Mehta had written that the decision should be challenged in Supreme Court but the noting was changed to say that it should not be challenged. Watch Maharashtra: File signed by CM Uddhav Thackeray tampered with||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/file-signed-by-maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray-tampered/articleshow/80428495.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
January 24, 2021||India||Lalu Prasad shifted to AIIMS in Delhi for treatment||RANCHI: Incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad was shifted to AIIMS in New Delhi in an air ambulance on Saturday evening on the recommendation of doctors at Ranchi's Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, where he was undergoing treatment while serving prison terms in several fodder scam cases. Accompanied by daughter Misha Bharti, Lalu was wheeled out of RIMS at about 5.15pm and taken to the airport. Lalu’s wife, former Bihar CM Rabri Devi, and younger son and the leader of the opposition in the Bihar assembly, Tejashwi Yadav, were also on the air ambulance. Inspector general (prisons) Birendra Bhushan said he granted permission to shift Lalu on the basis of the RIMS medical board’s recommendation. "The permission is valid for a month and can be extended on the recommendation of the doctors at AIIMS, where he will be treated under police protection," he said. Dr Umesh Prasad, who was part of the RIMS medical board constituted for the RJD leader, said, "We referred Lalu Prasad to AIIMS for better treatment. His lung infection is a new problem, but he is stable. We have requested that due to his acute heart problem, Lalu should be first admitted in the cardiac department while other departments may also be involved. The final decision in this regard would be taken by the AIIMS management." According to a medical bulletin released by RIMS on Saturday, Lalu’s test reports were normal except for the blood parameters, which showed some infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lalu-prasad-shifted-to-aiims-in-delhi-for-treatment/articleshow/80428646.cms||Sanjay Sahay
January 24, 2021||India||Mum on CAA, PM Modi projects BJP as protector of Assam’s locals||GUWAHATI: PM Narendra Modi on Saturday projected BJP as the sole protector of the ‘mul niwasi’ (indigenous inhabitants) of Assam as he doled out ‘pattas’ to landless people at the historic Sivasagar — the heart of protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in December 2019. In what can be construed an attempt to mollify the natives after they demonstrated their anger against CAA — which grants citizenship to more migrants, though non-Muslims, from Bangladesh — being thrust on them, Modi reached out to 70-odd indigenous communities from the carefully selected venue at Sivasagar, the foundation ground of the greater Assamese community under the Ahom dynasty. “Today, special emphasis is being given to preserving the language and culture of the original inhabitants of Assam as well as securing their land rights. The new land policy made in 2019 shows the commitment of the government. As a result of these efforts, more than 2.5 lakh indigenous families have been given land leases in the past years. Now, more than 1 lakh families will be added to it. The goal is to ensure that every such family in Assam should get legal land rights as soon as possible,” said Modi. While Modi refrained from referring to CAA or implementation of Clause 6 of the Assam Accord, the All Assam Students Union and 12 other outfits staged mass protests across the state during the day. Aasu chief advisor Samujjal Bhattacharya said, “How can the PM remain silent on core issues... one the hand he says that the BJP government is the sole protector of the interest of the indigenous people, on the other hand his government is imposing CAA.” Modi said giving land ownership has not just met the demand of the indigenous people but also paved the way for improving the standard of living of landless famers. “Now, these families will also join lakhs of farmer families to whom thousands of rupees are being sent directly to their bank accounts under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. They will also get benefits of Kisan Credit Card, crop insurance and other schemes, and will be able to get loans easily from banks on this land for their trade,” he added. Using the history of the venue of the meeting — Jerenga Pathar, which is connected to the supreme sacrifice of Joymati to save her husband and heir to Ahom throne — Modi said that on this day, the three symbols of ‘self-respect, independence and security’ were also being met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mum-on-caa-pm-modi-projects-bjp-as-protector-of-assams-locals/articleshow/80428759.cms||Prabin Kalita
January 24, 2021||India||Opposition may seek JPC probe into ‘leak’ of military secrets to Arnab Goswami||NEW DELHI: Congress-led opposition is likely to turn the heat on the government over the Arnab Goswami WhatsApp chats issue in the coming budget session of Parliament by demanding a time-bound Joint Parliamentary Committee probe into the alleged leak of military secrets. While the budget sessions was always going to be a stormy affair with the joint opposition planning to corner the government over the farm laws and India’s coronavirus management strategy, Mumbai Police’s sensational revelations last week, pertaining to WhatsApp conversations between Arnab and former BARC chief Partho Dasgupta, have added a new flashpoint between the opposition and treasury benches. Read AlsoCongress netas march to Republic TV office, seek Arnab’s arrestMUMBAI: Congress activists led by Mumbai Congress president Bhai Jagtap and cabinet members Aslam Shaikh and Varsha Gaikwad marched to the office of Republic TV on Friday to demand the immediate arrest of its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami for “mischief and fraud”. Jagtap said it was high timeCongress’ line of attack has already been sketched by party president Sonia Gandhi, who has the support of NCP and Shiv Sena, apart from Trinamool Congress and the Left parties — CPM and CPI — both of whom have already demanded that the government come clean on the matter. Read AlsoMaharashtra probing Arnab’s sensitive Balakot chatMUMBAI: Even as the NCP joined Congress on Monday to demand a Joint Parliamentary Committee to probe the purported WhatsApp chats between Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami and former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta which raised questions whether Goswami was privy to India’s Balakot air strikes in advance,At the CWC meeting, while Sonia called the government’s silence “deafening”, she also said, “Those who give certificates of patriotism and nationalism to others now stand totally exposed.” Read AlsoTRP scam: Prashant Bhushan shares screenshots of WhatsApp chat between Arnab Goswami and ex-BARC CEOAdvocate Prashant Bhushan on Friday shared screenshots of purported leaked WhatsApp converstaions between Republic TV executive editor Arnab Goswami and Partho Dasgupta, former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) who is an accused in the TRP scam case.Congress has already fielded a raft of party veterans, part of UPA’s cabinet committee on security, to highlight the seriousness of the issues revealed in the WhatsApp conversations. Former defence minister AK Antony had asserted that the leak of sensitive military operations, as shown in the WhatsApp chats, was an “act of treason” that “deserved no mercy”. Read AlsoArnab’s channel gained ‘illegal’ access to DD FreeDish users without paying govtSince its launch in May 2017, Arnab Goswami owned news channel Republic TV had gained ‘illegal’ access to an additional 22 million users of a Prasar Bharati-owned direct-to-home (DTH) service, DD FreeDish, without paying the government for it.The Congress Working Committee, of which Antony is a part, also passed a resolution expressing “grave concern” over the “sordid conversations that have undoubtedly compromised national security”, and the PM and government’s silence in the hope that the “storm will pass”. “Their silence underlines their collusion, complicity and guilt… The CWC demands a time-bound investigation by a JPC to enquire into the breach of national security, violations of the Official Secrets Act and the role of the persons involved. Ultimately, those who are guilty of treasonous behaviour must be brought before the law and punished,” the resolution said. Read AlsoTRP scam: Shock, outrage on social media over Arnab Goswami and ex-BARC CEO's WhatsApp chatsNEW DELHI: The leaked WhatsApp conversations between Republic TV executive editor Arnab Goswami and former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) Partho Dasgupta has brought to the fore evidence of alleged collusion to influence TV ratings. The purported WhatsApp conversations between the||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/opposition-may-seek-jpc-probe-into-leak-of-military-secrets-to-arnab-goswami/articleshow/80428770.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Business||Power demand hits record high of 187 GW||NEW DELHI: India’s daily power demand touched an all-time high at 187.3 GW (gigawatts) on Friday, beating the previous record reached on Wednesday, underlining the growing strength of the economy, power minister R K Singh said. On Wednesday, demand had breached the previous record of 182.89 GW, clocked on December 30, 2020, for the first time at 9.35 a.m. This was 9% higher than 170.97 GW in January 2020, till then the highest-ever supply in a day. Government officials said the surge in demand indicated a rebound in industrial and commercial activities in January after a 0.3% dip in factory output in December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/power-demand-hits-record-high-of-187-gw/articleshow/80428786.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Business||Will use alternatives, Nitin Gadkari warns steel ‘cartel’ on price hike||NEW DELHI: Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari on Saturday threw a googly at the steel industry, saying his ministry will allow use of “synthetic fibre” and “composite fibre” bars in place of steel products for building roads and bridges to reduce cost in the face of “artificial” hike in price of the key construction raw material. Addressing the Foundation Day of an industry house in Mumbai, Gadkari said the steel industry has increased the prices which is “not justified” considering that there has been no escalation in labour, raw material and power costs. “Every steel producer has got its own iron ore mines. So, jacking up prices is a type of black marketing and the cement industry is also habitual of this. I am going to settle my issue with them. Now we are planning to allow synthetic fibre in place of steel. There has been a lot of inventions and now we will allow this for bridge and road construction,” the minister said. Read AlsoBig steel, cement firms operating as a cartel; need to place regulator: Nitin GadkariBig players in the steel and cement industry are indulging in cartelisation to jack-up prices, Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari has said raising concerns of its impact on infrastructure projects.Speaking at the BAI event, the minister said it will be difficult to achieve PM NarendraGadkari said he has been constantly pursuing the matter and he will see that the steel manufacturers reduce the prices. “Nearly 40% of the steel and cement are used in highway construction. If they don’t reduce prices, we will formulate alternative policies,” he warned. Synthetic fibre and composite fibre bars are being used in different parts of the world and this can reduce the requirement of steel in construction projects. Being corrosion-proof and light, these are emerging as alternatives to steel, though these cannot replace steel completely. Top civil engineers in the government and private sectors said there have been several innovations and use of synthetic fibre, composite fibre bars and fibre-reinforced concrete is catching up. “But there are some issues that need to be addressed. Most of the structures we are building should have at least 100 years of life. So far, there is hardly any trial of the composite fibre or synthetic fibre for 20-30 years. There is a need to try the products and see their performance,” said an engineer who didn’t wish to be identified. The government is now allowing private players to use new technologies and materials in their projects, which have been tried and tested. In such a case, the companies will take responsibility any defect under the “defect liability clause”. A senior engineer from a private company said, “In all government-funded projects, the defect liability is only for 10 years in case of a standalone structure and for all others it’s five years. So, we need to try before giving the go-ahead to such materials,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/will-use-alternatives-nitin-gadkari-warns-steel-cartel-on-price-hike/articleshow/80428821.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Widow wins 5-decade fight for 43 bigha zameen in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Fifty-two years of struggle later, a 73-year-old widow from Nadiad in Kheda district finally inherited her husband’s land. It took her five decades to gather evidence against her brother-in-law who had grabbed 43 bighas of land that should have rightfully gone to her after her husband’s death. She provided proof of the forgery to authorities, following which police booked the accused. Leela married Sampatsinh Mahida, a resident of Nadiad’s Arera village, in 1967. A year later, he died and she returned to her parents’ house to live out her remaining days as widow remarriage was prohibited in her community. While staying there, she learnt in 1968 that her husband had ancestral land in Arera which she could inherit as he had passed away. When she asked her brother-in-law Mahipatsinh about it, he didn’t give her a straight answer. Leela then began inquiring about the plot’s location and size, besides getting details of government offices from where she could obtain information about the property. Meanwhile, several of Mahipatsinh’s joint family died without leaving heirs. About four decades later, Leela finally managed to get a document from a Mamlatdar office stating that Mahipatsinh was the sole owner of the property. On probing further, she learnt that he had produced a forged succession certificate of their family, which neither mentioned her or her late husband’s name. She produced these documents before a special investigation team of Kheda collectorate which started investigating the matter, and on December 18, 2020, concluded that Mahipatsinh had committed forgery. Following this, rural police booked Mahipatsinh and helped Leela take possession of the property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/73-yr-old-widow-wins-52-yr-old-property-battle/articleshow/80428845.cms||Ashish Chauhan
January 24, 2021||Bengaluru||BS Yediyurappa’s U-turn on illegal mines||MYSURU: Within hours of assuring a crackdown on illegal quarrying, chief minister BS Yediyurappa said on Saturday that mining and quarrying were inevitable for development and those in violation should regularise operations. Before leaving for Shivamogga to visit the site of Thursday’s blast, the CM said such tragic incidents are caused by illegal quarrying and mining operations and these will not be tolerated in the state. “I will not allow illegal mining. Whoever wants to take up mining can do so only after obtaining a licence,” he said. In Mysuru, he said: “We have ordered district officials to check illegal quarrying and mining activity, if any, across Karnataka. All those operating without licences will be given time to regularise the business or else stringent action will be taken against them.” He added, “There are road works and highway projects for which mining and quarrying are needed. But illegal mining shouldn’t be allowed. It’s not good for anyone, including those doing it. They can submit an application to regularise and continue their activities. We have no objection. Every deputy commissioner will do a spot inspection and take an appropriate decision.” Yediyurappa’s U-turn drew angry reactions from the opposition. “Isn’t illegal mining a crime? What’s the punishment for that? How can he talk of regularisation while being in a responsible position, especially when such illegality has claimed six innocent lives,” asked opposition leader and former CM Siddaramaiah. “Yediyurappa and Shivamogga incharge minister KS Eshwarappa must take the blame for allowing illegal quarrying in their home-district.” Shivamogga is also the CM’s home-district. After visiting the site, Yediyurappa said a comprehensive probe had been ordered into the tragedy. “What caused the blast? Who gave permission for such a huge number of explosives to be transported? All these will be looked into and we will take action against those involved,” he said. The body of the sixth worker killed in the blast was retrieved on Saturday. His identity is not yet known. The CM said a forensic team from Hyderabad is examining the blast site and it will submit a report, based on which further action will be taken. “The crushers involved in the incident have permission only for stone crushing. Stone mining isn’t allowed. The guilty in the incident will be punished,” Yediyurappa said. At the blast site, relatives of the deceased said they have little information and access. Samiullah, a relative of Javeed, who died in the blast, said he has come from Andhra Pradesh and is still in the dark about what exactly happened. The families, he said, are pleading with police for the early release of the bodies but no one has heard them. Congress: Unauthorised mining has govt backingOpposition leader in the assembly Siddaramaiah has accused the CM of supporting unauthorised mining in the state. “The CM has asked people involved in illegal mining to apply for a licence. Can anyone, who is in a responsible post, make such statements? This shows illegal mining is happening in the state and it has the backing of the CM,” he said. Referring to the recent blast, Siddaramaiah said gelatin and dynamites were brought from Andhra Pradesh without permission and stored recklessly. “The negligence of officers was evident,” he said. He also demandeda probe into BJP MLC Ayanuru Manjunath’s statement that illegal mining is happening in Shivamogga in more than 100 places. “The CM and district minister KS Eshwarappa should own responsibility for the blast,” he said. Eshwarappa had told officials to turn a blind eye towards illegal mining for the benefit of the district when the issue was raised at a meeting, he alleged. TNN There are road works and highway projects for which mining and quarrying are needed. But illegal mining shouldn’t be allowed. It’s not good for anyone, including those doing it. They can submit an application to regularise and continue their activities. We have no objection. Every deputy commissioner will do a spot inspection and take an appropriate decision. BS Yediyurappa | Chief minister||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bsys-u-turn-on-illegal-mines/articleshow/80428887.cms||---
January 24, 2021||India||Gujarat reports 1st case of avian flu in poultry, 200 birds culled||RAJKOT: Gir Somnath district officials on Saturday confirmed the region’s first case of bird flu in poultry birds. Around 220 poultry birds were culled in one day while restriction orders were issued in the entire district regarding consumption and sale of eggs and chicken. More than a dozen poultry birds were found dead in Dolasa village of Kodinar taluka a few days ago. The carcasses were sent for forensic testing and the report on Friday night confirmed avian influenza. A team from the animal husbandry department surveyed the area and culling orders were given to four poultry farms within 1km radius from the affected farm. The district administration said that the entire area has been disinfected and a 10km radius area has been declared as surveillance zone for the next 60 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gujarat-reports-1st-case-of-avian-flu-in-poultry-200-birds-culled/articleshow/80428929.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||Single women scripting Maharashtra revolution||MUMBAI: A revolution is quietly brewing in the patriarchal Marathwada region of Maharashtra, and women such as Sumanbai Nurude (55) are scripting it. Nurude, who was widowed 30 years ago and sent back to her parents’ village with her two daughters, contested the gram panchayat elections from her Bhaswadi village in Nanded district and, to her surprise, won. “I was surprised when I was declared winner. It is hard for a single woman to come so far. But now that I have got the opportunity, I will work to raise the issues of women and focus on helping more single women,” said Nurude, adding that her daughters and brother have been her pillars of support. For years now, Nurude has been trying to avail of a government scheme that gives subsidies to widows to build homes but has not managed to get her application cleared yet. “There are many women like me who don’t want to be a burden on anyone and would like to earn and live alone with their children. These schemes are meant for us, but very few manage to get their benefits,” said Nurude. Several single women who are either widowed, have remained single due to caste or health issues, or were “left” by their husbands as they could not conceive or had given birth to girl children have contested gram panchayat elections from the drought-prone districts of Marathwada where the caste system is still robust and very few females manage to step outside the shadows of their husband, father or brothers. “A total of 194 women connected to our organisation contested the elections and 68 won. This is such a proud moment for us. Most of these women wouldn’t even attend gram sabha meetings initially. We encouraged them to attend these and raise their complaints. When these women would start asking questions, the men would ignore them. Taking from these experiences we decided last year to train these women to contest the gram panchayat polls. We even did a mock election at our organisation last year to boost their confidence,” said Ram Shelke, Marathwada representative of Coro India, which works as a facilitator with Ekal Mahila Sangathana. The sanghatana, which was started in 2014, now works with more than 19,000 women. Elections in nearly 13,000 gram panchayats were held earlier this month in the state. For Kaushalya Kalsule (32) from Beed district, a widow with two children, it was not an easy ride, though. “First, my mother was opposed to my decision to contest. I told her very clearly that I will go ahead. Then, after she agreed, I got threats from men in my own village who asked me to take back my candidature. While other candidates were luring voters with non-vegetarian meals, I couldn’t even offer women tea from my house as we had limited sugar,” said Kalsule who lost the election by just three votes. “But I am not dejected. I will continue to attend meetings and ask questions and will contest in the next elections,” she said. Shelke said that with representatives of the panchayat samitis, they will ensure that details of all single women from these villages are registered. At the moment, there is no record of how many single women live in the villages. “Unless a record is created, how will you ensure that the policies reach them,” asked Shelke.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/single-women-scripting-maharashtra-revolution/articleshow/80428938.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 24, 2021||India||Sex ratio up from 918 in 2014-15 to 934 in 2019-20||NEW DELHI: There has been an improvement of 16 points in sex ratio at birth from 918 girls per 1000 boys in 2014-15 to 934 girls per 1000 boys in 2019-20, the ministry of women and child development said on Saturday. Attributing the improvement to awareness and sensitisation efforts under the ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’ scheme launched in January 2015, the government pointed out that out of 640 districts covered under the scheme, 422 showed improvement in sex ratio at birth (SRB). The WCD ministry issued the statement to mark the National Girl Child Day on Sunday. The ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ scheme was launched by the Centre on January 22 in 2015 at Panipat in Haryana with the objective of bringing behavioural change in the society towards the rights of girl child. Sharing the SRB data collated by the Health Management Information System, the ministry said that some districts which had very low SRB in 2014-15 have shown huge improvement after implementation of the sheme such as Mau (Uttar Pradesh) from 694 (2014-15) to 951 (2019-20); Karnal (Haryana) from 758 (2014-15) to 898 (2019-20); Mahendergarh (Haryana) from 791 (2014-15) to 919 (2019-20); Rewari (Haryana) from 803 (2014-15) to 924 (2019-20); and Patiala (Punjab) from 847 (2014-15) to 933 (2019-20). “The measures taken under the scheme have resulted in increased awareness and sensitisation of the masses regarding prevalence of gender bias and role of community in eradicating it,” the ministry said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sex-ratio-up-from-918-in-2014-15-to-934-in-2019-20/articleshow/80428950.cms||---
January 24, 2021||India||At 73-day high, Kerala has 47% of India’s Covid cases||NEW DELHI: India’s daily Covid-19 case count stayed below 15,000 for the third day running but infections spiked to a 73-day high in Kerala, which accounted for 47% of the all cases detected in the country on Saturday. India recorded 14,891 fresh cases of the coronavirus, a marginal rise from the previous day’s tally of 14,413. Kerala reported nearly 7,000 new infections (6,960), its highest single-day count since November 11 last year, amid a discernible surge in infections in the state this week. Meanwhile, the seven-day rolling average of daily cases has fallen below the 14,000 mark, the lowest in seven months. The rolling average, which takes into account cases recorded over the past seven days, stood at 13,859 on Saturday. The last time the average daily count was below 14,000 was on June 21 last year. Maharashtra registered a slight dip in cases on Saturday, with 2,697 infections recorded in the state. The count on the previous day was 2,779. Yet, Maharashtra and Kerala continued to be the only states where the daily tally of cases was above 1,000. Together, the two states accounted for 65% of the national count on Saturday. Karnataka too reported a surge of sorts in the pandemic with 970 fresh infections detected in the state, up from 324 on the previous day. Out of these, 527 cases were from Bengaluru alone, the highest for any city in the country on Saturday. By contrast, Mumbai recorded 435 new cases, declining for the third day running. In Delhi, the number dropped to 197, the second time in the past six days that the national capital had reported less than 200 fresh Covid cases in a day. Chennai logged 153 new infections even as Tamil Nadu saw its active infection count dropping below 5,000, with 586 new cases and 673 recoveries. The nationwide death toll from the virus has stayed at around the same level in the past five days. On Saturday, 155 fatalities were recorded. The count has remained between 150 and 160 since Tuesday, lower than the fatalities recorded in the previous week. Maharashtra again registered the highest number of deaths at 56, followed by Kerala (23). Delhi, Bengal and Punjab reported 10 deaths each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/at-73-day-high-kerala-has-47-of-indias-covid-cases/articleshow/80428990.cms||---
January 24, 2021||India||Slowly, but steadily, fear of the Covid vaccine is waning||NEW DELHI: The number of healthcare workers registering to take the vaccine showed a slow but inexorable rise on Saturday across Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar and Jharkand. In Tamil Nadu, however, the number of people being inoculated against Covid-19 fell. The reasons for the rise were varying, from those emboldened by seeing senior doctors subject themselves to the first dose to a positive review in Lancetto news about recoveries among people who had reported adverse reactions and foreign demand for Indian-manufactured vaccines. A Lancet report has said Covaxin has proved safe and has produced an immune response in a small group of adults aged 18 to 55. Madhya Pradesh saw a rise in the vaccine curve, going by the turnout of the first four days. On day 1, January 16, just over 64% of the 15,000 intended beneficiaries had turned up. It shot up to 67.3%, and this led the authorities to increase the target for day 4, January 21, to 16,881. Though the overall vaccination rate in Bihar hovered about 50%, individual state government-run hospitals were showing an upward trend on Saturday with more and more healthcare workers stepping to be inoculated. For instance, Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) saw a 107% turnout on Saturday. “Thankfully six beneficiaries who were supposed to take the shot on another day, voluntarily came forward to get the vaccine on Saturday,” Dr Bimal Karak, PMCH superintendent, said. He cited several reasons for this improvement, including the positive report on Covaxin appearing in the Lancet. Another factor was the coming forward of heads of hospitals and senior health department officials, which helped address the hesitancy among healthcare workers. In Jharkhand, too, the Lancet review and reports of foreign demand for the Indian-developed vaccine boosted confidence. Jharkhand’s vaccination drive nodal officer Dr Ajit Prasad said: “We have reported a hike of around 8% in turnout as our coverage on Thursday touched 68% from an average of 60% reported last week. The reason behind the increase is the confidence developing among our healthcare workers after medical experts globally vouched for the efficacy of an Indian vaccine.”  Around 24,282 healthcare workers were inoculated in Maharashtra on Saturday, the fifth day of vaccinations in the state. It managed to cover 83% of the targeted number, up from 73% a day earlier. Maharashtra, in fact, recorded the highest turnout among the 27 states that had vaccination drives on Saturday. Mumbai managed its highest score so far, with 4,374 healthcare workers — 90% of the target — taking the vaccine.  In TN, a day after health minister Vijayabaskar, a doctor, took the indigenous Covaxin to motivate healthcare providers, the state reported a drop in the number of vaccinations to 7,575 (till 7 pm) from the 8,704 vaccinations it had reported by the same time on Friday and 9,277 on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/slowly-but-steadily-fear-of-the-covid-vaccine-is-waning/articleshow/80429072.cms||---
January 24, 2021||India||Seven more states to get Covaxin from next week||NEW DELHI: Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin will be administered in seven more states — Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal — from next week, the health ministry said on Saturday. It is currently being used in 12 states. On Saturday, 1,46,598 people were vaccinated till 6pm in 27 states and UTs. So far, over 15.37 lakh beneficiaries have been vaccinated since the launch of the drive on January 16. Read AlsoCovid vaccination drive: Nearly 14 lakh beneficiaries inoculatedNearly 14 lakh beneficiaries have been vaccinated against Covid-19 in the country, including 3,47,058 in the last 24 hours, the health ministry said on Saturday. According to data released by the ministry, the highest number of 1,84,699 vaccinations in the country has been reported from Karnataka,Also, 123 adverse events following immunisation were reported on Saturday but none was severe or serious, the ministry said. Read AlsoPositivity rate less than 1% except in Kerala, Maharashtra, NagalandBarring Kerala, Maharashtra and Nagaland, where the positivity rate was still in the red at 9.5%, 5% and 4.7% respectively over the last two 14-day periods (December 27-January 9 &amp; January 9-22), the pandemic seems to be under control in other areas with 22 states and UTs bringing it down to belowSo far, 11 cases of hospitalisation have been reported, accounting for a miniscule share among the total vaccinated. “There have been six deaths since the vaccine drive started but none of the deaths has been found to have any links to the Covid shots. A post mortem on the 56-year-old woman from Gurgaon who died in the last 24 hours has found that she expired due to a cardio-pulmonary attack,” additional health secretary Manohar Agnani said. Read AlsoCovid vaccine drive in Maharashtra now five days a week, centres increased tooThe Covid vaccination drive in Maharashtra will be conducted every week at 511 vaccination centres on five fixed days - Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday, Archana Patil, director, health services told TOI on Friday. The decision will be effective from January 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/seven-more-states-to-get-covaxin-from-next-week/articleshow/80429091.cms||Sushmi Dey
January 24, 2021||India||Positivity rate less than 1% except in Kerala, Maharashtra, Nagaland||NEW DELHI: Barring Kerala, Maharashtra and Nagaland, where the positivity rate was still in the red at 9.5%, 5% and 4.7% respectively over the last two 14-day periods (December 27-January 9 & January 9-22), the pandemic seems to be under control in other areas with 22 states and UTs bringing it down to below 1%. If the positivity rate, number of confirmed Covid cases per 100 tests, is above 5% measured over a 14-day period, the state is considered to be in the red zone and needs to impose lockdown in its containment zones. In Kerala, the positivity rate is still rising in contrast to the nationwide trend. Maharashtra, which has the country’s highest 20 lakh confirmed cases so far and over 50,000 deaths due to the pandemic, has failed to bring down the positivity rate below 5%, except briefly during the December 13-26 fortnight when it was 4.78%. Since November, Kerala’s positivity rate has been above 9%, which is a matter of concern. The state alone added more than 70,000 cases in the last 14 days, more than Maharashtra’s 38,000. Goa took the second spot after Kerala till December last week in terms of the highest positivity rate. However, it has now brought it to a manageable limit of less than 4% in the fortnight ending January 22 while Chandigarh got to 3%. There are only four states with a positivity rate above 3%. Four other states/UTs have it between 2% and 3% while 22 others have 0.2% to 1.6%, an indication that herd immunity may have set in in these areas. Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, UP, Haryana, Odisha, Bihar have all brought it down to below 1% level in the last fortnight between January 9 and 22. Between November 8-21, there were nine states that had positivity rates between 7% and 15%. Leading the pack was Himachal Pradesh at 15%, followed by Delhi 13%, Rajasthan 11%, Haryana 10%, Kerala 10%, Goa 9%, West Bengal 8%, Maharashtra 8% and Chhattisgarh 7%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/positivity-rate-less-than-1-except-in-kerala-maharashtra-nagaland/articleshow/80429103.cms||Pradeep Thakur
January 24, 2021||World||UK PM first European leader to get call from President Joe Biden in major boost to post-Brexit UK-US ties||LONDON: UK prime minister Boris Johnson is believed to be the first world leader outside North America and the third leader in the world to get a call from new US president Joe Biden in what is seen as significant boost to UK-US relations post Brexit. The two leaders spoke on Saturday and vowed to deepen the special relationship between the USA and Britain and drive a green and sustainable recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic. They also discussed the benefits of a potential free trade deal between the two countries. The call to the UK prime minister on Saturday evening follows Biden's first two calls after entering the White House which he made to Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau and Mexican president Andrés Manuel López Obrador on Friday. This makes Johnson the first leader outside North America to get the coveted phone call – ahead of the likes of Angela Merkel, Chancellor of Germany and Mícheál Martin, the Irish prime minister. Biden has Irish roots. Johnson tweeted a photo of the call and said: “Great to speak to President @JoeBiden this evening. I look forward to deepening the longstanding alliance between our two countries as we drive a green and sustainable recovery from COVID-19.” Great to speak to President @JoeBiden this evening. I look forward to deepening the longstanding alliance between o… https://t.co/j6MBXu3yo2— Boris Johnson (@BorisJohnson) 1611434533000Former US president Donald Trump had relegated former UK prime minister Theresa May to 11th in the list of world leaders he rang following his election victory in November 2016. A Downing Street spokesperson said: “The Prime Minister congratulated the President on his inauguration and the two leaders looked forward to deepening the close alliance between our nations.” The two leaders noted the significant challenges facing the world during the pandemic, but also the unparalleled opportunities to “build back better and greener together”. The UK Prime Minister praised President Biden’s early action on tackling climate change and commitment to reach Net Zero by 2050.  “The Prime Minister warmly welcomed the President’s decision to re-join the Paris Agreement on climate change, as well as the World Health Organization and the COVAX programme to ensure equitable access for vaccines,” Number 10 said. Building on the UK and US’ long history of cooperation in security and defence, the leaders re-committed to the NATO alliance and their shared values in promoting human rights and protecting democracy.  “They also discussed the benefits of a potential free trade deal between our two countries, and the Prime Minister reiterated his intention to resolve existing trade issues as soon as possible,” Downing Street added.  “The leaders looked forward to meeting in person as soon as the circumstances allow, and to working together through the G7, G20 and COP26 this year.” Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be attending the G7 summit in Carbis Bay, Cornwall in Britain from 11 to 13 June. The UK will host the COP26 Summit in Glasgow in November, which follows on from the G20 summit in Rome at the end of October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/uk-pm-first-european-leader-to-get-call-from-president-joe-biden-in-major-boost-to-post-brexit-uk-us-ties/articleshow/80429123.cms||NAOMI CANTON
January 24, 2021||World||UK PM first European leader to get call from President Joe Biden in major boost to post-Brexit UK-US ties||LONDON: UK prime minister Boris Johnson is believed to be the first world leader outside North America and the third leader in the world to get a call from new US president Joe Biden in what is seen as significant boost to UK-US relations post Brexit. The two leaders spoke on Saturday and vowed to deepen the special relationship between the USA and Britain and drive a green and sustainable recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic. They also discussed the benefits of a potential free trade deal between the two countries. The call to the UK prime minister on Saturday evening follows Biden's first two calls after entering the White House which he made to Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau and Mexican president Andrés Manuel López Obrador on Friday. This makes Johnson the first leader outside North America to get the coveted phone call – ahead of the likes of Angela Merkel, Chancellor of Germany and Mícheál Martin, the Irish prime minister. Biden has Irish roots. Johnson tweeted a photo of the call and said: “Great to speak to President @JoeBiden this evening. I look forward to deepening the longstanding alliance between our two countries as we drive a green and sustainable recovery from COVID-19.” Great to speak to President @JoeBiden this evening. I look forward to deepening the longstanding alliance between o… https://t.co/j6MBXu3yo2— Boris Johnson (@BorisJohnson) 1611434533000Former US president Donald Trump had relegated former UK prime minister Theresa May to 11th in the list of world leaders he rang following his election victory in November 2016. A Downing Street spokesperson said: “The Prime Minister congratulated the President on his inauguration and the two leaders looked forward to deepening the close alliance between our nations.” The two leaders noted the significant challenges facing the world during the pandemic, but also the unparalleled opportunities to “build back better and greener together”. The UK Prime Minister praised President Biden’s early action on tackling climate change and commitment to reach Net Zero by 2050.  “The Prime Minister warmly welcomed the President’s decision to re-join the Paris Agreement on climate change, as well as the World Health Organization and the COVAX programme to ensure equitable access for vaccines,” Number 10 said. Building on the UK and US’ long history of cooperation in security and defence, the leaders re-committed to the NATO alliance and their shared values in promoting human rights and protecting democracy.  “They also discussed the benefits of a potential free trade deal between our two countries, and the Prime Minister reiterated his intention to resolve existing trade issues as soon as possible,” Downing Street added.  “The leaders looked forward to meeting in person as soon as the circumstances allow, and to working together through the G7, G20 and COP26 this year.” Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be attending the G7 summit in Carbis Bay, Cornwall in Britain from 11 to 13 June. The UK will host the COP26 Summit in Glasgow in November, which follows on from the G20 summit in Rome at the end of October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-pm-first-european-leader-to-get-call-from-president-joe-biden-in-major-boost-to-post-brexit-uk-us-ties/articleshow/80429122.cms||NAOMI CANTON
January 24, 2021||India||Jailed innocent couple’s kids traced||AGRA: The missing minor children of a couple jailed for five years for a crime they never committed were traced to separate children’s homes in Firozabad and Kanpur on Saturday. TOI had on Friday reported that the couple — Narendra Singh, 40, and wife Najma, 30 — was unable to trace their son Ajeet and daughter Anju, who were five and three at the time of the arrest in 2015. While Ajeet was found living at State Children’s Home for Boys in Firozabad, Anju was traced to State Children’s Home for Girls in Kanpur. According to sources, both the children were shifted to an Agra child protection home on October 24, 2019 after their grandfather Bhagwan Das expressed inability to take care of them citing poor financial condition. They had been handed over to their grandparents immediately after the couple’s arrest on September 2, 2015. Read AlsoAfter 5 years’ jail, innocent couple comes out to find kids missingAGRA: A day after their release following five years in prison for a crime they never committed, a couple is now desperately looking for their minor children. The kids, a son who was five then and daughter three, were sent to “some orphanage” in their parents’ absence. Now, nobody knows where theyAgra CWC chairman Gopal Sharma said, “Both were living separately since August last as only those up to 10 years are allowed in child protection homes. They were both sent to separate facilities after age verification revealed they were above 10 years.” Meanwhile, the couple’s lawyer Vansho Baboo disputed Sharma’s claims and said the children were wrongfully removed from the child protection home despite their age. He said the couple’s priority now would be to reunite with them at the earliest, adding that they would meet the CWC officials on Monday to complete the formalities. Child rights activist Naresh Paras, too, sought the committee’s urgent intervention. Promising all help to the couple, Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said that the district probationary officer is in touch with them and would provide all assistance to bring the children back to Agra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jailed-innocent-couples-kids-traced/articleshow/80429125.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 24, 2021||India||To check child marriages, UID mandatory in Odisha district||BERHAMPUR: The Ganjam district administration has made Aadhaar verification of bride and groom mandatory before they tie the knot in an effort to make the district free of child marriage within six months. Ganjam district collector Vijay Amruta Kulange on Friday asked anganwadi workers to verify the details during every marriage. “It will enable us to know the age of the bride and help us prevent child marriage,” he said during a meeting of the Nirbhaya Kadhi, an initiative taken by the district administration to raise awareness against child marriage. At the same time, the administration has also decided to fix responsibility on the priests and pundits who conduct child marriages. The collector has also sought people’s cooperation to erase the stigma of child marriage from the district. Earlier, the administration had announced cash reward of Rs 5,000 to those who inform about child marriage prior to it being solemnised. The administration has already declared 1,032 out of 3,250 villages (around one-third) in the district as child marriage-free. Similarly, 140 out of 286 wards in 18 urban local bodies (ULB) have been declared free of child marriage. Despite several programmes, reports of child marriages continues in the district. Last year, the administration had stopped as many as 228 child marriage bids as against 45 and 22 in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Kulange has asked officers to keep strict vigil in areas where more number of such cases have been reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/to-check-child-marriages-uid-mandatory-in-odisha-district/articleshow/80429129.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
January 24, 2021||India||UP ex-minister Prajapati’s sons declared Rs 13 crore black money||NEW DELHI: Two sons of former Uttar Pradesh mining minister and senior SP member Gayatri Prajapati — Anil and Anurag — had declared black money of over Rs 13 crore before the I-T department during the 2016 amnesty scheme, launched by Modi government months before the demonetisation of high value currency notes. The Enforcement Directorate, which is seeking fresh custodial interrogation of Prajapati, has in its money laundering probe found that the Prajapati family collectively owns 59 properties across India. These assets were purchased ‘on paper’ (legitimate transaction value) for Rs 21 crore while the market value has been estimated to be much more, it said in its remand application. Prajapati is currently in a Lucknow jail in a rape case. During the Income Declaration Scheme launched by the Centre in June 2016, Anil declared undisclosed income (black money) of Rs 7.17 crore while Anurag disclosed Rs 5.85 crore as unaccounted money, ED said. The two agreed to pay 45% of the total disclosed amount as tax and penalty applicable under the amnesty scheme. During the four-month window between June and September 2016, over Rs 65,000 crore in black money was declared by thousands of tax evaders. The Centre had earned over Rs 29,000 crore in taxes on such disclosures. In November 2016, the government had announced demonetisation.Former CM Akhilesh Yadav too is under probe in mining scam. TOI had last week reported that ED has found unaccounted cash deposits of around Rs 15 crore in the accounts of Prajapati, his family members and two of their firms, mostly during his tenure as mining minister between 2013 and 2016. His sons have declared undisclosed income for the period between 2012-2016. Gayatri Prajapati was questioned twice in 2019 when a case under the PMLA was registered against him. His sons and other family members have been questioned several times since September 2020 in connection with the huge cash deposits in their bank accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-ex-minister-prajapatis-sons-declared-rs-13-crore-black-money/articleshow/80429135.cms||Pradeep Thakur
January 24, 2021||India||Supreme Court judges recall Emergency, stress on statute values||NEW DELHI: Several Supreme Court judges on Saturday recalled the days of Emergency as one of the ‘darkest hours of democracy” and stressed on commitment to constitutional values. They also lamented on deteriorating standards of legal education in the country with mushrooming of law colleges all over, stating that something needed to be done urgently to improve education and research in the field of law. Justices NV Ramana, DY Chandrachud, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Surya Kant, while participating through video conferencing for launch of a book by senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, shared their views about the Emergency period when they were college students. They appreciated the timely release of his book on the law of emergency when the whole world is witnessing another emergency situation due to Covid-19. Chandrachud, who was a classmate of Kaul and Singhvi in Delhi University, recalled his days during the Emergency which he termed as “one of the darkest hours” of democracy. Ramana said he was about to preside over a meeting in Andhra Pradesh on June 25, 1975 when police came and disrupted the meeting and he had to flee from the spot amid the commotion. He said the Emergency had lasting effect on generations. Appreciating the scholarly work of Singhvi in writing the book and his commitment to constitutional values, Kaul said there is a need to improve the quality of law education and research in India. Ramana also agreed with Kaul and said, “I hope we can take up the issue in coming days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/supreme-court-judges-recall-emergency-stress-on-statute-values/articleshow/80429144.cms||---
January 24, 2021||India||Neither party to nuclear arms ban treaty, nor back it, says India||NEW DELHI: As the first historic, though largely symbolic, UN treaty banning nuclear weapons went into effect on Friday, India said it is not party to the treaty nor does it support it. India isn’t alone. None of the nuclear weapons states are party to the Treaty on Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons (TPNW). Even Nato has refused to support the treaty. Japan, the only state to actually suffer a nuclear weapons attack, also dissociated from the treaty, though it remains committed to full disarmament. India, MEA said, “remains committed to universal, non-discriminatory and verifiable nuclear disarmament.” Nevertheless, the treaty went into effect with 86 signatures, and ratified by over 60 countries. In a statement, MEA said, “India did not participate in the negotiations on the TPNW and has consistently made it clear that it will not become a party to the treaty. India does not support the treaty, and shall not be bound by any of the obligations that may arise from it. India believes that this treaty does not constitute or contribute to the development of customary international law; nor does it set any new standards or norms.” The treaty came about in 2017, born out of a belief that the global move to prohibit nuclear weapons had ground to a halt, neither was the non-proliferation treaty effective. The treaty requires ratifying countries to “never under any circumstances... develop, test, produce, manufacture, otherwise acquire, possess or stockpile nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices”. The pact also bans any transfer or use of nuclear weapons or nuclear explosive devices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/neither-party-to-nuclear-arms-ban-treaty-nor-back-it-says-india/articleshow/80429145.cms||---
January 24, 2021||India||Ayushman scheme to cover CAPF, benefit 50 lakh people||GUWAHATI: Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday announced extension of the Ayushman Bharat health scheme to Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) and said it will benefit 50 lakh people, including CAPF personnel and their families. While launching the scheme at CRPF group centre at Amerigog, ninth mile in Guwahati, Shah lambasted those who have been criticising the efficacies of Covid-19 vaccines, saying that there should be no politics on public health, PTI reported. “There are some people who are spreading misinformation on vaccine. Come to another platform and let’s have a duel. But why are you creating doubt over people’s health and doing politics? There are other issues for that,” he said. Shah said formalities for Ayushman Bharat health scheme will be completed soon. He said he had had a dialogue with jawans where he zeroed in on three issues which is confronting CAPF. “One was the availability of health-related expenditure and reimbursement for jawans and their family members, besides availability of treatment at hospitals. Satisfaction ratio and recruitment to fill up vacancy in CAPF were the others,” he stated. “We have to ensure that those who guard the borders of India and keep its sovereignty and integrity intact don’t have to worry about the health and other issues of their family,” the minister said. He said PM Modi has said the poor have the first right over India’s resource. Shah said treatment will be available across 24,000 hospitals in the country. “This is PM’s gift to CAPF,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ayushman-scheme-to-cover-capf-benefit-50-lakh-people/articleshow/80429148.cms||Prabin Kalita
January 24, 2021||India||Vaccination drive: Anxiety behind 7 of 9 AEFI cases in Karnataka||BENGALURU: The coverage data of Covid-19 vaccination in Karnataka has revealed that seven out of the nine serious instances of adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) were triggered by anxiety. The other two instances were cases of heart attack that resulted in death. The state health department has released the data. Adverse reactions are generally mild. But heightened concerns about potential side effects of the vaccine have pushed up anxiety levels among healthcare workers shortlisted for the first phase of inoculation. The seven who suffered serious AEFI in the form of anxiety are women aged between 32 and 47. All of them received a jab of Covishield. Six of them were hospitalised for a day. One, a 35-year-old nurse in Davanagere, is yet to be discharged. In most of the said cases, low blood pressure (hypotension) was noticed. “Vaccine hesitancy needs to be addressed. Anyone can become anxious and this has been seen among some healthcare workers. Proper information about vaccination should be shared before the process,” said Dr Rajani K N, the state deputy director for immunisation. The topic of bouts of anxiety after vaccination is being discussed in meetings of the state health department and there are plans to implement a strategy to ease fears about inoculation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vaccination-drive-anxiety-behind-7-of-9-aefi-cases-in-karnataka/articleshow/80429157.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 24, 2021||India||Bound for Netherlands? Get tested 4 hours before flight||NEW DELHI: Flyers travelling to the Netherlands are now required to undergo a Covid test within four hours of their flight departure time at the origin. This is in addition to the existing requirement of getting an RT-PCR test done within 72 hours of arrival time in Holland. A negative result from the new 4-hour pre-departure test will be needed to board flights to the Netherlands. The rule is effective immediately and is the latest in the tightening of testing norms by various countries after the emergence of new and more infectious strains of coronavirus. India has an air bubble arrangement with the Netherlands and France and Air France-KLM operate flights under that along with Air India. “Cost of the (new 4-hour) test will be borne by passengers. They are requested to arrive at the airport 5-6 hours prior as check-in will be permitted only after obtaining the test result,” KLM said in a travel advisory issued Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bound-for-netherlands-get-tested-4-hours-before-flight/articleshow/80429163.cms||---
January 24, 2021||India||Punjab to test positive cases for mutant strain||CHANDIGARH: Unable to control the ever-increasing death rate, Punjab has decided to examine if a mutated coronavirus strain has entered the state, causing deaths at a higher rate. The state government has decided to send 5% of positive samples to National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) for examination. In January, when rest of India saw a steady decline in the Covid-19 positivity rate and cases, Punjab continued to battle with a high death rate. The fatality rate in the state shot up while the positivity rate witnessed a dip from 2 % to 1% in the last 22 days and the R-value slipped as well, indicating a slower spread. According to sources, the government is looking to ascertain the reasons for high death rate despite taking all the corrective measures recommended by the state and central health experts. The data of the health department showed that the rate at which people succumbed to the virus from January 1-22 was 4.1% against the state’s overall fatality rate of 3.2%. During this period, 194 people out of 4,752 infected by the virus died. So far, 5,543 people have lost their lives in the state. In the last 30 days, as many as six districts had death rate over 10%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-to-test-positive-cases-for-mutant-strain/articleshow/80429166.cms||Vinod Kumar
January 24, 2021||Patna||Bihar slips to seventh place in inoculation drive||PATNA: Bihar has slipped from third to seventh position among states and union territories in the number of healthcare workers vaccinated since the launch of nationwide drive on January 16. However, Bihar was third in the eastern region on Saturday after Odisha and West Bengal in the total number of healthcare workers vaccinated so far. In Bihar till Saturday evening, altogether 75,978 beneficiaries have taken the vaccine jab since January 16, compared to 1.3 lakh in Odisha and over 80,000 in West Bengal. Karnataka is on top with 2.2 lakh people vaccinated, followed by Andhra Pradesh where 1.39 lakh healthcare workers received the shots. The maximum 62% turnout of registered healthcare workers for vaccination was witnessed in Bihar on the first day. After that, the vaccination drive has seen a decline of around 11% in the state. Health experts attribute the low turnout and fall in the number of people getting vaccinated to rumours revolving around the vaccines, mismanagement and glitches on CoWIN (Covid Vaccine Intelligence Work) digital portal and comparison between Covishield manufactured by Pune’s Serum Institute and Covaxin of Bharat Biotech. NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh told this newspaper that out of total 2,505 staff members, 1,112 healthcare workers were still not registered on CoWIN app. “These unregistered healthcare workers are senior doctors and medical practitioners, including the principal and superintendent. Had the senior doctors taken the vaccine jab, it would have instilled confidence in the other healthcare workers,” he said. He added: “Most of the registered beneficiaries are sanitation workers, guards, ANMs, nurses and PG students. Secondly, we got Covaxin and many people are not ready to take it because it is still in the trial stages.” Talking about the fall in inoculation programme, AIIMS-Patna nodal officer for Covid, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said because of rumours and misinformation about the vaccines on social media, people are not ready to take the shot. “Secondly, several non-experts are giving their opinions on vaccine, when they are not even worked on Covid-19. They are misleading the masses. Thirdly, the technical faults on CoWIN app is to be blamed for low number of vaccination,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-slips-to-seventh-place-in-inoculation-drive/articleshow/80426482.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 24, 2021||Chandigarh||Will help kin of those who die: Haryana village||JIND: A committee formed by farmers from Baroda, one of the biggest villages in Haryana’s Jind district, on Saturday announced that it would take care of families whose loved ones die during the January 26 tractor march to Delhi and also pay for any damage caused to tractors. Amarjit Chahal, a key member of the committee, said they had collected Rs 35 lakh from local farmers and would use the money from it for all expenses, even in case farmers get hurt or die during the stir. “We decided in a panchayat meeting that the entire village will support a family if its loses a member in the agitation. We have decided to march peacefully, but, since it is a movement, anything may happen. Last year, we collected Rs 2 crore for a religious event. For the stir, we are collecting Rs 200 per acre,” he added. Jitender Chahal, zila parishad member from the village, said some people were donating Rs 51,000 and even more. Everyone is extending help,” he added. The announcement comes close on the heels of many villages in Haryana taking responsibility for damages to tractors taking part in what farm unions are calling ‘Tractor Parade’. Even landless farmers are pitching in with donations, according to Amarjit Chahal. “Baroda is the first village that has taken responsibility for even loss of life during the protest and collectively claimed that villagers will look after the family. We formed the committee of prominent people of the village to manage funds,” he said. In Baroda village, farmers said there are around 7,000 acres of farmland. Apart from collecting Rs 200 per acre, landless farmers and salaried locals are also pitching in with donations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/will-support-family-in-case-loved-ones-die-on-jan-26-says-panel-of-haryana-village/articleshow/80427803.cms||VIJENDER KUMAR
January 24, 2021||Patna||Quantum of punishment against ex-RJD MLA on Monday||PATNA: Gaya ADJ-III Sangam Singh served a show-cause notice on Daudnagar sub-jail superintendent for his failure to produce former RJD MLA Kunti Devi in the court on Saturday for pronouncing the quantum of punishment against her in an eight-year-old murder case. The court on January 19 held her guilty in the murder case of JD(U) block level leader Sumirak Yadav and had fixed Saturday to pronounce the quantum of punishment. The court has directed the prison authorities to ensure her physical presence before it on Monday. The killing, which was a fallout of political revenge, took place at Neemchak Bathani bazar in Gaya on February 26, 2013. When asked, sub-divisional prosecution officer Gyan Sagar told TOI over phone: “The court has observed that it would report the matter to the Patna high court if the prison authorities failed to produce the convict on Monday.” He said prison authorities reported to the court that the convict was not well. Kunti’s husband Rajendra Yadav, who had also represented Atri assembly seat, is already serving life imprisonment for killing a minor girl in celebratory firing in 2005. Additional public prosecutor Masood Manzar said the trial was going on only against Kunti in the case. “Her two sons, including the sitting Atri MLA, are named accused in the case. The JD(U) leader was returning home after locking party office when he was beaten to death,” he said. Manzar said the deposition of witnesses proved that Kunti, her two sons and her son-in-law were present on the spot. “Witnesses had heard Kunti instigating all the attackers, including her sons, to beat Sumirak because she had lost the election due to him,” Manzar said. He said altogether 12 eyewitnesses were in the case but two had turned hostile during the course of trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/quantum-of-punishment-against-ex-rjd-mla-on-monday/articleshow/80426731.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 24, 2021||Patna||Six flights cancelled due to poor visibility||PATNA: Six flights operating to and from Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport were cancelled on Saturday due to poor visibility caused by the foggy conditions. Those cancelled were GoAir’s G8-351 (Mumbai) and G8-2506, G8-133 (Delhi) flights and IndiGo’s 6E-982 (Hyderabad), 6E-6105 (Kolkata) and 6E-2614 (Delhi) flights. The visibility was less than 50 metres from 7am to 9.45am. “The minimum runway visual range (RVR) visibility of 1,000m was achieved at 12 noon. The pilot needs a minimum visibility of 400m for take-off and 1,000m for landing,” weatherman Kamal Singh Gupta of Patna Meteorological Centre told this newspaper. Low visibility triggered by the fog delayed the arrival of 22 flights against 37 operated on Saturday. The departure of nine flights was also affected, said an airport official. The major disruption took place between 8am and 4pm as the delay in arrival of flights led to bunching of aircraft affecting their departures and the other scheduled flights as well. Several airlines requested travelling passengers to keep a check on their flight status. Continuous delays and cancellation of six flights caused chaotic situation at the Patna airport. Several flyers vent their anger on social media while sharing the pictures of passenger-packed terminal building. One Abhinav Kumar, who was travelling by SpiceJet, tweeted: “Ridiculous and unprofessional arrangements at Patna Airport. People are missing their flights. In times of covid, we really expect much more than this mess (sic).” A software engineer, Priya Singh faced a similar situation and said, “Worst management at Patna airport. It was like we are going to board a general coach, standing in a row for 50 minutes to catch a train.” Another traveller, Amit Gupta wrote, “What a horrible experience of travelling from Patna airport. No social distancing at all. Majority of the people don’t have masks on. Extremely poor management by Patna airport authority.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/six-flights-cancelled-due-to-poor-visibility/articleshow/80426570.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 24, 2021||Patna||Archives directorate uploads digitized docus to its website||Patna: The Bihar State Archives Directorate (BSAD) uploaded digitized documents related to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose to its website on the occasion of his 125th birth anniversary on Saturday. “The five files containing more than 200 pages are now just a click away. According to them, Bose had visited Patna, Danapur, Patna City, Barh, Ekangarsarai, Motihari and Bettiah between 1939 and 1940 and addressed several public meetings,” BSAD director Mahendrapal told this newspaper. According to Jayadeo Mishra, former head of ancient Indian history department in Patna University, Bose had addressed a meeting at Gandhi Maidan in the state capital on August 29, 1939 and urged the people to participate in the national freedom struggle. Sarvodaya leader Jayprakash Narayan, littérateur Ram Briksha Benipuri and more than 20,000 people had attended the meet. He addressed another public meeting at Khagaul on October 27. Retired history professor Jayshree Mishra said, “Netaji had addressed a meeting at Ekangarsarai on February 8, 1940 which attracted a huge crowd. Two days later he visited Motihari and Bettiah to garner people’s support for the national freedom movement.” Guv, CM pay tributes: Governor Phagu Chauhan and chief minister Nitish Kumar paid floral tributes to Netaji at the Raj Bhavan and on 1, Anne Marg respectively. Water resources minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary and former minister Sanjay Jha also garlanded his portrait. Tributes were paid to the freedom fighter at the offices of the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee and the Rashtriya Janata Dal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/archives-directorate-uploads-digitized-docus-to-its-website/articleshow/80426548.cms||B K Mishra
January 24, 2021||Madurai||TN fishers’ bodies laid to rest after SL hands them over||Ramanathapuram/Pudukottai: Bodies of the four Tamil Nadu fishermen who died after their boat was allegedly sunk by Sri Lankan Navy on Monday on the island nation’s waters were handed over to the Indian Coast Guard near the international maritime boundary line on Saturday morning. The bodies were then passed on to a group of fishermen who had gone to receive them. Late in the evening, the four — A Mesiya (30) of Thangachimadam, V Nagaraj (52) of Vattanvalasai, S Senthil Kumar (32) of Thaathanenthal and N Samson Darwin (28) of the Sri Lankan refugee camp at Mandapam, — were laid to rest in their native villages in Ramanathapuram district. Though postmortem of the bodies was done in Sri Lanka, the fishermen had demanded a second post-mortem when they met Union fisheries minister Giriraj Singh on Friday night. Following this, Ramanathapuram district administration had arranged for the same by a team of doctors at the district government hospital. However, on Saturday the families urged the officials to hand over the bodies without the re-postmortem. “We got an undertaking from the four families individually and handed over the bodies to them,” a police officer told TOI. The bodies were brought to the fish landing centre at Kottaipattinam around 3 pm. Health minister C Vijayabaskar along with relatives of the deceased received them and paid homage. Pudukottai district collector P Uma Maheswari and officials were also present. Ramanathapuram collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver paid homage when they were brought to the district in the evening. At Thangachimadam, fishermen staged a road blockade on the Madurai - Rameswaram highway for nearly 90 minutes till 6.30 pm demanding initiation of criminal action against the Lankan Navy. Fisheries minister D Jayakumar said Sri Lanka has constituted a committee to probe the incident. “It should be an unbiased committee. The Sri Lankan navy has committed a mistake. We will gain trust on the committee only when those who are guilty are punished,” he said. In the event of the committee not punishing the guilty, the minister said that it will be treated as an eye-wash. “We will put pressure on the Centre to ensure those responsible for the incident are punished,” he added. Earlier in the day, Union fisheries minister Giriraj Singh who took part in an event at Kunthukal village in Ramanathapuram observed two minutes silence along with the gathering in memory of the victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-fishers-bodies-laid-to-rest-after-sl-hands-them-over/articleshow/80427772.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Patna||12,351 more get vaccine shots in Bihar||PATNA: Just 51.6% of the registered beneficiaries took Covid vaccine shots in the state on Saturday. Of the 23,919 people who had registered for the day, just 12,351 turned up at the designated centres. Also, no case of ‘adverse events following immunization (AEFI)’ was reported on Saturday. The overall turnout for the state remains low even though a new methodology was implemented on Saturday and the state had been divided into two units for vaccination. Now vaccination is being done only in 19 districts on a particular day and in 19 other districts on other days. However, the number of centres for the vaccination has been doubled. On Saturday, the drive was carried out at 272 sites in the districts falling in Patna, Purnia, Saran and Tirhut divisions. State health department special secretary Manoj Kumar said some districts are performing poorly as far as vaccination is concerned. According to the health department, of 23,919 people who were vaccinated in 19 districts on Saturday, 11,529 got Covishield and 438 Covaxin. The cumulative data for the five days shows that 75,978 health care workers have been vaccinated so far. Of them, 74,223 have got Covishield and 1,755 Covaxin. Though no case of AEFI was reported on Saturday, the cumulative data for five days shows 69 such cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/12351-more-get-vaccine-shots-in-bihar/articleshow/80426496.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 24, 2021||Trichy||Konakkarai Road project still on paper as traffic woes continue||Trichy:The proposal to develop Konakkarai Road to link Trichy-Karur national highway with Trichy city remains in cold storage for more than a year now. An alternative smart road proposed at a cost of Rs 8 crore to prevent snarl-ups near Chathiram bus stand and the busy Karur Bypass Road also exists only on paper.Konakkarai Road project, released in the second phase of the smart cities mission proposals in August 2019, was hailed as a practical project to resolve the city’s traffic woes. Vehicles entering the city from western districts largely rely on the Karur Bypass road and Chathiram bus stand junction to access the core city. But traffic bottlenecks became a common affair after the work on the renovation of Chatiram bus stand began and Karur Bypass Road turned into a commercial hub. As a solution, more than a year ago Trichy Corporation proposed to develop the 2-km Konakkarai Road that branches off near the police check post on Karur highway and merges with Salai Road at Woraiyur. But, the proposal still remains on paper. At present, only two-wheeler riders are using the stretch.“Konakkarai road that runs parallel to the Kudamurutti River will help people bypass the congested areas. People using Konakkarai crematorium will also be benefitted as the road is bumpy,” Saravanan Natesan, a road safety activist, said. The road also requires retaining walls on a portion of the stretch that shares a boundary with the river. “The road proposal is not dropped. The work area overlaps with underground drainage (UGD) project, once the UGD work is finished, we will launch the road project,” a senior official with Trichy Corporation said. Smart city mission projects are supposed to be initiated within five years. In the case of Trichy, the deadline is June 2022 to use the smart city funds. If the UGD project takes at least a year or two more to conclude, the road project is highly unlikely to take shape under smart cities mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/konakkarai-road-project-still-on-paper-as-traffic-woes-continue/articleshow/80427782.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 24, 2021||Patna||RJD workers do ‘havan’ for ailing Lalu Prasad||PATNA: The workers of RJD as well as other political parties have wished for a speedy recovery of the RJD chief Lalu Prasad, who was airlifted to AIIMS, Delhi from RIMS, Ranchi on Saturday after his health condition deteriorated. A group of RJD workers led by district president of Muzaffarpur Ramesh Gupta offered prayers at a local temple and observed ‘havan’ for the early recovery of the party supremo. The activists of Yuva RJD led by state president Md Qari Sohaib also wished for early recovery of Lalu Prasad. Earlier, the leaders of ruling NDA expressed their concern over the ill-health of the RJD chief, who was serving sentence in fodder scam cases. BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said, “There may be ideological differences with Lalu Prasad. But we pray to the almighty for his early recovery.” Former CM and HAM (S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi had also expressed his concern over the deteriorating health of the founder of RJD. “I hope he will recover soon,” he had said on Friday. Similar views were expressed by JD(U) spokesperson Abhishek Jha. LJP national president and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan didn’t lag in expressing his wish for early recovery of RJD leader and former CM Lalu Prasad. In a statement, Chirag said that Lalu’s health will improve soon and he will be able to guide the leaders and workers of the party. On Friday, Lalu’s wife and former CM Rabri Devi along with her two sons Tej Pratap Yadav and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav rushed to Ranchi and met Lalu Prasad in the hospital where he was undergoing treatment. The couple’s daughter and Rajya Sabha MP Misa Bharti had also reached there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-workers-do-havan-for-ailing-lalu/articleshow/80426671.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Patna||State reports 149 more Covid cases, six deaths||PATNA: Altogether 149 fresh Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Saturday, taking the tally to 2,59,766. Four deaths — two from Patna and one each from Darbhanga and Sitamarhi — were also reported after which the toll reached 1,476. As many as 203 patients recovered from corona in the last 24 hours. With altogether 2,55,741 recoveries, there are 2,547 active cases in the state now. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) reported two deaths, including those of a 58-year-old woman from Bhagalpur and a 74-year-old from Jehanabad. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, told TOI that five people were admitted and six discharged from the hospital on Saturday. Of the 149 new Covid cases, 60 were from Patna, taking the tally to 51,920. With 50,575 recoveries and 408 deaths, there are 937 active cases in the district. Corona cases were also reported from other districts like Banka (8), Begusarai (8), Bhagalpur (8), Nawada (5) and Samastipur (5). The remaining reported less than five cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-reports-149-more-covid-cases-six-deaths/articleshow/80426489.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Kolkata||Tech, diversions help keep cars moving despite rallies, convoys||Kolkata: The traffic across the city on Saturday was normal despite heavy VIP movement and multiple programmes on the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Police sources said using the latest GPS-based coordination and taking the diversions till the last moment helped keep the vehicle flow smooth. The cops also took an important decision — keeping the Shyambazar-bound flank of CR Avenue open as chief minister Mamata Banerjee led the rally from Shyambazar on the Esplanade-bound flank. “We realized that CR Avenue was the lifeline as VIPs would be using it despite two rallies on it — one as long as 8km. While we wanted APC Road to take the load of central Kolkata-bound vehicles, we wanted to divert cars through CR Avenue. This decision helped keep central Kolkata snarl free as there was no stagnation. There was instruction that no vehicle should remain stagnant on Central Avenue. In addition, Raja Dinendra Street, Canal East, Canal West and Canal Circular Road played key roles. Even during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s VVIP convoy movement, only DL Khan Road — connecting National library with PTS and Victoria Memorial — was kept shut. “We diverted vehicles towards Gopalnagar and Kidderpore as required. The shortest route was chosen to bring the convoy from Elgin Road to DL Khan Road, which was the second stop for PM Modi,” said an officer. Sources said the fact that it was a Saturday helped cops. However, they accepted there was some stagnation around Belgachhia Bridge. “Since we did not allow too many vehicles on Cossipore Road, the Belgacchia Bridge had to handle a lot of pressure and witnessed a little stop-gap stagnation. We did not find too many vehicles on the road as on a normal working day. However, there was some reluctance to use certain routes which people are not familiar with despite cops helping them out. Vehicle movement was a little stagnated around Kolkata station due to this,” said an officer. Police sources said there was naka checking at select traffic intersections and entry points of the city from Friday night. “We had arrangements for the scheduled visit of the PM and the CM’s rally. State officials had conducted a survey of the route Modi was scheduled to take and central security agencies, too, gave their feedback before the plan was firmed up,” claimed Lalbazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tech-diversions-help-keep-cars-moving-despite-rallies-convoys/articleshow/80426871.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 24, 2021||Patna||Special ward in IGIMS for patients of joint replacement||PATNA: Health minister Mangal Pandey on Saturday inaugurated a separate six-bed joint replacement ward at Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS). He also inaugurated eight new rooms, which are extension on the first floor of the guesthouse and planted a citrus plant on the occasion. Talking about the new ward, IGIMS superintendent Dr Manish Mandal said this would protect patients from infection as there will be no intermingling with others. He further said two types of replacement — hip and knee — and four different implants were being done at IGIMS. “These are done every day, depending on the number of patients. We charge between Rs40,000 and Rs90,000, which is almost half the rate at private hospitals,” said Dr Mandal, adding that while implants and replacements are being done for quite a long time, knee replacement was started in October previous year and, so far, over 40 replacements have been done in the hospital. When asked about the upcoming 500-bed hospital, foundation of which was laid by chief minister Nitish Kumar in June 2019, Dr Mandal said, “It will take another year to get completed. At present, the basement, ground and first floor have been finished. We expect to make it functional by the next year.” He further said sections like medicine, gynaecology and paediatrics will be shifted to the new building, while the old one will be a dedicated superspeciality facility. The estimated cost of this upcoming hospital is Rs261.96 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/special-ward-in-igims-for-patients-of-joint-replacement/articleshow/80426529.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 24, 2021||Kolhapur||KMC seeks suggestions for civic budget for 2021-22||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has sought suggestions and ideas from citizens for development as well as boosting revenue. These suggestions will be included in the civic body’s budget for 2021-22. Typically, the draft budget prepared by the administration is worked upon by civic body comprising of corporators and office-bearers. The final budget is then tabled in the general body meeting for approval. Now, since the civic body stands abolished as the five-year tenure has ended in November, the authority to finalise the budget has been given to the administration itself. Civic chief and KMC administrator Kadambari Balkawade has sought ideas from citizens in written format and the same are to be submitted to the KMC before January 29. The final budget will be presented in the first week of February. “We want the citizens’ needs and suggestions to be imprinted in the budget. Since the civic body is abolished, we want direct involvement of citizens in the budget process. Innovative ideas and needs of citizens pertaining to their area, locality as well as the entire city are welcome. Not all ideas can be incorporated owing to financial constraints but, we will ensure that no emergency need and innovative idea is left out.” The financial condition of the KMC has deteriorated due to coronavirus pandemic. Usually, while suggesting new works, the corporators also suggest ideas to increase budgetary allocations despite knowing that there will be problems in raising these funds. This time, however, the administration has to look for new revenue sources to ensure that the suggestions by citizens get place in the budget. Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation has sought suggestions and new ideas of development and to increase revenue from the common citizens to be included in the budget for 2021-22 financial year. Normally, the draft budget prepared by administration is worked by civic body comprising of corporators and office-bearers and final budget is submitted in the general body meeting for approval. Now, since the civic body stands abolished as the five year tenure has ended in November, the authority to finalise the budget has come upon on the administration itself. Civic chief and now administrator Kadambari Balkawade has sought the ideas for development and also for increasing revenue from the citizens. The ideas or suggestions have to be submitted in the written form to the KMC before January 29 and in the first week of February the final budget will be presented. Balkawade said, “We want citizens needs and suggestions imprinted in the budget. Since the civic body is abolished we want direct involvement of the citizens in the budgetting. Innovative ideas and also the needs of the citizens pertaining to the locality as well as the entire city are welcome. Not all ideas can be incorporated owing to financial constraints, but we will ensure that no emergency need and the innovative idea is left out.” Due to pandemic, the financial situation of the KMC has been deteriorated. Normally the corporators while suggesting new works, also suggest to increase budgetary allocations despite knowing that there will be problems in raising the funds. This time however to ensure the suggestions by citizens gets place in the budget the administration has to find new revenue sources. According to the senior civic authorities, raising taxes is one of solutions, however it will not be adopted since it may invite anger from the citizens reeling under financial crisis due to the pandemic. Therefore, for most of the projects, the funds will be sought from the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-seeks-suggestions-for-civic-budget-for-2021-22/articleshow/80427773.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Patna||Farmers to stage dharna on January 28||PATNA: The Bihar Rajya Ganna Utpadak Kisan Mahasabha on Saturday announced statewide dharna in front of the sugar mills on January 28 in support of their demands. Their demands include fixing the minimum support price (MSP) of sugar cane at Rs400 per quintal for fiscal 2020-21, payment of arrears to sugar cane farmers and immediate start of crushing season at Riga mill and check on 10% cut on weighing of sugar cane. CPI(ML) MLA from Sikta and the Mahasabha state convener, Birendra Prasad Gupta, said the members and party workers would stage a dharna in front of all sugar mills on January 28 to press for their demands. Mahasabha’s national vice-president K D Yadav and Bihar state co-convener Umesh Singh said sugar cane MSP has not been increased despite a steep hike in the prices of pesticides used by cane growers. Expressing concern over delay in the start of crushing season at Riga Sugar Mill in Sitamarhi, the leaders said it has led to acute problems for around 40,000 farmers and 700 mill workers. Around 15 lakh quintals of sugar cane worth Rs50 crore were still standing in the fields. They alleged that sugar cane arrears of over Rs60 crore had not been paid to the farmers. Besides, payment of Rs2.5 crore to the mill workers was pending. They further claimed that the authorities of the sugar mills at Sasamusa, Gopalganj and Sidhwalia have not paid the arrears to the cane growers for the last financial year. Moreover, the farmers were being pressurised to supply their sugar cane to the Riga mill, they alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/farmers-to-stage-dharna-on-january-28/articleshow/80426656.cms||Ramashankar
January 24, 2021||Patna||Biting cold will continue for two more days: Met||PATNA: Patna and the entire state felt the chill on Saturday as the skies remained covered with fog throughout the day. With fog cover obstructing the sun, maximum temperature in Patna plunged from 20.4 degrees C on Friday to 16.2 degrees C on Saturday, seven notches lower than normal. People should brace for biting cold conditions on Sunday as well as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted cold day at isolated places in the state. Also, moderate to dense fog is likely to prevail at most places over the next two days. Sanjay Kumar, a meteorologist at Patna Meteorological Centre, said almost entire northern plain was covered with dense fog till forenoon on Saturday. “The fog cover slightly dissipated in the afternoon, but central Bihar continued to remain covered with fog in the lower level of atmosphere throughout the day, blocking the sunlight, which led to sharp plunge in maximum temperature,” he said. Asked about the weather factors behind the fog cover, Kumar said, “While the level of moisture in the region is already quite high, mix of cold air from a western disturbance over western Himalayas aggravated fog formation in the region. Almost entire northern plain was in the grip of moderate to dense fog on Saturday.” He added though the intensity of fog has slightly reduced, similar weather condition is likely to persist till January 26. “Forecast has been issued for cold day conditions in north-central and south-central Bihar, including Patna, over the next two days,” Sanjay said. As per IMD, cold day condition is declared when minimum temperature touches 10 degrees C or low and there is a departure of 4.5-6.4 degrees C in maximum temperature on two consecutive days. The minimum temperature in Patna on Saturday was recorded at 10.8 degrees C, two notches higher than normal. Minimum temperature in Gaya, on the other hand, was recorded at 5.4 degrees C, three notches lower than normal. In its weather bulletin, the Patna Meteorological Centre predicted fall in day temperature by four to five notches and no large change in night temperature over the next two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/biting-cold-will-continue-for-two-more-days-met/articleshow/80426559.cms||Piyush Tripathi
January 24, 2021||Pune||UK, Brazil, South Africa returnees must pass through careful checks: Maharashtra task force||PUNE: The state task force on Covid-19 has urged the authorities to trace and test all passengers arriving from Brazil, South Africa and the UK to prevent a second infection wave in the region. Many experts believe emergent coronavirus strains in these countries have been responsible for spikes in cases. Although there has been no substantial increase in the number of arrivals from these countries, task force member Shashank Joshi said the state has to keep up a tight health surveillance net, which includes testing, quarantine and genome sequencing of positive samples. “Returnees from the UK, South Africa and Brazil should be under strict watch. We cannot allow them to immediately mix with the general population. We have to carry out due diligence and must quarantine passengers as per protocol,” Joshi said. According to rules, returnees have to spend 14 days in quarantine and need to have two negative test results — via RT-PCR — before they can be cleared. So far, 11 samples sent from the state have tested positive for the UK strain. State technical advisor on Covid, Subhash Salunke, said Maharashtra may be seeing a fall in cases but is “not out of the woods yet”. The state currently has 40,000 active cases of which over 4,500 are in Pune district. “We cannot ignore surveillance, contact tracing and follow-ups. Current indicators look good, but there is a need to boost case detection and surveillance. Also, the death rate not going below 2% is not a good sign,” Salunke said. The public health expert also urged citizens to continue wearing masks and maintaining physical distance. “We are reopening industries, offices and schools amid threats from new strains. So we have to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour,” Salunke said. N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, said all efforts are on to ensure foreign returnees do not enter the population without checks. “Daily reports are being procured. Tracing and testing of contacts are also on,” he said. Joshi said the UK strain has prompted health experts to adopt a more aggressive and cautious stance. “The vaccination drive and T-cell performance in the immune system may help. But we can’t put down our masks, not yet,” he said. Indian scientists are currently studying the Brazil strain, the latest in a set of coronavirus variants that has triggered global concern and air-travel curbs. Based on the mutations the variant has acquired (at least 10), scientists have said it’s likely to be more infectious, just like strains identified in the UK and South Africa have proven to be.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/uk-brazil-sa-returnees-must-pass-through-careful-checks-task-force/articleshow/80427702.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 24, 2021||Patna||Dense fog continues to hit movement of trains||PATNA: Fog continued to hit the movement of special passenger trains in the Danapur division of the East Central Railway (ECR) on Saturday. According to the information provided by the Danapur control room, the New Delhi-Rajendra Nagar Terminal Rajdhani Express (02310), Delhi-Rajgir Shramjeevi Express (02392), Delhi-Rajendra Nagar Terminal Sampoorna Kranti Express (02394), Delhi-Howrah Poorva Express (02304) and Bengaluru-Danapur Sanghamitra Express (02296) reached the Patna Junction behind schedule on Saturday. The Delhi-Bhagalpur Vikramshila special (02368), on the other hand, was cancelled due to dense fog prevailing on the Kanpur-Prayagraj-Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Junction-Patna mainline route. ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar told this newspaper that low visibility also forced the railways to reduce the frequency of several special trains. “The frequency of the Patna-Howrah Janshatabdi, Rajgir-Delhi Shramjeevi, Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Delhi Sampoorna Kranti, Saharsa-Delhi, Jayanagar-Delhi, Raxaul-Anand Vihar, Muzaffarpur-Anand Vihar, Dhanbad-Firozpur Cantonment, Gaya-Delhi, Jayanagar-Amritsar, Sitamarhi-Anand Vihar, Dibrugarh-Lalgarh and Bhagalpur-Anand Vihar specials have been reduced by a day or two till January 31,” the CPRO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dense-fog-continues-to-hit-movement-of-trains/articleshow/80426587.cms||Kumod Verma
January 24, 2021||Patna||Five held for Danapur court clerk’s murder||PATNA: Police arrested five persons from different locations in western Patna on Saturday for their alleged involvement in the murder of a court clerk on January 20. The clerk, Baleshwar Pathak (59), who worked at the Danapur sub-divisional court, was shot at near Tilwa village under Janipur police station in western Patna this Wednesday while he was on the way to court on a bike. Baleshwar was taken to a nearby hospital where he died. He was a resident of Narayanpur village under Naubatpur police station area. Phulwarisharif SDPO Maneesh Kumar Sinha said that the arrested accused have been identified as Munna Kumar, Manish Kumar, Ankit Kumar, Dheeraj Kumar and Amarjit Sinha. He said except Munna, rest all were shooters. “Munna hails from Narayanpur and was the conspirator in the murder case. He had paid Rs 1.5 lakh to Manish for eliminating Baleshwar,” the SDPO said. Sinha said Munna had a land dispute with his neighbour. “Baleshwar used to support the neighbour. Being a court clerk, he extended legal help. Due to this, he was targeted by Munna,” he said. Sinha said that 10 days ago, Baleshwar and Munna had a scuffle during which the clerk had abused Munna’s wife and daughter. The SDPO said this acted as the trigger for Munna to hatch the conspiracy to kill Pathak. “Baleshwar, after being shot at, had called his wife and told names of a few suspects. This information along with CCTV camera footages of suspects and technical investigation helped police in cracking the case,” he said, adding, Munna has confessed to his crime. He said it was Ankit who had opened fire on Baleshwar. “Two bikes along with the pistol used in the crime, five live cartridges and three cellphones were seized from the arrested shooters,” he said. Agriculture officer still missing: Masaurhi block agriculture officer Ajay Kumar, who had gone missing on Monday night, is yet to be traced. Kumar’s wife Poonam Kumari had lodged an FIR with Kankarbagh police station the same night, alleging that her husband was kidnapped. The officer lives with his family in a rented accommodation on Chandmari Road in Kankarbagh. He had gone missing from Masaurhi SHO of Kankarbagh police station Ravishankar Kumar said the officer’s last known location was near his office in Masaurhi on Tuesday morning. “Police have quizzed several people, but nothing concrete has surfaced yet,” the SHO said, adding police are investigating the matter from several angles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/five-held-for-danapur-court-clerks-murder/articleshow/80426607.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Patna||Transport dept to roll out e-buses on 2 routes in Feb||PATNA: The state transport department is set to flag off eco-friendly electric buses that will run from Gandhi Maidan to Patna airport and Danapur in February. As part of a tri-party agreement signed among the Centre, the Patna Smart City Limited and the state government, the Bihar State Road Transport Corporation (BSRTC) is in the process of procuring 25 e-buses, of which 15 will accommodate 37 people and 10 will carry 45 passengers at a time. Funds for the purpose have been provided by the Centre under the FAME-II scheme that promotes the use of electric vehicles in the country. While the transport department has already received two e-buses from Ashok Leyland, eight more will arrive in Patna by February. The remaining buses will reach here by March-end. According to transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, e-buses will be operated on the Gandhi Maidan-Patna airport and Gandhi Maidan-Danapur routes in Phase I. “Other routes will be finalized when more buses come here in February and March. They will help reduce pollution to some extent and ensure a noise-free travel,” Agarwal told this newspaper and added that the department would also introduce buses on the routes connecting Patna to tourist destinations like Rajgir, Nalanda and Bodh Gaya. A high-power charging station at the Transport Complex in Phulwarisharif near the Patna airport is also being set up to ensure uninterrupted movement of the e-buses on city roads. “The station, with a capacity of 1,200 kilowatt and eight charging points, is likely to be ready by January-end. More such stations will come up in Patna and other districts in future,” the transport secretary said. All e-buses have facilities like AC, GPS tracking, music system, CCTV camera and USB charging point. The estimated cost of a bus, which can cover a distance of 250km after being fully charged, is almost Rs 2 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/transport-dept-to-roll-out-e-buses-on-2-routes-in-feb/articleshow/80426636.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 24, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers oppose Kalia’s visit to Bathinda||Bathinda: Owing to its call for opposing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders in Punjab, activists of farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) held protest against senior BJP leader and ex-minister Manoranjan Kalia at Bathinda on Saturday. Kalia had reached at an upscale hotel to take stock of the preparations of municipal corporation elections. Though police had put up barricades ahead of the venue, the farmers broke the barricades and reached up to the hotel, forcing Kalia to leave the place. On December 25, 2020, the BKU (Ugrahan) activists had reached at the programme being organised by BJP top leaders to observe birth anniversary of late Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and a day later, the farmers had held a protest against BJP state president Ashwani Sharma. The activists had also laid siege to the residence of Barnala district BJP president Yadwinder Shunty when Kalia had visited him in November. Kalia was only let off from the residence in the evening. As police had barricaded the place, the situation turned tense for some time when farmers, including women, started breaking the barricades. Police used force to stop the farmers when large number of farmers broke open some barricades. The police somehow escorted Kalia out from some other gate. BKU (Ugrahan) district secretary Mothu Singh Kotda said, “When we got to know about the visit of BJP leader Kalia, we headed towards the hotel and raised slogans against the BJP. We will not let BJP leaders to indulge into social or political functions till Narendra Modi government not repeal the farm laws”. Kalia, when contacted, said, “I had come to attend a meeting to prepare for the upcoming elections. Some farmers reached there and held protest. Though I had come to discharge my duty, I preferred not to confront farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-oppose-kalias-visit-to-bathinda/articleshow/80427776.cms||Neel Kamal
January 24, 2021||Patna||Bhagalpur, Purnia to get dairy plants soon||PATNA: The Bihar State Milk Cooperative Federation Limited (Comfed) has decided to make two new dairy plants in Bhagalpur and Purnia districts operational by the next three-four months, secretary of fisheries resources and animal husbandry department N Sravana Kumar said on Saturday. Presiding over the meeting of the board of directors of Comfed, Kumar said the two new dairy plants, each with a capacity of 2 lakh litred per day, in Bhagalpur and Purnia districts would enhance the income of the milk producers of the region. He said a dairy plant of 5 lakh litre per day and animal fodder plant of 300 MT per day were made operational at Bihian last year. The government has released a sum of Rs 53 crore to Comfed as first instalment out of Rs 234 crore for setting up dairy plants and animal fodder plants in the state. Kumar also directed the officials to expedite the process of setting up dairy cooperative societies, milk collection centres, artificial insemination centres and animal fodder plants in villages under ‘Saat Nischay Part II’ programme of the state government. Comfed managing director Shikha Srivastava said a four-year blueprint of expansion of the dairy projects in the state has already been submitted to the department concerned.. During review of the current fiscal 2020-21, it came to light that nearly 73% of the target of total milk collection and 98.67% of sale of pouch milk was achieved. Additional secretary of fisheries resources and animal husbandry department and financial adviser Madhu Rani Thakur was among others present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagalpur-purnia-to-get-dairy-plants-soon/articleshow/80426720.cms||Ramashankar
January 24, 2021||Lucknow||UP police scour Delhi to nab Najafgarh’s honeytrap doctor||LUCKNOW: A day after Delhi based doctor, Abhishek Singh, and four aides were arrested by UP Police for allegedly kidnapping Gonda medical student Gaurav Haldar for Rs 70 lakh ransom, the state cops are still camping in Delhi and NCR to nab the woman, also a doctor, who was used to honey-trap Gaurav. Also, police found that the captors purchased SIM cards on fake IDs, which they used to make the ransom calls to Gaurav’s father. The lady doctor, Dr Preeti Mehra, and Dr Abhishek Singh were the masterminds of the kidnapping plot, police say. Both of them work at Rathi Hospital in Delhi’s Najafgarh area. Gonda police chief Shailesh Pandey said that a team along with Noida unit of STF are camping in the NCR to trace Dr Mehra. “Surveillance cells and members from the special operation group of Gonda police are tracking her,” said the officer. Gaurav Haldar, a BAMS first year student, went missing from his Gonda college hostel on January 18. A day later, his father, himself a BAMS doctor in Bahraich, got a ransom call to pay up Rs 70 lakh. On Friday, UP STF and Gonda police safely recovered 21-yearold Haldar from Greater Noida. Police claimed that mastermind Dr Abhishek Singh, along with his aides Nitesh, Mohit, Rohit, Satish and Dr Preeti Mehra were involved in the kidnapping and seeking Rs 70 lakh as ransom from the victim’s family. Dr Abhishek Singh, along with his aides Nitesh, Mohit were arrested after an encounter in Greater Noida from where Gaurav was also recovered while two others Rohit and Satish were arrested by Gonda police. Dr Mehra, however, is still on the run. Gonda SP Pandey also disclosed that the arrested accused Nitesh, who ran a fake call centre, had supplied Dr Abhishek Singh with SIM cards on fake Ids while, Rohit purchased mobile phones, each worth Rs 660, for making a ransom call to victim’s father Nikhil Haldar. They destroyed the phone after making the calls. This was done deliberately to confuse investigators about their location and conceal the real identity of callers, police say. The investigation has also revealed that on the day of crime, Rohit had got down in Lucknow while Nitesh, Abhishek, Preeti, and Mohit took Gaurav to Delhi. Later, Rohit got Rs 4,000 from Dr Abhishek and took a bus to Sant Kabir Nagar and, along with his friend Satish, purchased a mobile phone for Rs 660 using fake Ids given by Nitesh and made a call to Gaurav’s father. STF sources told TOI that the plan to kidnap Gaurav was hatched around Diwali, November 2020. Dr Abhishek, who had done his BAMS from Rajiv Gandhi University in Bengaluru in 2018, had visited his native place Bahraich during Diwali 2020. In Bahraich, Abhishek met his cousin Rohit (son of his father’s sister), who was close to victim’s father Nikhil Haldar. They planned to abduct Gaurav as they found that he was the only son of Nikhil, who was earning well. “Dr Abhishek bounced the idea off his Delhi-based friend Mohit Singh, who works at a cloth store in Karolbagh. Before finalising the plan, they also roped in Mohit’s gym friend Nitesh, who is facing a fraud case in Gujarat,” said ASP, STF, Raj Kumar Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-police-scour-delhi-to-nab-najafgarhs-honeytrap-doctor/articleshow/80428775.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
January 24, 2021||Patna||Jilted lover gets life term for killing girl’s mom, grandpa||PATNA: A Gopalganj court has sentenced a 24-year-old jilted lover to rigorous life imprisonment for killing his girlfriend’s mother and grandfather for resisting his attempt to forcibly take the minor girl away. Gopalganj civil court public prosecutor (PP) Deo Vansh Giri told TOI over phone on Saturday that the court of ADJ-III Dinesh Kumar on Friday also imposed a fine of Rs25,000 on the convict Prince Rai. Giri said in case of failure to pay the fine, the convict would have to undergo additional rigorous imprisonment of one more year. The incident took place at Malviya Nagar under Town police station area of Gopalganj on May 13, 2014 when Prince allegedly barged into the rented accommodation of the then 16-year-old girl. When her mother Munni Devi (45) and grandfather Vashishtha Sahi (67), resisted, he stabbed them many times with a knife, leading to their death. The PP said 12 witnesses were examined and 10 had supported the prosecution case. “The girl was hardly 16-year-old at the time of the incident. Prince had brought a knife and pulled it out and stabbed the girl in the back. He also stabbed Munni and Vashishtha when they tried to rescue the girl,” said Giri, who was assisted by additional PP Anil Kumar Sharma in the case. Sharma said Prince locked the door from outside before fleeing after stabbing the trio. “The girl survived but her mother and grandfather succumbed to stab injuries at a Gorakhpur hospital in Uttar Pradesh,” he said. Sharma said Munni’s elder daughter had got married to a person in Ahirauli Dubauli village under Gopalpur police station area of Gopalganj. “Prince is a resident of the same village and relative of the elder daughter’s husband. His used to visit Munni’s house with other family members,” he said. Sharma said Prince fell in one-sided love with Munni’s younger daughter and used to harass her. The APP said Prince, who had not even passed matriculation exam, tried to take ground of being a juvenile in order to escape harsh punishment. “However, the Patna high court rejected his plea and he was considered an adult at the time of committing the crime,” he said. The APP said Prince has been in judicial custody since May 29, 2014. “He would now remain in jail till death. His only hope would be remission by government which would be based on his conduct inside the jail after serving a period of 14 actual years of imprisonment,” Sharma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jilted-lover-gets-life-term-for-killing-girls-mom-grandpa/articleshow/80426693.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 24, 2021||Pune||Over 10 lakh tested in PMC limits; region’s toll at 9,000||Pune: The total testing for Covid-19 infection surged above the 10 lakh-mark in the Pune municipal limits on Saturday, with the testing of 3,742 samples in the last 24 hours. With this, the PMC limits have become first in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) to surpass 10 lakh tests. The Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas have so far conducted 6.02 lakh tests, while the rural and cantonment areas together have tested 4.45 lakh samples, taking the total sample testing in PMR above 20.48 lakh so far. Of the region’s total tests, around 48% tests have been conducted by the PMC health department. The PMC health authorities have been conducting around 3,500 tests on an average every day since the last few days, while the daily testing in the PCMC and rural areas has been around 2,500 and 1,700, respectively. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, on Saturday stated that the region’s death toll reached above 9,000 to 9,008 on Saturday after 12 more patients succumbed to the Civd-19 infection in the last 24 hours. While six fatalities were recorded in the PMC limits, two patients died in the PCMC limits and four in the rural and cantonment areas. Meanwhile, the region reported 482 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday as against 428 recoveries. The PMC areas continued to report more recoveries. The PCMC and rural areas, however, added more patients than discharges. The total recoveries reached 3.62 lakh, while positive caseload at 3.75 lakh on Saturday. The number of active patients continued to remain below 5,000 in the region on Saturday, though the tally reported a slight increase to 4,892 from the Friday’s tally of 4,852. As many as 1,902 patients are being treated at the hospitals, while 2,992 patients are in home isolation. Health experts urged people to exercise caution even if the vaccination drive has begun to keep the infection at bay. “People should abide by the mask and social distance rules when venturing out even after taking the vaccine in the coming months,” a health expert said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-10l-tested-in-pmc-limits-regions-toll-at-9k/articleshow/80427728.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 24, 2021||Allahabad||Allahabad University panel to expedite smart city project||PRAYAGRAJ: The entire stretch connecting Manmohan Park crossing in Katra to Laxmi crossing via Science faculty boundary and SSL hostel, will be beautified under the smart city project. To accelerate the beautification work under the Smart City project, there will be an agreement between Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) and Allahabad University. AU VC Prof Sangita Srivastava has reconstituted the committee to look into the issue under the chairmanship of Prof Ashish Saxena of the Department of Sociology, AU.  A few days back, when the work for developing this stretch was taken up by the district administration, it had to face the wrath of inmates of different hostels, the boundary wall of which would have to be shifted back to expand the width of the road. Even the local shopkeepers on the University Road’ staged their protest and many of them had to do away with the front part of their premises. As one goes towards union hall building from Manmohan crossing, the right side of the road goes along with the boundary wall of science faculty of AU and later that of AN Jha hostel. Further ahead, the boundary wall of SSL hostel, Sir PCB hostel, Nirala gallery, GN Jha hostel etc would be affected by the redevelopment of this stretch of road under the Smart City project which would go till Luxmi crossing. To expedite the work of developing this part of the road, AU VC has now reconstituted the committee which would hold a meeting with the PDA officials and chalk out the strategy as to how the development work can progress causing minimum change in the structures of AU or its property. The committee would be headed by Prof Ashish Saxena while the other members include Jaya Kapoor of the department of English, Shefali Nandan of the department of commerce and business administration, Sonal Shankar of the department of Law, PS Pundir of the department of Statistics and Haribansh Singh of the Department of Law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-panel-to-expedite-smart-city-project/articleshow/80427536.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Vadodara||Teenage girl molested in sleep at exhibition stall||Vadodara: A 16-year-old girl was allegedly molested at an exhibition stall on Parsi Agiyari ground in the wee hours of Friday. Police said that the girl, a daughter of one of the handicrafts exhibitors, was asleep in the stall in the wee hours of Friday when the accused identified as Sukhveer Yadav allegedly molested her. The girl said that since she keeps moving with her father for their handicraft sale, they do not have a house in Vadodara, so she slept in the stall. Around 2 am, Yadav entered the stall and tried to gag her and touched her inappropriately. The girl woke up and shouted for help. Her father woke up and Yadav fled. The girl could not see Yadav’s face due to darkness, but next morning when her father checked the footage of CCTV camera installed at the exhibition ground, he identified Yadav. The accused worked at one of the stalls on the same exhibition ground. The girl and her father, later Friday, went to Sayajigunj police station and lodged a complaint of sexual harassment and violation of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/teenage-girl-molested-in-sleep-at-exhibition-stall/articleshow/80426584.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Kolkata||Political violence hits Howrah, Titagarh; 1 dies||HOWRAH: Two persons, including a bystander, were injured in a clash between Trinamool and BJP supporters in Howrah’s Liluah on Saturday morning as gunshots and bomb blasts shook the area. In Titagarh, a Trinamool activist, Rumani Khan (48), reportedly a close aide of a former Trinamool councillor, was shot dead in front of his family on Saturday evening. The trouble in Howrah was reported a day after Trinamool formally expelled Bally MLA Vaishali Dalmiya from its ranks. Liluah, which is within the Bally assembly constituency, bore the brunt of the violence. The unrest spilled onto the adjoining GT Road, bringing traffic to a standstill and forcing shops to shut down. Those on the rampage, vandalized seven bikes parked along GT Road and even set a two-wheeler on fire. One of the injured — Promode Dubey, who is reportedly a BJP worker — sustained a bullet wound to his foot. The bystander, Ashok Rai, was hit by bomb splinters. Cops said four persons had been arrested for the Liluah violence. However, no arrest had been made till late evening for Khan’s murder. According to locals, the incident occurred around 6.30pm while the victim Rumani Khan(48), who is in the construction business, was resting in his house in Titagarh’s Goalapara. “Three masked youths stormed into the room and fired twice at him and fled. Khan’s daughter was injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/political-violence-hits-howrah-titagarh-1-dies/articleshow/80427819.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Trichy||Excavation at Chola capital likely till Sept||Trichy: For the second consecutive day, state archaeological department officials accompanied by experts from premier educational institutes surveyed the Gangaikonda Cholapuram locality with technical equipment to find suitable spots for excavation. State archaeological department sources said that the excavation could go on till September as Archaeological Survey Of India (ASI)’s permission for the same is available till then. Ariyalur district collector D Rathna visited the site and interacted with the officials on Saturday. Officials said that the field study was likely to conclude on Sunday. They said that they would compare the hypothesis of potential locations to excavate with the findings of aerial survey that was under way. The locations for carrying out the exploration work to find the remains of Chola dynasty would be finalised after several rounds of discussions with experts. “A special drone from the institute of remote sensing in Anna University worth Rs 25 lakh is being used for thermal study of the area. We will get an overview on where to commence the field study after the completion of the aerial survey,” deputy director of state archaeology department, Dr R Sivanandam told TOI. The excavation work is likely to commence by the second week of February and Maaligaimedu is the most likely site for the first phase of excavation. Officials added that other potential sites shall be excavated if the first site does not yield any results. “Excavating the remains of the medieval Chola kingdom will throw up interesting information on the construction style and water management measures of the times. Gangaikonda Cholapuram was capital of the Cholas for over two centuries, so there are high chances of unearthing historic remains,” K Sridharan, a retired archaeology department official who had earlier excavated Gangaikonda Cholapuram said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/excavation-at-chola-capital-likely-till-sept/articleshow/80427843.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Nashik||North Maha farmers leave for vehicle rally to Mumbai||Nashik: Roughly 70 vehicles carrying farmers from north Maharashtra left for Mumbai’s Raj Bhawan from Nashik on Saturday. The farmers are going to the state capital to show their support to the farmers agitating against the three agriculture laws passed by the Union government and even labour laws in support of the industrialists.“It is a now-or-never situation. The farmers from across the state have decided to join the protests against the central government. This time we (the Left parties) are not alone. The constituent members of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi have joined us in denouncing the unilaterally passed bills — three against the interest of farmers and four against the interest of workers,” said Ashok Dhawale, the president All-India Kisan Sabha and member of the CPM central committee.On Saturday, the farmers — who came to Nashik from Ahmednagar, Dhule, Jalgaon and Nandurbar districts as well as Palghar district — left for Ghatan Devi, in Kasara Ghat, where all the unions are set to congregate before leaving for Mumbai on Sunday morning.“As a part of the four-day protest, our vehicle morcha will start from Ghatan Devi and reach the Azad Maidan to join the ‘Mahapadav’ on Sunday. On Monday, under the leadership of Samyukta Shetkari Kamgar Morcha, we will march to the Raj Bhavan,” Dhawale, said.Ajit Nawale, the secretary of AIKS, said the farmers would not settle for anything less than a repeal of the laws. “Several rounds of talks are being held, but they are not going to help unless the government withdraws the laws,” he said.DL Karad, an office-bearer of the Centre for Indian Trade Unions (Citu) said, “The farmers will be joined by workers from Nashik, who will start their journey on Monday morning and join them at the venue. Moreover, there are women from the various wings of the trade unions and students who will join the morcha.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/north-maha-farmers-leave-for-vehicle-rally-to-mumbai/articleshow/80426313.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 24, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Development Authority owes Rs 2,000 crore to north, south corporations: AAP MLA||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj has claimed that Delhi Development Authority (DDA) owes more than Rs 2,000 crore to north and south corporations and wondered why the BJP has not taken any steps to recover the outstanding amount. Both DDA and the corporations are under the central government. In a press conference on Saturday, Bharadwaj said, “DDA owes around Rs 857 crore to the north corporation till March 31, 2018 and based on this figure, if we calculate the amount today then it becomes Rs 1,200 crore.” “BJP should immediately disclose why it has not taken any initiative to get this money from DDA because both corporations and DDA are under the party,” said Bharadwaj. Similarly, DDA owes around Rs 535 crore to SDMC. If we calculate all the zones then it comes that DDA owes around Rs 2,000 crore to both north and south corporations, the AAP MLA added. “Since Adesh Gupta became Delhi BJP chief, he has maintained that Kejriwal government should give some amount to the corporations. The corporations have ceased all the ways from where they used to get revenues like property tax, advertisements, toll tax and others. From these sources, the revenue is not coming to the corporations but is going to functionaries of the BJP,” said Bharadwaj. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that several government bodies, including Delhi Jal Board, Delhi Transport Corporation, power discoms and DDA, owe money to the corporations but that does not absolve Delhi government from its responsibilities towards giving outstanding funds to the corporations. “Delhi government should release Rs 13,000 crore to the corporations,” added the spokesperson. Kapoor further said that the municipal corporations were pursuing with all agencies to get their due funds. “Delhi government should ask Delhi Jal Board, DTC and power discoms to immediately pay their dues to the corporations,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dda-owes-rs-2k-cr-to-north-south-corpns-aap-mla/articleshow/80428947.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||K Riji John is new VC of Kufos||Thiruvananthapuram: Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, in his capacity as the chancellor, has appointed K Riji John as the vice-chancellor of Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (Kufos). Riji is currently working as dean, fisheries, of Kufos. The appointment is for a period of five years from which he assumes office or till he attains the age of 65 years. The appointment is as per sub-section (2) of section 33 of Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies Act 2010 (Act 5 of 2011), a statement from the office of the governor said here on Saturday. The appointment was made on the basis of the recommendation of a panel constituted by the state government to choose a suitable candidate to the post. Established in 2010, Kufos in Kochi is the first fisheries university in the country. The university was set up by upgrading the erstwhile College of Fisheries, a constituent college of Kerala Agricultural University. The college had come into being in 1979. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/k-riji-john-is-new-vc-of-kufos/articleshow/80426907.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Pune||Corporation shuts all Covid care hubs as cases drop||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has temporarily closed down all Covid-19 Care Centres (CCCs) in its jurisdiction. The move follows a drop in the number of cases. Patients are now being treated at three PMC-run hospitals — Naidu hospital and one each in Bopodi and on Sinhagad Road. More than 25 CCCs were operational in PMC limits. They primarily catered to patients with mild symptoms, who needed to be isolated. Those also did not have separate rooms and toilets at homes were admitted to these centres. Some centres also had oxygen support during a spurt in cases. PMC officials said most centres had shut down over the past two months. Two were operational till last month, but were closed recently. “The centres were being operated at hostels of educational institutes, wedding halls and buildings earmarked for rehabilitation,” a civic official said. “We are sending now sending such patients to Laigude hospital in the Sinhagad Road area, Khedekar hospital in Bopodi and Naidu hospital. Machinery at the Baner Covid centre is ready, should the number of cases increase. A few private hospitals are also handling similar cases,” PMC assistant health chief Sanjeev Wavre said.As per data available with PMC, there are 2,100 active cases in its jurisdiction — 60% of such patients are under home quarantine. The number of critical patients dropped under 250, and around 300 patients are on oxygen support. Wavre said PMC has a contingency plan for a future spike. “We are equipped to deal with 19,000 active cases,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/corporation-shuts-all-covid-care-hubs-as-cases-drop/articleshow/80427737.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Pune||SII plant blaze inquiry report in 2-3 days: MIDC chief fire officer||PUNE: The Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation’s chief fire officer, Santosh Warik, on Saturday said the inquiry report of the fire at Serum Institute of India’s manufacturing plant in which five workers were killed would be ready in two-three days. Warik said, “Experts and officials from the MIDC (Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation), Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) fire brigades, MSEDCL, Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad and Pune police have individually and jointly inspected the spot at the SII’s (Serum Institute of India’s) rotavirus laboratory — an under-construction building in the special economic zone after the fire.” He said, “We shall take time to trace the ignition source and arrive at a conclusion. We shall collect reports from various agencies, study their content, compile a final report and submit it to the district administration for taking action.” The PMC central fire brigade’s chief fire officer, Prashant Ranpise, said, “The MIDC fire brigade is conducting the inquiry because the SII plant at Manjari is in the MIDC area. The findings of the MSEDCL experts will play an important role in the inquiry because they are vested with the authority to reach a conclusion on how the fire started.” Deputy commissioner of police (Zone V) Namrata Patil said, “The process of recording statements of the workers in the building is in progress. We want to know what they were doing and what exactly happened at the time of the fire, among other details. No concrete information has come out in their statements as of now. Unless we get complete information related to the incident, we cannot arrive at a conclusion.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sii-plant-blaze-inquiry-report-in-2-3-days-midc-chief-fire-officer/articleshow/80427753.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 24, 2021||India||Railways beats fog with new device, clocks 90% punctuality||NEW DELHI: The punctuality of trains has leapfrogged from less than 75% in the past few years to 96-97% in recent months, though more freight trains are running this year. Currently almost 65% of mail express trains have resumed their services after these were disrupted during the pandemic. Top railway officials said even during the few days of heavy fog, the punctuality of trains this year was 90% as compared to around 60% in previous years. Officials said the improvement in punctuality on heavy foggy days has been possible as the national transporter has almost doubled the installation of “fog pass devices” on trains in the past two years. Out of the total 12,742 such on-board devices, nearly 3,000 have been deployed in trains running across the Northern Railways considering that the impact of fog is more in this part of the country. A total of 1,716 and 1,289 fog pass devices have been deployed in East Central Railway and North Central Railway respectively. Fog pass device is a GPS-based hand-held portable device which serves as an aid for the crew during foggy weather through audio visual alarm, whenever any landmark comes within the geo-fence range. “This has not only improved punctuality but has also minimised chances of mishaps. Because of the audio alert in advance, the loco pilots can take the required measures,” said railway board CEO and chairman Suneet Sharma. Location of stations, warning boards, signals, level crossing gates and Whistle for Level crossing (W/L) boards in the section is fed in the equipment and it displays speed of the locomotive, distance and time to reach landmarks and is carried by the loco pilots. He added that the Indian Railways is hopeful of maintaining the improved punctuality even as it resumes operation of more trains. “A lot of efforts have been made to improve the capacity of our networks and more is being done. All issues get addressed when there is enough capacity in the system to meet the requirement,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/railways-beats-fog-with-new-device-clocks-90-punctuality/articleshow/80429171.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 24, 2021||Chennai||NCLAT Chennai bench to function virtually from Monday||Chennai: More than ten months after the Union government notified about the constitution of a bench of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) in Chennai, functioning of the bench will begin on Monday. A notice from the chairperson of tribunal stated that the Chennai bench will start functioning virtually. “Filing of fresh appeals against the orders of the benches of NCLAT having jurisdiction in respect of states of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telengana and Union territories of Lakshadweep and Puducherry shall have to be made before the Chennai bench with effect from Jan 25 (Monday),” the notification stated and added that filing of interlocutory applications/reply/rejoinder etc in respect of such appeals will also be made before the bench. The announcement comes in the wake of a series of petitions before the Madras high court and the Supreme Court condemning the delay in setting up the Chennai bench. Last month, Corporate, Insolvency and Bankruptcy Laws Bar Association (CIBBA) moved the apex court stating that NCLAT functioning only out of New Delhi greatly impedes access to justice and also increases the costs that litigants must incur. A Supreme Court order in 2019 had recommended that the authorities concerned were obliged to set up circuit benches of the NCLAT within six months after which in March 2020, the government notified the constitution of the NCLAT, Chennai bench. Welcoming the announcement, senior advocate and DMK MP P Wilson said it is one of the repeated demands of the party and having regional benches for tribunals will only help in case management. “There are more than 30 tribunals, headquartered in New Delhi. We have been voicing out to decongest Delhi and set up regional benches. We (DMK) have been instrumental in bringing IPAB (Intellectual Property Appellate Board) bench to Chennai,” Wilson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/nclat-chennai-bench-to-function-virtually-from-monday/articleshow/80426929.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 24, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers from Kerala, Andhra join stir in Rewari||Chandigarh: The Singhu and Tikri borders have become the emerging points for the proposed tractor rally to New Delhi. But at the same time, Shahjahanpur-Kherha borders of Rewari have become host to farmers’ activists from far off states. Notably, agitation on this site has entered 42nd day. This spot is largely manned by farmers from Rajsthan and Ferozpur districts. Farmers and activists from Kerala and Andhra Pardesh joined the agitating farmers on Saturday and made their presence felt through group songs, skits and participation in the chain hunger strike. P Mahesh from Andhra Pradesh, who has joined the hunger strike, said even the biting chill is one of the challenges. But farmers from his state are mentally prepared to be present at the agitation sites for the next six months. “BJP and the NDA alliance partners are only fooling farmers over the issue of suspension of the three laws for two months. Our demand is to repeal the black laws and we will stick to it. Hence, we shall be camping here for the next six months, if required,” said Mahesh. Besides Mahesh, G Ishwar and K Gangadhar from Andhra Pardesh, Subhash Sahu, Sandeep Verma, Nanuram Katara, Sarjamal Punia, Shakar Ahari from Rajsthan and four farmers from Haryana also joined the chain hunger strike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-from-kerala-andhra-join-stir-in-rewari/articleshow/80427873.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Chennai||After losing 6 lakh internet connections, Tamil Nadu adds 2 million in July-Sept||CHENNAI: The relaxation of restrictions over movement, imposed during the height of the lockdown, has helped increase the demand for internet subscriptions across the state. About two million internet subscriptions were added in Tamil Nadu including Chennai between July and September in 2020 as guest workers returned and people moved to cyberspace for accessing most of their goods including essentials. In contrast, from April to June 2020, the state lost six lakh connections including wireless connections. The Indian Telecom Services Performance Indicators report released by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) on Thursday showed that Tamil Nadu including Chennai telecom circle had 53 million internet subscribers by the end of September last year. It was higher by 20 lakh internet connections in the wired and wireless segment when compared with June. While fixed internet connections such as fibre-to-the-home (FTTH) and broadband are wired internet services, data consumed through mobile phones falls under the category of wireless internet services. Tamil Nadu has the fourth highest number of internet subscribers in the country. In the state’s urban areas, 93 of every 100 people are able to access the internet, while in the rural pockets it is 40 of every 100 people, according to the report. However, the break-up on the wired and wireless internet services with regard to such access was not available.  According to telecom industry sources, the return of guest workers to the state has helped push the demand for internet use. Moreover, a section of mobile phone users that had preferred mobile phones largely for voice calls began exploring 4G internet services, the sources added. The state owned BSNL's Chennai Telephones added 15,500 new broadband and FTTH connections apart from nearly 3.9 lakh mobile subscriptions during the entire 2020. V K Sanjeevi, chief general manager of Chennai Telephones, said work from home and online classes for school and college students increased the demand for internet use. “Not just these two factors. Many shifted to e-commerce to purchase things online at homes, requiring the internet,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/after-losing-6l-net-connections-state-adds-2-million-in-july-sept/articleshow/80426908.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
January 24, 2021||Kolkata||Senior citizen loses Rs 50,000 in bank fraud in West Bengal||KOLKATA: A 64-year-old man from Dum Dum claimed to have lost Rs 50,000 hours after he went to his bank to enquire about his account, for which he was not getting updates since its merger with another nationalized bank last year. The victim — Nirmal Roy — said that on January 10 he had received a call and was told by a person that his new debit card was being prepared. Not suspecting any foul play, Roy shared his bank details, ending up as a cybercrime victim. Roy said that he had been operating his account at the Mahajatinagar branch of the nationalized bank for the nine years. “Since the merger of the two banks, I had not been getting transaction alerts or updates. I repeatedly went to the bank, but officials there told me to wait for a few days for a new number to be allotted and stated that the old ATM card would be replaced by a new one and that all information will be available to me soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sr-citizen-loses-rs-50k-in-bank-fraud/articleshow/80427848.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 24, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Pocso court orders retrial in Walayar girls death case||PALAKKAD: The Palakkad Pocso court has ordered retrial into the mysterious death of Walayar Dalit girls here on Saturday. The retrial of the case was ordered on an application filed by the special investigation team headed by railway SP R Nishanthi.  Last week, the Kerala high court had ordered the retrial of the case, cancelling the acquittal order and directed the three acquitted persons to appear before the Pocso court. The remand of V Madhu and Shibu, earlier acquitted in the case, were extended till February 5 by the Pocso court when their bail applications came before the court here on Friday. M Madhu, the third acquitted person in the case, who was granted bail by the high court, will continue to be on bail. Pradeep Kumar, the fourth acquitted person, had committed suicide at Cherthala in November last year. He was the neighbour of the deceased girls at Walayar. He was arrested from Cherthala on May 10, 2017, along with M Madhu. But on September 30, 2019 he was acquitted by the Palakkad Pocso court for want of evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pocso-court-orders-retrial-in-walayar-girls-death-case/articleshow/80426931.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Won’t sit silent’: Kin of farmers who died in stir join march||Jind/Kaithal/Karnal: “I have lost my father in farmers agitation and will not sit silent until the black laws are repealed,” said Balraj Singh from Bhana village in Haryana’s Kaithal district, whose father, Ramkumar Singh, died of a cardiac arrest on the Tikri border on December 31. Balraj was in the cavalcade of 25 tractors which left Bhana for the Tikri border on Saturday, in the memory of two farmers from the village who have died while protesting against the three contentious laws imposed by the Centre last year. Ramniwas Singh, whose brother Baldev Singh died of a cardiac arrest at the Tikri border on Januar 21, also left for the state border on Saturday. “I am ready to give my life to save farmers from these laws,” he said. The protesters shouted slogans of “Shahid Kisan Amar Rahe (may martyred farmers live for eternity)” as their tractors rolled out of the village. Rakesh Bains, spokesperson of BKU (Charuni), said around 30 farmers from Haryana had lost their lives during the ongoing agitation. Meanwhile, support for the January 26 ‘Tractor Parade’ in Delhi continued to swell in Haryana. Farmers from several villages of Jind and Kaithal left to take part in the protest parade on January 26. According to a farm union, around 20,000 tractors from Jind and Kaithal are expected to take part in the parade. The National Highway 44 in Karnal — which connects Delhi to norther districts of the state, Punjab and Chandigarh — witnessed a massive movement of tractor-trailers. The number is likely to swell in the coming days. Several cars and motorcycles were also part of the convoys. Thousands of tractors decorated with Tricolor and BKU flags were visible on NH 44’s stretch to Delhi. Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, a farmer leader associated with BKU (Charuni), claimed that thousands of tractors from Karnal district were expected to participate in the farmers’ parade. “We will proceed to Delhi on January 24, from Bastara toll plaza in Karnal. Several teams have already been constituted for smooth movement. We will not block NH 44 at any cost. The parade will be peaceful and disciplined,” he said. The movement of farmers from Ambala and neighbouring Yamunanagar districts was large. Most tractors which left from Ambala had pitched four flags — the Tricolour, respective union flag, Kesri Nishan (Sikh flag), and black-coloured ones. In Ambala, BKU (Charuni)’s cavalcade left from the grain market at Mohra village in Ambala Cantonment. In Yamunanagar, farmers started from Gadholi toll plaza on NH 344. District administrations kept up the village, but not much police force was deputed along routes and protesters were not stopped anywhere on the highways. BKU Hatyana (Charuni) Ambala vice-president Gulab Singh later told TOI over the phone that they had reached Delhi safely. The union’s Yamunanagar district director, Mandeep Singh, said about 600 tractors left for Delhi from the district on Saturday and more would move in the next two days. Ambala range inspector general of police (IGP) Y Puran Kumar said, “As per instructions from DGP, we are not stopping the movement of farmers towards Delhi. We will only keep a watch on them, so there is no traffic congestion and no untoward incident.” Union functionary, an ex-serviceman, wears medals to protest In Ambala, BKU Haryana (Charuni) district vice-president Gulab Singh, an ex-serviceman, left for Delhi while wearing his service medals. Asked about Army’s advisory to ex-servicemen to not wear the same while attending the protest, Gulab Singh, who retired as a sergeant of Indian Air Force (IAF) and participated in the wars of 1965 and 1971, said, “These medals are our honour and we even wore them when we had sat on protest for ‘One Rank, One Pension’ (OROP) at Jantar-Mantar in Delhi. We were not asked to remove these medals at that time as it would benefit all Army ranks then. Why are we now being asked to remove them? Officials are taking such decisions to please ruling dispensation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/wont-sit-silent-kin-of-farmers-who-died-in-stir-join-march/articleshow/80427846.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Nashik||Download digital EPICs, says collector||Nashik: District collecter Suraj Mandhare, who is also the district election officer, has appealed to the voters across the Nashik district to download the digital Electors Photo Identity Card (EPIC) from the Election Commission of India (ECI) website.“The ECI website has been transformed and people now can complete all formalities required at the click of their mouse. They can even download the EPIC or voters card at the click of a button and use the same for appropriate use,” Mandhare said in the backdrop of the National Voters’ Day programme, celebrated on January 25.People can log on to the voterportal.eci.gov.in and register themselves. The collector said the newly designed website of the ECI has opened up many possibilities for the citizens who wish to enrol their names in the voters' list, or wants to find their names, verify the details, look for the polling stations and many more without having to visit any election office. A special programme has been organized on Monday at the collectorate to celebrate the National Voters Day||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/download-digital-epics-says-collector/articleshow/80426329.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 24, 2021||Trichy||Trichy corpn, Poompuhar plan statues at public spots to enhance city’s charm||Trichy: The state-run Poompuhar handicrafts organization and Trichy Corporation hasvejointly started work on beautification of public places, which involve erecting life-size statues. Out of the five locations identified, work is underway at four locations, and the civic body has planned to complete the work within a month. Settipalam bridge across Uyyakondan Canal near MGR statue is facilitated with a four-horse statue for a length of 25 metres. The statues made of fibre at the Poompuhar’s Kumbakonam manufacturing facility will be painted soon. Similarly, two life-size statues portraying Karakattam folkdance and a lion made of granite stones are sanctioned on Sasthri Road near Mahatma Gandhi School end and the new passport office. Granite statues were sculptured at Mahabalipuram. The infrastructure project will spend Rs 4 crore under the aegis of the smart cities mission. The beautification drive was initiated to improve the aesthetic appearance of the city. Work is underway at Settipalam bridge, Anna Nagar Main Road and Sasthri Road. Granite statue portraying fish proposed at Thillai Nagar junction near Thennur High Road will take some more time for completion. Several changes were suggested in a manner not affecting traffic movement on Thillai Nagar Main Road. All the locations fall under the area based development (ABD) zone of the smart cities mission project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-poompuhar-plan-statues-at-public-spots-to-enhance-citys-charm/articleshow/80427872.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 24, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Salary stir enters 17th day, garbage piles up in areas||NEW DELHI: With the municipal employees’ strike against non-payment of salaries entering its 17th day on Saturday, sanitation services in the Walled City (Shahjahanabad) and its extension areas like Paharganj, Sadar Bazar and Karol Bagh have now started getting affected. Some isolated places in East Delhi Municipal Corporation jurisdiction areas have also been hit. Officials say while the lifting of garbage from dhalaos has mostly been outsourced to private contractors, street sweeping is still carried out by permanent staff, which has impacted cleaning of commercial areas where a huge amount of street waste is generated. Even Sadar Bazar, the ward of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor, continues to remain in grip of a sanitation crisis. Heaps of waste from vendors, shops were seen lying in and around the main market on Saturday. Subhash Karalia who heads Municipal Safai Kamgar Congress, said: “Sanitation workers, who are at high risk during the coronavirus pandemic as they lift refuse from homes and clean toilets, drains, streets without protective equipment, are not being paid regularly despite the court orders.” “The mayor has assured us that two months' salary will be released, but we want a permanent solution to this mess. We find ourselves in the same situation after every few months. Not just salaries, our dearness allowance, bonus, regularisation, mediclaims are also pending,” he added. On Friday, the north corporation had released two months’ salary for sanitation workers to control the deteriorating situation. North Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said he was holding daily meetings with sanitation employees’ unions so that street sweeping work could restart. “All the pending salaries up to December have been released for sanitation staff. We are also looking into their other demands but we need additional resources for that. Delhi government had announced on January 14 that Rs 938 crore would be released to the corporation and even courts had come down heavily on them, but still not a single rupee out was released till date,” he said. The north corporation, which is in deep financial trouble since the trifurcation in 2012, has been a site of frequent strikes. It has an annual salary bill of Rs 4,200 crore. AP Khan, the convener of the confederation of striking unions, said many north corporation workers had not been paid for up to five months and the strike would continue till a permanent solution was found. The confederation had also demanded re-unification of civic bodies in its memorandum submitted to LG recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/salary-stir-enters-17th-day-garbage-piles-up-in-areas/articleshow/80428956.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Surat||Gujarat: Six municipal corporations vote on February 21||GANDHINAGAR: The bugle has been sounded for the crucial local body polls next month, as the state election commission on Saturday announced the schedule for elections to six municipal corporations, 81 municipalities, 31 district panchayats and 231 taluka panchayats. With the announcement, the model code of conduct has come into force. With over four crore voters eligible to exercise their franchise, the local body elections are being construed to be a precursor to the 2022 assembly elections and a litmus test for the present political leadership in the state. For over a decade, the BJP has had a stranglehold over the six municipal corporations which are going to polls. Significantly, voting for municipalities, district panchayats and taluka panchayats will be held after the election results of the six municipal corporations are declared. Voting for municipal corporation elections will be held on February 21 and counting will be taken up on February 23. Voting for all the other local bodies will be held on February 28 and counting will be taken up on March 2. “Voting hours will be between 7am and 6pm. VVPAT will not be used as there is no scope of tampering with EVMs,” state election commissioner Sanjay Prasad told mediapersons on Saturday in Gandhinagar.Elections are being held for six municipal corporations, Ahmedabad, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Rajkot, Surat and Vadodara; 81 municipalities; 31 district panchayats; and 231 taluka panchayats. These elections were to be held late last year, but were put off because of the ongoing pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/six-municipal-corporations-vote-on-feb-21/articleshow/80429559.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Six municipal corporations vote on February 21||GANDHINAGAR: The bugle has been sounded for the crucial local body polls next month, as the state election commission on Saturday announced the schedule for elections to six municipal corporations, 81 municipalities, 31 district panchayats and 231 taluka panchayats. With the announcement, the model code of conduct has come into force. With over four crore voters eligible to exercise their franchise, the local body elections are being construed to be a precursor to the 2022 assembly elections and a litmus test for the present political leadership in the state. For over a decade, the BJP has had a stranglehold over the six municipal corporations which are going to polls. Significantly, voting for municipalities, district panchayats and taluka panchayats will be held after the election results of the six municipal corporations are declared. Voting for municipal corporation elections will be held on February 21 and counting will be taken up on February 23. Voting for all the other local bodies will be held on February 28 and counting will be taken up on March 2. “Voting hours will be between 7am and 6pm. VVPAT will not be used as there is no scope of tampering with EVMs,” state election commissioner Sanjay Prasad told mediapersons on Saturday in Gandhinagar.Elections are being held for six municipal corporations, Ahmedabad, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Rajkot, Surat and Vadodara; 81 municipalities; 31 district panchayats; and 231 taluka panchayats. These elections were to be held late last year, but were put off because of the ongoing pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/six-municipal-corporations-vote-on-feb-21/articleshow/80429558.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat: Six municipal corporations vote on February 21||GANDHINAGAR: The bugle has been sounded for the crucial local body polls next month, as the state election commission on Saturday announced the schedule for elections to six municipal corporations, 81 municipalities, 31 district panchayats and 231 taluka panchayats. With the announcement, the model code of conduct has come into force. With over four crore voters eligible to exercise their franchise, the local body elections are being construed to be a precursor to the 2022 assembly elections and a litmus test for the present political leadership in the state. For over a decade, the BJP has had a stranglehold over the six municipal corporations which are going to polls. Significantly, voting for municipalities, district panchayats and taluka panchayats will be held after the election results of the six municipal corporations are declared. Voting for municipal corporation elections will be held on February 21 and counting will be taken up on February 23. Voting for all the other local bodies will be held on February 28 and counting will be taken up on March 2. “Voting hours will be between 7am and 6pm. VVPAT will not be used as there is no scope of tampering with EVMs,” state election commissioner Sanjay Prasad told mediapersons on Saturday in Gandhinagar.Elections are being held for six municipal corporations, Ahmedabad, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Rajkot, Surat and Vadodara; 81 municipalities; 31 district panchayats; and 231 taluka panchayats. These elections were to be held late last year, but were put off because of the ongoing pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/six-municipal-corporations-vote-on-feb-21/articleshow/80429557.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai limits its wastage of Covid vaccination to bare minimum||MUMBAI: Vaccine wastage, which has emerged as a public health concern during the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination across the world, is to the minimum in Mumbai, officials from the municipal corporation said on Saturday. “We have noted barely 2% to 3% of wastage of vaccine during the first week of vaccination,” said additional commissioner of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, Suresh Kakani. The first phase of the Covid vaccination drive will cover almost 1.3 lakh healthcare workers who are employed in public and private hospitals across the city. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation began the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination on January 16, using Oxford University-Serum Insitute of India’s Covishield vaccine at nine of its network hospitals. The city’s tenth hospital-vaccination centre, the state government-run JJ Hospital at Byculla, has been administering the Bharat Biotech-ICMR’s Covaxin vaccine. The vaccination drive began on January 16 and the city’s vaccinator teams have managed to vaccinate 13,365 healthcare workers during the five vaccination days so far. Of these, only 111 workers have received the Covaxin vaccine. While Covishield vaccine comes in 5 ml vials and each vial can vaccinate 10 people, each Covaxin vaccine has a volume of 10 that can vaccinate 20 people. A doctor from a municipal hospital said that as Covishield vials are smaller, there is limited wastage. BMC’s executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said, “In our experience with the Covishield vaccine, we have noticed that some bit of the vaccine liquid is left behind even after the tenth person is vaccinated.’’ The wastage has been low, but we will collate the exact figure from each centre on Monday, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-limits-its-wastage-of-covid-vaccination-to-bare-minimum/articleshow/80427921.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 24, 2021||Nashik||Women get water quality training||Nashik: The Nashik Zilla Parishad has trained over 9,660 women from across 1,932 villages in checking the quality of drinking water. The aim of the online training, under theJal Jeevan Mission, is to ensure the villagers get uncontaminated drinking water supply. On the instructions of R Vimla, the campaign director of the state water and sanitation mission, a district cell of water and sanitation mission was set up. The ZP selected five women from every gram panchayat for the training. On the instructions of ZP CEO Leena Bansod, five women from all the 1,932 villages of 15 talukas were provided the online training recently. The women were trained on proper maintenance of water sources, sanitation survey programme, methods of purifying drinking water among others It was conducted by Ishadhin Shelkande, the deputy CEO of the water and sanitation department, district water quality inspector Suresh Jadhav, water quality advisor Bhagyashree Bairagi and Ravindra Barathe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/women-get-water-quality-training/articleshow/80426331.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 24, 2021||Chennai||DMK trade union opposes Rs 485crore Nandanam project||Chennai: Tamil Nadu Housing Board LPF, a trade union affiliated to DMK, has opposed the construction of a state-of-the-art commerce hub at Nandanam, noting that the proposed project with a skybridge across Anna Salai won’t be safe for the public. The union demanded cancellation of the tender floated by Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB) for constructing the project. Meanwhile, TNHB said that all approvals have been obtained and a study was conducted on different aspects including the design of the skybridge. In a letter to TNHB managing director on Saturday, union general secretary Poochi S Murugan said that an advertisement calling for tenders to build the hub comprising three towers of 20, 16 and 15 floors and a skybridge was issued on January 18. However, the union raised apprehensions over the skybridge linking the two towers across Anna Salai will pose danger to common people. Moreover, metro rail runs underground near the project site where the Nandanam metro station is located and it will not be safe for the building, the letter added. Alleging that permissions from various agencies such as Airports Authority of India (AAI), highways and metro rail were not considered for the Rs 485crore project (approximate), the union sought to cancel the tender. When contacted, TNHB sources said that all approvals including nod from AAI were obtained for the project and a feasibility study was done on various aspects including the design for the skybridge. "A year was spent on analysing various aspects of the project which will be an iconic structure in the city after construction," a senior TNHB official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmk-trade-union-opposes-rs-485crore-nandanam-project/articleshow/80426932.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 24, 2021||Ludhiana||Bus on tractor-trolley creates buzz||LUDHIANA: A tractor attached with body of a bus has become a major attraction on the road to Delhi as many people in Machhiwara and Samrala were surprised to see such a modification. Its owner — farmer Karamjit Singh of Vajidpur in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district — along with his acquaintances was on the way to Singhu border to join the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day. This modified tractor was part of a convoy of around 200 tractors of Doaba Kisan Union that evoked curiosity of passersby as it crossed Machhiwara and nearby villages around noon on Saturday. Karamjit said they are going to Delhi to participate in the farmers’ rally to protest against the three farm laws. He said he bought a bus and removed the engine, repaired it, hooked it to trolley behind the tractor. “We made it on our own. We invested about Rs 2 lakh on it. From the bus, we have removed seats on one side and put mattresses for people to rest. We are carrying other essential articles in the vehicle too,” he added. The farmer said with such a modification, they don’t have to think about how many days they will have to sit on a dharna near Delhi. He said that they would not return from Delhi till the Modi government doesn’t repeal the “black” laws. He said by pasting pictures of demands of farmers and “our” martyrs on the outer body on the bus, they have tried to convey a message to the government that the farmers of Punjab are not going to back down from their struggle and sacrifices. The farmer had posted pictures of Shaheed Bhagat Singh and Shaheed Udham Singh on the bus apart from slogans in support of farmers’ agitation. The farmers said 20-25 persons can travel on bus-cum-trolley.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bus-on-a-tractor-creates-a-buzz/articleshow/80427898.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 24, 2021||Vijayawada||AP: Sankranti operations help RTC break 80% occupancy rate in buses||VIJAYAWADA: Sankranti special services fetched over Rs 13 crore in revenue for the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) this year. The festive period also saw occupancy rates in buses rise over the 80% mark. The state transport corporation had been struggling to get back to normalcy in terms of operations as a result of a sharp drop in occupancy rates. As part of the unlock guidelines, the RTC resumed services in a phased manner however it could not achieve full occupancy due to various reasons, chiefly the apprehension among public of contracting the virus. With more commercial activities starting to open up, the APSRTC also scaled up its services but could only achieve up to 60% occupancy over the next few months. Occupancy rates started to improve after the Unlock 5 guidelines coupled with a decrease in number of daily infections. Anticipating demand around Sankranti, RTC officials made plans to scale up operations to pre-pandemic levels. The strategy paid dividends as the road transport corporation achieved a near normal if not exceptional occupancy rate of 84%. The RTC operated 3,202 special services before Sankranti and 2,402 buses post-festival for return journeys. While the occupancy rate stood at around 82% for pre-Sankranti services, the number rose to 87%. To offset losses incurred as a result of the inter-state agreement with Telangana, APSRTC operated more buses within the state. Officials are now hopeful that the demand will continue to rise and operations will get back to pre-pandemic levels soon. APSRTC executive directore of operations, KS Brahmananda Reddy, said that the entire staff — from the administrative level to the field level — worked hard to achieve full operation and which resulted in good revenues around Sankranti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sankranti-ops-help-rtc-break-80-occupancy-rate-in-buses/articleshow/80426311.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 24, 2021||Kolkata||Metro daily footfall breaches 2-lakh mark||Kolkata: With the e-pass restrictions completely removed earlier this week, Metro Railway has now reached the 2-lakh daily commuters milestone. The city’s lifeline had resumed services after the lockdown on September 14 with only 20,000. Four months later, Friday’s footfall on the north-south link was 2,01,030.This figure was around 30% of the pre-Covid daily passenger count. Since only smart card users are currently allowed, the city’s transport lifeline is nowhere near the 6.5 lakh footfall figure recorded before March 23, 2020. Daily passenger count will go up if schools and colleges reopen in February. Starting this Monday, Metro operated almost like it did in the pre-Covid times. No e-passes were needed to access the north-south stations and trains plied at 6-minute frequencies during peak hours with 12 more daily services added. From Monday to Friday, there are 240 services now.The e-pass was introduced when Metro resumed operations on September 14 after a 176-day hiatus. To control crowds in Covid times on the country’s most populous rapid transit system, Metro Railway and the state government came up with this new system that allowed only 400 people to ride an eight-coach train at a time instead of the 3,000 ferried earlier. Over the past four months, Metro has been relaxing e-pass norms in a phased manner, narrowing the e-pass window gradually, and, thus, increasing its daily commuter count. Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi told TOI on Saturday, “From the trend, I don’t see the daily footfall changing much in the near future. It’s likely to hover around 2 lakh for some time and we can comfortably implement social distancing norms.” Joshi explained, “In pre-Covid times, the average footfall per train was 2,200 that went up to 3,000 during peak hours. Currently, the per-train passenger count hasn’t crossed even 800.”The GM felt that Metro can easily handle another 200 and accommodate 1,000 passengers per train. “The Covid situation is much better now, but the Metro footfall is only 800 as compared to 1,700 in the suburban trains. Metro may look a bit crowded sometimes, but people are still safe here. They must wear masks before boarding,” said Joshi, who also handles the additional charge of GM, Eastern Railway.On Monday, the first weekday when Metro went without e-passes, 1,92,007 people rode. But on Tuesday, the footfall dropped to 1,84,851. Finally, on Friday the 2-lakh mark was breached.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-daily-footfall-breaches-2-lakh-mark/articleshow/80427885.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
January 24, 2021||Trichy||Schemes DMK floated being ignored: Maran||Tiruvarur: Former Union minister and Chennai central DMK MP Dayanidhi Maran on Saturday claimed that the AIADMK was ignoring schemes introduced by the previous DMK governments. Speaking in Thiruthuraipoondi assembly constituency on the third day of his election campaign in Tiruvaur district, Maran said, “The AIADMK government is ignoring the development schemes brought during the DMK regime, particularly in Tiruvarur district. The government has failed to secure the required reservation for the students residing in and around Tiruvarur at the Central University in the district, which was brought during the DMK regime.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/schemes-dmk-floated-being-ignored-maran/articleshow/80427890.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Six municipal corporations vote on February 21||GANDHINAGAR: The bugle has been sounded for the crucial local body polls next month, as the state election commission on Saturday announced the schedule for elections to six municipal corporations, 81 municipalities, 31 district panchayats and 231 taluka panchayats. With the announcement, the model code of conduct has come into force. With over four crore voters eligible to exercise their franchise, the local body elections are being construed to be a precursor to the 2022 assembly elections and a litmus test for the present political leadership in the state. For over a decade, the BJP has had a stranglehold over the six municipal corporations which are going to polls. Significantly, voting for municipalities, district panchayats and taluka panchayats will be held after the election results of the six municipal corporations are declared. Voting for municipal corporation elections will be held on February 21 and counting will be taken up on February 23. Voting for all the other local bodies will be held on February 28 and counting will be taken up on March 2. “Voting hours will be between 7am and 6pm. VVPAT will not be used as there is no scope of tampering with EVMs,” state election commissioner Sanjay Prasad told mediapersons on Saturday in Gandhinagar.Elections are being held for six municipal corporations, Ahmedabad, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Rajkot, Surat and Vadodara; 81 municipalities; 31 district panchayats; and 231 taluka panchayats. These elections were to be held late last year, but were put off because of the ongoing pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/six-municipal-corporations-vote-on-feb-21/articleshow/80428332.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Pune||Confidence improves, Maharashtra vaccination touches 83%||PUNE: Maharashtra has reported a steady rise in the number of vaccinations over the past week, touching a high of 83% on Saturday. Health officials attributed the rise in vaccination to the “ all-out efforts” made to ease the beneficiaries’ concerns regarding the side-effects of the vaccine. On January 16, when the drive was launched across the country, Maharashtra had reported 64% vaccination. A week later, on Saturday, the state reported 83% vaccination. As many as 24,282 beneficiaries received the vaccine on Saturday, taking the total number of vaccinations done so far to just short of 1 lakh. On Saturday, 297 healthcare workers took the Covaxin vaccine, taking the total number to 1,572. Ten districts in the state — mostly in the Marathwada and Vidarbha regions — reported roughly 100% vaccination on Saturday. Senior doctors and health officials in many districts have come forward to take the vaccine jab. Thane district continues to report the maximum number of vaccinations (2,201) in the state for the day, though it managed to give the shots to 96% of the beneficiaries identified for the day. The district has been reporting high vaccination since January 16. Pune district reported 60% vaccinations on Saturday, while Nashik was slightly behind with 56% coverage. A senior doctor in Pune said they were confident of the vaccination number picking up due to the increasing awareness. “We need to ensure that the process is smooth and all doubts are cleared,” he said.According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, 15,37,190 beneficiaries had received the vaccine till 6pm on Saturday. Of them, 1.46 lakh beneficiaries had received the vaccine on Saturday alone. The ministry said that no case of serious or severe adverse effect or death attributed to the vaccine has been reported in the country so far. Officials said 11 beneficiaries have been hospitalised due to adverse effects till date in the country. Also, six deaths have been reported in the country, but none have been linked to the Covid-19 vaccine. On Saturday, Maharashtra reported 2,697 new Covid-19 cases, while 3,694 patients were discharged after fully recovering from the illness. The state reported 56 deaths due to Covid-19 during the day. On Saturday, there were 43,870 active Covid-19 cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/confidence-improves-maha-vaccination-touches-83/articleshow/80427840.cms||Swatee Kher
January 24, 2021||Coimbatore||Release digital map of rivers, greens tell CM||Coimbatore: The federation of environmental organizations in the district submitted a set of requests to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami during a meeting that took place in the city on Friday. They requested the state government to announce catchment areas of major rivers in the region as protected zones and to release the digital map of rivers in the state.The federation comprises several organizations that work to protect the environment, including Kovai Kulangal Pathukappu Amaipu, Residents Awareness Association of Coimbatore, Siruthuli, CUBE, C4TN and Kurichi Kulam Pathukappu Iyyakam. A statement from the federation said that the state government should take steps to preserve the ancient documents related to water bodies and release the digital map of rivers in the state for public. “Steps should be taken to form a committee under the leadership of the collector and it should include allstakeholders. The committee should meet every month to find solutions related to topics like development of water bodies, enriching the biodiversity, expanding green space, smart city, solid waste management, rain water harvesting, man animal conflict related problems,” the statement said. Holding the government responsible for taking tree census in all ward, the statement said that steps should be taken to increase green space. “Steps should be taken to release water from the Parambikulam-Aliyar canal to Kothavadi tank and areas like Arasur, Vellanaipatti and Kaniyur should be included in second scheme of Athikadavu-Avinashi scheme.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/release-digital-map-of-rivers-greens-tell-cm/articleshow/80427905.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Coimbatore||Technical glitch mars ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ scheme again||Coimbatore: After launching the One Nation, One Ration Card (ONORC) scheme for the fourth time in the district on Saturday, the Tamil Nadu public distribution system (TNPDS) had to suspend it within a few hours and resume the old distribution system due to server problems.Under the scheme, ration products are handed over only to those family members, whose names are mentioned in the ration card after verifying their fingerprints. Cardholders can obtain their share of ration products from any part of the country. The scheme was implemented on a pilot basis at 135 ration shops in the Coimbatore south taluk on October 1. Two weeks later, TNPDS decided to extend it to all the 1,419 ration shops in the district. But within a few days, it had to stop it due to server latency.The state government launched the scheme in the district again on December 15 after executing it in 16 districts on a trial basis. To avoid crowding in front of the ration shops to obtain the state government’s Pongal gift hampers, the scheme was stopped again and the hampers were distributed by swiping ration card in PoS machines.The scheme was reintroduced in the district earlier this week, but was stopped three days ago after receiving numerous complaints from the public. “After updating the software, the state government decided to implement the scheme on pilot basis. It was implemented in the district on Saturday. But system performance degraded within an hour and it took more than half-an-hour to cater to a beneficiary. We received complaints from across the district,” an official from the office of district supply officer said. “The collector discussed the issue with the commissioner of civil supplies and consumer protection department and decided to suspend the biometric system for two days. The system will be resumed on Monday. Meanwhile, ration products will be distributed using the old system.”G Rajendran, president of the Tamil Nadu Ration Shop Employees’ Union, urged the state government not to implement the scheme till the end of the month. “We were distributing Pongal gift hampers till January 13. Only if we manage to distribute the products to at least 200 people a day per shop, would we be able to complete this month’s quota,” he said. “The government should fix the bugs and improve server speed before reimplementing it again as it has been causing huge inconvenience to the public and workers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/technical-glitch-mars-one-nation-one-ration-card-scheme-again/articleshow/80427916.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 24, 2021||Chennai||After surgery, woman with rare tumour in heart breathes easy||Chennai: A 64-year-old woman who had a rare life-threatening heart tumor is now heaving sigh of relief after doctors diagnosed the disease and intervened with an early surgery. The woman with coronary artery disease, hypertension, diabetes mellitus and various other co-morbidities, walked into Venkataeswara Hospitals on Chamiers Road with numbness and weakness on the left leg, headache, and shortness of breath. Doctors diagnosed her with acute stroke – involving the anterior circulation, also called posterior cerebral artery (PCA). Further evaluation showed a rare benign tumor or cardiac myxoma originating from the heart. It was attached to the wall of tissue that separates the right and left upper chambers of the heart (interatrial septum). Doctors at the hospital planned a surgery to remove the tumour. Since she was critically ill and being treated for severe urinary tract infection with septicemia (blood infection) and anemia in addition to the exiting comorbidities, she was stabilized with medications before being taken to the operation theatre on January 5. Hospital chairman Dr Thillai Vallal said she recovered after the surgery and is now able to attend routine activities. “It was quick turnaround of events - atypical of a very rare life-threatening heart tumour. The timely diagnosis and surgery saved her life,” he said. Early diagnosis of such tumours are rare because patients hardly have symptoms, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/after-surgery-woman-with-rare-tumour-in-heart-breathes-easy/articleshow/80426934.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 24, 2021||Goa||No means no, local groups tell CEC as it ends Goa visit||MARGAO: The Supreme Court-appointed Central Empowered Committee (CEC) wound up its three-day visit to Goa on Saturday with an interaction with NGOs, environment activists as well as political leaders, and heard their objections to the three linear infrastructure projects. Claude Alvares, the petitioner in the Supreme Court against the approvals granted to the three linear infrastructure projects by the Standing Committee of the National Board of Wildlife (NBWL), told TOI that all those groups that met the CEC were unanimous in their stand that all the three projects should be scrapped. “No means no – that was the general message. We don’t want any of the three projects, was what was told to the CEC by all of them,” Alvares told reporters after emerging from the meeting. The anti-project groups told the CEC members that none of the three projects was of any interest or benefit to the state, its people or its economy. “Our contention is that there cannot be any development in the wildlife sanctuary as animals have a right of way in the protected areas. Our petition in the Supreme court has challenged the power of anybody to do anything in the wildlife sanctuary,” Alvares said. Asked if he was hopeful of the CEC report going in favour of his petition, Alvares said, “The CEC will function like any other organiSation, depending on what material they have. In this case, the job of the CEC is limited to determining whether the approvals given by the standing committee of National Board of Wildlife headed by union cabinet minister Prakash Javadekar are correct or not.” Alvares, however, expressed his disapproval over what he called “variations” in the project reports by the proponents as uploaded on their official websites, and what was submitted to the CEC by them during the site visits. Alvares said that in case of the power transmission project at Mollem, the project proponents said that trees would be cut only in a few places where foundations for towers would be laid, when its biodiversity study says that a large number of trees, all those which come within the corridor of the transmission lines, will be axed. In the case of Railways, Alvares said, while the South Western Railway had earlier said a significant portion of the forest would be required to be cleared, it has now proposed to construct tunnels to “save the beauty of Dudhsagar falls.” “All this is misleading and unreliable,” Alvares said. “The CEC members themselves said that proper facts are not made available.” The Railway officials, during the CEC’s track doubling site inspection on Friday, had told the CEC that the second track in the entire Dudhsagar area would be laid within tunnels in order to save a considerable number of trees from being axed. “We are trying to incorporate all possible mitigation measures suggested by experts to minimize the impact of the project to the wildlife,” a Railway official said. Nevertheless, many activists, including Abhjit Prabhudessai of Goyant Kollso Naka, who has been at the forefront of the agitation, and who were waiting for an audience with the CEC on Saturday, had to return disappointed. Prabhudessai sounded critical over the matter. “Our battle will continue, If we don’t win the battle in the court, we will take the battle to the streets. We will not rest until all the projects are scrapped,” Prabhudessai said.The data gathered by CEC during its visit will be used to produce a report to be presented to the Supreme Court along with its recommendations. Earlier in the day, the CEC visited Mollem, Mormugao Port Trust and Tambdi Surla. Politicians who met the CEC on Saturday included leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat, Porvorim MLA Rohan Khuante and Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco. The CEC is headed by P V Jayakrishnan with Amarnatha Shetty as member secretary, and Mahendra Vyas as member, along with amicus curiae A D N Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-means-no-local-groups-tell-cec-as-it-ends-goa-visit/articleshow/80428957.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
January 24, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Poachers planned to sell leopard's skin, teeth||IDUKKI: The forest department said that the motive of the hunting gang that trapped the leopard planned to sell its skin and teeth. According to Mankulam range officer V B Udayasooryan the accused have a history of poaching animals. Udayasooryan-led forest team on Friday arrested a five-member gang for killing the leopard and consuming its meat. “The gang made a snare after observing the animal’s movements for the last 15 days, and the leopard was trapped in it. The accused cooked only a small portion, meat from the thigh, and ate just on trial basis. Most of the meat and its inner portions were thrown into the river. The gang’s motive was to sell its teeth and skin. They skinned the animal carefully to get a high price in the market,” Udyasooryan said. “The gang has a history of hunting wild boar and eating its meat; but consuming a leopard is a first. It was the first such incident reported in Kerala,” said the official. “Mankulam wildlife division is a rich biodiversity area and there is an active presence of leopards here. We spotted two tigers in the region,” said Udayasooryan. Mankulam DFO P J Suhaib said that the forest department will probe if the accused have any link with the inter-state gang involved in illegal wildlife trade. After receiving a tip-off, forest officials on Friday arrested Mankulam residents Kollikolavil Vinod P K (45), Basil Garden VP Kuriakose (74), Chempenpurayidathil C S Binu (50), Malayil Sali Kunjappan (54) and Vadakkumchalil Vincent (50). Officials seized the skin, nails and bones of the six-year-old leopard from prime accused Vinod’s house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/poachers-planned-to-sell-skin-teeth/articleshow/80426933.cms||Sandeep Thomas
January 24, 2021||Nashik||N Maha & Marathwada set to ramp up vaccine drive||Nashik/Aurangabad: The vaccination drive, which has started getting better reponse with each passing day, is set to be stepped up in many places from January 25. P B Gandal, the deputy director of state health department’s Nashik region, told TOI that beginning January 25, vaccination in the five districts of north Maharashtra — Nashik, Ahmednagar, Dhulem Jalgaon and Nandurbar — would take place on five days, instead of four days, each week. Gandal added that the five districts of the region have been asked to increase the number of session sites too from January 25 so that more beneficiaries can be vaccinated. “Barring Tuesdays and Sundays, vaccination at the session sites would take place from 9 am to 5 pm from January 25,” he said. “There is a total of 40 centres here at present. The respective districts have been asked to plan for the additional vaccination centres they would operate from January 25. This will increase the daily number of beneficiaries,” added Gandal. The senior health department functionary said the five districts of north Maharashtra have to complete the first round of inoculation, involving 60,000 beneficiaries, by February 14. A total of 1.09 frontline Covid warriors have been identified in the region for vaccination. So far, in the four rounds of vaccination, 10,752 healthcare workers have been vaccinated in the five districts. “We received the second batch of 1.05 lakh Covisheild vaccines for the five districts a couple of days ago. These doses have been despatched to all these five districts,” added Gandal. In the Marathwada region, the state health department has almost doubled the vaccination centers in the eight districts — taking the total number of centres to 98. These centers will become functional starting from Monday, said the health department officials. Aurangabad region’s deputy health director Dr Swapnil Lale told TOI, “We have almost doubled the number of vaccination booths in our region comprising four districts. Earlier, we had just 20 centres, but now we will have 38.” He said that Aurangabad had 10 vaccination booths and they have been increased that number to 18. Parbhani and Jalna had four centres each, and they will now have eight each, while Hingoli, which had two centres, will have four. Echoing him, the Nanded division’s deputy director (health) Dr Eknath Male said that his division had 19 vaccination centres, which now have been increased to 35. In Latur district, the number of vaccination centres is going to go up from six to 11. “Similarly, Nanded and Beed will have nine centres each — up from the existing five centres in these two districts. Osmanabad will have five centres instead of three,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/n-maha-marathwada-set-to-ramp-up-vaccine-drive/articleshow/80426343.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
January 24, 2021||Chandigarh||Now, farm union disrupts movie shoot in Patiala||Patiala: Activists of Krantikari Kisan Union disrupted the shooting of a Hindi movie in Patiala on Sunday, over actor Kangana Ranaut’s opposition to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three contentious agriculture laws. When actors of the movie, including Jhanvi Kapoor, went to a nearby hotel, farmers staged a protest in front of the hotel also. The protesters said they would not allow any shooting of Bollywood films in Punjab by claiming that film stars were not extending support to the farmers agitation in the past four months. Though Ranaut had opposed the protests in tweets, there are some who support the stir too. Krantikari Kisan Union Patiala president Jang Singh Bhateri said Ranaut hurt sentiments of farmers and Sikh community by tagging the protesters as Khalistanis and defamed an elderly woman protester. “We peacefully protested against the shooting of Bollywood film. These film stars will not be allowed to shoot any film until the laws are repealed. Farmers are dying,” he said. Gurdhain Singh Dhanna, the Patiala block president of the union, said district officials, including deputy commissioner, later reached the spot and they submitted a memorandum to the DC to not allow anyone to shoot movies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/now-farm-union-disrupts-movie-shoot-in-patiala/articleshow/80427934.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Allahabad||Keshav Prasad Maurya donates 30-month salary for Ram Temple||PRAYAGRAJ: “I am a Ram devotee first and later the deputy chief minister of the state,” said Keshav Prasad Maurya while handing over his 30-month salary, about Rs 11 lakh, for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. The amount was handed over to the general secretary of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirthkshetra Trust Champat Rai and member Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati, on Saturday. He said cooperation of the entire nation is being sought for the construction of Ram temple as five generations have sacrificed their lives in the temple movement. In such a situation, this cooperation is being taken from everyone. The deputy CM also handed over a cheque of Rs 1.10 crore on behalf of PWD employees for the temple. Maurya also visited the injured block secretary of RSS, who suffered serious head injuries when he was attacked by assailants i Mauaima on Friday morning. He also paid floral tributes to Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary, at Subash Crossing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/maurya-donates-30-month-salary-for-ram-temple/articleshow/80427561.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Kanpur||Two-year-old boy, sister die as hut catches fire in UP's Lalitpur district||JHANSI: In a horrific incident, a two-year old boy and his thirteen- year- old sister died when their hut caught fire on the intervening night of January 21 and 22 in Lalitpur district. However, their mother and two other sisters had a miraculous escape. The incident has been reported from village Amukhera under Jakhlon police station. According to reports, Seema (40), a widow and mother of four children, including three daughters, were living in a hut in their farm. On Thursday night, when the family went to sleep, their hut caught fire from the partially burning coal stove, and led to the unfortunate incident. The state government sanctioned financial assistance of Rs 8 lakh to the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/2-year-old-boy-sister-die-as-hut-catches-fire/articleshow/80428614.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Trichy||Plea to add tenant farmers in PM-Kisan||Trichy: Farmers in the delta districts carried out a protest in Thanjavur on Saturday in support of their demand that the Union government include all tenant farmers under its PM-Kisan scheme. The farmers affiliated to Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association headed by its honorary president Nedar Dharmarajan gathered in front of Gandhi Park at Kumbakonam. Association district secretary of Swamimalai S Vimalnathan explained about the situation as members demonstrated carrying the national flag. He said about 4 lakh tenant farmers in Tamil Nadu and 40 lakh across the country were not included in the scheme. Hence, the benefit should be given to all the eligible tenant farmers. The scheme was introduced in 2018 by BJP government to provide cash assistance to farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/plea-to-add-tenant-farmers-in-pm-kisan/articleshow/80427971.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Nashik||Traffic rule violations rise in Nashik city after lockdown||Nashik: The city police have registered a significant rise in the number of traffic rule violations after the lockdown was eased and restrictions on movement on vehicles were withdrawn in July 2020. During the April-May lockdown period, roughly 4,000-5,000 traffic violations were reported each month. Subsequently, the police started cracking down on the erring motorists and the number of cases booked rose. In August alone, 44,000 cases were booked. Most of the cases pertained to rash driving, speeding, wrong parking, parking in no-parking areas, riding without helmet, driving four-wheelers without seat belt etc. There were 372 road accidents in the city in 2020 which cased 134 deaths. Senior police officers said that the bulk of road accident and deaths were after the lockdown period. ACP Seetaram Gaikwad, of the city traffic branch, said though there were fewer vehicles on the streets — as the schools and many offices were closed — violation of traffic rules continued as usual and the police too were forced to take action against the erring motorists. Since the city police had also withdrawn towing of vehicles, there was a big jump in the number of illegal parkings along the roads, which eventually led to traffic congestions. The police relied more on sending e-challans to erring motorists by clicking photographs of the vehicles. This was done mainly to reduce human contact and prevent the spread of the Covid-19 infection. After September 2020, the police were focusing on motorists who broke traffic rules in front of them like signal jumping, riding triple-seat, speaking on cellphones while driving, rash driving etc. ACP Gaikwad said the action would continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/traffic-rule-violations-rise-in-nashik-city-after-lockdown/articleshow/80426346.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 24, 2021||Chandigarh||Hry ministers have lost confidence of public: Selja||Hisar: While interacting with the media in Hisar, Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) government had lost the trust of the people. This is the reason that the state government ministers are facing public opposition, Selja added. Selja garlanded the statue of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose at Camp Chowk in Hisar on the birth anniversary on Saturday and then arrived at the Ramayan toll plaza to offer her support to the farmers agitating against the three agricultural laws. Haryana Congress chief spokesperson Bajrang Garg, former member of tax tribunal Harpal Singh Boora etc also present on the occasion. Selja said the ministers are having difficulty in attending the programmes organised on Republic Day. “Today, the ministers are not daring to go before the people. Farmers want to celebrate the Republic Day by taking out the tractor march, it is the right of the farmers. We hope that the government will cooperate fully in this,” Selja said. Selja said the BJP government started the farmers’ movement. “Our farmers and labourers are forced to sit on the streets in this fierce cold for their rights. The BJP government does not want to repeal anti-agree laws because it benefits a select few capitalists,” Selja said. According to Selja, the struggle against the agricultural laws is not just the struggle of the farmers, but of entire India. “Because the growth of economy is dependent on the agricultural sector and only the capitalists cannot make the country’s economic condition strong,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-ministers-have-lost-confidence-of-public-selja/articleshow/80427941.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Nod for Rs 1.10cr worth projects for disabled||Thiruvananthapuram: The state government has given administrative sanction of Rs 1.10 crore for various programmes undertaken by the commissionerate for persons with disabilities, social justice minister K K Shailaja said. The sanction has been given for projects, including research and development for rehabilitation, ensuring registration and inspection of institutions related to the persons with disabilities, holding adalats and sittings for them and imparting awareness. The state commissionerate for persons with disabilities is the agency that has been set up by the government to ensure the rehabilitation and protection of rights of the persons with disabilities. The commissionerate also implements the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act across the state and works for transforming the state as disabled-friendly. The commissionerate aims at ensuring total rehabilitation, coordinating various welfare initiatives undertaken by various government departments for the disabled, disposing of their complaints and ensuring that the opportunities of the disabled are not availed and enjoyed by others. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nod-for-rs-1-10cr-worth-projects-for-disabled/articleshow/80426935.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||Business hit badly, Mumbai retail traders want local trains back||MUMBAI: The Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association (FRTWA) has urged the state government to resume normal suburban train services. President of FRTWA, Viren Shah, said that as commuting is a challenge, employees who stay nearby come to work everyday and those from the distant suburbs come on alternate days. Shopowners in the CSMT and Churchgate subways have written to the association about their business being completely hit for the last 10 months as there are no local train commuters. In a letter to CM Uddhav Thackeray, Shah said, “Business has been badly affected on account of the Covid-19 lockdown. It’s very hard for people to commute to work. For business to revive, train services must be restored. Now that the Covid 19 pandemic has been brought under control, we are hoping that a decision will be taken by the month-end. It will reduce the burden on the roads and make it easier for people to commute with proper safeguards.” Shah said a similar request was made to railway minister Piyush Goyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/biz-hit-badly-retail-traders-want-local-trains-back/articleshow/80428015.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Nashik||HCG Manavata Cancer Centre to hold Zydus Cadila Covid vax trials||Nashik: The city-based HCG Manavata Cancer Centre would be conducting trials for Zydus Cadila’s three-dose Covid-19 vaccine from January 25.The cancer centre — which has been selected by the pharmaceutical company — would not be charging the people who participate in the trials.Raj Nagarkar, the chairman and surgical oncologist at the Manavata Cancer Centre, said anyone above the age of 18 years can volunteer for this trial — provided s/he is not suffering from cancer and is covid negative. He said the vaccine by Zydus is claimed to be 91% effective by the company and as of now, no side-effects have been observed. Those who intend to participate will have to approach the hospital and get the Covid-19 RT-PCR and antibodies tests done. The volunteers would be enrolled only if their reports are negative.The two injections of the vaccine would be administered on both shoulders of the participants.The course of the vaccine would be over after the completion of three doses over a period of two months.Since the trials would be conducted on a limited number of participants, the selection of eligible volunteers would be done on a first-come-first-serve basis and it will be necessary for the volunteers to take prior appointment for the same.HCG Manavata Cancer Centre is planning to perform trials on 3,500 individuals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hcg-manavata-cancer-centre-to-hold-zydus-cadila-covid-vax-trials/articleshow/80426350.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 24, 2021||Bengaluru||HD Kumaraswamy says govt stalled development works, threatens protest in front of Yediyurappa’s residence||BENGALURU: Alleging that the government has stayed development works in Hassan, former CM HD Kumaraswamy and MLAs from the district have decided to protest in front of the chief minister’s home- office on Monday. Kumaraswamy on Friday wrote to Yediyurappa in which he listed out works stalled by the government and claimed they were announced in the budget and got approval of the legislature during the Congress-JD(S) coalition government. While some works had begun, others were about to, but the BJP government stalled them because of “personal enmity”, Kumaraswamy alleged. The stalled development projects include: Construction of a greenfield airport on the outskirts of Hassan city, development of Channapatna lake at a cost of Rs 144 crore and setting up of a horticulture university at Somanahalli Kavalu. In his reply, the CM said due to financial stress induced by the pandemic, several works have been stopped. “Now that the economy is recovering, the government will release funds for the sanctioned works in Hassan in a phased manner," he said, requesting Kumaraswamy to drop the protest plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hdk-says-govt-stalled-development-works-threatens-protest-in-front-of-cms-residence/articleshow/80426942.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Kochi||Railways asked to pay Rs 8,000 to passenger over malfunctioning window||THRISSUR: The Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission here has ordered the Railways to pay Rs 8,000 to a passenger who had complained about a malfunctioning window in his coach. Of the total compensation, Rs 5,000 is for the mental agony suffered by the passenger, PO Sebastian, and the remaining is the cost of litigation. Sebastian, a native of Puthur had travelled to Thiruvananthapuram from Thrissur in the Jan Shatabdi Express on June 29, 2013. The complainant said that it was raining heavily when the train left Thrissur but the sliding window of his coach was blocked drenching his clothes and luggage during the journey. Sebastian has claimed that he had requested the TTE to get the window repaired or shift him to a convenient seat. He had alleged that even though the TTE promised to help, nothing happened. He notified the station master at Thiruvananthapuram about his hardship during the journey. However, as he reportedly, did not receive a favourable response, Sebastian served the Railways a legal notice through Advocate V M Vinosh, demanding a compensation of Rs 50,000. Sebastian said he had developed health problems from exposure to inclement weather. He reportedly produced a medical certificate for the treatment he underwent after the journey. He also claimed to have suffered stress. The Commission president, C T Babu and member K Radhakrishnan Nair in their order said: “There is a clear fault from the side of the opposite parties (the Railways) and the act of the opposite parties amount to deficiency of service. “Railway is a prestigious institution of the people of India and all passengers are entitled to a peaceful and happy journey. The Railway authorities are responsible to ensure amenities and cleanliness. That was not done in this case.” Sebastian said the commission had pronounced the order on September 15, and he “received the copy last week”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/window-malfunction-costs-rlys-rs-8k/articleshow/80426967.cms||T Ramavarman
January 24, 2021||Trichy||Delay in runway re-carpeting hits resumption of flights in Trichy||Trichy: An inordinate delay in the completion of the ongoing runway re-carpeting work at Trichy international airport has further delayed the resumption of suspended domestic flights operated to Chennai, Bengaluru and Mumbai. The delay is also restricting the introduction of additional flights to Chennai and other sectors.The works were to be completed before November 2020. However, it continued till December. Meanwhile, unprecedented rain during in January further delayed the process, airport officials said. Before the commencement of the re-carpeting works, the Trichy airport was handling five services to Chennai, two services to Bengaluru, a single service to Hyderabad and a bi-weekly to Mumbai. Following the re-carpeting works, the domestic services have been reduced to four from eight. Of the eight services, Trichy-Mumbai service was introduced by IndiGo Air during the lockdown period. However, the operation of repatriating flight services to various countries including Singapore, Kuala Lumpur and Kuwait are being carried out without any interruption.The work was to be started in March 2020. However, due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the process was delayed and the work began after two months, officiating airport director K Gunasekaran told TOI. Then the unprecedented rains that lashed during the month of December and January further delayed our work, he added.“We are confident that the work can be completed by March 2021,” he further stated.Airport officials took the work of re-carpeting a total of 2,423-meter length and 45-meter broad runway with tar. Of the 2,423-meter length of the runway, 580-meter was being constructed by concrete. However, during this makeover, the entire length is going to have the tar layer, officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/delay-in-runway-re-carpeting-hits-resumption-of-flights-in-trichy/articleshow/80428013.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
January 24, 2021||Trichy||NRCB develops tech to convert extra ripe bananas to powder||Trichy: The ICAR-national research centre for banana (NRCB), Trichy, has developed a new drying technology, which could be an alternative to the spray and freeze drying technique for banana pulp to produce banana powder.This could be a feasible solution for utilization of over ripe and market reject bananas for producing cost-efficient banana powder. Food management is a critical issue for international food safety and Covid-19 outbreak leading to shortages and price hikes had caused consumers to adopt for a ‘Less but better’ eating practices. To meet this future global demand, ICAR-NRCB, Trichy has developed new drying technology, Dr S Uma, director of NRCB, Trichy said.“The natural matrices of ripe banana powder contain a high amount of carbohydrates and bioactive compounds with potential pre-biotic beneficial effects on human health and can be used as functional ingredient in food preparation. With conventional driers, ripe banana pulp takes long to become dry, due to their dense physical structure and high sugar content. The technology developed by ICAR- NRCB makes the banana pulp more porous that will facilitate quicker drying,” she added. With intense, sweet and indulgent natural flavour, the product will bring delight to customers. Ripe banana powder can be used in food product formulations like pudding, fudges, pan cakes, bakery fillings along with refined wheat flour, she further said.“It can also be suggested for compaction into tablet forms for nutraceutical consumption. The institute has also developed technologies for sugar-free banana juice with basil seed suspension, central stem-based low calorie juices, encapsulation methods to tap the natural colour from the male flower,” she added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nrcb-develops-tech-to-convert-extra-ripe-bananas-to-powder/articleshow/80427978.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 24, 2021||Aurangabad||5 peacocks die near Beed’s Loni village, lab reports awaited||Aurangabad: Amid confirmed reports of avian influenza in parts of Marathwada, the Shirur-Kasar taluka in Beed district reported the deaths of five peacocks on Friday. R V Surewad, the district deputy commissioner of animal husbandry department, said the birds were found dead by locals on outskirts of Loni village. “Necessary samples were collected from the dead birds and sent for laboratory testing. Further course of action will be decided once the reports are in,” he said. Beed district had reported cases of avian influenza in poultry birds at two places besides the death of crows. “The excreta of birds infected with avian influenza often spreads the disease among other birds. We have warned the villagers against handling dead bird. The local government authorities must be informed at the earliest,” he said. Earlier, the Lokhandi-Sawargaon and Warvati villages in Ambajogai taluka of Beed district reported confirmed cases of bird flu in poultry, following which culling of 1,355 hens was carried out to prevent the spread of the disease. Moreover, 11 crows were also found dead in the Mugagao village in Patoda taluka due to avian influenza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/5-peacocks-die-near-beeds-loni-village-lab-reports-awaited/articleshow/80426360.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Bengaluru||Discontent over portfolio allocation: 3 Karnataka ministers hold ‘secret’ meeting at resort, raise eyebrows||BENGALURU: Amid reports of continuing discontent over portfolio allocation among a few, three ministers in chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s cabinet — Ramesh Jarkiholi, K Gopalaiah and CP Yogeshwar — reportedly held a secret meeting at a resort near Chikkamagaluru late on Friday night. It’s being said that Jarkiholi checked into the resort on Friday evening and Yogeshwar and Gopalaiah joined him late in the night. Mudigere MLA MP Kumaraswamy was also with them. Though details of what transpired during the meeting are not known, its timing has raised eyebrows as a few ministers, including Gopalaiah, are unhappy with the portfolios allocated to them. As soon as news of the meeting became public, the ministers hurriedly vacated the resort. Yogeshwar was the first to leave, followed by Jarkiholi. “I had come to Chikkamagaluru to visit the Yettinahole project site. So I stayed in the resort. Before heading to the project site, I convened a meeting of water resources department officials at the resort,” Jarkiholi said, claiming his meeting with Yogeshwar and Gopalaiah had nothing to do with resentment over portfolio allocation. Along with Gopalaiah, ministers D Sudhakar, MTB Nagaraj and KC Narayana Gowda, who defected to the ruling BJP from Congress, are also apparently not happy with their portfolios. While Sudhakar is fuming over medical education being taken away from him, Gopalaiah is miffed over being shifted to the food and civil supplies ministry. Nagaraj, whose portfolio was changed from excise to municipal administration and sugar, is upset over not getting housing.  Cooperation minister ST Somashekhar tried to downplay the occurrence, stating the ministers might have met for dinner as Yogeshwar has become a minister. “There is no need to attach too much importance to it,” he added. Agriculture minister BC Patil, however, accepted there was some discontent over portfolio allocation and the CM will address it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/3-ministers-hold-secret-meeting-at-resort-raise-eyebrows/articleshow/80426945.cms||Anil Gejji
January 24, 2021||Nashik||4 bookedin child marriage case||Nashik: The Wani police have booked four people under the Prohibition of Child Marriages Act and sections of the Indian Penal Code. Among those booked is also the mother of a minor girl who was married off to a 22-year-old youth during the lockdown. The others are the girl’s husband, her father-in-law and mother-in-law.The complaint was lodged by the village development officer of Karanjwan village in Dindori taluka. Complainant Arun Aher, on the instructions of the Wani police, had gone to verify if a minor girl in Karanjwan was married off in the recent past. He found that a man — who died on November 2020 — had married off his minor daughter (just 13 years and three months old then) in May 2020. After her father’s death, the girl came to her parents’ home, where she suffered accidental hot water burns. She was first admitted to a private hospital and then to the Adgaon medical college. At the time of taking her statement, the police learned that the girl was then just 14 years old and had got married in May 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4-bookedin-child-marriage-case/articleshow/80426352.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 24, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Somnath Bharti gets 2 year term in AIIMS case||NEW DELHI: Stating that the country’s infrastructure and property did not belong to any leader, party or government, but constituted national assets, a Delhi court on Saturday awarded a two-year jail term to AAP MLA Somnath Bharti for allegedly assaulting and using criminal force while demolishing a wall at AIIMS in 2016. Additional chief metropolitan magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey observed that Bharti was “well aware” about the consequences of the crime, yet had actively participated in the commission of the crime of damaging public property belonging to AIIMS, New Delhi. “Hence, the court is not inclined to grant him the benefit of the Probation of Offenders Act, 1958,” the judge held. Bharti was, however, granted bail after filing an appeal against his conviction and punishment. Senior advocate N Hariharan and advocate Mohammed Irshad, representing Bharti, sought leniency and argued that the MLA had gone to the place of incident on the basis of public perception and owing to the demand of his constituents. They sought his release on probation under Section 4 (power of court to release certain offenders on probation of good conduct) of the Probation of Offenders Act. The court opined that the mindset to cause damage to the public property was an attack on the common man. “The infrastructure and public property of the country are not of any leader, party or government but are national assets. The infrastructure is built with the contribution of every poor, every tax payer, middle class and every section of society,” the sentencing order stated. On January 22, the court held that a mob had gathered on September 9, 2016 at 9.45am behind AIIMS to demolish the hospital’s wall and fence. Bharti was convicted under Sections 323 of the Indian Penal Code (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) read with Section 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) and charged with offence punishable under Section 3 of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984, and with offence punishable under Section 147 (rioting). The court awarded Bharti a two-year simple imprisonment and fined him Rs 1 lakh. “In case the fine is deposited by the convict, of the fine amount, Rs 75,000 be paid to AIIMS, New Delhi, as compensation and Rs 25,000 be deposited with the state,” directed by court. Bharti had argued that AIIMS’ security staff couldn’t be defined as public servants under IPC Section 21 (public servant). But the court held that clause 12 of the section covered the act of the security staff as public servant since they got remuneration from the government agency or AIIMS for their public duty. It was also recorded on the basis of the prosecution witnesses that a mob of 200-300 persons led by Bharti raised slogans, pelted stones and used criminal force and also used a JCB machine to demolish the wall in 2016. Bharti’s defence argued that it was the Public Works Department that had pulled down the wall and the fencing. The lawyers argued that Bharti was falsely implicated in the case and it was a case of political vendetta. The court, however, junked Bharti’s contention that the demolition of the wall and fence at AIIMS was done by PWD, pointing out that witnesses from that agency had specifically denied this in their deposition. The case stemmed from the complaint of AIIMS chief security officer R S Rawat, alleging that Bharti had “provoked the mob to damage the fence of government property (AIIMS)”. The complaint detailed that Bharti had allowed unauthorised persons with JCB machines to access the AIIMS premises and also misbehaved with the security personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bharti-gets-2yr-term-in-aiims-case-demolition-assault-aware-of-consequences-of-act-says-court-grants-bail/articleshow/80429029.cms||Aamir Khan
January 24, 2021||India||Odisha sets up eco retreats to boost tourism||BHUBANESHWAR/KONARK: Confined to her home for most part of the pandemic since March last year, when 70-year-old Savitri Rout finally got the opportunity to go for a weekend getaway with her children and grandchildren in January, the family chose an ‘eco retreat’ along the Chandrabhaga beach in Konark. Sitting with her granddaughter in the dining area and watching the high tide hit the shore, she said she was happy to be out again. Safety remains a prime concern for those willing to step out but travelling very far is still not on the minds of many. Those keen on a holiday are clearly looking for spaces that can be the “one-stop shop” for all their vacation needs. Also, while protocols exist, implementation and compliance is what dominates conversations among tourists. Speaking to TOI, Odisha’s minister for tourism and culture Jyoti Prakash Panigrahi said, “There is no doubt that the tourism sector is one of the worst hit by the pandemic, but it is also a fact that the revival of this sector is a key priority area for us. We also want tourism in Odisha to grow beyond religious tourism so that people experience our coastal belt.” An experiment to test the waters is underway through the eco retreat model in Konark and four other sites in Odisha. Offering tourists the option to stay in temporary luxury tent cottages, the ‘glamping’ retreats came up in December and despite the pandemic, they have logged over 60% occupancy. The state set up the first glamping eco retreat in Konark last year. (The writer was in Odisha at the invitation of the state government)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/odisha-sets-up-eco-retreats-to-boost-tourism/articleshow/80429174.cms||Ambika Pandit
January 24, 2021||Lucknow||Less than 1% side effects after shots||Lucknow: Stating that less than 1% of the people who took Covid-19 vaccine in the state suffered any kind of side effects, health officials on Saturday said that the vaccine was safe and effective. “So far, more than 1.25 lakh health workers have been inoculated in the state and only a handful of adverse events following immunization (AEFI) have been reported. In fact, not a single case of hospitalization has been reported. There is no need to hesitate in taking the vaccine. It is both safe and beneficial,” said additional chief secretary health and family welfare Amit Mohan Prasad. Fewer than 350 AEFI have been reported in UP during the sessions of January 16 and 22. This is less than 1% of the total population which got the shot. Prasad urged health workers to come forward and get themselves vaccinated when their names get listed. “The supply of vaccine is finite. Those who are getting it must understand the privilege given to them,” he stated. Prasad also informed that cards for Aayushman Bharat Yojana were being made and urged people to get themselves registered if eligible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/less-than-1-side-effects-after-shots/articleshow/80428787.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 24, 2021||Chennai||As doctors ‘wait and watch’, vaccination count dips in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: A day after health minister C Vijayabaskar, who is a doctor, took the indigenous Covaxin to motivate healthcare providers, the state reported a drop in the number of vaccinations to 7,575 till 7pm from 8,704 vaccinations reported same time on Friday. There were 9,277 vaccinations on Thursday. The state has vaccinated 59,226 healthcare providers 57,965 with Covishield since the launch of the drive on January 16. This is nearly 44% of the targeted population of 1,35,400. The public health department reduced the day’s target to 16,800 vaccinations from 17,300 on Friday and held 168 sessions as against 173 the previous day. Although most TN doctors have told the Indian Medical Association and the Tamil Nadu Government Doctors’ Association that they would take the vaccine eventually, for now they want to “wait and watch”. “Hesitation from doctors is having a cascading effect on nurses and paramedical staff,” said Indian Medical Association national president J A Jayalal, who was among the first few doctors in the state to get vaccinated. Of the total number of recipients on Friday, 7,381 took Covishield as against the target of 16,500 and 194 people took Covaxin as against the target of 300. The target for Covaxin was cut by half compared to Friday, when 173 people took the shot. In the last eight days 1,261 healthcare providers have taken the indigenious Covaxin against the target of 4,200. “Some doctors in Tamil Nadu think the central government has rushed with the scheme, some others suspect pharma scam, but many others have told us that they wanted to ensure there are no side effects such as anaphylactic (allergic) reactions to the vaccine,” Jayalal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/as-doctors-wait-and-watch-vaccination-count-dips-in-tn/articleshow/80428051.cms||Pushpa Narayan
January 24, 2021||Lucknow||Ensure 100% utilisation of budget, UP CM Yogi Adityanath tells ministers, HODs||LUCKNOW: Ahead of next state budget, the last before the 2022 assembly elections, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath held a meeting with all ministers and heads of departments on Saturday, directing them to ensure 100% utilization of the budget for the current financial year, and to seek pending funds for various projects from the Centre. A government spokesperson said that as per information given by departments to the planning department for income-expenditure in 2020-21, financial approvals of Rs 3.81 lakh crore or 71% had been given against a provision of Rs 5.36 lakh crore. Out of the approved funds, Rs 3.26 lakh crore or 85.5% had been allocated. Utilisation certificates of Rs 81,369 crore have been sent to the Centre, against certificates of Rs 94,778 crore which had to be sent, which is 85.8%. During the meeting, the CM said that pending works of electrification under the Saubhagya and Deen Dayal Upadhyay schemes should be completed at the earliest. Ensure PMAY beneficiaries get houses at the earliest: CMThe departments concerned should ensure that agencies providing services under the schemes should be paid their full dues and officials should review this work routinely,” he added. He said that there should be no further complaints of overbilling and those related to smart meters. In case of problems with billing, responsibility of meter readers should be fixed and a portal should be made for them. Officials should ensure that agencies from whom power was being purchased, are remunerated on time. Meanwhile, an integrated facility should be provided to government departments for payment of pending electricity bills. The CM said that the Indo-Nepal border area was strategically important for the government and help from specialists should be taken to ensure that projects linked to improving connectivity, like roads, should be completed at the earliest. Focussing on welfare projects, the CM said that the pace of work on community toilets, gram sachivalayas and housing under the PM Housing Scheme should be increased. “Identify beneficiaries under the PMAY and ensure that they get houses at the earliest. The government is committed to ‘housing for all’ and where necessary, send a list of additional houses required in any district to the Centre,” he said. The CM said that inter colleges and government aided private schools have a lot of prestige but these are old and the buildings of many of these are in a terrible condition. A scheme should be drawn up for the renovation and assistance should be taken from the past pupils of these schools and colleges. Till there are no permanent teachers for Sanskrit schools, arrangements should be made for temporary staff. Saying that basic education was extremely crucial, the CM stressed on the need for ensuring that more and more students were enrolled in schools. Addressing the irrigation department, the CM said that the Saryu Nahar and Madhya Ganga projects should be completed on priority. Bose’s slogan led youth to freedom movement: CMCM Yogi Adityanath paid tributes to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary in Lucknow on Saturday. Crediting Bose for having given the slogan which inspired freedom fighters to stand up against the British —‘Tum mujhe khoon do, main tumhe aazadi doonga’ — the CM said Bose was a frontline hero of freedom movement and gave the country the mantra which helped connect people with the movement. “He gave direction to the freedom movement and inspired the youth to join the struggle by forming Azad Hind Fauj,” Yogi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ensure-100-utilisation-ofbudget-cm-tells-mins-hods/articleshow/80428809.cms||Neha Lalchandani
January 24, 2021||Chennai||Coimbatore sole health unit that overshot vaccine target||CHENNAI: Just four of every 10 healthcare providers targeted by the state public health department have been inoculated in Tamil Nadu between January 16 and Saturday, as per statistics released by the state health department. On Saturday, 7,575 health care providers were vaccinated till 7pm. Of this, 7,381 took Covishield against the target of 16,500 and 194 people took Covaxin against the target of 300. The state has vaccinated 59,226 healthcare providers — 57,965 with Covishield — since January 16. This is nearly 44% of the targeted population of 1,35,400. Health minister C Vijayabaskar told the media on Friday that he opted for Covaxin as the hesitancy towards the India-made product was more. Since January 16, 1,261 (30%) healthcare providers in TN have taken Covaxin against the target of 4,200. In the last eight days, Coimbatore health unit was the only one (among the 45 health units) to overshoot the target. The unit has vaccinated 4,030 healthcare providers against the target of 3,300. Public health department records show the district has vaccinated 122% of its daily target. After Coimbatore, health districts Namakkal (87%), Salem (78%) Tiruppur (77%), The Nigiris (74%) Kovilpatti (70%) and Chennai (62%) reported better attendance. Attendance was the least in Tuticorin district, where 285 (12%), against the target of 2,400 people, have received the vaccine. Experts said upbeat announcements, senior doctors taking the jab and a week without significant adverse reactions weren’t enough to encourage healthcare providers. A senior city-based orthopaedic surgeon said: “They first said we will receive messages about date and schedule on our phones. When that did not happen, they asked all doctors to visit any government centre to take the vaccine. No private hospital is giving the vaccine to doctors outside their hospital. If the hospital where I work is not made a centre in a few days, I will go to the GH,” he said. “On weekends routine immunisation would be slightly low. But we are one of the few states doing vaccinations through the week. More sessions are being planned,” health secretary J Radhakrishnan said, adding that TN won’t pressure healthcare workers. “At some stage when frontline workers are also permitted to get vaccinated, healthcare providers too will come forward,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/coimbatore-sole-health-unit-that-overshot-vaccine-target/articleshow/80426994.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||Met says dip in mercury likely in northern parts of Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Northern parts of Maharashtra along with Mumbai and Thane are likely to witness a drop in temperature from Monday, said an official from IMD on Saturday. The Santacruz observatory on Saturday morning recorded the minimum temperature at 18.8 degrees Celsius, a departure of -0.4 degrees from normal. The cold weather conditions are expected to persist for a few days starting Monday., said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/met-says-dip-in-mercury-likely/articleshow/80428056.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Lucknow||UP: ‘Honeytrap’ doctor, victim exchanged 40 calls in nine days||LUCKNOW: As many as 40 calls were exchanged between Dr Preeti Mehra of Delhi's Rathi Hospital and Gonda BAMS student between January 9 and 18 before he was abducted by her and four others. After talking extensively to Gaurav, Gonda SP Shailesh Pandey told TOI the 21-year-old was first approached by Dr Preeti Mehra on January 9. “Haldar told us that Dr Mehra seemed to know everything about him, but did not disclose how she got her number. For the purpose of striking the conversation, she said that her relatives also stay in Bahraich and she was keen to visit the area soon,” said Pandey. Gaurav hails from Bahraich, where his father is a BAMS doctor. Later, the duo used to stay in touch over the phone for long. The police sources said that between January 9 and January 18, they exchanged as many as 40 calls. Duo had no fixed hours for talkingThe average talking time between them used to be 10 minutes to 40 minutes. There were no fixed hours for the talks and she would call anytime in the day. On January 15, Dr Mehra told Gaurav that she would soon be coming to meet him as her mother was ill and admitted in Gonda, said the STF sources. And finally on January 18, she reached Gonda and called Gaurav from outside his hostel, said an officer privy to the probe. When Gaurav came out, he was bundled inside the car at gunpoint by four others and injected with sedatives. He later opened his eyes on January 19 inside a Delhi flat and then only got to know about his kidnapping. The police also said that Preeti, 24, was promised a handsome share in the ransom money hence agreed to support the mastermind Dr Abhishek Singh in the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/honeytrap-doc-victim-exchanged-40-calls-in-9-days/articleshow/80428779.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Lucknow||Students left in lurch as Lucknow University nixes MSc course||LUCKNOW: Around 18 students of MSc (environmental science) were left in a lurch after Lucknow University decided to discontinue the course nearly a month after admission. LU went ahead with the admission process by asking the students to appear for online counselling, submit fees and verify documents. The students had even submitted examination forms. But a recent message from the university admission cell that the course has been nixed left the students in a state of shock. As per rules, a self-finance course can be run only if 60% of total seats are filled. In this case, there were 40 seats, of which 18 were locked by students. The students had submitted the fees and their offline verification was also done when all of a sudden on January 18 students received a message of discontinuation. Left high and dry, the students wrote to vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai on Saturday. When contacted, Rai said, “We had received applications fulfilling the 60% norm, but only 18 submitted the fees. Hence, we had to discontinue the course.” Explaining the decision to nix the course after a month, he said: “We were extending the date in students’ interest, expecting that more students will be submitting the fees. When the number didn’t increase, we took the decision as per rules.” However, the students said the varsity should have taken the decision early. They alleged that by sending the discontinuation notice in January-end, the varsity has wasted their year as admission in other institutes were completed months back and now they don’t have any options left. Students slammed the authorities for taking the decision, when online counselling, offline verification, fee submission and even examination forms for the first semester have been filled. The LU message said, “MSc (environmental science) will be discontinued for the session 2020-21 as a minimum criterion of the number of candidates could not be fulfilled. Your admission can be shifted to MSc (plant science). Submit a request to botany head.” The message also said that their fees will be refunded if they don’t want to switch to MSc (plant science). “It’s illogical to ask students to shift to plant science, when the counselling has been done and fees of Rs 28,680 has been submitted. Also, the examination form for the first semester has been submitted,” said Geetika Sharma (name changed).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/students-left-in-lurch-as-lu-nixes-msc-course/articleshow/80428820.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Varanasi||Ruffled by Asaduddin Owaisi visit & BJP’s ascent, SP buys land for office in Azamgarh citadel||VARANASI: Stung by the rousing reception to All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi just 10 days ago and growing popularity of Bharatiya Janata Party which is increasing its outreach, Samajwadi Party has bought 4,374 sqmt land in Azamgarh to set up office for its national president Akhilesh Yadav. In desperation to save its fortress in east UP after the Azamgarh visit of Owaisi on January 12, the SP completed the process of registry of 4,374 sqmt land at Anwarganj, around six km from the town on Friday. SP district president Hawaldar Yadav said the construction of party chief’s parliamentary constituency office would start soon and is expected to be ready before 2022 UP polls. A big band of SP leaders, including Balram Yadav, Durga Prasad Yadav, MLA Nafish Ahmad, Behai Saroj and party office bearers present on the occasion said a grand party office would help expand the party base in Purvanchal and consolidate its votebank ahead of the 2022 elections. Taking a jibe at SP’s buying land for office after Owaisi’s visit, AIMIM district president Shaukat Ali Mahul said, “This shows that SP is afraid of our leader Owaisi as well as our party after our good show in Bihar elections. This buying of land will not help SP in misleading voters, especially minorities. SP’s vote base fell in 2017 and 2019 elections and minorities saved him. But, he never did anything to keep his promise of 18% quota to minorities as well as on CAA, NRC and triple talaq issues. The non-minority vote base of SP has already shifted to BJP.” BJP district unit president Dhruv Singh taunted, “Since 2022 assembly polls are approaching, Akhilesh is now focusing on Azamgarh. But, he should know that OBC votes have shifted from his party.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ruffled-by-owaisi-visit-bjps-ascent-sp-buys-land-for-office-in-azamgarh-citadel/articleshow/80428518.cms||Binay Singh
January 24, 2021||Kanpur||Jhansi: Alert cops save man from ending life||JHANSI: A prompt action by police QRT helped save a man committing suicide in Jhansi district on Saturday. The incident was reported from Khailar area under Babina police station. One Anand had demanded money from his father. When the latter refused, Anand, in a fit of rage, went into his room and locked it from inside. Sensing trouble, his father immediately called the UP-112 PRB team. Acting quickly a police team reached their house and broke open the room and found that Anand was about to hang himself from the ceiling of the room for which he had already prepared a noose. After a lot of persuasion by the police, Anand relented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/alert-cops-save-man-from-ending-life/articleshow/80428635.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Chandigarh||Pb shows improvement, vaccine coverage at 42%||Chandigarh: Punjab showed improvement in the vaccination coverage on Saturday as 42.47% of registered health workers showed up to get Covid-19 vaccine. No case of hospitalisation was reported in last 24 hours. Of 21,034 health workers listed for vaccination, 8,934 turned up to get the first dose. Out of 597 planned sessions, 304 were in 20 districts. Drive was not held in Fatehgarh Sahib and Mansa. Ludhiana recorded the highest turnout of 70% as 3,106 health workers were immunised out of 4,437. The coverage was 66% in Jalandhar, 50% in Patiala, 44% in Hoshiarpur, 42 in Fazilka, 41% each in Amritsar and Mohali. The lowest coverage was reported in Kapurthala where only 6% — 50 out of 800 — got themselves vaccinated, followed by Muktsar where the turnout was just 9% — 78 out of 900. The turnout was recorded at 11% each in Barnala and Moga, 17 % in Gurdaspur, 20% in Bathinda, 26% in Sangrur and 31% in Pathankot. Covaxin shots Punjab will start administering Covaxin — India’s indigenous Covid vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech in association with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV) — from next week. Punjab is among seven states included in the list by the Union health ministry. Orientation of all programme managers covering implementation protocols was conducted on Saturday by the Union ministry and ICMR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-shows-improvement-vaccine-coverage-at-42/articleshow/80428048.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Monitoring, testing, tracing flattened Covid-19 curve’||Chandigarh: After hitting the peak with around 3,000 new Covid-19 cases being reported every day, Haryana is quite close to flattening the curve. The downward trend began almost a month ago. Health authorities and field officials attribute this to rigorous monitoring, extensive sampling and maximum contact tracing over the past two months. The dip in cases began in the first week of December, after which it has been sustained. The state reported 577 new cases on December 20 and on January 22, the number came down to 120 with five deaths. On an average, four to six districts are reporting zero new cases every day and 14 to 16 districts are reporting 15 or lesser cases. Gurgaon continues to lead in terms of both new cases and recoveries. Nuh district was the first to top the case tally in April, May and June, after which it made a complete turnaround. As on Saturday, Nuh has just one active case. Gurgaon is also reporting less than 30 new cases every day. Sources said there is 99% contact tracing in the state. “We have conducted 50,000 tests in one day during peak days. We did not give up despite the high reportage of cases. We not only intensified testing but also conducted rigorous monitoring. Besides shifting those with co-morbidities to healthcare centres, our mobile teams rigorously monitored those in home isolation. Most importantly, we completed contact tracing within 24 hours after the person was diagnosed positive. This has really helped,’’ said Dr Usha Sharma, director, Integrated Disease Surveillance Program (IDSP). Dr Virender Yadav, civil surgeon, Gurgaon, who headed the team of medicos in Nuh in May and June, said, “These two districts have extremely different cultures. Both have their own challenges. In Gurgaon, people are aware. We carried out extensive thermal scanning and testing in Nuh during peak days and we were strict in creating containment zones. Extensive testing resulted in awareness campaign and controlled Covid there,’’ said Yadav. As for Gurgaon, Yadav said, “We really worked hard in Gurgaon. We organised 2,500 camps to conduct tests in the past two months. Rest was strict management, After Nuh, Gurgaon had maximum contact tracing of around 12 persons per patient. We used antigen tests on SoS basis as we largely had RTPCR tests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/monitoring-testing-tracing-flattened-covid-19-curve/articleshow/80428075.cms||Manvir Saini
January 24, 2021||Chennai||CMRL to use cheaper ballasted tracks||CHENNAI: Metro rail will lay ballasted tracks, where sleepers and rails rest on a bed of crushed stones like those of Indian Railways, in at least one of its depots servicing and maintaining driverless trains on the 118.9km phase-2 corridors. In its recently floated tender for a depot at Poonamallee, CMRL had mentioned certain technical specifications for both ballasted and ballast-less tracks. While depots have been planned at Poonamallee and Madhavaram with the capacity to maintain 96 six-car trains, the mainline linking stations and corridors will have ballast-less tracks. The detailed project report for phase-2 says stabling lines linked to depots where trains will be parked daily will have conventional ballasted tracks, while those for train washing will have ballast-less tracks. Specifications were mentioned for ballasted tracks for the 15.3-hectare Poonamallee depot with 24 stabling lines or tracks to accommodate 31 six-car trains on the Lighthouse-Poonamallee corridor-4. CMRL is yet to float tender for the Madhavaram depot. Ballasted tracks have a bed of specific crushed stones that will hold the sleepers and the rail and absorb noise and vibrations. In ballast-less tracks, rails are laid on concrete slabs. “Ballasted tracks are cheaper to build but require frequent maintenance. In Indian Railways, a track machine is used to pack the ballast and the sleepers and rails are brought to their position. The muck on the ballast will also have to be removed. The recurring cost is high,” said former CMRLdirector R Ramanathan. “The phase-1 depot at Koyambedu has ballast-less tracks. They are double the cost of ballasted tracks, mainly due to the concrete material used instead of the crushed stones, but requires less maintenance.” Experts say laying 1 km of ballasted track could cost approximately Rs 2 crore against Rs 5 crore for a ballast-less track for the same distance. CMRL brought down the cost of phase-2 from Rs 89,000 crore to Rs 61,843crores by making many changes including scrapping the plan for an elevated depot at SIPCOT. “Ballasted tracks are best suited for ground level depots and not elevated or underground. At least 50% of the country’s metro rail networks have ballasted tracks in depots,” said Ramanathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cmrl-to-use-cheaper-ballasted-tracks/articleshow/80427020.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Varanasi||Kashi pays tributes to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on birth anniversary||VARANASI: With the commencement of the year-long celebrations in the country to commemorate the 125th birth anniversary year of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on Saturday, various events were also organised by different organisations in Varanasi to mark the occasion. A two-day function -Subhas Mahotsava was organised by the Vishal Bharat Sansthan at the Indresh Nagar in Lamahi village, where a temple dedicated to Netaji has been constructed with a 6-ft statue of Netaji. The function was attended by senior RSS functionary Indresh Kumar and many other distinguished persons. Deputy commissioner (industries), Virendra Kumar, distributed sewing machines to 25 trained women on the occasion. A cultural programme was also organised. VBS founder director, Dr. Rajiv Srivastava, said the followers of Netaji would congregate here on January 22 and 23 every year to celebrate his birth anniversary. Another event was organised by the Amar Shaheed Seva Samiti at the Azad Hind Park in Sigra locality to pay tributes to the great leader and freedom fighter. The students of Government Girls Inter College and Arya Mahila Inter College presented a cultural programme on the occasion. A blood donation camp was also organised by the Gayatri Samaj at the Indian Medical Association building, Chetganj to mark the occasion. District magistrate, Kaushal Raj Sharma inaugurated the blood donation camp. The day was observed as ‘Parakram Diwas’ at a function organised by Pt Deendayal Upadhyaya Peeth, Faculty of Social Science, Banaras Hindu University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kashi-pays-tributes-to-netaji-on-birth-anniv/articleshow/80428474.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Kanpur||Two crows found dead in Unnao, samples sent for bird flu test||KANPUR: After culling 66 ducks and 55 poultry birds following confirmation of bird flu in three ducks in Hadha Bazar area in Sikandarpur Karan block of Unnao, two crows were found dead at an orchard in the district’s Gangaghat area on Saturday. “We have sent the samples of two dead crows recovered from an orchard in Gangaghat to Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Bareilly to ascertain if the crows died of bird flu,” said chief veterinary officer Pramod Kumar Singh. Bird flu has been confirmed in the samples of three of eight ducks found dead in a pond in Hadha Bazar on January 17 by National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal on Thursday. “Subsequently, as many as 66 ducks and 55 poultry birds belonging to 11 families within the periphery of one km of Hadha Bazar pond have been culled and buried in pits following confirmation of bird flu in three ducks on Friday,” said Singh on Saturday. An area within a radius of one kilometre of the Hadha Bazar pond has been declared as infected zone and all precautionary measures, including spraying of disinfectants, are being taken to check the spread of the infection, said Singh further and added, “The sampling of poultry birds across poultry farms within the periphery of 10 km is still underway.” He added the sale of poultry and other birds and eggs within the radius of infected zone has been banned with immediate effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/2-crows-found-dead-in-unnao-samples-sent-for-bird-flu-test/articleshow/80428760.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Kolhapur||Satara dist reports 68 new cases||Kolhapur: Satara district reported 68 fresh Covid cases and two deaths since Friday late night, taking the total number of cases to 55,946. The death toll has now risen to 1811. As many as 53,360 patients have recovered while 775 are currently undergoing treatment. Solapur city reported 19 fresh cases while 27 patients were discharged after recovering on Saturday. The city has registered 11,632 patients, of them, 627 have died, 10,686 have been treated and 319 are undergoing treatment. Solapur rural added 40 new cases while 67 patients were discharged. A 75-year-old man from Barshi succumbed to Covid. The rural areas of Solapur have 39,261 cases, including 1153 deaths, 398 active cases and 37,710 recoveries. Meanwhile, Kolhapur district reported six Covid cases and one death on Saturday. The number of active cases reduced to 78 after 26 patients recovered on Saturday. The district has 49,840 cases, including 1,716 deaths and 48,046 recoveries. Sangli district reported 15 fresh cases and one Covid death on Saturday. The district has 48,003 patients, of them, 46,101 have recovered, 1,746 have succumbed to infection and 156 are undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-dist-reports-68-new-cases/articleshow/80426376.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Chandigarh||Day 6 coverage looks up, 68.8% get first dose||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh recorded Covid-19 vaccination drive coverage at 68.8% on Saturday, as against the target of 5,720, 3,935 persons were vaccinated in the state. The vaccination drive was carried in government health facilities of 11 districts. So far, 13,562 persons have been vaccinated in the state. In the state, adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) was reported in 13 persons. All those administered doses of Covid-19 vaccine are under the supervision of health officials. In Bilaspur district against the target of 200 persons, total 142 persons were vaccinated. In Chamba, against the target of 500 persons, 327 persons were vaccinated; in Hamirpur 132 against the target of 299; in Kangra 739 against the target of 1,020 persons; in Kinnaur 90 were vaccinated against the target of 94; in Kullu 236 against the target of 308; in Mandi 781 against the target of 1,008; in Shimla district 435 against the target of 750; and in Sirmaur 385 against target of 559. In the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination, 93,000 doses would be administered to the frontline warriors, including healthcare workers of the state. About 74,500 health workers would be vaccinated and each beneficiary would be provided two doses and second dose would be administered after interval of 28 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/day-6-coverage-looks-up-68-8-get-first-dose/articleshow/80428089.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Allahabad||Illegal house owned by Atiq’s aides in Dhoomanganj razed||Prayagraj: A joint team of Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), police and district administration on Sunday demolished an illegal house owned and constructed by two close aides of jailed don and former MP Atiq Ahmad at Ponghat, Dhoomanganj in the city. The house was illegally built by Saddam and Akram, without sanctioning of the map by the agency concerned. The joint team reached the site in Ponghat, Dhoomanganj which falls under the jurisdiction of Dhoomanganj police station area at around 11:30am and started the demolition work. Heavy deployment of the police force was also made to tackle any untoward incident. PDA official Alok Pandey told TOI that the house was constructed on 500 square yards of land without getting the map sanctioned from the concerned agency. The estimated cost of the house is Rs 4 crore. The joint team started demolishing the house of the key and trusted henchman of the former MP amidst tight security at 11:30am and razed the entire structure in four hours. Police, meanwhile, said that over two dozen criminal cases including dacoity, rape, and murder were registered against Saddam and Akram with Dhoomanganj and other police stations of Prayagraj district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/illegal-house-owned-by-atiqs-aides-in-dhoomanganj-razed/articleshow/80437891.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Chandigarh||9k more inoculated in Haryana, total 71k||Chandigarh: Regular immunisation has impacted the pace of vaccination in Haryana, as the state could vaccinate only 9,148 at 202 sites on Saturday. The state’s overall tally on Saturday reached 71,287. Post immunisation, 49 persons suffered minor problems and they were sent back home after being in observation in health care facilities for couple of hours. Most people were vaccinated in Gurgaon (2,315) where overall immunisation has reached 13,084. This was followed by Faridabad with vaccination of 1,334 workers (the overall tally here is 7,769). Bhiwani reported 1,249 vaccinations and Jind 646. The lowest was in Charkhi Dadri where only 20 people got vaccinated. As far as Covid-19 cases are concerned, the state registered 136 new ones and four deaths (two deaths from Palwal district and one each from Bhiwani and Sonipat districts respectively). Mahendergarh, Jhajjar, Palwal, Nuh and Charkhi Dadri reported zero cases. This has taken the overall tally to 2,67,075 cases, 2,62,505 recoveries, 3,009 deaths and 1,559 active cases. Active cases include 46 patients on oxygen support as well as ventilator support across the state. The overall recovery rate reached 98.29% and 18,953 tests were done, taking the testing rate to 1,99,659 tests per million per day. The positivity rate was recorded 5.28 % and the death rate saw little upward at 1.13%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/9k-more-inoculated-in-haryana-total-71k/articleshow/80428058.cms||Manvir Saini
January 24, 2021||Delhi||City of lakes? Delhi has to wait longer||NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s effort to turn the capital into a city of lakes has been mired in delays. In a report submitted by the monitoring committee appointed by National Green Tribunal, Delhi Jal Board stated that 155 waterbodies were being revived as batches in different phases. The panel also reported that the irrigation and flood control department has simultaneously decided that it would only rejuvenate 10 of the 95 waterbodies it was supposed to restore, leaving the rest to DJB. The report also reviewed the progress and reasons for delay of lake and waterbody revival projects being undertaken by agencies like Delhi Development Authority, New Delhi Municipal Council and Archaeological Survey of India. The 155 waterbodies to be revived by DJB have been divided into 14 groups, with the batch in the first phase expected to see completion by June. Another 42 ponds and lakes are to be rejuvenated by January 2022, while the deadline for the rest is December 2022. The frequently cited reasons for the delays include budgetary constraints due to the pandemic, Covid lockdown, model code of conduct for assembly elections and, in the cases of Tikri Kalan, Chhawla, Hiran kudna and Malikpur village, resistance of local resistance that has forced the district magistrates to resolve the matter. The revival exercise was started in September 2018 and was expected to cost Rs 376 crore. The monitoring panel reported that orders amounting to Rs 9 crore for Phase 1 had been issued. Work was at an advanced stage at Tughlaqabad, Rani Khera and Sanjay Van. waterbody while DDA has refused to hand over the Neela Hauz site in place of which another site will be chosen. Similarly, under phase Neelam 2, six waterbodies are being revived and work progressed well in places like Ibrahimpur, Karala and Daulatpur where bio-management and sedimentation tanks have been built for treating water. Work orders have been issued in most cases from Phase 1 to 8 related to 46 waterbodies, and the projects could be finished by June 2021. Restoration of another 42 waterbodies are expected to be completed in a year’s time and the remaining 65 sites in two years from now. Consultancy for a large number of these projects is being carried out by CSIR- NEERI, with detailed project reports issued for 81 of 83 water bodies for DJB and 18 of 29 water bodies under the irrigation department. In the latter’s case, 95 waterbodies were expected to be revived after the successful pilot at Rajokri. However, in July 2020, it was decided that only 10 of these waterbodies would be rejuvenated by the agency, the rest transferred to DJB. In case of ASI’s 12 waterbodies, the monitoring committee’s report states that work at one site has started and the others are in the pipeline. The panel has criticised DDA for its lackadaisical approach to the exercise. “DDA has not devised any comprehensive plan with dedicated exclusive staff for the revival of the waterbodies. It has also not allocated an exclusive and adequate budget as has been done by DJB,” states the report. Professor C R Babu, head of the Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystems (CEMDE) and member of the CPCB-appointed committee to revive waterbodies, said that a majority of the ponds in Delhi and across the country have been neglected, with sewage and silt accumulation leading to their demise. “The first step to revive any waterbody is to dredge up the silt and use it to create embankments,” said Babu, who recently revived two waterbodies in DDA’s South Delhi Biodiversity Park. “However, they cannot sustain this on rainwater alone. The ponds will dry up in the off season, and, therefore, connecting it to a sewage treatment plant is essential. Once full of water, the ponds can get phytoplanktons and plants that naturally filter the water and allow aquatic life to thrive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-of-lakes-delhi-has-to-wait-longer/articleshow/80428131.cms||Paras Singh
January 24, 2021||Lucknow||PM Modi’s self-reliance push led to India-made vaccines: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s mantra of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ and focus on ‘Make in India’ encouraged the production of Covid-19 vaccines in the country and they are now even being sent to other countries, and had it been earlier, the nation would have been still hunting for vaccines from abroad. Inaugurating the Hunar Haat at Awadh Shilpgram on Saturday, CM Yogi said, “It was due to the PM’s push to ‘Make In India’ that vaccines were produced in the country and are even being sent to neighbouring countries. If it were earlier times, we would have still been hunting for vaccines for ourselves.” The Hunar Haat has been organised by the Union ministry of minority affairs and local items being promoted under one district-one product scheme have been included in it for the first time. “For us, the mantra of self-reliance helped in handling Covid-19 pandemic. I thank the PM and Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi for giving us the honour to give this platform to artisans and craftspersons from the country,” Yogi said. Our state could not flourish because our artisans were not promoted, but we have taken a big leap in the past three years and whether it is Hunar Haat or ODOP, these will help achieve the goal of being self-reliant. Over 5 lakh artisans are getting a platform here, further strengthening the resolve of ‘Ek Bharat Shresth Bharat’,” he added. ‘Local for Vocal’ is the theme of Hunar Haat this year. Artisans and craftspersons from UP, Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Chahttisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Goa, Haryana, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Odisha, Puducherry, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand and West Bengal are participating in it. Ajrakh, applique work, metal ware, Bagh print, Batik, Banarasi saris, Bandhej, Bastar art, herbal products, brass bangles, Pashmina shawls, cane and bamboo products, chikankari, copper bells, handloom textiles like kalamkari, mangalgiri, lac bangles, Rampuri violins, wooden and iron toys, kantha embroidery, crystal glass items, leather and sandalwood products are available here and also online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pms-self-reliance-push-led-to-india-made-vaccines-yogi/articleshow/80428801.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Varanasi||Proposal for Gorakhpur plastic park gets nod||GORAKHPURr: In another major push to industrialization, a plastic park spread across 50 acres having around 100 manufacturing units would be set up in Gorakhpur. The Union ministry of chemicals and fertilisers has given an in-principle approval to the proposal for setting up the plastic park. Gorakhpur Industrial Development Authority (GIDA) CEO Sanjeev Ranjan said, “We received a soft copy of the approval on Friday and received a hard copy of the letter today.” “The Scheme Steering Committee (SSC) under the chairmanship of secretary (chemicals & petrochemicals) has granted ‘in-principle’ approval to the proposal for a plastic park at Gorakhpur. Plastic park is important for realizing the goals of Make-in-India programme. The approval is valid for six months and a Detailed Projects Report (DPR), complete in all respects, has to be submitted in this time for the final approval,” he added. “We had given an online presentation before the SSC on January 20. It will be a Rs 93 crore project and about 100 units would be set up in the park. About 2,500 people would get employment directly,” the CEO said. “Union government would provide around Rs 40 crore and rest of the investment would be done by GIDA. The park would be established in around 50 acre land of which five acres would be given to Central Institute of Petrochemicals Engineering and Technology (CIPET) for setting up a testing lab. A special purpose vehicle (SPV) would also be established in which industrialists would be included as members.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/proposal-for-gorakhpur-plastic-park-gets-nod/articleshow/80428385.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Allahabad||Redevelopment of Prayagraj Junction on cards||PRAYAGRAJ: Among the list of stations that the Ministry of Railways plans redevelop are Prayagraj Junction, Kanpur Central, Agra, Jhansi and Gwalior. These stations will be redeveloped by Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation Limited (IRSDC). IRSDC will provide the stations with facilities which will cater to the requirements of these cities for the next 40-50 years. A meeting between officials of Prayagraj division and IRSDC was held on Friday. Following the decision of the ministry, IRSDC and RLDA are undertaking techno-economic feasibility study of the stations. Based on the results of the feasibility study, the stations will be redeveloped in phases. According to divisional railway manager (Prayagraj), Mohit Chandra, passengers will be the focal point of redevelopment planning. Passengers of all classes and ages including differently able people, children and the elderly, will be considered during the development of the stations. “Adverse conditions such as fog, heavy rain, heat, etc will also be kept in view during redevelopment,” said Chandra. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/redevelopment-of-prayagraj-junction-on-cards/articleshow/80427592.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Chandigarh||27 +ve, 1 Covid death in Himachal||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported a Covid-19 death and 27 positive cases on Saturday, while 73 patients recovered. The state has recorded 57,173 positive cases, of which 453 are active, 55,745 patients have recovered, 959 patients have died and four have migrated out of state. Of the 9.04 lakh samples collected so far, 8.47 lakh have tested negative and result of 36 samples is awaited. New positive cases include two from Bilaspur, five each from Hamirpur and Kangra, two each from Kullu, Mandi and Shimla, eight from Sirmaur, and one from Solan. Recovered patients include one from Bilaspur, three from Chamba, seven from Hamirpur, 21 from Kangra, two from Kullu, three from Lahaul-Spiti, six each from Mandi and Sirmaur, three from Shimla, 16 from Solan, and five from Una.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/27-ve-1-covid-death-in-himachal/articleshow/80428126.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||60-year-old from Matunga held in Rs 92 crore property cheating case||MUMBAI: A 60-year-old property consultant from Matunga was arrested by the city police for cheating a financial leasing company of Rs 92 crore. The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Mumbai Police arrested Ramesh Hirji Gharod and are looking for his partners. The complainant in this case, Anchor Group and Good Value Financial Services ans AJS Developers was redeveloping Manisha Co-operative housing society in Vile Parle, for which it needed funds. In 2010, there was a partnership deed agreement between Good Value and Pramda Oil and AJS developers. Good Value and Pramda Oil were to finance AJS Impex for the housing project, and take a 60% cut of the profits. Per the deed of mortgage dated 2013, AJS Developers issued allotment letters for eight flats. In the deed, the total area of the eight flats mortgaged to the leasing company was around 11,116 sq feet with separate parkings. Police said that for 2012-2013, AJS Developers were supposed to pay Rs 22.3 crore to Good Value and Rs 19.7 crore to Anchor Leasing Co. Police then collected more information about the project and found that AJS Developers had taken IOD and other permissions in 2011 and till 2016, constructed a 12-storey building. The BMC had not given occupational certificate (OC) due to a few violations. “When we inquired with the registration office, we found discrepancies in what AJS Developers had promised to the financial leasing company in the deed of mortgage and their actual plan submitted,” said an official. In the deed of mortgage, AJS had mentioned 11,116 sq feet, but according to the registration office the total area sanctioned was 6,509 sq feet. AJS had issued bogus allotment letters to the complainant company, failed to repay, did not pay interest, and cheated them of Rs 92 crore,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/60-yr-old-held-in-rs-92cr-property-cheating-case/articleshow/80428135.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 24, 2021||Chandigarh||Re-opening call leaves school officials in Haryana confused||CHANDIGARH: In the absence of clarity on certain issues related to opening of schools, members of the management in many private schools are uneasy about calling students of classes VI to VIII to school. Haryana government has announced that classes will start from February 1 and schools, including government, private and government aided will have to follow standard operating procedure (SOP) of Covid precautions, besides getting consent from parents. In particular, private school officials want clarification on transportation. “The first and foremost clarification we need is who shall transport students. Would schools be allowed to charge transport fee, as they are not allowed to charge anything other than tuition fee? In such circumstances, how would schools provide bus service? How do you expect a school to provide this service free of cost?’’ asked Jivtesh Garg, owner of a chain of private schools in Panchkula. “Members of management are managing online classes with difficulty. We cannot afford to have both modes in the given infrastructure and budget,” he added. Neera Singh, an office-bearer of Panchkula Schools Association, who was also sceptical about making privates schools operational, said, “Parents’ consent is the first thing that we are supposed to take. Even parents of those studying in senior classes are not keen on giving permission. Believe me, we are finding it hard to call students of classes X and XII for their practicals.’’ Kulbhushan Sharma, president, Haryana unit of Private Schools Association also underlined the need for clarifications related to SOPs for private schools and facilities to be provided to schools to ensure smooth functioning. “In Haryana, majority of schools are budget schools and most students use school transport. If you follow guidelines, the buses shall have to run with only half the capacity. Secondly, in the absence of bus charges, how would schools run buses? Parents are not forthcoming to pay charges as well,’’ said Sharma. Expressing the hope for timely clarification from the government, he said if things were not sorted out, government schools could be reopened but it would not be feasible for private schools to do so. “We have announced to start schools on the request of various associations and after getting the go-ahead from the health department. Since we have allowed opening of the schools for junior and senior classes, we shall also take into consideration issues related to transportation and mode of education. We shall come out on this issue very soon,” said education minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/re-opening-call-leaves-school-officials-in-haryana-confused/articleshow/80428091.cms||Manvir Saini
January 24, 2021||Amritsar||Students gear up for exams, parents uneasy||Amritsar: After months of online classes and examinations in distant mode, students and parents are preparing for offline board examinations of classes 10 and 12. However, a large number of parents are still reluctant to send their children to schools in view of the coronavirus pandemic. “Schools are holding online classes for the past nearly 10 months and both children and teachers have adapted to the new system of education necessitated by the pandemic. I think board examinations should also be conducted in distant mode,” said Aarti Ahuja, mother of a Class 12 student of a private school. Rajneesh Kumar, father of a Class 10 student said reopening of schools was a premature move. “Everyone knows that Covid is still around but we are forced to give the consent letter to schools as mandated for students to attend classes. The government should promote online education and examinations at least for some more time,” he said. Recently, the Central Board of Secondary Examination (CBSE) announced that examinations for classes 10 and 12 would be held in offline mode in May, following which schools started re-opening and holding offline classes and pre-board examinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/students-gear-up-for-exams-parents-uneasy/articleshow/80428104.cms||Yudhvir Rana
January 24, 2021||Kanpur||Kanpur police rescue kidnapped trader from Shahjahanpur||KANPUR: The city police rescued a hardware trader allegedly kidnapped on Friday night and arrested three men in this connection on Saturday. Pawan Tiwari of Barra 3 area was allegedly kidnapped by three car-borne men from near Kargil petrol pump in Barra. During search, his family members found his motorcycle parked near the petrol pump. They then filed a complaint with Barra police. Inspector Barra Harmeet Singh said, “Pawan runs a hardware shop in Barra 8. He was allegedly abducted by the men of hardware factory owner of Shahjahanpur from whom he had taken hardware material amounting to several lakh rupees on credit.” “Tracking the car captured in CCTV footage, besides the mobile phone of trader Pawan with the help of E -surveillance, the police were able to zero in on a location in Shahjahanpur. On Saturday morning, a team of Barra police rushed to Shahjahanpur and rescued Pawan and brought him back,” he said. “Three men identified as Anil Gupta, Arvind and Sudhir have been arrested. They all are aides of the factory owner of Shahjahanpur. Investigations are underway,” said Inspector Barra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/city-police-rescue-kidnapped-trader-from-shahjahanpur/articleshow/80428766.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Chennai||I-T officials seize 4.5kg gold from evangelist’s residence||Chennai: The income tax department seized 4.7kg gold and unearthed details of Rs 118 crore unaccounted money following three days of searches at the residence and offices of evangelist Paul Dhinakaran and his Jesus Calls ministry, sources said. Details shared by I-T officials revealed that the gold was seized from Dhinakaran’s Coimbatore residence. The unaccounted money, labelled ‘suppressed income’, was detected on issues of donation receipts, foreign investments and inflated expenses by the group, a source said. Around 300 personnel from various units of the I-T department in Chennai, Trichy, Madurai, Coimbatore and Kerala conducted searches in 28 locations linked to Jesus Calls and Dhinakaran in Coimbatore and Chennai from January 20. In Coimbatore, searches were also conducted at Karunya institute of Technology and Sciences, Karunya Christian School’s Avinashi road campus and residences of senior officials of the university and Jesus Calls ministry. The university, where Dhinakaran is chancellor, is also part of the group. Sources in the department said companies and trusts owned by Dhinakaran in many countries are also being probed. The searches were conducted based on alleged complaints of tax evasion and utilisation of foreign funds by Dhinakaran and Jesus Calls. Dhinakaran is the son of D G S Dhinakaran, an evangelical preacher who founded Jesus Calls ministries and Karunya University. According to the official website, Paul Dhinakaran has been in this field for 35 years and his prayer festivals across India attract 5 lakh people every month. The ministry also telecasts 400 programmes a month in 10 different languages across the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/i-t-officials-seize-4-5kg-gold-from-evangelists-residence/articleshow/80427034.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 24, 2021||Goa||Assamese dir speaks up for compatriot workers in Goa||Panaji: Goa has proved to be a land of opportunity for the people of Assam with many employed in the state, however, according to Assamese director Kripal Kalita, the Goa government must extend a helping hand to the north-easterners working here to help them improve their education and economic standing. Kalita was speaking at the promotion of his 48-hour-long film, ‘The Bridge’ at Iffi’s Indian Panorama section in Goa, which has a Guinness world record of being the longest documentary film. It took seven days for the censor board to give the film a U/A certificate. The director said that a majority of the security guards and other staffers are from Assam. He attributed the migration of his people to places like Goa and Kerala in search of better employment, due to frequent floods in Assam caused by the Brahmaputra river. “Many Assamese youth are compelled to drop out of school or college and come here in search of employment. While they are able to earn more in Goa, thus uplifting their economic conditions, the government must make provisions for night school. Then they can apply for better jobs and improve their quality of living,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/assamese-dir-speaks-up-for-compatriot-workers-in-goa/articleshow/80428121.cms||Nida Sayed
January 24, 2021||Chennai||Contempt plea: AG seeks S Gurumurthy’s response||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu advocate-general Vijay Narayan has issued notices to auditor S Gurumurthy on two applications filed by lawyers seeking consent to initiate criminal contempt of court proceeding against the rightist ideologue. Gurumurthy shall appear before the law officer on February 16 to offer explanation. Advocate S Doraiswamy and S Kumaradevan wanted him punished for criminal contempt for his reported derogatory comments against judges of the higher judiciary. Admitting the applications, advocate-general Vijay Narayan has directed the parties to the application, including Gurumurthy, to appear before him either in person or through a counsel. According to Doraisamy, on January 14, Gurumurthy made a contemptuous statement against judges of the Supreme Court and high courts. “It seems the contemnor S Gurumurthy thinks that he can make any kind of defamatory speech against high court judges and if any contempt proceedings are initiated he can be let off by making an unconditional apology,” Doraisamy said. The statement lowers the honesty of the high court judges and amounts to interfering with the administration of justice and hence he is liable to be punished for making a contemptuous speech under section 2(c) of the Contempt of Courts Act, the lawyer said. “When a former judge of the court Justice CS Karnan made a defamatory statement against judges’ police registered a case against him and he was arrested and put behind the bars. But the authorities are very reluctant to take action against Gurumurthy, since he happened to be a strongman of BJP,” he added. Therefore, he wanted advocate-general Vijay Narayan to grant written consent under section 15(1)(b) of the Contempt of Courts Act, to file a criminal contempt petition against Gurumurthy in the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/contempt-plea-ag-seeks-gurumurthys-response/articleshow/80428132.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Lucknow||Republic Day: Two UP lads to lead marching contingents on Rajpath||LUCKNOW: Two officers from Uttar Pradesh will lead marching contingents at Rajpath on Republic Day. While Major Manish Verma of Bulandshahr will lead Indian army’s youngest battalion, 172 Madras Territorial Army (MTA), Captain Rajpoot Saurabh Singh of Ayodhya will commandeer 17 Garhwal Rifles infantrymen, whose daredevilry during Kargil war won them a Vir Chakra. The 172 MTA battalion was raised on August 1, 2017, for intelligence gathering in southern Nicobar Islands. Barring contingent leader Major Verma, the soldiers from a Nicobar tribe have never kept foot on the mainland and will be marching under the arc lights for the first time. This infantry battalion is the third of its kind in ‘Thambi Territorial Army’ and 24th in Madras Regiment. Within two years of commissioning, 95% of the battalion will roll down for the Rajpath parade. And its commander, Major Manish Verma, had earlier served with Territorial Army troops of Bihar, Nagaland, Punjab, Jammu & Kashmir and Andaman. Before wearing the uniform, he was an advocate and participated in at least 50 marathons. Captain Rajpoot Saurabh Singh, an alumnus of Sainik School Lucknow, is the son of a farmer. His 17 battalion of Garhwal Rifles had participated in Operation Vijay to recapture the Kargil peaks. The battalion’s legendary figure Captain Jintu Gogoi had killed two enemy soldiers in hand-to-hand combat and took over their machine gun position before succumbing to his wounds. Captain Gogoi was awarded the Vir Chakra posthumously. Their regimental motto is ‘Yudhay krit nishchay (fight with determination) and war cry Badri Vishal Lal Ki Jai (Victory to the sons of Lord Badri Vishal).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/r-day-two-up-lads-to-lead-marching-contingents-on-rajpath/articleshow/80428895.cms||Arvind Chauhan
January 24, 2021||Chennai||Active cases in TN fall from 8,380 on January 1 to 4,984 on Saturday||CHENNAI: Even as the state reported 586 new Covid cases on Saturday, the total active cases dropped from 8,380 on January 1 to 4,984. Tamil Nadu has so far recorded 8,34,171 Covid-19 cases. Two people died of the viral infection until noon on Saturday, taking the cumulative toll to 12,309. While a 53-year-old woman from Tirunelveli admitted on January 17 died on Friday, a 78-year-old man, who tested positive on January 10, died on January 16 at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai. No other district reported any Covid-related deaths. The case fatality rate – number of patients dead over the total number of people tested positive – stood at 1.48%. Infectious diseases experts and critical care specialists say most deaths in TN were among patients with comorbid conditions such as diabetes and hypertension, heart disease, renal ailments or cancer. On Saturday, 62,849 people underwent RTPCR in the 251 authorised labs. The state has tested more than 1.52 crore people since last February. Barring Ramanathapuram, all other districts reported new cases. With 153 people testing positive, Chennai continued to top the new cases table followed by Chegalpet (51), Coimbatore (47), and Tiruppur (30). The 11 districts in the north reported 285 fresh cases and one death. After the northern districts, the eight districts in the west together reported 157 fresh cases. The 10 southern districts reported 79 cases, while the central districts reported 65 cases. Active cases were highest in north TN (2,791), including 2,492 in the Chennai region. There were 1,146 active cases in the west, 589 in the south and 452 in central TN.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/active-cases-in-tn-fall-from-8380-on-january-1-to-4984-on-saturday/articleshow/80427037.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: BJP seeks MLA Somnath Bharti’s disqualification as per SC order after sentencing||NEW DELHI: Will former law minister of Delhi Somnath Bharti be disqualified as MLA? Soon after a Delhi court sentenced Bharti to two years in jail for allegedly assaulting the AIIMS security staff in 2016, Delhi BJP functionaries claimed the Malviya Nagar MLA stood disqualified as per the 2013 Supreme Court judgement in the Lily Thomas vs Union of India case, in which the court held that an MP/MLA/MLC would be immediately disqualified if sentenced to two or more years in prison. Bharti has, however, been granted bail. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said in a statement, “In the light of the July 10, 2013 judgement of the Supreme Court, Bharti stands disqualified. Public morality demands that Arvind Kejriwal immediately expel Somnath Bharti from Aam Aadmi Party and Delhi assembly.” Delhi Assembly speaker Ram Niwas Goel said, “I have sought legal opinion and a decision will be taken as per law.” Bharti faces an uphill task to remain a legislator. The moment he was convicted and sentenced, provision for his disqualification under Section 8 (3) of Representation of People Act kicked in. The AAP MLA’s only hope lies in securing a quick stay on the conviction from Delhi High Court or the Supreme Court. While the Representation of People Act originally gave lawmakers a three-month window to file an appeal and ward off disqualification, the apex court held this provision to be unconstitutional and void in 2013. However, the court also held that an MP or MLA suffering a frivolous conviction could still avail legal remedy. It said the appellate court had ample powers to stay the conviction as well as the sentence, and disqualification would not be operative when a stay of conviction was granted. The legal position was clarified further by the Supreme Court last year in the Saritha S Nair case, when it said a lawmaker was disqualified right after conviction till a stay was granted. Former solicitor-general of India Mohan Parasaran, however, cautioned that a stay was not easy. “In criminal law, there is no concept of a stay of conviction, only suspension of sentence. Very rarely is a stay granted, as happened in 2007 when Navjot Singh Sidhu’s conviction was stayed. In Bharti’s case, the law is clear. Unless conviction is stayed, he stands disqualified,” he explained. Bharti said later that he would file an appeal and hoped that justice would prevail. AAP also said, “We have full faith in the judiciary. However, we feel injustice has happened to Bharti in this case. We are confident that justice will be done at appellate level.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-seeks-mla-somnath-bhartis-disqualification-as-per-sc-order-after-sentencing/articleshow/80429063.cms||Alok KN Mishra
January 24, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: 25kg gold loot gang busted in 24 hours||HYDERABAD/KRISHNAGIRI: Less than 24 hours after an armed gang of robbers decamped with 25kg gold and Rs 96,000 cash from a Muthoot Finance branch in Hosur, Tamil Nadu, police in Hyderabad nabbed the seven criminals from the Shamshabad area early on Saturday. The seven, who hail from Madhya Pradesh, didn’t know that the jewellery pouches also contained GPS tracking devices that the company had placed in them as a security measure. Krishnagiri superintendent of police Bandi Gangadhar said the TN police were able to track the loot using GPS. TN police teams tailed the gang and were able to alert the Telangana police early to lay a trap. The arrested dacoits have been identified as Rup Singh Baghal, Shanker Singh Baghal, Pavan Kumar (all residents of Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh), Bhupendhar Manji, Vivek Mandal (from Ranchi in Jharkhand), Rajiv Kumar and Teak Ram (from Meerut in Uttar Pradesh). Two others — Luiya Pandey from Nagpur, Maharashtra, and Amit from Indore, Madhya Pradesh — who were also involved in the dacoity, are absconding. Pandey, sold the guns to the others for Rs 35,000 each. Stolen gold, 7 guns, bullets, car, lorry, 13 phones seized: CopCyberabad police commissioner V C Sajjanar said all the stolen gold and cash, besides seven guns, 10 magazines, 97 rounds of bullets, a container lorry, a Tata Sumo, 13 cell phones were recovered from the gang. Recreating Friday morning’s robbery, cops said four masked men on motorcycles — Amit, Pavan, Bhupendhar, Vivek — entered the Muthoot Finance office and looted the place on gunpoint. Rup Singh and Shanker Singh stood guard outside the office while driver Teak Ram and cleaner Rajiv Kumar waited with the container truck at the Tamil Nadu-Karnataka border nearby. At the border, the loot was loaded on to the container and Amit, Teak Ram and Rajiv Kumar drove away in the truck. The other five went to their rented rooms, about 10 to 15 km away from the scene of crime, abandoned the bikes and hired a taxi to Anantapur in Andhra Pradesh. They took the same route as the truck till Anantapur, where the five hired another taxi to Shamshabad in Hyderabad. Following leads from the Tamil Nadu police, the Telangana police spotted the container truck and taxi. Based on CCTV footage captured at a toll plaza right before Shamshabad, a police team nabbed the men in the taxi soon after they entered the city limits. The container truck was intercepted on the national highway. Amit fled before the police could catch him. Police said the same gang was involved in a failed attempt to commit a dacoity at Ludhiana in Punjab and that they had opened 32 rounds of fire, killing one person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/25kg-gold-loot-gang-busted-in-24hrs/articleshow/80428180.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Woman, one-year-old son on way to wedding die in mishap||MUMBAI: A woman and her one-year-old son who were part of a group headed to Gujarat for a wedding died on the spot after their five-seater van had a collision with a truck on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway at Kasa in Palghar on Saturday. Six others, including the driver, were injured. Nazneen Shaikh (37), who was on the rear seat with her son Muzain on her lap, died on the spot. Six others of the Shaikh family are in hospital. Residents of Palghar the family had left around 3 pm for Vapi on Saturday. As the van reached Dhanori village, the right tyre of the vehicle burst. The driver, Ayan Shaikh, lost control of the vehicle which collided with a truck that was ahead of it, said assistant inspector Umesh Patil of Kasa police station. Ayan and the five others were pulled out of the mangled van by locals near the mishap spot who took them to Kasa hospital. They have sustained head and limb injuries. The truck driver, told the police, said that the van hit the rear of his vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/woman-one-year-old-son-on-way-to-wedding-die-in-mishap/articleshow/80428191.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Delhi||Covid cases dip, but death rate in Delhi still high||NEW DELHI: The death rate due to Covid-19 continues to be higher despite a reduction in daily cases. According to doctors, one of the reasons behind this could be delayed visit to the hospital, despite severe symptoms. In the past 23 days, 263 people have died due to Covid-19 — 3% of the total 8,370 new cases detected in the same duration. On Saturday, Delhi recorded 10 fresh Covid deaths, even as the new cases dropped to 197 from 266 on Friday. The positivity rate slipped to 0.26%, the authorities said. The city’s infection tally is now over 6.33 lakh and the death toll 10,799, they added. On Monday, the city recorded 161 cases — the lowest in nearly nine months, with a positivity rate of 0.32%. The active cases tally in the capital on Saturday stood at 1,880, while the positivity rate dipped to 0.26%, according to the latest bulletin issued by Delhi health department. Dr Anurag Mahajan, vice-chairman, critical care, PSRI Hospital, said one of the reasons for higher case fatality rate could be that patients were reaching the hospital in sicker condition. “They are remaining in home quarantine for long and moving to hospitals late. That’s why there is a spike in fatality rate, even though the infection tally has come down significantly. High prevalence of chronic illnesses and other comorbidities are also a contributing factor,” he added. Health minister Satyendar Jain had earlier said that the low number of active cases in Delhi was “satisfactory”. This month, 585 cases were reported on January 1 and 494 on January 2. As many as 424 were seen on January 3, while from January 4-14 saw 384, 442, 654, 486, 444, 519, 399, 306, 386, 357 and 340 cases, respectively. From January 15-22, the daily figures stood at 295, 299, 246, 161, 231, 228, 227 and 266, respectively. According to the health department, 76,868 were tests conducted the previous day, including 47,467 RT-PCR and 29,401 rapid antigen tests. The bulletin said the total number of cases climbed to 6,33,739 in the capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-cases-dip-but-death-rate-in-capital-still-high/articleshow/80428192.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Nelson Manickam Road to get Rs 5.5 crore foot over-bridge||CHENNAI: In about 13 months, commuters heading to Haddows Road or Women’s Christian College via bus or shre auto from Nungambakkam suburban railway station will no longer need to cross busy Nelson Manickam Road. Greater Chennai Corporation has begun construction of a steel foot-over bridge which will connect the exit point of Nungambakkam station FOB to the other side of the road. At present, commuters cross the busy road, causing traffic jams and accidents, said officials. Built at a cost of Rs 5.5 crore, the new bridge will be 5m-wide thereby providing enough space for the hordes of commuters seen during peak hours. It will be at the same height as the exit of the railway FOB, an official added. Around 1,200 pedestrians cross the road during peak hours of 9am-10am, revealed a traffic survey conducted by the corporation. As per Indian road congress standards, the minimum width of pedestrian facilities should be 2.5m for commercial and mixed use areas. “The bridge will have a curved roof facility made of polycarbonate steel. Moreover, it will be very well ventilated,” an official said. There will be only four steps at the approach of the new FOB, which will make it simpler for the pedestrians and likely prevent them from jaywalking. GCC has also planned to have stainless steel hand rails, anti-skid flooring and safety gates at both ends of the footpath landing. LED lighting will be available for the FOB and footpath and the new structure will be covered by CCTV cameras. The work will also involve shifting of the compound wall of the burial ground on the other side of Nelson Manickam Road. The civic body has also planned special designs on the new walls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/nelson-manickam-rd-to-get-rs-5-5cr-foot-over-bridge/articleshow/80427050.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
January 24, 2021||India||Netaji was devout Hindu, but respected all faiths: Daughter||KOLKATA: Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s Germany-based daughter Anita B Pfaff chose his 125th birth anniversary on Saturday to paint the person behind the legend as "a devout Hindu", albeit one who was "tolerant towards all other religions". "He inspired his followers — members of the Indian National Army, his friends and his family — to respect other religions and yet be very religious himself," Pfaff said in a video message posted on the official Twitter handle of the Indian consulate general in Munich. Read AlsoPM Modi visits Netaji's ancestral home in KolkataKOLKATA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the ancestral house of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose in Kolkata on Saturday afternoon as he came to the city to take part in the revolutionary's 125th birth anniversary celebrations. The Prime Minister was greeted with 'Jai Shri Ram' chants by peopleUnderlining the ideals of "unity and tolerance" that her father espoused all his life, Pfaff described him as "a man of thought and also of action". He envisaged an India that would be "modern, enlightened and, at the same time, deeply rooted in history, philosophy and religious traditions", she said. Read AlsoWest Bengal polls: TMC, BJP in fight for Netaji's political legacyAhead of assembly elections, Kolkata turned into a political battleground on the 125th birth anniversary celebrations of Subhas Chandra Bose as the ruling TMC and the BJP went all out to appropriate his legacy. While the BJP celebrated the day as "Parakram Diwas", the TMC observed it as "Desh Nayak"I hope we can all take inspiration from Netaji’s ideas and ideals. I salute you in these efforts. Jai Hind." In Kolkata, Netaji Research Bureau chairman and former Trinamool MP Sugata Bose, who is one of Subhas Chandra Bose’s grandnephews, said it was more important to follow Netaji and Gandhiji’s ideals of uniting all castes and communities than giving his birth anniversary a particular tag. Read AlsoMamata Banerjee demands four rotating national capitals: Key pointsWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said that India must have four rotating capitals. Addressing a rally on the occasion of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose's 125th rally, Mamata said, "I believe that India must have four rotating capitals. The English ruled the entire country from"What is important is not how we rename his birth anniversary...Personally, I am not too fond of the term Parakram Diwas. I much prefer Deshanayak Diwas," Sugata Bose said after seeing off PM Narendra Modi after his visit to Netaji’s Elgin Road residence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/netaji-was-devout-hindu-but-respected-all-faiths-daughter/articleshow/80429343.cms||Zeeshan Javed
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||Gang that took gold loans by pawning fakes busted, 4 held||MUMBAI: The police busted a racket in which a businessman from Nalasopara allegedly joined hands with housewives looking to make some easy money and got them to mortgage imitation jewellery with jewellers, by falsely claiming it was gold. Harishchandra Soni (45) has been arrested with Salma Qazi (48) Gudiya Khan (24) and Salma Baig (38). On January 20, a woman walked into Kangan Jewellers near Dahisar railway station. She spoke to the shop owner, Mahendra Bafna, and said she desperately needed money. She said her children's school fees were to be paid and she needed a loan against gold. She mortgaged a chain with Bafna and took Rs 25,000. Later, Bafna found that the chain was not made of gold. He lodged a complaint at Dahisar police station. The police checked CCTV footage from the jewellery store in Dahisar and the woman had been captured on camera. They then circulated these images among their network of informers and eventually received a tip-off that a woman resembling the one caught on camera lived in Nalasopara. She was taken into custody and Bafna identified her. The woman (Qazi) told the cops that the chain had been given to her by her sister (Khan) who lived in Naigaon. A police team then picked up Khan from Naigaon. Khan told the police that her acquaintance (Baig) had given her the chain with the specific intention of mortgaging it with a jeweller, claiming that it was made of gold. All the three women were well aware that the chain was a piece of imitation jewellery and were conning the store owner, said the police. Baig was supposed to give a commission to Khan from the money received from the mortgage. A major chunk of the amount was pocketed by Soni, who the police say is the mastermind. “Soni is well versed with the jewellery business and the imitation jewellery that was pawned was cleverly made,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gang-that-took-gold-loans-by-pawning-fakes-busted-4-held/articleshow/80428252.cms||Nitasha Natu
January 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat govt inks MoU with Adani Ports||Gandhinagar: The government of Gujarat on Friday signed an MoU (memorandum of understanding) with Adani Ports and SEZ Limited for establishing India’s biggest multimodal logistics park at Virochan Nagar, situated near India’s automobile hub – Sanand in Ahmedabad district. The park will be spread across an area of 1,450 acres and is expected to attract an investment of Rs 50,000 crores. Construction is expected to begin within 6 months of necessary statutory approvals and the entire project will be completed in a phase-wise manner by 2023. Speaking at the event, CM Vijay Rupani said, “This park will be directly connected with the dedicated freight corridor and all major ports. It is in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ and will make businesses in Gujarat, more competitive globally. The park will provide connectivity to the biggest auto hub and upcoming industrial areas in the region.” The CM added that the park will provide direct and indirect employment to more than 25,000 people. With a dedicated air cargo complex the park will provide direct air, rail and road connectivity people in the state, he added. Additional chief secretary to the CM and industries and mines department, M K Das and Karan Adani, CEO, Adani Ports and SEZ Ltd exchanged the MOUs. Providing details, Das said, “The air cargo terminal will have a 4.6km runway which will be capable of handling airplanes. It will also provide a global platform to the local export and import market. A rail freight terminal will also be established. This will be directly connected to the Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-govt-inks-mou-with-adani-ports/articleshow/80420047.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Planned in 2018, forest department now gets fourth zone for better check||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has notified a new forest division in the capital — the central division — redefining large chunks of areas that were under the west division earlier. This notification will allow faster response time from the ground staff. Delhi earlier had only the south division, the north division and west, however, it was increasingly becoming difficult for a single deputy conservator of forest (DCF) to cover the entire division. In particular, the west division – which earlier stretched from Narela in north Delhi to Dwarka in south Delhi — was facing problems on the ground, owing to acute staff shortage. The frontline staff, which primarily consists of forest guards and lower level labourers in an ordinary day, were being forced to travel almost 2-3 hours just to cater to complaints of trees being felled in their respective forest ranges. The DCF was often required to set out to carry out inspections and file reports himself. The forest department had moved a file in 2018 to not only increase the strength of the department, but to also notify a new forest division, once a new DCF arrived. A senior forest official said under the current set up, it was becoming increasingly difficult to function. “The new division takes parts of central, east, northeast and Shahdara districts, with the west division now largely consisting of New Delhi and southwest Delhi districts. The north division has also been stretched to create a better balance,” said an official. The notification says that the central division will consist of Seelampur, Yamuna Vihar and Karawal Nagar in northeast Delhi, Gandhi Nagar, Preet Vihar and Mayur Vihar in east Delhi. Shahdara, Seemapuri and Vivek Vihar in the Shahdara district and Civil Lines, Kotwali and Karol Bagh from central Delhi will also be a part. Narela, which was earlier part of the west division, will also form a part of the north division now. Meanwhile, areas like Punjabi Bagh, Rajouri Garden and Patel Nagar, are now part of the north division. A senior forest official said a DCF was yet to be appointed, with the process of operationalizing a new office and deputing field staff to take a few weeks. “We will look at the requirements on the ground and slowly make the division operational. Field staff that was earlier in another division will also be moved,” said the official. A study conducted by the forest department in 2017 had found that nearly 550 contiguous pockets of forests fell under them, as well as close to 90 villages. It also found that nearly 200kms of forest boundaries needed to be protected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/planned-in-2018-forest-dept-now-gets-fourth-zone-for-better-check/articleshow/80428307.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
January 24, 2021||Nagpur||New flyover, opened by Gadkari, has illegal fibre speed breakers||Nagpur: Illegal fibre-based speed-breakers have been installed at the new flyover through Ajni Railway Colony. No new speed breakers, including fibre-based speed-breakers, can be installed without the approval from the district road safety committee (DRSC), where district collector Ravindra Thakre was chairman. No permission has been sought from the DRSC by PWD. Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari on Saturday evening inaugurated the flyover that will improve connectivity between Wardha Road and Umred Road. The flyover was constructed by division number 3 of the state public works department (PWD). Traffic cops too confirmed that the DCP (traffic) office or Ajni traffic zone has not given any no objection certificates to install the speed breakers. These speed humps are not even designed as per the Indian Road Congress (IRC) rules, said V Landge, head of civil engineering department, Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT). Following reports of TOI, in 2016, the high court had directed the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to remove fibre speed breakers from across the city. This court order applies for all other government agencies, including PWD, Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). VD Sardeshmukh, superintending engineer of PWD, said that taking permission for the speed breaker was a mere formality and the department would soon complete it. “The speed breaker is necessary to prevent accidents,” he added. Ashok Karandikar, vice-president of social organization Janakroash, said the speed breaker was necessary to reduce the speed of the vehicles coming from the flyover on to the road linking the Ajni railway overbridge (ROB) with Medical Square. Gadkari was not happy with the lighting on the flyover. He summoned the contractor and told him to fix brighter lights on the structure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-flyover-opened-by-gadkari-has-illegal-fibre-speed-breakers/articleshow/80427047.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 24, 2021||Nagpur||Demand to suspend copoverruled by home min||Chandrapur: High drama by political bigwigs, including MLA Kishor Jorgewar, to get LCB PI Babasaheb Khade suspended turned out to be a damp squib as their demand was overruled by state home minister Anil Deshmukh. Khade’s suspension was demanded after he did not turn up to seize the consignment of liquor seized by MLA Jorgewar recently. The Chadrapur MLA had intercepted a large consignment of liquor which was being ferried in seven vehicles on the night of January 19. Later, Jorgewar called PI Khade and asked him to come to the spot and seize the smuggled liquor. The video of Jorgewar talking to Khade in a high-pitched tone on the phone went viral. “I politely declined his (Jorgewar’s) request. I told him that I was busy in another operation and added that the area in question does not come under my jurisdiction. I humbly suggested that he approach Padoli police station and ask the station officer to take action,” Khade told TOI. Acting on a tip-off, Jorgewar, instead of informing the cops, went ahead and cornered the liquor smugglers by risking his own life. The smugglers had even tried to run over Jorgewar with their vehicles and even threw liquor bottles at his car to dissuade him from pursuing them. Jorgewar claimed that Khade is in-charge of controlling crime in the district and hence, he had called the latter to take action. The issue snowballed into a political controversy after leaders from the Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena submitted a joint memorandum to the SP demanding Khade’s suspension. Jorgewar himself met home minister Deshmukh and demanded Khade’s suspension. However, all the political muscle flexing went in vain as Deshmukh, who was on a visit to Chandrapur on Friday, told the media that he received a written complaint from MLA Jorgewar, but made no comment about suspending Khade. However, Deshmukh instructed officials to ensure that such incidents do not take place. Jorgewar on the other hand admitted that his demand did not yield the desired result but reiterated that the lapse on the part of the police department was responsible for liquor smuggling in the dry district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/demand-to-suspend-copoverruled-by-home-min/articleshow/80426437.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarrat: Rapid Response Cell abolished||GANDHINAGAR: In a significant decision, the state government on Friday abolished the rapid response (RR) cell of the police department. The decision has been taken as the RR cell had become ineffectual in view of technological advancements. Active since 1995, the RR Cell's chief task was to keep a tab on the functioning of organised crime in the state. Now, the government has decided to give more powers to the superintendents of police. A dedicated surveillance system will be put in place to curb the crime rate. Minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja said, “We aim to promote a safe, living environment and we are taking necessary steps to ensure the same. We have introduced Land Grabbing Act, amended PASA, introduced the GUJCTOC Act, etc.” ACB director Keshav Kumar gave details on the measures taken by the police department to reduce corruption. The state government has given more powers to the ACB and provided modern tools and equipment to the agency to solve cases faster. Today, the conviction rate has increased to 41%, he added. Unregistered and illegal property worth more than Rs 150 crore has been recovered from criminals by the department in the last 5 years. ACS (home) Pankaj Kumar said, “The state government introduced Land Grabbing Act in order to curb illegal land-grabbing activities and the people associates with such crimes. A committee has been formed at the district level for ensuring effective implementation of the act.” As many as 647 applications have been received under the Land Grabbing Act till date. Of these, 42 are suo-moto via collectors. 16 FIRs have been registered, and it has been found that 1.35 lakh sq m of land has been captured by land mafia. Valuation of this grabbed land is Rs 220 crore, going by ongoing ‘jantri’ rate. Talking about PASA act implementation, DGP Ashish Bhatia said, “A proposal at the DCP or commissioner level is put to implement PASA. It is approved by the concerned collector and then implemented.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rapid-response-cell-abolished/articleshow/80420061.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||ED arrests two directors of Vasai MLA Hitendra Thakur’s firm||MUMBAI: Enforcement Directorate late on Friday arrested two directors of Virar-based Viva Group as part of its probe into money-laundering aspect of HDIL-PMC bank scam and Yes Bank fraud. Those arrested were Mehul Thakar, a relative of Vasai MLA Hitendra Thakur, and chartered accountant Madan Gopal Chaturvedi. Hitendra’s son Kshitij is also an MLA from Nallasopara and the Thakur family enjoys tremendous clout in the Vasai-Virar-Palghar belt. On Friday, Kshitij had denied involvement of Viva Group in money-laundering. Chaturvedi, in a statement to ED, said that he sold his laptop, which contained sensitive information to a scrap dealer for Rs300 and destroyed his mobile records. Chaturvedi told officials that “he deleted all data on his phone, including WhatsApp chats, call logs, contact details and messages to hide crucial information from the investigation, which would have been otherwise relevant in establishing the charge of money-laundering against the accused person,’’ ED said in the remand application. In his statement to ED on Friday, Chaturvedi provided a wrong residential address. In their remand application, ED stated that “it was a mala fide attempt to hoodwink the directorate and to detrail the investigation ED produced the two before a special court on Saturday, which remanded them to four days ED custody. Sources said they did not cooperate in the probe, prompting the agency to arrest them. Viva Group, which is primarily into real estate in North Mumbai, has business interests in media, travel, education, retail and logistics, according to its website. In the remand application, ED stated that they found Viva Holdings, managed by Mehul along with other relatives, was involved in dubious transactions with HDIL promoter Rakesh Wadhawan. Mehul Thakur, through his family and relatives, owns more than 25 companies and many of them are defunct. ED alleged that HDIL diverted around Rs 200 crore to companies controlled by Mehul along with his relatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ed-arrests-two-directors-of-mla-hitendra-thakurs-firm/articleshow/80428301.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: New JCP, DCP for crime branch||AHMEDABAD: Five IPS officers were promoted and five IPS and one SPS (state police service) officer was transferred late on Friday night. Twenty-seven probationary DSPs were also allotted postings. Gujarat cadre 1998-batch IPS officer Amit Vishwakarma who was joint commissioner of crime branch has been transferred to the vacant cadre post of inspector general of police (operations), Ahmedabad.  He will be replaced by 2005-batch officer Prem Vir Singh, who was additional commissioner of police (special branch). Singh will also hold additional charge of special branch. Chaitanya Mandlik, a 2011-batch officer, has been transferred to the vacant cadre post of deputy commissioner of police (crime), Ahmedabad, and 2008-batch officer Neeraj Badgujjar has been posted as SP, Sabarkantha in his place. Badgujjar was posted as SP (technical services). Among the other important promotions were that of Rajkumar Pandian, of the 1996 batch, was promoted to the rank of additional director general of police and posted as additional director general of police at the same post, Surat range, by upgrading the post.  Another IPS officer of the 1996 batch, Narsimha Komar, has been promoted to additional director general of police and posted at the same place as ADGP law and order. He was also given charge of police modernization. Prafulla Kumar Roushan, of the 1996 batch, who was inspector general of police (armed units), Rajkot, has been promoted as ADGP at the same post. Ashok Kumar Yadav, of the 2003 batch, who was deputy inspector general, Bhavnagar range, has been promoted to rank of inspector general at the same post. Deputy inspector general S K Gadhvi, of the 2003 batch, who was DIG (prisons), has also been promoted to the rank of IG with his post being upgraded.  Five other IPS officers were transferred on Friday evening by the state government. V Chandrashekar (2000 batch), who was IG (police modernization) has been appointed to the vacant cadre post of IGP, Ahmedabad range. SPS Jagdish Chavda, commandant of SRPF Group 8, Gondal, has been transferred to the the vacant ex-cadre post of SP (IB), Ahmedabad city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-jcp-dcp-for-crime-branch/articleshow/80420074.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Bareilly||Four killed in two separate road accidents in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: As many as four people, including a 39-year-old woman, were killed in two separate road accidents under two police station limits in Pilibhit on Friday night. Police have registered FIRs in both accidents.The first accident took place on Bareilly-Bisalpur road near Sitarganj Nabadia crossing at 7.30 pm on Friday when Dwarika Prasad (65) and Mukesh Kumar (18) astride a motorcycle were hit by a roadways bus. Prasad died on the spot while Mukesh succumbed to his injuries at the district government hospital in Pilibhit Saturday afternoon.The victims, natives of Jauharpur village under Nawabganj police station in Bareilly, were on their way to Bisalpur.The second accident took place on Bilsanda-banda road near Ansar rice mill around 8 pm, where three people, all residents of Lohichi village under Banda police station in Shahjahanpur, astride a motorcycle were hit by an unidentified vehicle.The first pillion rider Saroja Devi (39) died on the spot, while her husband succumbed to his injuries on his way to the district government hospital in Pilibhit. He was first admitted to Bilsanda community health centre. The second pillion rider, Rajiv Singh, was shifted to a private hospital in Bareilly with multiple injuries. Bilsanda SHO Birja Ram and his Bisalpur counterpart Sunil Sharma said FIRs were registered against unidentified drivers under appropriate sections of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-killed-in-two-separate-road-accidents-in-pilibhit/articleshow/80425974.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 24, 2021||India||No language barriers, we were all one, recalls INA veteran||As India celebrated the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, far away in Malaysia, K R Somasundram nostalgically recalled how as a 14-year-old, he convinced INA officials that he was ready, fit and 16 years old, the minimum age required to join the Azad Hind Fauj. “Possibly my demeanour misled them, or my eagerness won them over,” chuckles Somasundaram, now 90, chairman of Malaysia’s plantation workers’ cooperative, the National Land Finance Cooperative Society Limited (NLFCS). Somasundram wasn’t the only one. Recruitment officers of the INA met hundreds of young boys and even girls from different parts of Malaya peninsula and the island of Singapore, eager to lay down their lives for India’s freedom after listening to Netaji’s stirring speeches. Remembering one such speech at Singapore’s Cathay Theatre, Somasundaram said, “Such was the magnetism of Netaji’s words that more than 2,000 people, both soldiers and citizens, stood still in overwhelming silence for two hours before breaking into thunderous applause after his speech.” For Somasundram himself, his first brush with the fiery leader came about as a helper in a shop in his hometown. “With the British retreating in 1942, our schools also closed and my father decided to send me to work at his friend’s shop. I heard inspiring stories of India’s freedom struggle and also read them in newspapers.” “The one thing that really built the Azad Hind Fauj and stands even today as a testimony to Netaji’s leadership is the training we received as army recruits,” added Somasundram. At the Azad School of Training, Somasundram underwent a 9-month course in guerilla warfare and jungle training, under former Indian Army officers who had joined the INA. “Roman Hindi was used in the INA and hence no language barriers existed; we were all one,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-language-barriers-we-were-all-one-recalls-ina-veteran/articleshow/80429346.cms||Aradhana Takhtani
January 24, 2021||Nagpur||Govt in process to withdraw 4L cases filed during pandemic: HM Deshmukh||Nagpur: The Maharashtra government is in the process to withdraw around four lakhs cases, except offences of serious nature, registered statewide during the pandemic. Stating this at Police Gymkhana on Saturday, state home minister Anil Deshmukh said, “Cases of serious nature like assaulting police personnel or doctors and such grave matters would not be considered.” Deshmukh also said the state government and home department are in the process of seeking legal advice on the applicability of section 5 of the Official Secret Act, 1923, against Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami “for his WhatsApp chats with ex-CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) Partho Dasgupta”. “The classified information related to national security is supposed to be with only a handful few like Prime Minister, defence minister, Army chief and such highly placed officials. But Goswami was having the information of Balakot strike three days prior to the actual event. He shared such information with BARC’s Dasgupta,” said Deshmukh. “The central government and the ministry concerned should now account for it as to how such information pertaining to national security was known to Goswami in advance. I, as a home minister, appeal to the Centre to reveal how the classified information related to national security was shared in advance,” he said. Deshmukh also sounded miffed with the Central government for intervening into state’s decision to scale down security of some senior leaders. He was replying to queries about the Centre’s decision to provide additional protection to senior leaders like former CM Narayan Rane and state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil with paramilitary troopers. “The security was scaled down following the decision of the high-level committee constituted to assess the threat perception. Security is a state domain but the way Centre interfered was baffling,” he said. Deshmukh, who also said the recruitment process for 12,500 posts of constabulary was underway, said he has had a positive dialogue with the Maratha leaders demanding job quota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-in-process-to-withdraw-4l-cases-filed-during-pandemic-hm-deshmukh/articleshow/80427058.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||NCB detains Bhiwandi jeweller in Chinku Pathan case||MUMBAI: NCB, probing the Parvez alias Chinku Pathan’s drug syndicate, on Saturday carried out raids in Bhiwandi and Pune, and detained Pathan’s financier, jeweller Vikrant Jain (35) from Bhiwandi and recovered 50gm of mephedrone (MD) from him. The arrest assumes significance as NCB, in its effort to break the backbone of the syndicate, has identified four properties of main accused Pathan and his accomplice Arif Bhujwala, and are freezing them as proceeds of crime. Last week, NCB (Mumbai unit) had arrested NCP leader Nawab Malik’s son-in-law Sameer Khan, who had allegedly given Rs 20 lakh to a British drug peddler, Karan Sajnani, who was arrested with a huge quantity of contraband. Jain, who has a jewellery shop in Bhiwandi, is the fifth person to be arrested from the Pathan drug syndicate. Jain, a government valuer, has been detained and will be arrested under sections of NDPS Act for manufacturing, possessing, selling, purchasing, transporting, consuming, importing/exporting narcotic drugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncb-detains-bhiwandi-jeweller-in-pathan-case/articleshow/80428336.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 24, 2021||Kolkata||Happy with turnout, med colleges in city aim at higher vaccine target||Kolkata: Bolstered by a good turnout of vaccine recipients on Friday, medical colleges in the city are adding more vaccination sites to achieve higher targets on Monday. Sources in medical colleges said healthcare workers were now much more confident about getting vaccinated against Covid than earlier as no major side effects had been reported by recipients after the first six rounds of inoculation till Friday. “The process is getting smoother with more hands-on experience. We are now more confident of raising our target. We have decided to increase the number of sites to four on Monday,” said Raghunath Misra, medical superintendent and vice-principal (MSVP) at IPGMER (Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and Research). While three sites will be on IPGMER (SSKM) hospital premises, one will be operational at Shambhunath Pandit Hospital. On Friday, the hospital inoculated 320 healthcare workers against a target of 300. “The response was very good on Friday, when we had two session sites and ended up vaccinating 230 people against our target of 200. Therefore, we have plans to double the number of sites as well as our target by Monday. If the response is equally encouraging on Monday, we can raise the number of sites gradually,” said Medical College Hospital (MCH) MSVP Indranil Biswas. IPGMER and MCH are two medical colleges in the state where the largest number of healthcare workers enrolled for vaccination in this first phase of the inoculation exercise. While IPGMER has so far vaccinated more than 9,000 healthcare workers, MCH has given the shots to 8,000. “Another good indication of the vaccination exercise improving is that the initial hesitance among a section of healthcare workers is slowly fading away. Many are asking when they would get their turns,” said Misra. Medical college administrators said that the additional feature of ‘Allot beneficiary’ in the Co-WIN app, where hospitals can add recipients from the master database in case of absentees, also boosted the turnout percentage. “For example, if a healthcare worker attached with our establishment is on leave or unwell on a particular day and cannot turn up for his/her scheduled vaccination, we can now put in another person in his/her place. This definitely helps achieve better target,” said a source at RG Kar Medical College. Bengal clocked the highest turnout on Friday since the rollout with 87% of the target getting inoculated. Health department sources said this percentage could have been even better had it been not for the technical glitches in the app that disrupted uploading of data. “We can expect 500-plus vaccination centres being pressed into service by Monday. If the targeted recipients get the text messages from Co-WIN at least two days ahead of the scheduled dates, it will definitely help improve the turnout,” said a official at Swasthya Bhawan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/happy-with-turnout-med-colleges-in-city-aim-at-higher-vaccine-target/articleshow/80427071.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 24, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Hundreds of women, especially in hills, turn entrepreneurs||DEHRADUN: Redefining the age-old adage “when the going gets tough, the tough get going,” hundreds of women in the hills have transformed themselves into successful entrepreneurs during a phase when businesses across the globe were hit due to the outbreak of coronavirus. Uttarkashi’s Savitri Bisht, a housewife who till a few months back, spent long hours picking wood and fodder from forests, recently got trained in the state government-run LED Village Light Training and Production Programme. Speaking to TOI, 44-year-old Bisht said, “Till 2019, my day routine included cooking food, working in the farming fields, and collecting wood and leaves from the forest. In January last year, I undertook the formal training imparted by district authorities on how to make LED lights. I was accompanied by some other women from Maatli village of Uttarkashi district. By the time we acquired the skill, the country was in the grip of Covid-19.” Bisht, who waited for a few months during the lockdown before starting her work in September 2020, said, “The training gave us a ray of hope and all of us were determined to prove that we can do something positive and concrete in addition to performing our daily duties.” She added that with Diwali just a month away, the women started work in earnest. “We prepared 10-metre -long LED jhalar (light strips) and sold them for Rs 170 and Rs 180 per piece. Government departments and even individuals purchased our products in good numbers. Though some of the payments are still pending, we managed to do good business. It has instilled a feeling of entrepreneurship in each one of us,” she said. Not just Bisht, hundreds of women from different districts of Almora, Pithoragarh, Pauri, Haridwar, Chamoli and Bageshwar have turned small-scale entrepreneurs after acquiring LED light-making skills. Over 500 women, who had no major financial backup of their own, are now earning amounts ranging from Rs 3,000 to Rs 9,000 per month. The Uttarakhand government had, in 2018, launched the LED Village Light Training Programme from Thano in Dehradun. Till date, more than 500 women have taken up training and started their own work. While the district magistrates have been directed to create a market for the locally-manufactured LED lights, the government is purchasing these from the self-help groups for festive occasions. The estimated cost of a six-metre-long LED jhalar is Rs 55 and the assured profit per piece is Rs 10. Similarly, the selling price of an LED bulb of 5W, 7W, 9W is in the range of Rs 50 to Rs 80 bringing a profit of Rs 5 per piece. An LED tube light is sold for Rs 280, providing a profit of Rs 7 per piece and solar emergency LED light of 3W sold in market for Rs 150 brings a profit of Rs 12 per piece. For Rudraprayag resident Kamla Rawat, the LED light project has given the women of the hills an opportunity to step out of the house and prove their worth. “The women in the hills work extremely hard and now there is an opportunity to earn. The investment is limited and the returns are good. The life in hills is not that complicated and even Rs 5,000 a month is a good earning,” she added. The story of Kusum Lata Tiwari, who runs Chandrabani self- help group in Tehri, is also similar. Along with 13 other women, she undertook training to make LED lights. The group members subsequently joined hands to start the work. “The biggest advantage is that we can do this work after completing our daily chores as it is not much time consuming. I got financial assistance of Rs 50,000 from the district administration to start the work and since then, we have invested Rs 40,000 more,” she said. Almost all the members of her self-help group collect leaves from the forest and work in their agricultural fields. “There is hardly any profit in farming. Therefore, we decided that the LED project will give us an opportunity to try our hand in another sector and it will also bring better returns,” she said, adding that though the profits had been “not as per the expectation but it is a good start for a long-term venture.” Radhika Jha, secretary (energy), said, “This project has instilled a sense of confidence among the women and encouraged them towards entrepreneurship. As a consequence, more than 500 women have started work and are getting a good response for their products.” She added that besides providing the training, the government initially provided all the required assistance to the self help groups to start their own work. “In the next few years, we are confident that the project will see participation of thousands of women entrepreneurs from the hills,”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/transforming-adversity-into-opportunity-hundreds-of-women-especially-in-hills-turn-entrepreneurs-by-taking-up-manufacturing-of-led-lights/articleshow/80426002.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 24, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Elephant found dead at Kallar||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The forest officials at Vithura range had a heart-wrenching encounter on Saturday when they found a dead elephant with its baby nearby at Kallar.The mother elephant, which is presumed to be over 25 years old, was found dead in a rubber plantation located close to forest area near Kallar river. The baby elephant, which was barely one year old, was trying to wake up its mother in vein when the residents of a tribal settlement colony found them in the morning. Forest officials said it took them over three hours to separate the baby from the mother as the former kept warding off people who tried to approach them. Later, a team of doctors from Elephant Rehabilitation Centre at Kottoor and State Institute of Animal Diseases (SIAD) at Palode were summoned to tranquilize the baby elephant before transporting it to Kottoor. The doctors gave a low-intensity tranquilizer injection to the baby elephant considering its age. “The baby was still desperately trying to wake the mother up and drink the breast milk even before dozing off under the effect of the tranquilizer,’’ a forest official who was at the site said. Later, a postmortem conducted by the surgeons from SIAD revealed that the elephant died of severe case of lung infection. The death happened around 3am on Saturday. The body will be cremated in a site nearby Kallar. The baby is taken care of at the Kottoor Elephant Rehabilitation Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/elephant-found-dead-at-kallar/articleshow/80427073.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Times Art Fest e-auction frames heritage for you||Ahmedabad: It is an unprecedented opportunity to own a masterwork celebrating India’s first Unesco World Heritage City — in the form of an artwork. The visions of the Walled City of Ahmedabad as captured by top artists of Gujarat and India will be yours to own as Ahmedabad’s biggest art festival organized by TOI culminates in an e-auction on January 25 and 26. A part of the proceeds from the e-auction is meant for the cause of heritage conservation of Ahmedabad’s icons.A range of vistas and histories have been presented by the artists. These include changing urban landscapes (‘The City and the Times’ by Nabibakhsh Mansoori), quaint corners of the Walled City (‘Walking by the Old Wall’ by Bhanu Shah), and the origin story (‘Baba Maneknath’ by Jayesh Shukla). The catalyst of India’s freedom struggle is enshrined in ‘The Heritage’ by Paresh Maity.The maiden Times Art Fest from February 25 to March 1, inaugurated by CM Vijay Rupani last year, caught the imagination of the city with a mélange of styles. The finale of Ahmedabad’s biggest ever art show will be an auction of 48 lots of matchless art pieces. Times Art Fest was organized by TOI in continuation with its campaign to highlight the city’s artistic and living heritage, in partnership with the Adani Group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/times-art-fest-e-auction-frames-heritage-for-you/articleshow/80428360.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Delhi||Bird flu: Delhi zoo uses monitoring app||NEW DELHI: After the death of a brown fish owl at National Zoological Park due to bird flu, the zoo staff is using the E-bird app to count and record birds daily for monitoring. Birders use this app to track birds while carrying out a census, but zoo staff and officials have started using this app to maintain a record of the birds in free range and captivity. Officials and staff are walking up to 10-15 kilometres in a day to cover the premises. Delhi zoo reported its first case of bird flu on January 16 after the death of a brown fish owl in captivity, which had tested positive for H5N8 strain of avian flu. However, reports of other six samples, including Painted Storks, tested negative for the flu. After a case of bird flu is detected, the government protocol says that intensive monitoring should be done to record birds and check if any of them is looking unhealthy. Ramesh Pandey, director, National Zoological Park, said, “Birders mostly use E-bird app for bird watching or conducting a census. They maintain a checklist on the app on the number of birds and species recorded in a landscape and the collected data is later used for research. We had used this app when a bird count happened last year at the zoo.” He added that the apart from monitoring bird species and population for daily records, the app also shows how many kilometres were covered on foot as vehicles are not allowed in the area. Zoo officials also said that the areas are being regularly sanitised apart from following safety norms and surveillance. According to zoo officials, 23 species of free ranging birds like Painted storks, Little cormorant, Rosy falcon and Pond heron were spotted on Saturday. However, 39 species of birds are in captivity, like macau, cockatiel, endemic owls and red jungle fowls. Meanwhile, a visit-cum-workshop of Dr Asit Das of NDRI Karnal was organised at Delhi zoo for food and nutrition of animals in captivity. “We have enriched the animals’s food and had also organised a feast week for their good diet and health. We serve quality food to over 1,100 animals daily,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bird-flu-zoo-uses-monitoring-app/articleshow/80428365.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 84-year-old turns up for vaccine to visit son in US||NEW DELHI: Jasbeer Kaur, an 84-year-old from Punjabi Bagh arrived at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital early on Saturday. Though not a healthcare worker, the octogenarian wanted to be vaccinated before going to the United States to meet her son next month. She said that she did not trust the health facilities in the US and wanted the Indian vaccine. Because the vaccination programme currently is only for healthcare workers, Kaur was asked to come later in the second phase. Idling at the waiting area in DDU Hospital, Kaur kept a keen eye on the door of the vaccination booth, hoping that a senior doctor would emerge and she would plead her case. “I have reached out to so many people here to help me and have requested the hospital authorities to let me receive the vaccination. It is not possible for me to come here every day from Punjabi Bagh,” said Kaur, who has to use a walker to move around. Confessing that she was unaware that the vaccine was currently only meant for the healthcare workers, Kaur said that she had recently gone to Maharaja Agrasen Hospital in Punjabi Bagh where someone told her that she could get inoculated in the bigger hospitals. “That is why I came here early in the morning, but no has been of help here,” she grumbled. The octogenarian insisted that she needed the vaccine because she is travelling to the US to meet her chartered accountant son. Asked why she did not want to avail of the vaccine in the US, Kaur said, “I do not trust their health services and their facilities. I’d rather receive the vaccine from our Indian doctors than in America. There are many health concerns in the US and Covid cases are also high. It’s quite scary actually.” While Kaur pleaded with the hospital officials, Dr Deepshika, the person coordinating the vaccinations at the hospital, was emphatic that they could not add Kaur to the list as this would contravene the rules. “We are only administrating the vaccine to healthcare workers registered on the Co-Win app,” she said. “Kaur has to wait for her turn. We told her that she could wait for a few weeks when the phase for the senior citizens begins.” A disappointed Kaur decided to leave by the afternoon, but not before requesting the hospital to rethink their decision not to let her take the jab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/84-yr-old-turns-up-for-vaccine-to-visit-son-at-us/articleshow/80428428.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
January 24, 2021||Agra||Agra cops stop farmers heading for Delhi||Agra: Around 500 farmers along with 50 tractors who were scheduled to leave Agra for Ghazipur border in Delhi on Saturday afternoon were stopped by district police. Heavy police force was deployed at the district borders to prevent farmers from heading to Delhi to participate in the tractor rally on January 26. All vehicles on Yamuna Expressway and National Highway 2 were checked. On Saturday afternoon, Agra district unit president of Bharatiya Kisan Union Rajveer Lawaniya was not allowed to leave his residence with 20 tractors to head for Delhi. A large number of policemen were deployed outside his house in Bamrauli Katara here. Similar action was taken at various places in the district. BS Vir Kumar, deputy superintendent of police, said, “We are trying to convince farmers not to go to the Delhi border with their tractors as it may cause a lot of public inconvenience. We have orders to stop farmers heading for Delhi with their tractors.” Later, Lawaniya said, “Police will not be able to stop farmers from reaching Delhi border. In case police do not allow us to take tractors, we will go by private vehicles or board buses. We will go to Delhi in batches. On Saturday, police were successful in stopping the first batch but they will not be able to stop others. Farmers from Agra will mark their strong presence at the Republic Day tractor parade in Delhi. The central government will have to withdraw the three black laws and guarantee MSP to farmers.” Farmer leader Shyam Singh Chahar said, “The central government has not been able to understand the discontent among farmers. Time has come to show the real strength of the farmers. Mass movement of farmers from Agra region to Delhi borders will take taking place by January 25. We have made required arrangements. Farmers from Agra district will be reaching Delhi borders in small groups and via different routes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-cops-stop-farmers-heading-for-delhi/articleshow/80425989.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||SSC exams from May 17 to 26 in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The Secondary School Certificate (SSC) exams in Telangana will be held between May 17 and May 26. This was announced by the state school education department on Saturday along with the academic calendar for 2021-22. The department also announced that the summative assessment exams will be held from May 7 to May 13 while formative assessment will be conducted in March and April. In normal circumstances, without the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, SSC exams would have been held in March. Officials, however, told TOI that they are hoping to make up for the two-month delay by reducing the duration of the summer vacation and starting classes in June. As a result, the vacation would be very short this time – from May 28 to June 13 – after which Intermediate classes would begin. This would bring the academic calendar back to the pre-Covid normal in 2021. The schools will reopen for class 9 and 10 students on February 1 and the last working day for the academic year 2020-21 will be on May 26. There will be a total of 204 working days (115 in online mode and 89 in physical mode) for 2020-21. The department made it clear that attendance would not be mandatory and that it would depend entirely on written consent from parents. Schools have been directed to allow students willing to study from home to do so. SSC exam date set, parents want syllabus cut to 50%The Hyderabad School Parents Association (HSPA) urged the government to reduce syllabus for the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) exam by 50% instead of 30% that has been decided upon. They also asked the state to provide study material in the form of virtual lessons, exercises, and questions and answers (Q&A) to students. “We support the decision taken by the government to conduct the SSC examinations from May 17. We request the state to reduce the syllabus by another 20% to make it easy for students to prepare,” said K Venkat Sainath, joint secretary, HSPA. HSPA members said no student should be stopped from writing exams on behest of non-payment of fees. Dues if any can be collected at the time of taking transfer certificate, they said. They requested the government to prescribe penal action against schools that stop students from writing examination. Members of Telangana Parents Association (TPA) asked the state to issue guidelines on fee regulation for 2020-21. “Expenditure has gone down significantly. The state must direct schools to collect only 50% of tuition fee,” said N Narayana, president, TPA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ssc-exams-from-may-17-to-26/articleshow/80429064.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Goa||Goa: Pest control efforts by agriculture dept curbs watermelon, cow pea crop loss||MARGAO: Concerted efforts by the agriculture department in sensitising the farmers to adopt effective pest control measures helped the farmers in containing loss of watermelon and cow pea crops owing to pest attack, to a great extent, the Salcete zonal agriculture office has claimed. Shariff Furtado, zonal agriculture officer (ZAO), Salcete said that considering the damage caused to watermelons and cowpea crop grown by traditional farmers in Verna, Majorda and Nagoa areas last year, the farmers were sensitised about the novel and effective pest control measures since September. “Since last year, watermelon and cow pea fields are being attacked by peculiar caterpillar pest called melon moth. To combat this problem, the agriculture department conducted four training sessions for farmers under Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA). Altogether, around 100 farmers were trained to identify the pest attack and take suitable control measures,” Furtado told TOI. No sooner the incidence of pest attack on watermelon and cow pea crops was observed this year, the agriculture department swung into action and initiated an aggressive awareness campaign for farmers by roping in experts, including scientists from Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR) and senior faculty from Don Bosco College of Agriculture, Sulcorna, Quepem. “It was found that indiscriminate spraying of chemical pesticides like Dimethoate, Cypermethrin Deltamentrin has given rise to this problem of pest resistance instead of eradication that the practice was intended for. Under such circumstances, we planned a series of demonstrations under ATMA programme and supplied free biopesticide inputs for few farmers,” Furtado said. The department also supplied fruit fly traps for reducing incidence of fruit fly on watermelon and yellow sticky traps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pest-control-efforts-by-agriculture-dept-curbs-watermelon-cow-pea-crop-loss/articleshow/80428384.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
January 24, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Cost estimate to restore Airport-Shangumugham road goes up by nearly 50% within a year||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A year after administrative sanction was given to restore Airport-Shangumugham road which got badly damaged owing to heavy monsoon and strong coastal erosion, the project estimate has been revised for the second time. The total project cost for two phases of the work has gone up from the initial estimate of Rs 5.39 crore to Rs 8.05 crore. The latest revision in estimate follows a letter from chief engineer (roads), PWD. As per the letter, the work was awarded to a contractor in August 2020. As a result of the heavy sea attack at the site, scouring occurred and damage of the road extended up to the central line of the road. The soil beneath the road completely eroded which necessitated prohibition of traffic along the road. Since the sea waves reached the underside of the road, it badly affected the stability of the road.  He further reported that there was more than 50m sea shore when the estimate was prepared, and it was lost subsequently during July 2020, which could not be anticipated at the time of preparation of initial estimates, notes the order issued revising the project cost. The chief engineer reported that in the meeting held in September 2020 to assess the situation, it was suggested by Central Road Research Institute that additional items such as capping beam and earth filling and temporary protection wall using sheet pile along the shore need to be done for the construction of diaphragm wall, resulting in the estimate of phase 1 works being revised to Rs 6.39 crore. PWD requested the Rebuild Kerala initiative-implementation committee to approve the revised estimate citing that any delay in the progress of the work will aggravate the situation and increase the financial commitment as favourable climate exists only for 3 to 4 months, beyond which the sea again will become furious and damage will be more. The RKI-implementation committee held a meeting in January 2021 and approved the revised estimate considering the urgency of timely completion of the work. The committee recommended the proposal of revised estimate for the consideration of the high-level empowered committee (HLEC) of the RKI. The chief engineer reiterated that the work to be executed was close to sea shore and favourable season available for the work would be limited and would expire shortly. He also reported that the contractor had made necessary arrangements for proceeding with the work for construction of diaphragm wall and stressed the need to approve revised estimate at the earliest. Earlier in 2020, the estimate for second phase, which was initially fixed at Rs 1.1 crore, had to be revised following a report from chief engineer, PWD, who pointed out that the estimate for phase 2 was inadequate for proper completion of the work and an additional amount of Rs 56 lakh was sought for the reconstruction of the damaged road. The high-level empowered committee of Rebuild Kerala initiative approved the revised estimate and put forward conditions that PWD shall explore possible interventions to reduce the rate of coastal erosion and to protect the coast from erosion in future and that any engineering interventions shall be carried out to ensure a climate-resilient road, keeping the beach accessible.  Based on the recommendation of high level empowered committee, the government revised the estimate of restoration of Airport-Shangumugham beach road from Rs 5.39 crore to Rs 5.95 crore. In 2018, the government decided to restore the road by sourcing an amount of Rs 4.5 crore from the development policy loan of the World Bank. The detailed project report prepared by PWD estimated that work can be done in two phases at a cost of Rs 5.39 crore. As per the initial plan, phase 1 ought to have been completed by September 9, 2020, and phase 2 in 45 days by September 15, 2020. The project aims at completing the retaining structure in phase 1. The structure is designed as diaphragm wall as per the studies conducted by the expert agency CRRI, New Delhi. In phase 2, the reconstruction of road was planned to be completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cost-estimate-to-restore-airport-shangumugham-road-goes-up-by-nearly-50-within-a-year/articleshow/80427084.cms||Aswin J Kumar
January 24, 2021||Nagpur||Body offenders set to face the heat, says DGP Nagrale||Nagpur: Director general of police, Hemant Nagrale, during his maiden interaction with the media at the Police Gymkhana after taking additional charge as police chief, said body offenders, especially the ones having three or more offences, would be brought under the scanner. The DGP, whose first job is to head the legal and technical wing of the police department, had also taken a review meeting of the law and order in the city and rural before proceeding to Bhandara to supervise the district hospital fire case in which 10 infants had died on January 9. Nagrale, who is also a resident of the city, said the background of every habitual body offender shall be documented and brought under stringent scrutiny with the zonal DCPs allotted the tasks to keep them under check with periodic actions. “We will take repeated actions against goons under MCOCA and MPDA. Special attention would be paid to externees or tadipar goons to ensure that they don’t sneak back or stay in city,” said the no-nonsense IPS officer of 1987 batch. “We will ensure that the goons are arrested in cases in which action against them are pending and also against the other criminals,” he said. Nagrale also said that improving the conviction rate is one of his priorities for which the forensic infrastructure at the grassroots level is being strengthened with new mobile units in five districts in addition to the already existing regional forensic laboratories. “We need foolproof cases for convictions,” he said. For the Naxals, Nagrale said the action of his forces would do the taking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/body-offenders-set-to-face-the-heat-says-dgp-nagrale/articleshow/80427067.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||Balasaheb Thackeray’s statue brings friends and foes together||MUMBAI: Key Maharashtra politicians sank party differences to unveil, amid opposition from residents, Balasaheb Thackeray’s statue in Colaba on the Shiv Sena founder’s 95th birth anniversary on Saturday. NCP president Sharad Pawar, BJP politician Devendra Fadnavis, MNS chief Raj Thackeray and Congress minister Balasaheb Thorat were among the many who joined CM Uddhav Thackeray in unveiling the statue. The unveiling was done to the sound of cymbals and tutari at a public square near Regal cinema hall in south Mumbai. A section of residents had opposed the statue citing a Supreme Court ruling and road safety. The ruling had disallowed statues at signals. By unveiling the statue, the Sena has invoked the Balasaheb legacy to consolidate its vote bank ahead of the BMC polls, said an analyst. Old-timers recalled how Balasaheb, Pawar and trade union leader George Fernandes had teamed up in 1982 against the backdrop of the textile mill strike in Mumbai. “The troika could have altered the state’s political landscape had they retained their unity,” he added. “Over three decades later, Pawar teamed up with the Sena to keep the BJP from power after the 2019 state assembly elections. He formed a new political equation, the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) in the state. Pawar roped in the Congress Party too. The Congress high command buried the past — Balasaheb's acerbic ‘Maarmik’ editorials and cartoons riling Congress heavyweights, and Sena’s ferocious Hindutva — and joined the Uddhav-led government,” he pointed out. Mayor Kishori Pednekar summed up the Sena workers’ mood when she described the function as a “sweet coincidence”. “It is a matter of great pride that Uddhavji is holding the CM’s office while he unveiled the statue of his father,” Pednekar said. Fadnavis was seen exchanging pleasantries with Pawar, while Raj was engaged in animated conversation with NCP ministers Chhagan Bhujbal, a former Shiv Sainik, and Jayant Patil. Cheers rent the air as Uddhav and Raj shared a few moments together, while Pawar kept a benign gaze on the post-2000 generation of netas. Sena seniors Subhash Desai, Eknath Shinde, Anil Parab and Anil Desai were busy supervising the ceremony. Party veterans Chandrakant Khaire and Divakar Raote were present too, representing a slice of the Sena’s tumultuous journey as a regional force. The CM felicitated Shashikant Wadke, the noted sculptor who designed the statue. Nearly 1,200 kilos of bronze went into the making of the nine-foot statue. The CM pressed the remote control, amid loud applause, to bring down the veil which draped the statue, the late leader’s first in Mumbai, the city of Shiv Sena's birth in the 1960s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/thackerays-statue-brings-friends-and-foes-together/articleshow/80428393.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Kolkata||Only 6 out of 200 on list take shot at Duttabad||KOLKATA: Only six out of the 200 people listed for vaccination at the urban primary health centre in Salt Lake’s Duttabad received the Covid jab on Friday. The number of recipients was so few that only a portion of an ampoule of the vaccine was used. The drive was cancelled at the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation-run facility on Saturday. The centre has had poor turnout since the very first day of the vaccination rollout with only 54 out of 100 enlisted people taking the shot the first day, 41 the next day and 36 out of enlisted 200 people the third day. Friday’s count at the Duttabad centre has been the lowest so far. Civic authorities said that all the preparations and time being spent on the inoculation exercise was getting wasted with most healthcare workers sitting idle at the centre, waiting for recipients to turn up. Officials said more people could have received the shots by now if they were allowed to call up recipients from the draft list that they had prepared earlier. With the government’s Co-Win app not working properly for the first few days, the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation authorities did not receive the names of the recipients on the first day. As a result, three members of the Bidhannagar civic body’s board of administrators and six civic body drivers took the vaccine after consulting the health department authorities to meet the target. But since then, the civic authorities have been sticking to the instructions and allowing only the enlisted people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/only-6-out-of-200-on-list-take-shot-at-duttabad/articleshow/80427082.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||GPS in jewellery helps Hyderabad cops nab 25kg Muthoot gold heist gang||HYDERABAD/KRISHNAGIRI (TN): Less than 24 hours after an armed gang of robbers decamped with 25 kg gold and Rs 96,000 cash from a Muthoot Finance branch in Hosur, Tamil Nadu, police in Hyderabad nabbed the seven criminals from the Shamshabad area early on Saturday. The seven, who hail from Madhya Pradesh, didn’t know that the jewellery pouches also contained GPS tracking devices that the company had placed in them as a security measure. Krishnagiri superintendent of police Bandi Gangadhar said the Tamil Nadu police were able to track the loot using GPS. TN police teams tailed the gang and were able to alert the Telangana police early to lay a trap. The arrested dacoits have been identified as Rup Singh Baghal, Shanker Singh Baghal, Pavan Kumar (all residents of Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh), Bhupendhar Manji, Vivek Mandal (from Ranchi in Jharkhand), Rajiv Kumar and Teak Ram (from Meerut in Uttar Pradesh). Two others — Luiya Pandey from Nagpur, Maharashtra, and Amit from Indore, Madhya Pradesh — who were also involved in the dacoity, are still absconding. Pandey, sold the guns to the others for Rs 35,000 each. Cyberabad police commissioner V C Sajjanar said all the stolen gold and cash, besides seven guns, 10 magazines, 97 live rounds of bullets, a container lorry, a Tata Sumo, 13 cell phones were recovered from the gang. Recreating Friday morning’s robbery, cops said four masked men on motorcycles — Amit, Pavan, Bhupendhar, Vivek — entered the Muthoot Finance office and looted the place at gunpoint. Rup Singh and Shanker Singh stood guard outside the office while driver Teak Ram and cleaner Rajiv Kumar waited with the container truck on the Tamil Nadu-Karnataka border nearby. At the border, the loot was loaded on to the container and Amit, Teak Ram and Rajiv Kumar drove away in the truck. The other five went to their rented rooms, about 10 to 15 km away from the scene of crime, abandoned the bikes and hired a taxi to Anantapur in Andhra Pradesh. They took the same route as the truck till Anantapur, where the five hired another taxi to Shamshabad in Hyderabad. Following leads from the Tamil Nadu police, the Telangana police spotted the container truck and taxi. Based on CCTV footage captured at a toll plaza right before Shamshabad, a police team nabbed the men in the taxi soon after they entered the city limits. “Since we knew that the accused were in possession of weapons, we had to make sure all our teams were armed at every checking point. After the accused were caught at Shamshabad, they confessed to the crime and gave us information about the location of the booty. The container truck was intercepted on the national highway at Medchal,” Sajjanar said. Amit fled before the police could catch him. Prior to Friday’s robbery, some of the accused camped in Bengaluru for one month, did a recce of various places and finally zeroed in on Muthoot Finance’s Hosur branch. Police said the same gang made a vain bid to commit a dacoity at Ludhiana in Punjab in October last year and that they had fired 32 bullets, killing one person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gps-in-jewellery-pouch-helps-hyd-cops-nab-25kg-gold-loot-gang/articleshow/80429066.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Goa||‘Go beyond Iffi, generate jobs in film production’||Panaji: The Film Federation of India (FFI) has told chief minister Pramod Sawant that Goa needs to set up an institute on a priority to boost film-related activities in the state, so that Goa can go beyond only hosting the International Film Festival of India (Iffi). This will promote film production in Goa and generate employment, said federation secretary Ravi Kottarakara on Saturday. Kottarakara said Goa should capitalise on its position as permanent venue for Iffi and brand the film festival as ‘Iffi Goa’, just as Cannes film festival is known by the place it is hosted at and not known as French film festival. “When I say speak about the film festival in Cannes, I say Cannes Film Festival. We don’t call it France film festival. It is the same with Berlin and Busan film festivals,” said Kottarakara. “Many films from Sagar to Ek Duje Ke Liye have been shot in Goa in the 80s and even before. But the chief minister Pramod Sawant and ESG vice-chairperson Subhash Faldesai want to make Goa a film tourism destination. The more films come here, more the people from Goa will be employed. They are planning a film institute with the idea to first help Goans engage with filmmaking. Within one year, the institute can be expected,” said Kottarakara. He said the idea is to make Goa a film production centre and not just a host for Iffi, for which the state is a permanent venue. “We will be able to set up some institute to promote film tourism, to promote film activity to make Goa a film production centre,” said Kottarakara. He said it was a brave move by the Goa CM to agree to take on the responsibility of hosting Iffi during the pandemic. “We thank chief minister Pramod Sawant ji and ESG chairperson Subhash Faldesai. During the pandemic, all festivals around the world have shut down. At a steering committee discussion, in the presence of Union I&B minister Prakash Javadekar, the CM took on the mammoth responsibility of having the pandemic during the Iffi,” said Kottarakara. He said Iffi has set an example for all other film festivals around the world. “The way Iffi was conducted with such meticulous planning and by maintaining social distancing. They have really set a standard for any film festival to be conducted. From Day 1, they (Goa officials) were on standby monitoring. And not a single Covid-19 case has been reported due to Iffi’s conduct that is the highlight,” said the FFI secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/go-beyond-iffi-generate-jobs-in-film-production/articleshow/80428408.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad ranks 8th in quality of life: IIT study||AHMEDABAD: The WHO defines Quality of Life (QoL) of a city as “An individual’s perception of their position in life in the framework of culture and value system in which they live and in relation to their objectives, expectations, standards, and concerns”.  Any city worth its salt will aspire to become a pivot of economic growth, satisfactory basic amenities, safe and secure liveable environment and well-being of the society. Optimum use of land and infrastructure provides the much-needed framework for a city’s smooth functioning. However, recently IIT-Mumbai’s civil engineering department rated 14 major cities, in which it put Ahmedabad on the eight rank after considering 29 QoL variables. Greater Mumbai has the highest QoL score, whereas Patna has the lowest QoL score among the 14 cities. Mumbai is followed by Delhi, Kolkata, and Chennai in the rank. Indore, Jaipur, Lucknow, and Bhopal are other cities at the bottom and have comparable QoL scores. The difference between the QoL score of Greater Mumbai and Delhi is marginal, whereas Patna (city with the lowest QoL score) has a considerable difference with the second lowest QoL city Indore, claims the research by Gopal Patil and Gajanand Sharma of IIT-Mumbai. The cities were ranked on seven major indices The seven components resulted in seven indices, basic amenities index, economic development index, safety and security index, transportation, access index, environmental impact index, infrastructure development index, and gender role index. Some striking disparity was realised in Ahmedabad ranking the lowest among 14 cities for citizens availing government health facilities which was 44 per 10,000 population, the highest was Delhi while in 821 people among 10K citizens availed government health facilities. The silver lining, however, is that in terms of unemployment, Ahmedabad ranks the least, just 3 citizens among 1,000 are unemployed and best in the country, while the worst happens to be Lucknow with 85 people among 1,000 being unemployed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-ranks-8th-in-quality-of-life-iit-study/articleshow/80428421.cms||Paul John
January 24, 2021||Goa||ESG eyes digital aspect for future Iffi editions||PANAJI: Given the successful use of technology to host a virtual component for Iffi this year, the Entertainment Society of Goa (ESG) is pushing for the component to be repeated for upcoming editions of Iffi. The 51st edition of Iffi this year included a virtual festival and in doing so enrolled a range of digital services to live-stream the opening and closing ceremonies, besides hosting talks and other events online. “We have made best use of technology this year to broadcast the festival across the world. People may not be physically in Goa, but they were able to enjoy it from their homes. In future, the developments in the IT and technology sectors will be of great help to the ESG and the Goa government,” ESG vice-chairman Subhash Phaldesai said. This edition of Iffi is a hybrid mix of a virtual as well as physical festival that had to be postponed from November 2020 to January 2021 due to the pandemic. With the vaccine now available, the ESG is planning to organise the next edition of Iffi, which is scheduled to be held in November, this year, on a large scale. While film screenings continue to be held physically, the master classes, panel discussions, retrospectives and celebrity interviews are being carried out virtually in this edition. A strong firewall security has been put in place to ensure online security. “Since we have built the infrastructure for a virtual festival. The technology has proved itself this Iffi. We need to take it ahead. The virtual festival will therefore be an add-on. This way, people across the world will be able to participate in the festival virtually,” Phaldesai said. This will not discourage the physical festival and that interactions and interviews with the film fraternity will still continue, he said. While the ESG is ambitious about utilising the virtual platform for future editions of Iffi, the decision has to be made by the directorate of film festivals and the Union I&B ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/esg-eyes-digital-aspect-for-future-iffi-editions/articleshow/80428386.cms||Nida Sayed
January 24, 2021||Kolkata||IICB seeks Bengal nod for post-vaccination monitoring||KOLKATA: Indian Institute of Chemical Biology (IICB) has approached the state health department to take up a programme for post-Covid-19-vaccination monitoring of some recipients. This, the institute believe, will help gather data on both efficacy, duration of protection and on adverse events after inoculation. Even the World Health Organization (WHO) in its directive asked for active post-immunization surveillance on manufacturers’ part. “The phase-3 data of most approved vaccines were yet to reach a sizable number among the Indian population at the time of their approval. It is necessary to get a clear idea about the duration of protection, efficacy and adverse event data in the older population,” said immunologist Dipyaman Ganguly of IICB. In Bengal, nearly 84,000 healthcare workers have already taken the Covishield jab. Apart from about 10 people needing hospital observation after immunization, there has been no report of any severe side effect among recipients in the state. Even though safety has not been much of an issue so far, a section of healthcare workers has been reluctant to take the vaccine, citing “lack of data” on efficacy. “I feel that research organisations in India with relevant expertise should actively take up programmes for post-vaccination monitoring to generate independent Indian data, not only for efficacy but also to gather some idea on the duration of the protection offered by the vaccine. It is not a given that an Indian immune system will respond to the vaccine similar to that in other populations,” said Ganguly. If the state gives the nod, IICB will take up the exercise on the behalf of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. The plan is to recruit vaccine recipients and follow them up for their antibody and T-cell response. “A number of variant strains are already reported, some of them can potentially evade immune protection offered by the vaccine. Although there is no such evidence as of now, but one needs to be vigilant.” added Ganguly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iicb-seeks-state-nod-for-post-vax-monitoring/articleshow/80427092.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Trams may make a comeback as part of BKC smart transport plan||MUMBAI: Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) could soon get a triple transport bonanza if all goes according to plan. Not only would it become the city’s first locality to have a light rail transit (LRT) system, which is a form of passenger urban rail transit characterized by a combination of tram and Metro features, but also get smart buses (automated rapid transit system) and point-to-point podcars. The LRT would mean a return of trams to Mumbai, where they were phased out in 1964 after decades of service. The plan has been initiated by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which is looking at energy-efficient transport services that operate on electric-powered guideway systems. MMRDA had experimented with dedicated bus lanes at BKC, but the experiment was short-lived. Also, an effective temporary narrowing of roads because of Metro work at BKC meant that general traffic had to be allowed on the ‘dedicated lanes’. On the latest plan, an MMRDA spokesperson said, “We will undertake a techno-economic feasibility study to examine various options that will factor in demand, topographical and land use pattern of BKC and its adjacent areas.” The consultant will study best practices around the world, undertake data collection, carry out surveys and analysis, prepare route and mobility network plans and recommend a financing model for the implementation of the projects. The options that are being considered for an automated rapid transit system, billed as ‘smart bus’, are powered by electricity, and run on virtual tracks with sensors, ensuring that the vehicle does not deviate from the guideway. Also, light rail transit (LRT), known as ‘modern tramway’, will be studied. LRT can maneuver through acute curves, besides climbing steep inclines and are powered by an overhead electric system. The podcar system too will be studied. Podcars are like taxis but run on dedicated guideways. They offer point-to-point services and are also known as horizontal elevators. Expressing his satisfaction at the development, transport expert A V Shenoy said, “The MMRDA’s plan for a techno-economic feasibility study is welcome, but it should also look at cheaper options like elevated cycle tracks, or travelators. Space on the road is going to be a major problem in Mumbai. MMRDA should share the findings of its study with the citizenry who can also come up with good ideas to find desirable solutions to the city’s traffic woes.” Commuters too are hopeful for the plan to succeed. “Last-mile connectivity would need to be improved once the Metro rail system becomes operational across Mumbai,” said Harish Kamath, who commutes to BKC for work. “I have high hopes as MMRDA has already taken a good initiative by introducing a public bike sharing (PBS) system in BKC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/trams-may-make-a-comeback-as-part-of-bkc-smart-transport-plan/articleshow/80428459.cms||Manthank Mehta
January 24, 2021||Goa||CAG report to be tabled in assembly||Panaji: The cabinet has approved the reports to be tabled in the assembly, including the report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG)on the finances of the state government for the year ending March 31, 2019, financial accounts 2018-19 (volume-I), finance accounts 2018-19 (volume-II) and appropriation accounts 2018-19. The cabinet has also approved the adoption and implementation of digi locker in the state. The cabinet granted approval to the Goa, Daman and Diu Motor Vehicle Tax (Amendment) Bill, 2021, exempting all commercial vehicles operating in the state from paying road tax during March-September 2020. The state government had issued this ordinance earlier. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cag-report-to-be-tabled-in-assembly/articleshow/80428439.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 24, 2021||Jaipur||Bharatpur woman tests positive for Covid 31 times since August||JAIPUR: The five-month-long ordeal of this 32-year-old woman in Bharatpur does not seem to end. She tested positive for Covid-19 on August 24 last year and, since then, she has tested positive for the virus 31 times – 14 times by RT-PCR test and 17 times by antigen test. She tested positive in the last RT-PCR test done on January 7 this year and also in the last antigen test done on January 10. She was brought to a care home — Apna Ghar — on September 1 and was found infected with the virus again on September 4. Apna Ghar administrator said she is mentally unstable and is infected with another immunodeficiency disease. Her husband is dead and her parents also passed away recently. Her brother and sister-in-law have kept her at Apna Ghar, which houses over 3,000 destitutes. Founder of Apna Ghar Brij Mohan Bhardwaj said, “We have kept her in isolation.” “Her samples were collected on September 4 and 9, on October 1, 7, and 15, on November 2, 9, 18 and 23, on December 1, 7, 14 and 25, and finally on January 7. She, however, tested negative for Covid-19 on October 15 and since then she has had no symptoms of Covid,” said Dr Kaptan Singh, chief medical health officer, Bharatpur. Dr Singh said that though she has no symptoms, it could be due to the RT-PCR test showing positive result due to inactive viruses in her abdomen and intestines. There is a low possibility of her infecting others for Covid, he added. Bhardwaj said that the woman was taken to the Bharatpur district hospital for Covid treatment after she tested positive. The hospital staff demanded an attendant for her as she was mentally disturbed. “There was nobody to take care of her, so we brought her back here and since then we are taking care of her. We have medical and testing facilities here. We conduct antigen tests on our own and found her infected 17 times,” said Bhardwaj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bharatpur-woman-tests-ve-for-covid-31-times-since-august/articleshow/80428466.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Nagpur||DPDC seeks Rs411.7 crore for developmental works in dist||Nagpur: At a crucial meeting of the district planning and development committee (DPDC) held here on Saturday, proposals for works at an estimated cost of Rs411.7 crore were given a go-ahead for the financial year 2021-22, against a demand for Rs884.9 crore. Now, the budget for the district will be sent to the state government for allocation of funds. The state-level meeting has been convened for February 12 at Mantralaya over allocation of funds for DPDCs. District guardian minister and state energy minister Nitin Raut chaired the DPDC meeting, which has sanctioned Rs359 crore for shifting of high-tension lines from residential localities. “The first instalment of Rs170 crore for the work has already been released,” Raut said. State animal husbandry and dairy development minister Sunil Kedar, home minister Anil Deshmukh, legislative assembly members (MLAs) Vikas Thakre, Ashish Jaiswal, Sameer Meghe and Krishna Khopde, legislative council members (MLCs) Pravin Datke and Girish Vyas, mayor Dayashankar Tiwari, zilla parishad (ZP) president and other officials were present in the meeting. Raut also sanctioned Rs10 crore for strengthening basic amenities, including construction of roads on the National Law University premises. According to Raut, the chief minister wanted the university to be inaugurated before the retirement of Chief Justice of India Sharad Bobde on April 24 this year. Bobde is also the chancellor of the university. DPDC members also raised concerns over MahaMetro’s casual approach towards beautification of Zero Mile. In response, Raut has directed to start the work without further delay. MLA Meghe raised the issue of ZP general body’s decision to cancel health sub-centre in Bothli gram panchayat. Threatening to approach high court over the decision, Meghe said the previous government had sanctioned Rs1.17 crore for the work, of which Rs14 lakh work had already been done. But the ZP passed a proposal to cancel the work. Meghe claimed to have donated 5,000 square feet land to the state government for construction of the health centre as there was no land available. The DPDC also gave its nod to Rs170-crore Ambhora development plan. The development work in Ambhora will include boating, Yatri Niwas and a market centre. It was informed during the meeting that the development plan of Ambhora is ready and Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) will execute the work. Thakre’s demand for a separate planning and development committee for the city sparked controversy and it was strongly objected to by senior Congress leader and state minister Kedar, who said that if so, the city should not get water from rural Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dpdc-seeks-rs411-7-crore-for-developmental-works-in-dist/articleshow/80427078.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Goa||For first time, awards ceremony before restricted audience||Panaji: Awards, including the prestigious Golden Peacock, at the closing ceremony of the 51st International Film Festival of India (Iffi) will be announced, for the first time, only before a limited audience of 200 guests due to the pandemic. The awards ceremony will be streamed online for the rest, just as the opening ceremony of the 51st Iffi was held this year, vice-chairperson of Entertainment Society of Goa (ESG), Subhash Faldesai, said. “Veteran actress Zeenat Aman, Union minister for state Babul Supriyo, Goa governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, chief minister Pramod Sawant and Union I&B secretary Amit Khare will be present for the closing ceremony, which will be held at Shyama Prasad Mukherjee stadium for an audience of only 200, due to the MHA guidelines,” said Faldesai. The closing ceremony sees the Golden Peacock and its prize money of Rs 40 lakh being awarded to the winner. Besides this, the Silver Peacock awards for best director with cash prize of Rs 15 lakh and for best actor male and best actor female with the cash purse of Rs 10 lakh each are presented. The winner of the ICFT UNESCO Gandhi Medal and Silver Peacock for Best debut film of a director with award money of Rs 10 lakh will also be announced at the closing ceremony to be held on Sunday. Faldesai said that there were around 1,500 attacks on the Iffi servers by hackers during the 51st Iffi, which was held in the hybrid format, meaning a combination of physical and virtual screenings. “There were around 1,500 attacks on our systems, but all the attacks by hackers were foiled. There were no delays or any other hitches during the virtual screenings,” said Faldesai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/for-first-time-awards-ceremony-before-restricted-audience/articleshow/80428415.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Row over other local body polls after municipal results||The state election commission stoked a controversy by announcing voting for other local bodies after the results of the six municipal corporations are announced. When quizzed by the media if this amounted to influencing voters, Prasad said, “Because of Covid-19 guidelines, we will require multiple halls to count votes.” Prasad added: “Similarly, we will require more personnel and police force than before. We do not have enough personnel to count the votes of all local bodies together.”It was suggested at the news conference by a section of the media that counting for the municipal corporation elections could be held after voting for other local bodies concluded. It was also pointed out that the poll schedule is likely to be challenged in court. Prasad said, “This schedule has been arrived at after a lot of deliberations and taking into consideration various aspects.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/row-over-other-local-body-polls-after-municipal-results/articleshow/80428642.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Nagpur||Criminal action only after forensic report is received: HM Deshmukh||Nagpur: The forensic science laboratory report into the Bhandara district general hospital fire is expected soon, said state home minister Anil Deshmukh on Saturday. He said the Bhandara police will decide on the course of criminal action after getting the forensic report which will throw more light on the liabilities. Deshmukh had earlier stated that strict action would be initiated against those found guilty for the death of 10 newborn babies due to a fire in the Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) of the hospital on January 9. Director general of police (DGP) Hemant Nagrale visited the SNCU on Saturday. Accompanied by IG Chiranjeev Prasad and SP Vasant Jadhav, Nagrale scrutinized the documents and supervised the case of accidental death (AD) registered by Bhandara police. Based on the inquiry report submitted by a 8-member committee supervised by Nagpur divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar, the government on Thursday had suspended Bhandara district civil surgeon, hospital’s medical officer and in-charge sister, besides transferring the additional civil surgeon. Contracts of a paediatrician and two nurses were terminated. Nagrale, during an informal media briefing, said, “The investigating agency now needs to ascertain the criminal liability of whoever was supervising or looking after the unit or the machineries where the fire had started.” The DGP said police are investigating into the AD case (under CrPC 174) with as much seriousness as an offence under Indian Penal Code (IPC). Police are collecting relevant electronic evidence and scientific data, the DGP said. “After scrutinizing the scientific evidences and data, the investigation officer would decide whether to register an offence or not and fix the criminal liability,” he said. Even after two weeks of the incident, police have not filed an FIR in the case. It is slated to be one of the key issues in the protest organized by the BJP in Bhandara against the Maha Vikas Aghadi government on January 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/criminal-action-only-after-forensic-report-is-received-hm-deshmukh/articleshow/80427085.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 24, 2021||Patna||Schools plan virtual Republic Day celebrations||PATNA: Republic Day celebrations will be a low-key affair in most schools this time due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Most schools in the city have decided to organise online cultural events, including patriotic songs, dances and speeches. Shashwat Shwetank, a student of Delhi Public School, said, “I will watch the live stream of speeches and hoisting of national flag on our school’s portal.” Mary Alphonso, principal of Don Bosco Academy, said, “We will exempt students from the celebrations this year, but teachers and school staff will attend the flag-hoisting function in adherence to all Covid-19 safety protocols.” Sister M Serena AC, principal of Carmel High School, said large gatherings and mass student participation will be avoided this time. “Only senior secondary students, who reside nearby and teachers will attend the celebrations. The primary section will have a pre-recorded online celebration,” she said. School authorities are trying their best to make the virtual R-Day celebrations as lively as possible. Farhat Hasan, directress of International School, said, “Students of different classes are assigned different tasks, which will be displayed online coupled with special live prize distribution for students of academic session 2019-20.” “This year’s Republic Day celebrations will be different. I’ll celebrate by watching the parade and patriotic movies with my family at home,” said Sakchi Shree, a student of St Joseph’s Convent High School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/schools-plan-virtual-republic-day-celebrations/articleshow/80426514.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Dehradun||Leopard found trapped in snare rescued, to be radio-collared||DEHRADUN: Triggering concerns regarding poaching activities, an adult male leopard was found trapped in a snare in Rudrapur village near Kalsi on Saturday morning The incident surfaced after the villagers heard the roars of the big cat and alerted the forest authorities. The leopard was trapped in a mango orchard. Subsequently, a rescue team reached the spot to rescue the big cat. Ravi Joshi, in-charge of the rescue team of the forest department, told TOI, “An adult male leopard was found trapped. The veterinary doctor first tranquilised the leopard and then we conducted a successful rescue operation. We suspect the involvement of local poachers or perhaps the villagers in this case because a clutch wire was used to trap the big cat.” He added, “The carnivores usually come to orchards following herbivore animals like deer which come in search of food. Thus, poachers put their traps in the orchards.” Prior to this incident, a trapped female leopard was caught in the Jhajhra from a mango orchard. It is worth mentioning that the Uttarakhand forest department has found five trapped leopards (including the aforementioned one) from Dehradun and its surroundings in the past two months. Among those, one male leopard was found dead. Meanwhile, chief wildlife warden JS Suhag said, “The big cat will soon be radio-collared. The frontline forest teams are on high alert to nab the culprits.” The move to radio-collar big cats is a part of the forest department exercise to study their behaviour and to keep tabs on those that are on a prowl in human-dominated landscapes. “We release them in very dense forests so that they get sufficient prey. This way, they won’t step back in the human-dominated landscape in search of food. The exercise is aimed at keeping people and their livestock safe,” added JS Suhag. This will be the sixth big cat to be radio-collared in the state. Barely 48 hours ago, a male leopard from Bageshwar was radio-collared in Ranibagh. Meanwhile, the search for another man-eater that had mauled a woman to death is underway. Dr Amit Dhyani, senior veterinary officer, forest department, said, “So far, two female leopards from Haridwar, a male and a female leopard from Bageshwar, and another old male leopard from Narendra Nagar have been radio-collared by us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-found-trapped-in-snare-rescued-to-be-radio-collared/articleshow/80426516.cms||Shivani Azad
January 24, 2021||Goa||DyCM assures to solve cane ryots’ issues||Poinguinim: Giving a patient hearing to representatives of sugarcane cultivators from Sanguem, deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar on Thursday assured to solve their problems soon after consulting the chief minister. At the meeting, the farmers raised the issue of delayed payments for the sugarcane supplied to Sanjivani sugar factory, to which Kavalekar said the balance amount left to be paid towards harvesting charges will be settled soon. He assured that 89 farmers who couldn’t harvest their plantations during the last season for the want of labour would be compensated. Francisco Mascarenhas, who led the representation to the deputy chief minister, said that now they expect a positive answer from the government with all the issues solved once and for all. He said chief minister Pramod Sawant has also assured to resolve the farmers’ issues over a phone call. Following a meeting held at Waddem, Sanguem last week, the representation was handed over to Kavalekar by the sugarcane cultivators, who sought a decision from the government on Sanjivani’s future and also asked for a decision on the standing crop which is due for harvesting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dycm-assures-to-solve-cane-ryots-issues/articleshow/80428489.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Goa||Goa: ICAR lays thrust on agro-eco tourism||PANAJI: The Old Goa-based ICAR-CCARI is launching the agro-eco tourism (AET) module as a potential alternative to regular tourism. The AET concept offers visitors an opportunity to engage in self-employment in the form of providing local transport, eateries and other provision, or even to act as guides and conductors for field excursions for visitors. “The integration of tourism and agriculture activities will open new vistas and it plays a key role as new employment pastures for rural communities, thereby improving the economic status,” scientists at ICAR-CCARI said. In addition to being a hub for biodiversity and research centre for agricultural crops, livestock, fish and allied sectors, the AET module at the institute will highlight conservation methods for flora, fauna and animal genetic resources. “AET will be a symbiotic association of the farming sector, tourism industry and farm business. Thus the activity will generate additional income for farmers and contribute to the conservation and development of the whole region,” scientists said. The institute is offering visitors a ‘something to see, something to do and something to buy’ programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/icar-lays-thrust-on-agro-eco-tourism/articleshow/80428453.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Peers’ confidence brings many doctor families for jab||NEW DELHI: Dr Subhash Gupta was the second person in his family to be administered the Covid vaccine on Saturday. “My daughter, who is also in the medical profession, has already taken the shot,” said the Max Hospital, Saket, doctor. The Gupta family is among the many medical families to have more than one member inoculated against the rampaging coronavirus. Dr Keval Krishan of Max Saket and his wife too arrived in the morning for vaccination. What prompted their decision was the confidence that their peers had in the Covid vaccine. “We realised people shouldn’t be apprehensive about taking it,” said Krishnan. “In the next six months, it will be able to curb the coronavirus spread.” Another doctor couple, Ravi and Chitra Anand arrived together at Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Hospital in Hari Nagar to take the shot. Though they complained of some mismanagement at the vaccination booth, the couple were certain of the vaccine helping them in their profession. The Anands’ son and daughter-in-law are also set to receive the jab, making their family fully vaccinated. Senior couple Ramesh and Beena Dhawan were together at the observation room of Janakpuri Super Speciality Hospital being administered the vaccine. Said Dr Ramesh, “We were eager to get protection since we work with sick people.” With them were Dr Vandana Sinha of the Mansaram Hospital, Nangloi, and her husband, N K Sinha. While she said it was a “proud moment” for her, Vandana wished her husband could also get the vaccine, to which he responded that he wanted the entire family, including his mother, to get the protection provided by the jab. At Max, Patparganj, paediatrician Rashi Bhargava became the third in her family to be vaccinated after her brother and husband. “All members of my family are healthcare workers or have been one, so we all know how important it is for us to lead by example,” she said, discounting allergies and reactions as commonplace. “It is a privilege for health workers to have chosen first for the vaccine. If we refuse to accept it, then it doesn’t appear right. An allergy can happen in any vaccination for that matter, so to refuse the Covid shot on this ground is incorrect,” reasoned Bhargava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/peers-confidence-brings-many-doc-families-for-jab/articleshow/80428484.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
January 24, 2021||India||1 lakh paramilitary troops likely for Bengal polls||NEW DELHI: As many as 1 lakh Central para-military personnel may be deployed in West Bengal for the upcoming assembly poll, surpassing the nearly 75,000-80,000 personnel that had stood guard during 2019 Lok Sabha polls in the state. Though the Election Commission and home ministry are yet to work out a balance between the Central forces required by EC and availability assessed by the home ministry, officials concerned did not rule out deployment of at least 1,000 companies of Central armed police forces (CAPFs), essentially CRPF, given the concerns regarding law and order as well as apprehensions of political violence among most opposition parties in West Bengal. “More than 750 companies of Central forces were deployed during the last Lok Sabha polls in West Bengal. Since the upcoming polls are only in five states, unlike the countrywide parliamentary poll, the availability of forces is bound to be more,” an EC functionary said without elaborating on the extent of forces to be deployed this time. Assembly polls in West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry are due to be held in April and shall wind up before the onset of CBSE board examinations on May 4. Sources in the Commission said EC may hold a fresh round of discussions with the home ministry after January 26 to finalise deployment details for West Bengal and Assam. Home ministry sources too indicated the requirement indicated by EC shall be adequately met. TOI has learnt that there are also some security-related concerns in Assam, where anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests have revived, and Kerala that is no stranger to violent clashes between cadres of various parties. During the EC’s just-concluded visit to Assam and West Bengal, most opposition parties expressed apprehensions about law and order as well as neutrality of the state police. The demand, particularly of BJP, was to let the Central para-military forces oversee poll security. On the other hand, the Trinamool Congress is said to have reassured EC regarding law and order situation in the state. Having heard both sides, the EC shall make its own neutral assessment of the law and order situation and monitor the same during polls by posting a special police observer in the state, as was done in the 2019 Lok Sabha poll. EC may go for the presence of Central para-military forces at 100% polling booths in West Bengal, as per a source. Special expenditure observers may be posted in Tamil Nadu, where large-scale illegal cash flow has marred several past polls. In Kerala, violent clashes between party cadres pose a concern. The full Commission plans to visit Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry soon to assess poll preparedness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/1-lakh-paramilitary-troops-likely-for-bengal-polls/articleshow/80429350.cms||Bharti Jain
January 24, 2021||Goa||Woman seeks justice for dead husband||Panaji: Devakka Nayak, a woman from Karnataka is running from pillar to post to seek justice to her husband who was found dead in a forested patch in Chimbel with police registering it as a suicide case. Devakka wrote to the police inspector at the Old Goa police station stating that her husband, Ravi Nayak did not commit suicide, but was murdered. The case was registered as suicide in August 2019. Ravi’s family has demanded that the probe be handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). “Looking into all facts and circumstances, I suspect that my husband has been murdered. I request for a re-investigation and the case may be registered as murder,” Devakka wrote to the Old Goa police. She said that on August 8, 2019, Ravi was found dead at Indiranagar, Chimbel behind the water tank near a forested patch. Hailing from Karnataka, the deceased was involved in fishing business at the Panaji market. Devakka stated that Ravi had a close friend who was also in the fish business at the fish market. “When the body of Ravi first arrived at his native place, village panchayat people and village elderly suspected that it was not a suicide, but in fact a murder. Their premise was based on the photographs of the deceased and also his financial status,” she said. “When the villagers tried to inquire with the friend, he said that Ravi committed suicide and that he was not murdered between 6am and 12pm,” she said. She alleged that on further inquiry made by the village friend, it was further revealed that some people used to sexually assault him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/woman-seeks-justice-for-dead-husband/articleshow/80428523.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||Law college to pay Rs 40,000 for not giving Mumbai University student marks||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court the directed Mahatma Gandhi Mission’s Law College at Nerul, Navi Mumbai, to pay Rs 40,000 for not forwarding the practical training marks of two students of the 3 year LLB course. Due to this lapse, Mumbai University did not declare their results. This is the second time the HC has fined the college. In July 2019, the college was directed to pay cost of Rs 50,000 on a petition by another student Priscilla Rodrigues. Her practical exams marks were not forwarded to the University and hence two semesters results were not declared. The fine was equally paid to Priscilla and the University. A bench of Justices Amjad Sayed and Surendra Tavade heard petitions by Anil Vathode and Vijay Pawar. Vijay’s fourth semester practical exam marks was not forwarded by the college although he appeared for it in May 2017. Vathode cleared all his semesters but was shown ‘absent’. Their advocate Siddharth Ingle argued that for three years they followed up with the college and University’s grievance cell in vain. They directed University to declare Vijay and Anil’s results and also to release their mark-sheets, passing and degree certificates. In each petition, the college will pay Rs 10,000/- to University and Rs 10,000/- to the petitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/law-college-to-pay-rs-40k-for-not-giving-mu-student-marks/articleshow/80428535.cms||Rosy Sequeira
January 24, 2021||Goa||Vasco school shut as 2 Class X students test +ve||VASCO: Two Class X students at a prominent school in Vasco have tested positive for Covid-19. The institute has been closed for a week as a precaution. Both the students had not been attending classes for last three days, school authorities said. According to the school head, on Friday evening, parent of one of the students called up the school to inform that her child has tested positive. The same parent told the school that another classmate of her child has also been infected with Covid-19. Both the students were suffering from fever and had therefore not reported to the school for last three days. Their reports confirmed their positive status two days back. The principal sent back all the students of Class X home on Saturday on learning of the infections. The school head said that the institute would resume online classes would from Monday for the Class X students. The school premises was sanitised and the education department was informed of the infection, upon which the department directed the school to remain shut for a week. The Class X students were being prepared for their upcoming board exams through regular classes after the education department had given a nod for physical classes to be held for Class X from November 21, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vasco-school-shut-as-2-class-x-students-test-ve/articleshow/80428493.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Rajkot||Rajkot: Bed-ridden, highly obese woman rescued||RAJKOT: An obese woman, who was confined to her house since last two years, was rescued by a team of Abhyam and an NGO on Friday evening. According to the NGO, Sarla Chitroda (50) of Velnathpara in Rajkot weighed over 150kg and was unable to get up from the bed to perform her daily chores. Abhyam helpline consultant Ruchita Makwana said, “We got a call from her neighbours and based on that we reached Sarla’s house. We found that she was in very bad condition. She could not even able to go to the toilet.” Sarla’s husband is in Dubai for work. Her 13-year-old son was taking care of her. NGO worker said that Sarla was suffering from depression because of weight. According to Makwana, she was taking some pills for weight reduction. But after her hernia operation a few years ago, she gained a lot of weight. Shakti Education Trust took the responsibility for Sarla’s son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bed-ridden-highly-obese-woman-rescued/articleshow/80426035.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||Cong plans FIRs across Mumbai for Arnab’s arrest||Mumbai: A day after marching to the office of Arnab Goswami’s Republic TV, senior Congress leaders led by Mumbai Congress president Bhai Jagtap and working president Charan Singh Sapra will meet police commissioner Parambir Singh to press for his arrest. “We are demanding the immediate arrest of Goswami for violation of Official Secrets Act and treason. Goswami deliberately used confidential information to enhance his channel’s TRP,’’ Sapra said. Sapra said after meeting the police chief, senior Congress leaders will visit police stations in Mumbai to press for their demand for Goswami’s arrest. “We will lodge complaints against Goswami and expect that on the basis of our complaints criminal cases will be registered against him at all police stations across the metropolis,’’ Sapra said. Jagtap said in view of serious complaints against Goswami, he is hiding in New Delhi. “First, we will lodge a first information report in Azad Maidan police station, it will be followed by other police stations. I am sure Mumbai Police will arrest him and bring him to Mumbai as per provisions of law,’’ Jagtap said. Congress cabinet members Aslam Shaikh and Varsha Gaikwad and former minister Naseem Khan joined in their demand for the immediate arrest of Goswami. “We demand that Goswami be arrested immediately under the Official Secrets Act,’’ Shaikh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cong-plans-firs-across-mumbai-for-arnabs-arrest/articleshow/80426884.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Goa||37-year-old among three Covid victims||Panaji: The state reported three Covid deaths on Saturday, including that of a 37-year-old woman from Cuncolim. The state’s death toll is now at 762. The Cuncolim woman died at Goa Medical College (GMC) after a week’s treatment and primary hypothyroidism was the only comorbidity she suffered from. A 59-year-old man from Sattari succumbed to the virus in South Goa district hospital while the death of a 70-year-old man from Ponda was reported at GMC. Both had comorbid conditions. With 85 new cases and 63 recoveries on Saturday, the state’s tally of active cases was at 872. The case positivity rate increased to 4%, while the recovery rate was pegged at 97%. On Saturday, 37 opted for home isolations and 25 were admitted in hospitals. Caseloads of Panaji urban health centre and Porvorim primary health centre though increased, the rise was marginal. Margao urban health centre’s count rose to 100 ,whereas all other centres in South Goa had cases below 50.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/37-year-old-among-three-covid-victims/articleshow/80428530.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 24, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: For many, it’s not just safety, but also showing the way to sceptics||NEW DELHI: For Mrs Kanchan Alok, a senior technician at the cardiology department at Max Hospital in Patparganj, the opportunity to voluntarily get vaccinated on Saturday was not only a way of protecting herself and her family, but to also to be an example to vaccine sceptics. She got a picture of herself getting vaccinated clicked and posted it on social media to dispel rumours and fears around the protective prick. Praveena Menon, a coordinator at the neurology department, did the same. “My maid and some others in our gated society are scared of the vaccine. When I learnt I could volunteer for the injection, I was among the first to arrive at the vaccination room on Saturday,” said Alok. “Once I upload my photograph, I am sure many people will be reassured and decide on the vaccine, whenever their opportunity comes.” Saroj Bala, an MCD health visitor, too got herself clicked at Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya Hospital in Khirki village. “I will post this picture on the WhatsApp groups that I am in. Perhaps it will help those who are hesitating to feel more confident about taking the vaccine. If people like us do not take the initiative, then how can we expect the common man to accept the need for the jab?” the healthcare professional asked. At Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital vaccination centre, Dr Amol Jambhulkar and Yashika, his colleague from Central Jail Hospital in Mandoli Prison, captured each other being inoculated on their phones. “There are so many superstitions about the vaccine on the internet and it is our duty as healthcare professionals to make people realise the benefits of the vaccine in curbing the Covid pandemic,” said Jambhulkar. The staff at Lok Nayak Hospital had their officers asking them to smile for the camera after they had been vaccinated. They also recorded short videos. These were eventually shared in some hospital WhatsApp groups. “We are doing this to motivate others. If someone who has been vaccinated records a video telling others that they felt no differently and that others should not deny themselves, then they will learn that there is nothing to be worried about. Each day, we post several photographs and videos,” said O P Chaudhary, adding that 97 people had been vaccinated by 1.30pm. “We should be done with the stipulated 100 people for today before 2pm.” A similar strategy is being followed at Shanti Mukand Hospital in east Delhi, with photographs and messages of beneficiaries being shared in WhatsApp groups. “This will motivate everyone, irrespective of the department they are in,” maintained an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/for-many-its-not-just-safety-but-also-showing-the-way-to-sceptics/articleshow/80428548.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
January 24, 2021||Goa||Over 600 healthcare workers vaccinated in Goa||PANAJI: On the third day of Covid vaccination on Saturday, 615 health care workers (HCW) were vaccinated in Goa. Eight centres were involved in the drive, with each one set a target to inoculate 100 HCWs. Compared to the first two days of vaccination - Saturday last week and Friday – almost centres on Saturday did well, an official of the directorate of health services said. Goa Medical College (GMC) vaccinated 128, Hospicio 100, sub-district hospital, Chicalim 80, sub-district hospital, Ponda 61, community health centre, Canacona 41, community health centre, Curchorem 64, Grace hospital 59 and ESI hospital 82. On the first day of the launch of the vaccination drive last week, 470 HCWs received shots of Covishield, whereas on Friday 520 were vaccinated. Till date, a total of 1,605 HCWs have been vaccinated out of 18,000 odd registered on the CoWin portal. Of this, 370 have been vaccinated in GMC. The officer said they haven’t come across severe vaccine adverse events so far, apart from a few mild cases that have been reported. Soon, the directorate of the health services will take up Covid vaccinations on four days a week, but it is yet to fix dates and finalise centres for the drive. Once the phase-I of vaccination ends, health services will undertake vaccination of frontline workers whose registration is under way. After this, people over 50 having comorbid conditions will receive their vaccine shots. Again, this data is still not ready and health services are awaiting directions from the Union ministry of health and family welfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-600-healthcare-workers-vaccinated/articleshow/80428538.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 24, 2021||Goa||Goa: peak of winter, mercury drops, but to normal level||PANAJI: A few atmospheric conditions which brought moisture to land, kept night temperatures warm during this peak season month of winter. But a shift in wind direction has triggered a pleasant change, as mercury dropped slightly during the past few days. On Friday, India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji recorded a minimum temperature of 20.8 degrees celsius– the lowest during peak winter month. Interestingly, the minimum temperature of 20.8 degrees Celsius was only within normal range. Goa experiences a mild winter chill, as the mercury hovers between 17 and 18 degrees during the season’s peak. Though the mercury again rose to 21.3 degrees C on Saturday, 1.4 degrees above normal, IMD, Panaji has forecast a drop in minimum temperature by a couple of degrees during the next 72 hours. For most part of January, the minimum temperature hovered between 22 and 23 degrees. “This is because wind in the lower level was predominantly easterly and minimum temperature has been on the higher side by a degree,” Rahul M, scientist, IMD, Panaji said. The northeasterly component which brings in cool winds was suppressed by northeast monsoon, which has withdrawn on Friday. “Winter conditions are likely to prevail, though a trough-like condition in easterly wind may raise the temperature slightly, “ the scientist said Overall, the day temperatures have also been hovering around normal range. The minimum temperature is likely to be around 21 degrees celsius during the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-peak-of-winter-mercury-drops-but-to-normal-level/articleshow/80428528.cms||Paul Fernandes
January 24, 2021||Rajkot||Kathiyawadi dohas eulogize Mahatma Gandhi||RAJKOT: No spear, no knife, no guns, no cannon; Your army is very strong without any arms, Baniya This is a couplet (translated from Gujarati) taken from a verse that had been penned exclusively to praise Gandhi during the freedom struggle. The author, Bhudharji Joshi, a poet who died in 1966, had penned the dohas and songs on the works and illustrious life of Bapu. While, biographies of Mahatma Gandhi abound in multiple languages, very few may know that the life of the Father of the nation had been composed in Kathiyawadi dialect as folk dohas, chands and songs. Sairam Dave, a Rajkot-based folk artiste, collected these manuscripts of dohas and songs by poet Joshi and compiled it in the form of a book, which is set to be launched on Monday. Joshi, a native of Rana Kandorna of Porbandar district, had started writing about Gandhi’s life in the folk dialect since 1935 and while it smacks of Gandhi’s struggle against the British Raj, the works revolved mainly around the protagonist, Manohardas Karamchand Gandhi, said Dave. Joshi’s dohas, which used to get published in a local magazine called ‘Sharda’, touched upon subjects like Quit India movement, second World War and many others issues related to India’s freedom struggle. “This literature was almost buried. The poet’s dohas are so popular even today that folk artistes sing these on stage during Dayro. Joshi immortalized his works, but he himself perished into oblivion,” Dave said. Dave contacted Joshi’s nephews and found the manuscripts in their home. “Joshi was a true Gandhian and was distressed after the assassination of Mahatma. He, however, continued writing till the time of his death,” Dave added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kathiyawadi-dohas-eulogize-mahatma/articleshow/80426050.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
January 24, 2021||Goa||Goa: Jab beneficiaries asked to keep track of any side-effects||PANAJI: In order to document any adverse effects from the vaccine, the directorate of health services has begun distributing surveillance sheets to all vaccine beneficiaries where they can record any adverse effects for a week following the vaccine. Those administered the first dose of the vaccine on Saturday were presented with the ‘Adverse Effects Following Immunisation (AEFI) surveillance in health care workers’ sheet. Vaccine beneficiaries have been asked to tick any symptoms they may experience. These range from pain at site, swelling, itching, fever, fatigue, malaise, diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting and headache to joint and muscle pain. They have also been asked to record any other symptoms they may experience. Any of these symptoms must be immediately reported to their incharge or nearest health centre, the beneficiaries were informed. Only minor AEFIs have been reported in the state till date. There have been no serious AEFIs requiring hospitalisation that have been reported. Beneficiaries are kept under observation for half an hour after taking the vaccine in case they report any side-effects. They have also been instructed to report to the nearest health centre in the event of any adverse effects. The vaccination cards given to them have the grievance redressal numbers - national level 1075 and state level 104 printed on them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/jab-beneficiaries-asked-to-keep-track-of-any-side-effects/articleshow/80428545.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||For ‘no religion’ mention in certificates, man moves Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: The man who had approached the Gujarat high court seeking to be declared an atheist, has filed another petition for permission to not mention caste and religion in the certificates for all those who do not want such details mentioned. For himself, petitioner Rajveer Upadhyay (36), seeks directions to the authorities to mention “No Religion, No Caste” in his certificates because he does not want any religion or caste to be mentioned. This autorickshaw driver belongs to Garo-Brahmin caste, a scheduled caste, and mentions in his petition that he has faced many troubles in life due to discriminatory caste system. For removal of mention of religion and caste from his certificates, Upadhyay once again relies on the certificate issued to one Sneha Vellore by Tamil Nadu authorities and ratified by the Madras high court. Upadhyay has also sought to remove mention of father/husband’s name and surname from certificate, if people are not willing to mention them. He has contended that the authorities cannot compel people to mention such details. He has urged the HC to direct concerned authorities to remove these details from his and his daughter’s certificates. He has argued in his petition that those who are orphans and women with multiple divorces always face this problem and feel humiliated. Three years ago, Upadhyay had requested the authorities to allow his name to be changed to RV155677820, but his application was rejected citing lack of provisions to make such changes. The gazette authority also turned down his request in 2017. He has urged the HC to direct the authorities to change his name to this number. He has submitted that he has already changed his name once. In support of his demand that people may not be compelled to mention their caste and religion in their certificates, the petitioner cites the Supreme Court’s observation that Hinduism is a way of life and not a religion. The petitioner has also requested the high court to address the court in the Hindi language. He feels that his appearing as party-in-person before the court will not be easily permitted with the norms in place at present. A litigant has to obtain a certificate from the HC registry that they are fit to address the court in English. The court has appointed a lawyer to represent Upadhyay in his petition in which he seeks permission to be identified as an atheist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/for-no-religion-mention-in-certificates-man-moves-hc/articleshow/80428551.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||Borivli driver nabbed for setting five buses on fire after dispute with owner||MUMBAI: A driver working with a travel agency was arrested for setting on fire five private buses, in separate instances, at Borivli (W) after a dispute with his employer. Police suspected insider involvement when an agency’s buses were being repeatedly targeted. Ajay Saraswat told police he wanted to get back at his employer. The torched buses were valued at Rs 3.3 crore. Around 5.30am on January 17, three buses of Atmaram Travels parked near Eskay Resort went up in flames. The fire brigade doused the flames and there were no casualties. The fire department and police, began a probe. “We were wondering if a short-circuit was the cause as the buses were not operational since national lockdown began in March 2020,” said senior inspector Popat Yele, MHB Colony police. Investigators found the insurance of the vehicles had expired, and ruled out the possibility of them being torched for claiming insurance. On January 22, two more buses of the agency went up in flames. This time, police sensed something amiss and they questioned the travel agency staff and zeroed in on Saraswat. “Saraswat had been involved in a road crash in Goa, which led to a dispute with his employer. A police complaint had been registered too,” said Yele. Saraswat, arrested the same day under section 435 of IPC, told police he used to set fire to curtains of each bus and escape. Saraswat claimed his employer did not pay him his salary and assaulted him. Police are verifying his claims. A resident of Borivli’s Govind Nagar, Saraswat does not have a criminal record.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/driver-held-for-setting-buses-ablaze-after-dispute-with-owner/articleshow/80428563.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Dehradun||Living next to trash pile, Kandoli residents deal with constant stench||DEHRADUN: Large-scale dumping of sewage and household and commercial waste has led to accumulation of garbage piles over Rispana at Kandoli in Dehradun. The stench emanating due to contaminated Rispana water poses a health risk, say locals. Astha Tamta, a Kandoli resident, told TOI, “We are the worst impacted as our houses are close by. It is hard to live with the foul smell. There are no trash bins in the area where people can dispose of waste. The risk of water borne-diseases increases manifold after a rain spell.” Another local Pankaj Chauhan said, “Unaware of consequences, people often throw garbage in the river. The government is least concerned about cleanliness of rivers. I have raised the matter with the area councilor multiple times but no action has been taken so far.” Some residents also blame the Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) for the plight of the river. “The door-to-door waste collection service has started in the area several times but the DMC vehicle is irregular and often falls short of loading space. Even the timing to pick up waste is odd,” said Krishan Dhiman, who owns a shop in the area. He added, "A proper garbage collection service can greatly improve conditions here." Meanwhile, Kailash Joshi, health officer of Nagar Nigam, told TOI, “We have joined hands with private players to ensure cleanliness in areas. A plan to improve the condition of Rispana is also underway. The work under the project will start soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/living-next-to-trash-pile-kandoli-residents-deal-with-constant-stench/articleshow/80426539.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Ludhiana||Bad roads, poor sewerage to be main issues in Khanna MC elections||Khanna: As the election commission has announced the date for the civic body elections, sewerage and bad roads are going to be the main issues among the voters here. Khanna is a major municipal council of Ludhiana district, which has the highest number of 33 wards which will go to polls on February 14. Many residents here expressed their displeasure about the roads, which they say are not in good shape. “The major link roads like Lalheri road, Amloh road and Samrala road are in a bad shape. Amloh road has been dug up because of which there are traffic jams in the area as it is closed from GT road service lane side, whereas Samrala road has big potholes and Lalheri road also has similar issues. Even inside the city, the roads are not in satisfactory condition and are dug up in many wards for laying of sewerage. So, definitely roads are going to be a big issue in the coming elections as Khanna residents deserve better roads,” said Gurpreet Singh, a local resident. “Besides the not so good roads, there are encroachments on major roads, including service lane of GT road, that causes traffic problems and also road accidents.” The sewerage problem is also among the main issues for residents even as the new sewerage is being laid in the town. “Work on the laying of sewerage has been going on for the last nine to ten months, and because of lack of planning we are suffering. One has to understand that we cannot break a system without developing a new one and providing an alternate system is a must before carrying out new work, especially in case of sewerage. Though the main line has been laid in most wards of trans-railway areas or east Khanna, in six to seven wards, including mine, lines from streets not connected with it. So, it results in water-logging even when it rains a bit. In monsoon, the problem gets worse as streets remain water-logged.” Tarsem Bahia, patron, Environmental Protection Welfare Society, and a resident of Guru Tegh Bahadur Nagar in ward number 6, said. He added that, “Though they have sweepers and tankers to drain out dirty water, they are not doing their work as they feel that now the sewerage has been laid even as they are charging money from the agency concerned. As water-logging is there, it results in unhygienic surroundings, which does result in mosquito related diseases and water-borne diseases.” Even as as per the local civic body authorities, the sewerage has been laid in 80% of the MC wards in Khanna, but there are councillors from certain wards who cry foul over the alleged bias by the ruling party. “In some wards, particularly those where opposition party councillors are there, they didn’t get sewerage laid and at some areas where they have laid the main line, it is just 1.5 to 2.5 feet wide, which doesn’t work and remains jammed. In smaller streets there is no sewerage and as a result water gets accumulated on vacant plots and there are ponds everywhere. In monsoon, all streets gets submerged under water and in normal days also we have to use many vehicles to get water pumped out from the area,” said Sudhir Sonu, BJP councillor from ward number 14. “Since I am from the opposition party, they discriminate with me. In ward number 13 as well, which is represented by SAD, the problem is there and they have laid just around 100m of sewerage in ward number 12. In wards where sewerage has been laid under Amrut scheme, roads are in bad condition as these have been dug up.” As the roads and sewerage system are a major issues in Khanna civic body elections, former MC president and Congress leader Vikas Mehta said that roads were being constructed and the sewerage system was being completed. “So far as link roads are concerned, tiles are being laid on the Amloh road, whereas we have prepared an estimate for Samrala road and also we have kept Rs 90 lakh for Lalheri road. The condition of roads in the city is good. As far as the sewerage is concerned, 80% of the work has been done and it will be completed by March 31,” said Mehta, . He indicated that it does feel bad that water was accumulated in certain areas. Reacting to allegation of BJP councillor on discrimination with opposition parties’ councillors, former MC president said that as the work was inter-linked so the ground reality was different. He added that in those areas, a mini solid treatment plant (STP) was being constructed and a special tender had been floated for the same, so work had not been carried out in a proper way there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bad-roads-poor-sewerage-to-be-main-issues-in-khanna-mc-elections/articleshow/80426550.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 24, 2021||Nagpur||‘One need not be a software expert to develop an app’||Sarang Sahebrao Dhote (35) is a post-graduate in chemistry and also holds a doctorate from Nagpur University. Working as an assistant professor in the department of chemistry with Shri Shivaji Education Society’s JD Patil Sangludkar Mahavidyalaya, Daryapur, in Amravati district, Dhote has no semblance with his hobby of developing public utility apps. He was recently in the news for developing ‘Talking Trees’, an app for the Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR). Having a keen interest in research, the young professor has developed at least seven apps without having any computer science or information technology background, and his 17 research papers and articles have been published in various international and national journals. TOI talked to Dhote about his unusual skill. Excerpts from an interview... Q. How did you get interested in computers and developing apps? A. While doing PhD work under my guide Lata Deshmukh on the separation of toxic metal ions using chromatographic techniques, it required 1-2 hours to analyze each metal and I had to analyze about 20. Here, I felt the need to develop an app. Secondly, while appearing for a job interview, an expert told me the subject of my research was old and asked what kind of value addition was I going to make. He also said that today everyone is doing advanced research and I was sticking to an old topic. I felt bad and took his remarks as a challenge. I did research and decided to amalgam chemistry with a computer language. After three years of continued efforts, I came up with my first software SS-831. Q. What was your first software all about? A. The SS-831 software can analyze many metals within six seconds. This was the first such software in the country which was copyrighted by the government in 2018. After developing various software, I turned to Smartphone applications and wanted to convert all my software to android applications. I worked on that but every time I failed as I didn’t have an IT background. I hired some IT experts to do the job but they didn’t have a chemistry background. So I decided to go it alone. Q. Without any IT background, how did you come up with the ‘Talking Trees’ app? A. The credit for the ‘Talking Trees’ app goes to my mother Surekha. Looking at the large-scale felling of trees for road development in our town, she had said, “How much better it would have been if trees could express their pain.” This moved me and I started searching for interactive apps on the Internet regarding the information on trees but there was no such app. So, I started thinking about how trees will interact with us. I discussed the issue with my colleague Rahul Sawarkar. In my college, there were many trees but some were unknown. I thought as a teacher if I don’t know about these trees then how will I tell the students? I first recorded information about every tree with my voice and then these recordings were stored on the server. Then I generated a QR Code of the stored recordings and decided to stick this QR code to the respective tree. I was not satisfied with my work because this process was worked on the Internet. I wanted to do it for the forest also where there is no Internet and so, I skipped this process. I developed an android app that also worked offline and on February 28, 2020, on National Science Day, it was launched with information on 11 trees. Later, it was successfully installed in the Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR). Q. What are the main differences between the web and mobile applications? A. Web applications depend on active Internet and so its speed also depends on the Internet. It does not need downloading and installation. Whereas mobile app can work online and offline. As compared to the web app, mobile app is fast. The web app can be built easily and there is no need to make a file. By simply sharing a web app link anyone can use a web app. Mobile app needs to be published on various play stores like Google and Amazon so the app can be searchable and shareable which is not the case with the web app. Q. What interfaces do you choose to create a user-friendly application? A. I use a simple interface so that the app becomes handy. The type of interface depends on the purpose of the app. In the case of scientific apps, the interface is constructed with the scientific language with fast analysis. In case of the social app, the interface is designed with multiple languages so local users can easily use the app. Q. Which are the other apps that you have developed before this one? A. I have developed 9 apps till date and am working on some more. Some of these apps include QuntiTLC for quantitative & qualitative analysis for chromatographic separation; SmartSpectro for quantitative analysis of unknown solution; JDPS Chemistry, which is a departmental app for my college for student attendance, online classes, notices; E-Kaksha for video lectures of various science subjects to all students of any region and Bio-Digi-Diversity for calculation of various biological indices during fieldwork. All apps have been registered for copyright. I’ve also developed an on-field water and soil analysis apps with GMapping. Q. How are your apps helping people? A. E-Kaksha gives theoretical as well as practical knowledge to students. Our chemistry department gets the attendance of every student with their geo-location by using the JDPS Chemistry app. We published all notices online so that students can get all kinds of information with just one click. QuantiTLC, SmartSpectro & Bio-Digi_diversity all these are scientific apps helpful for rapid research in their respective field. Q. Is it necessary to be a software expert to develop such apps? A. It is not necessary to be a software expert to develop apps. I’ve found that several apps have also been developed by 10-year-old kids. To make an app, one should have a vision and clear fundamentals. There are many platforms like MIT App Inventor, Modular, etc where anyone can develop a simple app like a drawing canvas, image capture app among others without any knowledge of computer languages. Small artificial intelligence apps also can be developed on the same platform. However, in some applications where advanced features are the main requirement, knowledge of computer languages is required. Q. How has this hobby of developing apps helped you in your professional life? A. It helps me a lot as maximum work can be done within a short span of time. Besides, it makes my research sustainable in the advanced world and is also easy to share my knowledge with students as well as the common man. Q. Are any more apps in the pipeline? A. As my wife, Shraddha is a doctor, I plan to develop an android app with hardware that will help the medical field. I also want to develop a platform for young kids as to how they can learn to make an app easily and freely in schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-need-not-be-a-software-expert-to-develop-an-app/articleshow/80427108.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 24, 2021||Goa||Abandoned at Calangute, a mentally challenged youth goes home to Nepal after 6 years||PANAJI: On January 8, when 20-year-old Mahesh Singh Mehra crossed the 12m-long ‘jhula’ over the Kali from Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh to Nepal with his mother Manmati at around 7pm, it was the end of a six-year-old search to reunite the mentally challenged youth with his family. From the streets of Calangute, where Mahesh was abandoned by his alcoholic father in 2014, to Apna Ghar—the state childcare home—and then finally to Jhulaghat on the Indo-Nepal border early this month, it was the culmination of a long and arduous mission. No one knows when Mahesh was brought to Goa by his father, nor was any missing complaint filed. And when Mahesh first entered Apna Ghar, he only spoke Nepali In 2017, Goa police managed to track down his father, and presented him before the child welfare committee (CWC). Since he was an alcoholic, the father was refused custody of his son. “We wanted the boy to stay with his family, but since his father behaved so irresponsibly, there was no point giving him custody.,” said a CWC member. “The comfort and care of a childcare home can’t compensate for a parent’s love and affection,” the CWC member said. Director of women and child development Deepali Naik said children in their custody are reunited with their family at the earliest, but in his case, the peculiar circumstances meant it took years. To make matters worse, Mahesh’s father again was untraceable. Last year, Apna Ghar finally managed to get a phone number to contact Manmati. Juliana Lohar, a co-ordinator for ARZ, a local organisation, made many calls before which she could finally speak to Manmati. It was ARZ that finally traced his family in Nepal. “The mother was so elated to hear about her son and kept asking me if she would really get to meet him. She had not seen him since he was a child and left for India with her husband,” Lohar said. She said Mahesh’s father wasn’t in regular touch with his family back home. “If at all he called, it was after several months, and his phone number kept changing. The wife had no knowledge that her son was in Goa,” Lohar said. Just as efforts to repatriate Mahesh gathered steam, the Covid-19 pandemic struck, and brought everything to a standstill. “All our efforts went into a pause mode,” said an Apna Ghar official. ARZ then got in touch with an organisation in Uttarakhand to contact Manmati. Someone was then sent to her village to pass on the message. Manmati was ready to accept Mahesh but couldn’t afford the trip to India. In such cases, Apna Ghar sends the child with escorts, and the child is transferred to the custody of that district’s CWC. In this case, since the child was a foreign national, it was arranged that his mother would reach the border to claim him. Mahesh was then sent to Jhulaghat with two escorts from Apna Ghar to complete his repatriation. A childline coordinator, Laxman Singh Dhami, moved an application for the repatriation, and permission was granted for Mahesh to cross the border on January 8. But when they finally reached Jhulaghat with Mahesh, what they found was that his name was not on the list of people who were permitted to cross over to Nepal. The border, manned by the Border Security Force, is open only for two hours a day and only those with valid permission can cross over to Nepal. “By mistake, the office of the tehsildar entered my name instead of Mahesh’s, since I moved the application,” said Dhami. The prospect that Mahesh wouldn’t be able to go home worried the two escorts, who braved harsh winter conditions and worried about Covid-19 or that Mahesh could fall sick. “Then a BSF commander visited the border for crowd management,” one of the escorts told TOI. “We narrated Mahesh’s plight, and told him that we have come all the way from Goa. He called the other side of the border and directed that Mahesh’s mother be sent over to the Indian side, while the passage of other people was kept on hold.” Finally, at around 7pm, as the whole crowd and BSF personnel watched, and after six years, Mahesh went home with his mother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/abandoned-at-calangute-a-mentally-challenged-youth-goes-home-to-nepal-after-6-years/articleshow/80428564.cms||Bindiya Chari
January 24, 2021||Goa||Mollem green spot will be hit, need balanced view: SC panel||PANAJI: The Supreme Court-appointed central empowered committee (CEC) agreed that the three Centre-funded infrastructure projects will cut through one of the world’s richest biological hotpsots at Mollem, but said it will have to take a balanced view for minimal environmental impact while continuing with the projects. Winding up its three-day fact-finding visit on Saturday, the three-member committee, besides visiting the project sites and meeting MPT and state government officials, also met environmentalists and other citizen groups and said the “entire responsibility of environmental conservation cannot belong to the government alone”. In an attempt to find a middle path to the contentious projects that has seen widespread agitation, the panel told the representative groups that they would impose conditions on the project works to ensure minimal damage to the environment, while also allowing the infrastructure works to be completed. “The CEC members said they have visited the site of all the four sanctuaries across Goa and Karnataka that will be touched by the three linear projects and have also noted reports of tiger presence in the area,” said one of the representatives, who was present before the panel. “The members said they have taken an assurance from the state government and the railway authorities that the conditions to be laid down by the committee will be strictly adhered to.” Sources said they also tried to assure the groups that the number of trees to be felled would be far less than 80,000-odd that have been marked to be cut as part of the project. “Just because trees have been marked, it does not mean that all of it will be felled,” the panel told the groups, trying to assuage their feelings that large stretch of private forests, which are unidentified, may see huge felling of trees. “The CEC members pointed out that the same committee had helped lay down conditions for a contentious railways project in Karnataka and said the project had come up by following all the conditions laid down for it. They asked the group of local representatives that they can visit the Karnataka site and be assured that the same will be done in Goa,” said the source. The committee members were shown photographs of heritage structures along the railway lines and the cracks in them, but they asked if already a railway line was existing for several decades how could it cause more damage by double-tracking of the rail line. “The local group told the CEC that the rail traffic will increase with the doubling along the route,” the source said. But the CEC members said the railways authorities as well as MPT have assured that double-tracking is taking place mainly to carry passengers and coal transportation will be reduced. Sources said the panel asked a group that objected to the Tamnar power project that “how it thinks the projections for the growing electricity needs for Goa will be met if the project is not allowed”. The group said there was abundant solar energy in the state, and it can be utilised instead of drawing high tension power lines through the biodiversity hotspot. “The panel asked the group members whether they have begun using solar energy on a personal level,” said the source. The CEC was also informed that the Goa State Wildlife Board was not given ample opportunity to state its views and the minutes of the meeting of the board were not circulated for confirmation before they were submitted to the central wildlife board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mollem-green-spot-will-be-hit-need-balanced-view-sc-panel/articleshow/80428575.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||Driver held for setting buses ablaze after dispute with owner||Mumbai: A driver working with a travel agency was arrested for setting on fire five private buses, in separate instances, at Borivli (W) after a dispute with his employer. Police suspected insider involvement when an agency’s buses were being repeatedly targeted. Ajay Saraswat told police he wanted to get back at his employer. The torched buses were valued at Rs 3.3 crore. Around 5.30am on January 17, three buses of Atmaram Travels parked near Eskay Resort went up in flames. The fire brigade doused the flames and there were no casualties. The fire department and police, began a probe. “We were wondering if a short-circuit was the cause as the buses were not operational since national lockdown began in March 2020,” said senior inspector Popat Yele, MHB Colony police. Investigators found the insurance of the vehicles had expired, and ruled out the possibility of them being torched for claiming insurance. On January 22, two more buses of the agency went up in flames. This time, police sensed something amiss and they questioned the travel agency staff and zeroed in on Saraswat. “Saraswat had been involved in a road crash in Goa, which led to a dispute with his employer. A police complaint had been registered too,” said Yele. Saraswat, arrested the same day under section 435 of IPC, told police he used to set fire to curtains of each bus and escape. Saraswat claimed his employer did not pay him his salary and assaulted him. Police are verifying his claims. A resident of Borivli’s Govind Nagar, Saraswat does not have a criminal record.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/driver-held-for-setting-buses-ablaze-after-dispute-with-owner/articleshow/80426885.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Dehradun||122 Covid-19 cases surface in Uttarakhand, no new deaths||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand recorded 122 new infections of Covid-19 on Saturday. With this, the state’s case tally shot up to 95,586. Till Saturday, the state had 1,733 active Covid-19 cases and the sample positivity rate was recorded at 4.65%. So far, the highest number of cases in the state have surfaced from Dehradun (29,035), followed by Haridwar (13,897), Nainital (12,427), and Udham Singh Nagar (11,414). However, Uttarakhand didn’t record any coronavirus-related death on Saturday. This is the first time in the last three months when the state didn’t record any fatality in a day. The toll of the virus in the state remained static at 1,629. The highest fatalities in the state have also been recorded in Dehradun (424), followed by Nainital (305), Haridwar (229), and Udham Singh Nagar (100). Meanwhile, 180 people recovered from Covid-19 infection on Saturday, taking the total number of cured cases in the state to 90,910. With this, the recovery rate reached 95.11%. Notably, 1,314 people, diagnosed with Covid-19 infection, have migrated from the state. According to official data, Uttarakhand has so far tested 20,57,076 samples for Covid-19. Currently, the state has just one containment zone in Indira Nagar near Seema Dwar (Dehradun).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/122-covid-19-cases-surface-in-ukhand-no-new-deaths/articleshow/80426553.cms||Shivani Azad
January 24, 2021||Bhopal||Double booster for MP vaccine drive: WHO all praise, sessions increase||BHOPAL: A week after the Covid-19 vaccination began in MP, health department has got a near cent per cent score on the first of a kind adult immunisation drive. “Such high score on feedback has not been witnessed in regular immunisation drives (like polio) too,” said additional director (immunisation), MP department of health, Dr Santosh Shukla, here on Saturday “Our programme is monitored by WHO. The feedback received on 20 indicators for which monitoring was conducted as per union government guidelines. Except for two or three, all districts received a cent per cent score in the feedback on vaccination drive,” said Dr Shukla. Vaccine messaging, site preparedness, IEC materials (like banners or posters) displayed prominently, number of team members found working, number of vaccine carriers among others were some of the parameters assessed in 150 sites. The sites would be increased from Monday. The number of beneficiaries per centre per day in Bhopal is expected to increase from Monday. This time, there will be 450 vaccination booths instead of 150 across the state. “There would be an eight-fold increase in coronavirus vaccination centres in Madhya Pradesh,” tweeted MP health minister Prabhuram Chaudhary on Saturday. Explaining the reason for increase in session sites, Chaudhary stated: ‘To facilitate vaccinate of all health workers in the first phase the session sites have been increased. Arrangements have been made for all session sites adhere to all protocol’. “AIIMS Bhopal has planned to increase its session site to two from Monday,” said AIIMS Bhopal medical superintendent, Dr Manisha Shrivastava. So far in the vaccination drive in Bhopal, six out of ten have turned up to get the jab. There was no Covid-19 vaccination drive on Saturday, but it would be carried out four days a week across the state – Monday, Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday - explained Dr Shukla. Health experts in the state capital are optimistic about the vaccination drive. Factsheets have shown that safety signals (for Covid-19 vaccine) are positive. A week after the Covid-19 vaccination began in MP, health department has got a near cent per cent score on the first of a kind adult immunisation drive. “Such high score on feedback has not been witnessed in regular immunisation drives (like polio) too,” said additional director (immunisation), MP department of health, Dr Santosh Shukla, here on Saturday. On Saturday, districts health officers and medical colleges submitted their plans to increase number of beneficiaries and session sites. “We expect to meet our initial target in the coming days. We have got the vaccines for it,” said Dr Shukla. The initial challenge in vaccination in Bhopal were overcome from the third day of vaccination on Monday. But the programme is moving forward aggressively. “We have to be transparent with all data. Being selectively transparent creates more issues that it solves,” said another senior consultant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/double-booster-for-mp-vac-drive-who-all-praise-sessions-increase/articleshow/80427114.cms||Jamal Ayub
January 24, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Tractors ready, farmers won’t budge an inch||NEW DELHI: “Agriculture is our culture,” these words, written in bold white letters across a red banner, stood out at the protest site at Singhu border on Saturday where thousands of farmers have been camping for the last two months to voice their dissent against the recently-passed farm laws. “We have said this before, and we won’t get tired of repeating this, but we will stay here until the government repeals these laws,” said Jaswant Singh, a 52-year-old farmer from Punjab’s Rupnagar district. He added that the government’s proposal to suspend the laws for a time period did not inspire confidence. “They have agreed to suspend the laws only under pressure. But there is no guarantee they would stand by their promises,” he said. As 11th round of talks between the Centre and farm leaders reached another stalemate, protesters asserted their demand for complete rollback of the laws. Just a 100 metres from the main stage, farmers and civil society members organised a “Kisan Sansad” at Guru Tegh Bahadur Memorial. “The Centre passed these laws without constituting any parliamentary committee and did not even consult any legislator or farm unions. This forced farmers to fight for their survival through protests. The Centre has also refused to allow farmers inside the capital for Republic Day, even though protesters just want to celebrate the spirit of this country,” said Supreme Court lawyer Prashant Bhushan at the beginning of the Sansad, which was later addressed by CPI politician Brinda Karat. Former Prime Minister H D Devegowda, too, supported the Sansad and tweeted, “I was born a poor farmer’s son, and have never let down farming communities in my political life... I take this opportunity to reiterate my objections to the three farm bills which were brought in as ordinances and then passed as laws without proper consultation or discussion.” Meanwhile, hundreds of tractors with the tricolour hoisting on them are being readied for the January 26 rally to Delhi. Protesters have made symbolic ploughs and attached the Indian flag to their handle. “Our purpose is to show the government how a democracy functions. Everyone can express themselves here. Our leaders had even sent invitations to current members of parliament to come and engage with us. We are not a threat. We are just concerned citizens who have no choice,” said Jaspal Khan, a protester, who had come to listen to the dialogue around the Bills. “We feed the entire country, but the government is trampling on our rights. We can’t be mute spectators now. We have to ensure that our children inherit our lands and legacy,” Khan added, amid chants of “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan”. All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Atul Kumar Anjaan told TOI that farm leaders were united on every front and would go ahead with the tractor rally. “We have already charted out a course that will take us to Delhi. Over 60,000 tractors are in standby near the borders. But the rally won’t be conducted in the capital alone. Smaller units are organising a similar rally in at least 194 districts across India,” Anjaan said. According to the AIKS leader, farmers would go back only when their main demands are met. “We want complete rollback of the laws, and the implementation of the Swaminathan committee. Additionally, MSP should get a legal umbrella and the debts of small farmers should be waived,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tractors-ready-farmers-wont-budge-an-inch/articleshow/80428572.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Ludhiana||Company employee, 3 others booked for stealing data||Ludhiana: The Dugri police have booked an employee of an IT company for stealing data from the company and further selling it to another IT company. The owner, manager and employee of another IT company to which the data was sold have also been booked. According to the company owner, he has incurred losses of over Rs 50 lakh. The accused have been identified as the Kamesh Dubey of Rama Mandi of Jalandhar, who was an employee of the IT company, Education Culture Private Limited, Gagandeep Kaur of Omax Royal Residency, who is owner of the accused company Edu Lark Global and his two employees Prateek Jain of Mahaveer Enclave and Harmanpreet Singh of Dehlon. The FIR has been lodged on the complaint of Dev Garg, director of Education Culture Private Limited. Dev alleged that earlier Harmanpreet Singh was also working in his company. However, he left the job in May 2018 and joined the accused company. The main accused, Kamesh, was working in the company since December 4, 2017. Kamesh in connivance with Harmanpreet stole data from the company and sold it to the other accused. He added that, “The matter came to light on March 18, 2020, when an employee saw Kamesh clicking pictures of the data in the laptop and sending someone on Whatsapp. The employee informed me and to cross check we gave some false information to Kamesh and that information too he forwarded to the accused company and we nabbed him. He confessed to having shared the data with the Edu Lark Global company and also showed his Whatsapp chats and bank statements ascertaining that the accused company had transferred money into the account of Kamesh.” Thereafter, on October 9, 2020, Dev lodged a complaint with the police and an inquiry was marked to the ACP, cyber crime, Vaibhav Sehgal. Dev further said, “Our company entertains international clients. The file worth Rs 1 lakh was sold by the accused in merely Rs 200. I have incurred losses of over Rs 50 lakh.” Inspector Surinder Chopra, SHO at police station, Dugri, said that the police had registered a case against the accused under Sections 420 and 120- B of the IPC. The accused are yet to be arrested. Further sections of IT Act can also be added in the case after investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/company-employee-3-others-booked-for-stealing-data/articleshow/80426557.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Bhopal||38,000 vaccinated in Madhya Pradesh so far, 63% target achieved in 4 days||BHOPAL: In the first week of Covid-19 vaccination drive, more than 38,000 health workers were vaccinated at 150 vaccination booths across the state. However, more than 22000 health workers who were also scheduled to be vaccinated in this period, could not be vaccinated in the first week. Overall, a total of around 60960 health workers were scheduled for the jab and messages were sent to them cumulatively in the four days of vaccination drive held on January 16, January 18, January 20 and January 21. Of these, only 38263 health workers turned up for vaccination. Sources said that there were several reasons that led to this delay. First of all there were some apprehensions among people, then some people could not get messages on time, few others were not well and some people were out of station or could not come due to one or other reasons. But now that one week is over and close to 40000 people have been vaccinated and no serious adverse event has been reported so far in the state, people are gaining confidence and the number of people getting vaccinated has started increasing. Especially since the fourth day when changes were made and it was allowed that those who have been left behind and are in waiting could also be vaccinated and more than 100 people could be vaccinated at each booth, the drive gained momentum. Overall around 90 minor adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) were reported in these four days and none of the beneficiaries reported any complaint after the first few minutes of the vaccination when they felt uneasy, said sources. Vaccination was lowest on the second day of vaccination when only 60% vaccination was reported, added sources. Around 36% of 60960 health workers who were scheduled for vaccination could not be vaccinated, in the first week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/38k-vaccinated-in-mp-so-far-63-target-achieved-in-4-days/articleshow/80427132.cms||Amarjeet Singh
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||Will appear before cops next month: Kangana Ranaut||MUMBAI: Actor Kangana Ranaut, who had been summoned by the Juhu police on Friday in connection with a complaint filed against her by lyricist Javed Akhtar, communicated to the police department that she was out of town and could not make it. Ranaut has said that she would appear before the Juhu police next month, said senior officers. Akhtar has filed a criminal complaint before the metropolitan magistrate against Ranaut for having made defamatory statements against him on various news channels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ranaut-will-appear-before-cops-next-month/articleshow/80428598.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Rajkot||Highway dacoits create mayhem near Gujarat's Morbi town||RAJKOT: Three miscreants created an illegal barricade on Morbi-Kandla bypass road in the outskirts of Morbi town and robbed over a dozen people at knife point on Friday night. The robbers openly snatched cash, mobile phones and valuables by intercepting bikes and cars on the public road. They also broke window panes of a few cars. Valuables worth Rs 4.21 lakh including cash were looted, said the police. The police, however, couldn’t ascertain the number of victims and have been asking victims to come forward and register FIR. Two persons were also injured in the attack by the highway robbers, While one Rohit Patel got injured by knife, Navneet Loriya received head injuries. Both are under treatment. According to the FIR, these dacoits attacked somewhere between Amreli Patiya and Navlakhi crossing road. A complaint was lodged by Pankaj Bavarva, who runs a food canteen in a paper mill, with Morbi taluka police station stating that he had Rs 4 lakh in his bag when he left for home with his nephew on Friday night. Both of them were on separate bikes. Bavarva said that robbers had created an illegal barricade on the road with tryres that they had forcefully snatched from a local puncture shop. When he reached near the spot at around 9:45 pm, a man in black clothes intercepted him and put a knife on his neck and snatched the bag containing the cash. “I ran away to save myself in a nearby farm for nearly half kilometer before I called police from my mobile,” he said. When he came on the main road again, he found many more victims including his nephew whose phone and cash were looted. He also saw glasses of some cars broken by the robbers. However, police reached the spot within a few minutes after Bavarva’s call. When contacted, superintendent of police Morbi, S R Odedara said, “We have increased patrolling on that road. The road approaching the highway is an isolated spot. As per information the robbers were locals and we will arrest them as soon as possible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/highway-dacoits-create-mayhem-near-morbi-town/articleshow/80426063.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Goa||We went through hell, need this vaccine to hit back: Covid warrior||PANAJI: A Covid warrior who got her first dose of the vaccine on Saturday had no doubts about taking it after having suffered from the infection. “We need this vaccine to hit back at Covid-19. I know how it feels to have the virus hitting you badly,” Shimada Coutinho told TOI. She was hospitalised at ESI hospital for ten days along with her husband. Her children had mild symptoms and recovered at home. “My entire family suffered. I experienced severe exhaustion and couldn’t walk even a few steps. I didn’t think I would make it till the end of the year,” she said. Coutinho, who works at the South Goa district early intervention centre, said she didn’t fear any side-effects from the vaccine. She had no doubt in her mind about taking it. “We went through hell. Nothing could be worse. The vaccine has been designed to protect and has gone through proper controls,” she said. She was permitted to get vaccinated as two and a half months have passed after she contracted Covid-19. “Nobody should go through what we went through. How long can we continue to live in fear?” Coutinho said. She was among 100 healthcare workers from Hospicio Hospital, Margao, who received the first dose of the vaccine at the vaccination site at T B hospital, Monte, Margao. State immunisation officer Dr Rajendra Borkar who inspected the site said he was satisfied with the set up and efforts of the hospital to motivate its staff to get vaccinated. “Word of mouth publicity for the vaccine is the best publicity,” he said. “There are different phases. Initially we were told that there would be a little hesitancy, but now people are already showing eagerness to take it,” Borkar said. The turnout in Goa is better than the other states, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/we-went-through-hell-need-this-vaccine-to-hit-back-covid-warrior/articleshow/80428596.cms||Lisa Monteiro
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Trash barrier at Picket nala cuts tonne of waste, six more on anvil||HYDERABAD: A floating trash barrier (FTB), installed at Picket nala, has been able to catch a large amount of plastic and other waste. The Hussainsagar lake has four inlets and Picket nala is one of them. Within three days, one tonne of waste was collected at the inlet, officials said. Around 200kg to 300 kg of floating solid waste was taken out every day. With the pilot project proving to be a success, authorities have now decided to install six more FTBs. “In a first-of-its-kind, an FTB was installed by Desmi company and WRI India Ross Centre for sustainable cities at one of inlet nalas of Hussainsagar. The Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) will set up six more FTBs,” said municipal administration and urban development (MAUD) department principal secretary Arvind Kumar. The muck consisted of plastic waste, glass, rexine, thermocol and other waste material. An official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said FTB helps in arresting flowing trash, plastics and weed and brings them to the lake bank so that excavators can remove them easily. It is installed where a stream is next to the road or at flow inlets of lakes, he said. According to HMDA officials, after collection waste gets segregated. “Glass bottles and plastic are separately taken to vendors for recycling. Bio-degradable items are taken for composting and the remaining waste collected is taken to transfer stations daily,” said a HMDA official. Due to choking of Picket nala, several areas in the vicinity of Hussainsagar lake get inundated whenever there is a downpour. “The floating wastes choke the drains and inlets resulting in urban flooding. Apart from water getting polluted, garbage dumped in Picket nala is causing harm to bio-diversity,” said an engineer of HMDA. The drain traverses through Bowenpally, Begumpet and Rasoolpura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trash-barrier-at-picket-nala-cuts-tonne-of-waste-six-more-on-anvil/articleshow/80428601.cms||Nabinder Bommala
January 24, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand government to raise ex gratia for martyrs’ kin to Rs 15 lakh||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Saturday announced that the state government is going to increase the ex-gratia payment for the families of the soldiers killed while on duty from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 15 lakh. CM Rawat made the announcement on the sidelines of the foundation laying ceremony of Sainik Dham, proposed at Purkul Gaon in Dehradun. He also recalled that Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed Uttarakhand as the Sainik Dham as the state has given and continues to give several brave jawans to the country. “The Sainik Dham will be built to pay tribute to defence personnel, who guard the borders of our country and help the society when needed,” said CM Rawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-government-to-raise-ex-gratia-for-martyrs-kin-to-rs-15-lakh/articleshow/80426558.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||NCB detains Bhiwandi jeweller in Chinku Pathan case||Mumbai: NCB, probing the Parvez alias Chinku Pathan’s drug syndicate, on Saturday carried out raids in Bhiwandi and Pune, and detained Pathan’s financier, jeweller Vikrant Jain (35) from Bhiwandi and recovered 50gm of mephedrone (MD) from him. The arrest assumes significance as NCB, in its effort to break the backbone of the syndicate, has identified four properties of main accused Pathan and his accomplice Arif Bhujwala, and are freezing them as proceeds of crime. Last week, NCB (Mumbai unit) had arrested NCP leader Nawab Malik’s son-in-law Sameer Khan, who had allegedly given Rs 20 lakh to a British drug peddler, Karan Sajnani, who was arrested with a huge quantity of contraband. Jain, who has a jewellery shop in Bhiwandi, is the fifth person to be arrested from the Pathan drug syndicate. Jain, a government valuer, has been detained and will be arrested under sections of NDPS Act for manufacturing, possessing, selling, purchasing, transporting, consuming, importing/exporting narcotic drugs. NCB on Wednesday had arrested Pathan, Zakir Hussain Shaikh, DJ and rapper Rahul Verma and Salman Pathan and seized a huge quantity of drugs, weapons, two high-end cars and around Rs 2.2 crore. It also busted Pathan’s and Bhujwala’s drug laboratory. They are still looking for Chinku’s lieutenant Arif Bhujwala and Farhan Biradar Pathan. “Jain had financed Pathan and Verma who used to peddle drug, and Jain used to get a commission. We also found evidence in electronic form and are looking for more associates,’’ said an official. NCB teams carried out raids in Bhiwandi and Pune and on Saturday formed special teams to nab Bhujwala and Farhan Biradar. Officials said they have issued an LOC against Bhujwala, as he may flee the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncb-detains-bhiwandi-jeweller-in-chinku-pathan-case/articleshow/80426887.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Juhapura razing: Court plea looms||Ahmedabad: Some residents of Juhapura are planning to approach court to seek a stay on demolitions being carried out in the area for the construction of a road for the Metro project. Priti Oza of the Centre for Labour Research and Action, Ahmedabad, said that the AMC has been indifferent to the plight of 120 residents and when representations were made in 2018, the AMC decided to serve them notices. All the 120 residents filed replies, but the AMC did not hear the residents. However, the issue was never taken up by the AMC since 2018. She said that in line with the Metro policy, each person who is evicted has to be given an alternative. But, she said, in this case the AMC was not willing to rehabilitate these residents, saying that the land acquired was for the AMC and not for Metro. She said that suddenly on January 6, another notice was given to the residents and on Friday and Saturday the AMC demolished 40-odd residential structures. She said that the residents and the centre will meet AMC officials on Monday and if nothing is worked out, the residents will approach court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/juhapura-razing-court-plea-looms/articleshow/80427172.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Goa||Goa govt withdraws municipal amendment ordinance||PANAJI: The state government on Saturday issued the notification Goa Municipalities (Amendment) Withdrawal Ordinance, 2021 to withdraw the Goa Municipalities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, which laid down a new procedure for regularisation of municipal properties and listed stringent punishment for sub-letting of such premises. The government has asked the merchants association to make suggestions for an amendment and assured to incorporate them in the bill. A senior officer said that it is highly unlikely that the state government will come out with a bill for new procedure for municipal properties. On January 4, following opposition from the All Goa Merchants Association, chief minister Pramod Sawant decided to keep on hold the implementation of the ordinance concerning municipal shops and properties. The association’s members subsequently withdrew their decision to keep their shops shut. As per the ordinance, no council could transfer any of its immovable property without the government’s sanction. “A proposal of transfer shall be accompanied by justification for such transfer and a resolution of the council passed at a meeting by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the total number of councillors and shall be consistent with the provisions of this Act and the rules made there under and any other law for the time being in force,” the ordinance stated. It stated that if any lease is not renewed on expiry of period of lease of any premises of the council, then such lease shall stand terminated and the chief officer shall take possession of the premises after giving thirty days notice to the lessee Directorate of municipal administration had received several demands for amendments of rules governing municipal shops and properties and based on those demands, the ordinance was issued. Sawant had said that the amendment was made in the interest of Goans and that leases pertaining to blood relations would continue. Associations had reservations about the inclusion of the word ‘auction’ in the amended Section 88 of the Goa Municipalities Act, which contains provisions regarding transfer of municipal property. Congress had claimed that many Goan families who had taken shops on lease at markets operated by municipal councils would no longer be able to run the stores for more than 10 years as per the ordinance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-withdraws-municipal-amendment-ordinance/articleshow/80428606.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Daily target raised to 45,000 from Monday||BHOPAL: Covid-19 vaccination drive will resume on Monday across the state. Around 45,000 health workers will be called for vaccination in the state everyday. At the rate of 100 health workers per vaccination booth, a total of around 45,000 health workers will be sent messages everyday for vaccination, sources said. Apart from these health workers, those who are left behind and are in waiting may also be called for vaccination during this week, added sources. It is expected that after initial hiatus and apprehension, the vaccination drive will gain momentum in this week. If things go as planned, nearly all of 4.17 lakh health workers who had to be vaccinated in the first phase of vaccination will get their first doses in next 15 days, said sources. “We should use this opportunity to get vaccinated. We have understood that this virus can change and create issues, so we have to be ahead of the curve to beat the virus,” said a senior consultant, seeking anonymity. The vaccine availability is already there for both the doses, state has so far received 10.5 lakh doses and only 8.7 lakh vaccines were required for both the doses of all the health workers, added sources. As the state has already started receiving vacciqne for the front line workers too, their vaccination may also start soon in the state, said sources. Overall around 1.8 lakh health workers will be sent messages and scheduled for vaccination in the four days of the coming week, and along with them those who are left behind and are in waiting may also be called for vaccination as now more than 100 people can also be vaccinated at each vaccination booth, sources said. First doctor to get vaccinated was a retired GMC professor, Dr S K Trivedi, 79.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/daily-target-raised-to-45k-from-monday/articleshow/80427156.cms||Amarjeet Singh
January 24, 2021||Dehradun||Thousands of farmers march towards Raj Bhawan in Dehradun, stopped by police||DEHRADUN: Thousands of farmers, agitating against the three farm laws, gathered on the borders of the state capital to hold a protest march towards the Governor’s House (Raj Bhawan) in Dehradun on Saturday. They were, however, stopped by police near Bhaniyawala on the outskirts of the capital city. Police had erected barricades at Harrawala to stop the farmers from entering Dehradun. The intervention by cops ensued a heated argument between the officials and the protesters. Some of the protesting farmers, who had come from all across the state, even managed to breach the barricading but their tractors were later stopped near the IIP flyover. "Farmers from across the state have come to Dehradun to demand that the three farm laws be revoked immediately. Police stopped us from marching towards the Governor's House. However, we will continue our protest," said Paramjeet Singh, one of the protesters. Meanwhile, Yogendra Singh Rawat, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Dehradun, has made an appeal to the farmers to conduct peaceful protests and said that anyone violating law will attract legal action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/thousands-of-farmers-march-towards-raj-bhawan-in-dehradun-stopped-by-police/articleshow/80426563.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||Reunited by WFH, long distant couples discover boon & bane of cohabitation||She is an atrocious sous chef, an aggravating driver and an annoying early riser with abysmal hygiene standards. He is obsessed with his hair, a keen sniffer of symbolisms in movies and a kitchen diva who likes lemons to be cut “longitudinally” and onions to attain a “golden hue”. If not for Covid-19, Vijeeta Balasundaram and her husband Viswanath Ravi would hardly have been as fluent in each other’s private insanities, her plum job with a financial MNC in Mumbai and later Hyderabad and his e-commerce operations manager title in Chennai confining their nascent marriage to rote video calls, texts and weekend meetings. Over the last eleven months spent snoozing alarms, watching movies, working and working out alongside each other though, the lovebirds have learnt the golden rule of a successful roommate agreement: “Be flexible.” Reunited suddenly by Work From Home, unlock, job loss and other side-effects of Covid-19, long-distance marriages across the country are waking up to the joys and torments of cohabitation. Propelled into quotidian proximity after being separated by livelihood, some couples are redrawing domestic budgets and some others, domestic boundaries. Though Vijeeta and Viswanath had planned to move into a new home in Hyderabad after their wedding in 2019, it was when her hostel in Hyderabad asked her to pack her bags due to the looming Covid threat in March that she shifted into her husband's maternal home in Chennai. Here he taught her to ride the two-wheeler in Kanchipuram through gritted teeth and tried not to laugh when she started peeling onions without cutting off their roots while she watched him grow a pony tail and snore through multiple alarms. Soon, their relationship matured past its first fights, flights and festivities. She still picks out the wrong utensils for cooking and he still watches one too many fruit-slicing videos but the give and take has gotten smoother, perhaps because of their recent bouts of table tennis. Confronted with uncertainty and the economic crunch, some boomerang couples are recalibrating lifestyle choices. Earlier, whenever Goregaon-based techie Andrew and airline crew member Richa--spouses of three years—would get time with each other, their plans were hyper-caffeinated. “This club, that restaurant, in the country, out of country—we were constantly going out,” recalls Andrew. But when the airline industry was hit severely by the pandemic and Richa returned from Dubai to her in-law's home during the lockdown, they compensated for their lack of outdoor activities with things like cooking and painting. Recently, after unlock, Andrew fulfilled a long-pending bucket list item for Richa by taking her to Vaishnodevi. Though replete with cancelled flights and jammed roads, the trip helped their relationship breathe. “We don't sleep over fights anymore,” says Andrew. Separation weighed heavily on those with kids. Soft sobs ambush Pune-based software engineer Sujata Salvi's voice as she recalls the tyrannical initial phase of lockdown when her husband Tushar's calm ear pulled her through her toughest multi-tasking gig: tending to her five-month-old baby with limited groceries, running the startup that she founded with her husband, finishing household chores and looking after the needs of her aging in-laws. Miles away in his workplace of 15 years in Qatar--whose borders were so tightly shut that he could neither fly down nor make video calls to family—Tushar would make up for his absence by not missing a single call from his wife while his busy-ness at times would irk his exhausted wife into missing his calls deliberately. Even as the doting husband in him would thank his sleepy wife for capturing thousands of pictures and videos of their daughter Trisha, the pining father inside would refuse to download some of the tender videos for fear of emotion. “It feels like waking up from a bad dream,” says Tushar, who quit his overseas job as soon as the skies opened up in Qatar because “family is everything”. Today, back home in Pune, his daily hash-brown-and-burger breakfasts and the kebab-and-momo dinners have been replaced by poha, uttappam, aloo tikkis and other happy meals prepared by his gifted wife, whose astute planning skills have come to wow him recently. Sparks from the honeymoon days of their long-distance marriage, reignite when he reports flickers of new movement in his daughter and makes Sujata laugh on their customary evening walks these days. “This is what I was really missing,” says Salvi, referring also to the weekly restaurant and church visits in which the duo reacquaint themselves with their non-verbal shorthand—the eye rolls and the cunning smiles that had eluded them for ten months. “We agree on everything now,” says Sujata, about the co-owner of her startup and her life who was to come back for good in 2022. “We are one unit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/reunited-by-wfh-long-distant-couples-discover-boon-bane-of-cohabitation/articleshow/80428637.cms||Sharmila Ganesan Ram
January 24, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru doctor with double kidney transplant takes jab, backs it||BENGALURU: Dr AP Nirmal Raj, a professor of dental sciences from Bengaluru who works in Uttar Pradesh, is among lakhs of Indians who have received the Covid vaccine so far.  But he is not just a medical professional whose inoculation inspires public confidence: the 47-year-old has undergone kidney transplant twice and says the related comorbidities he suffers from didn’t stop him. Dr AP Nirmal Raj while taking the shot“As a dentist, there is risk of Covid infection as we deal with saliva and aerosols during dental procedures and hence it is better to be protected,” said Nirmal. “In addition, with me being a kidney recipient twice, and on immunosuppressant medication, I’m even more vulnerable. I consulted doctors and they said the Covid vaccine does not interfere with the drugs that I am on. Covid is here to stay as long as we live and hence the vaccine is a necessity.” Went ahead after consultation with experts, no side-effects so far: DocNirmal heads the department of prosthodontics at Theerthankar Mahaveer Dental College and Research Centre in Moradabad. He took the vaccine on January 16, the day the nationwide drive was launched. Nirmal underwent the first kidney transplant in 2008 and his mother was the donor. In 2014, symptoms of renal failure resurfaced. From 2015 to 2018, he was on dialysis and in March 2018, he underwent kidney transplant for the second time, through a cadaver donor. Both transplants were done in Bengaluru. Like all others, Nirmal admits, he too initially had doubts about taking the vaccine. He approached his brother, a specialist in infectious diseases working in the US, who has recovered from Covid. He also consulted his nephrologist, Dr Sankaran Sundar, from Bengaluru. “I went ahead with the vaccination after thorough consultation with experts in the field. The vaccine does not interfere with the medicines renal patients like me take and does not aggravate comorbidities,” said Nirmal, adding that he has not experienced any side-effects so far. Nirmal’s talk post-vaccination is now getting traction on social media pages. “Dr Nirmal taking the vaccine is an encouragement for many,” said Dr Sundar. Nirmal pointed out that the perception among kidney patients and organ recipients who have not been infected is that they are safe and it is better without the vaccine. “During the lockdown, when several parts of India reported increasing Covid cases, everyone was at home. But now, everyone is out for work or studies. That’s why there is a need to take the vaccine and be safe,” he explained. Most dialysis patients are on heparin, an anticoagulatory drug, and caution needs to be taken, said Dr Sundar. He pointed out he took the Covid vaccine on January 17. “I’m taking anti-diabetic, cholesterol drugs and have undergone angioplasty earlier. People with comorbidities must not fear the vaccine,” he said. "Heparin must be avoided a day prior to the vaccination, on day of vaccination and a day after that. Those who are on heparin should avoid intramuscular injection on the days of dialysis, not just Covid vaccine. Any kidney patient must consult their doctor before going for Covid vaccination," said nephrologist Dr Sankaran Sundar. Watch Bengaluru: Doctor with double kidney transplant receives Covid vaccine, says it's safe||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/doc-with-double-kidney-transplant-takes-jab-backs-it/articleshow/80427199.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 24, 2021||Bhopal||300 new Covid cases in Madhya Pradesh again, active count dips to 4,310||BHOPAL: For the second time this week, less than 300 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state in a single day on Saturday. Earlier this week on January 20, 280 new positive cases were reported. On that day, less than 300 cases were reported in a single day in the state after more than six and a half months. Overall 291 new cases were reported in the state on Saturday, taking the count of positive cases to 253405.  Apart from the fresh cases, 6 deaths were also reported in the state as per the state health bulletin released by directorate of health services. With these, Covid death toll in the state reached 3786. On the brighter side, 454 people recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals. With these, count of people who have recovered so far in the state reached 245309. A total of 24591 samples were tested on Saturday and out of it 231 tested positive, thus positivity rate—which is number of positive cases out of every 100 samples tested—for Saturday stood at 1.1 percent. As on January 23 , there were 4310 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lt300-new-covid-cases-in-mp-again-active-count-dips-to-4310/articleshow/80427188.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Aurangabad||11,000 small transporters on brink of shutdown in Maharashtra as fuel prices rise||MUMBAI: Fuel prices set a new record in Mumbai on Saturday morning when scores of people who were out with cars for long weekend journeys were left fuming for paying more to fill up tanks. More than 11,000 transporters see a bleak future ahead and are on the verge of shutting business in Maharashtra due to surging diesel prices, members of transport associations said. The price of petrol and diesel here has risen by around a rupee in less than a week. Petrol was hiked by 24paises to retail at Rs92.28 per litre at pumps, while diesel escalated by 26paise and was sold for Rs82.66 per litre. “Diesel has been hiked by 25% in nine months. This will be the death knell for small-time transporters, who are finding it difficult to operate and meet overhead costs,’‘ said All-India Motor Transport Congress vice-president Vijay Kalra. An emergency meeting of transporters is likely in few days, and there could be a ‘chakka jam’, which may hit transportation of goods across states, he said. The last such protest was in 2018 when transportation came to a standstill for few days. Mahendra Arya, president, All-India Transporters’ Welfare Association (AITWA), said, “Over 11,000 operators in the state incurred losses of crores and many will be in debt and shut shop. These are bad times for transport sector, where our demands for rollback on taxes, VAT on diesel, withdrawal of toll and revision of e-way bill system have fallen on deaf ears.” Kalra said Kisan Rail, promoted by government, also hit transporters’ business across Maharashtra. “While the government gives subsidised rates for transportation of commodities by rail, there is no relief for road transporters. We cannot operate at such low rates as offered by Railways, and are depressed when we see spiralling diesel prices at pumps,” he said. Cars and SUVs were in large numbers at pumps on Saturday morning as many went to refuel before heading out to Lonavala, Pune, Mahabaleshwar, Alibaug, Igatpuri, Nashik and other places. Abhishek Das, who was on his way with family to Lonavala, said, “I filled up a full tank for my SUV, but it was stressful to see rates at the pump. Also, with mileage coming down due to traffic snarls, I will end up spending more travelling out of town for an extended weekend getaway.” Petrol dealers’ association president M Venkat Rao said there was a rush of customers despite fuel price hikes, as they preferred travelling in their own vehicles during COvid-19. “There is no drop in customers, with petrol vehicles coming to our pumps although Mumbai has the highest rate among metro cities,” he added. Abhishek Gupta of Bombay Goods Transport Association said some trucks were getting repossessed by banks/financiers and are off roads. There is an increase in transportation cost by 15% due to diesel hikes, from Rs66 in April to over Rs82 today, he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/11k-small-transporters-on-brink-of-shutdown-in-maharashtra-as-fuel-prices-rise/articleshow/80430268.cms||Somit Sen
January 24, 2021||Navi-mumbai||11,000 small transporters on brink of shutdown in Maharashtra as fuel prices rise||MUMBAI: Fuel prices set a new record in Mumbai on Saturday morning when scores of people who were out with cars for long weekend journeys were left fuming for paying more to fill up tanks. More than 11,000 transporters see a bleak future ahead and are on the verge of shutting business in Maharashtra due to surging diesel prices, members of transport associations said. The price of petrol and diesel here has risen by around a rupee in less than a week. Petrol was hiked by 24paises to retail at Rs92.28 per litre at pumps, while diesel escalated by 26paise and was sold for Rs82.66 per litre. “Diesel has been hiked by 25% in nine months. This will be the death knell for small-time transporters, who are finding it difficult to operate and meet overhead costs,’‘ said All-India Motor Transport Congress vice-president Vijay Kalra. An emergency meeting of transporters is likely in few days, and there could be a ‘chakka jam’, which may hit transportation of goods across states, he said. The last such protest was in 2018 when transportation came to a standstill for few days. Mahendra Arya, president, All-India Transporters’ Welfare Association (AITWA), said, “Over 11,000 operators in the state incurred losses of crores and many will be in debt and shut shop. These are bad times for transport sector, where our demands for rollback on taxes, VAT on diesel, withdrawal of toll and revision of e-way bill system have fallen on deaf ears.” Kalra said Kisan Rail, promoted by government, also hit transporters’ business across Maharashtra. “While the government gives subsidised rates for transportation of commodities by rail, there is no relief for road transporters. We cannot operate at such low rates as offered by Railways, and are depressed when we see spiralling diesel prices at pumps,” he said. Cars and SUVs were in large numbers at pumps on Saturday morning as many went to refuel before heading out to Lonavala, Pune, Mahabaleshwar, Alibaug, Igatpuri, Nashik and other places. Abhishek Das, who was on his way with family to Lonavala, said, “I filled up a full tank for my SUV, but it was stressful to see rates at the pump. Also, with mileage coming down due to traffic snarls, I will end up spending more travelling out of town for an extended weekend getaway.” Petrol dealers’ association president M Venkat Rao said there was a rush of customers despite fuel price hikes, as they preferred travelling in their own vehicles during COvid-19. “There is no drop in customers, with petrol vehicles coming to our pumps although Mumbai has the highest rate among metro cities,” he added. Abhishek Gupta of Bombay Goods Transport Association said some trucks were getting repossessed by banks/financiers and are off roads. There is an increase in transportation cost by 15% due to diesel hikes, from Rs66 in April to over Rs82 today, he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/11k-small-transporters-on-brink-of-shutdown-in-maharashtra-as-fuel-prices-rise/articleshow/80430270.cms||Somit Sen
January 24, 2021||Nashik||11,000 small transporters on brink of shutdown in Maharashtra as fuel prices rise||MUMBAI: Fuel prices set a new record in Mumbai on Saturday morning when scores of people who were out with cars for long weekend journeys were left fuming for paying more to fill up tanks. More than 11,000 transporters see a bleak future ahead and are on the verge of shutting business in Maharashtra due to surging diesel prices, members of transport associations said. The price of petrol and diesel here has risen by around a rupee in less than a week. Petrol was hiked by 24paises to retail at Rs92.28 per litre at pumps, while diesel escalated by 26paise and was sold for Rs82.66 per litre. “Diesel has been hiked by 25% in nine months. This will be the death knell for small-time transporters, who are finding it difficult to operate and meet overhead costs,’‘ said All-India Motor Transport Congress vice-president Vijay Kalra. An emergency meeting of transporters is likely in few days, and there could be a ‘chakka jam’, which may hit transportation of goods across states, he said. The last such protest was in 2018 when transportation came to a standstill for few days. Mahendra Arya, president, All-India Transporters’ Welfare Association (AITWA), said, “Over 11,000 operators in the state incurred losses of crores and many will be in debt and shut shop. These are bad times for transport sector, where our demands for rollback on taxes, VAT on diesel, withdrawal of toll and revision of e-way bill system have fallen on deaf ears.” Kalra said Kisan Rail, promoted by government, also hit transporters’ business across Maharashtra. “While the government gives subsidised rates for transportation of commodities by rail, there is no relief for road transporters. We cannot operate at such low rates as offered by Railways, and are depressed when we see spiralling diesel prices at pumps,” he said. Cars and SUVs were in large numbers at pumps on Saturday morning as many went to refuel before heading out to Lonavala, Pune, Mahabaleshwar, Alibaug, Igatpuri, Nashik and other places. Abhishek Das, who was on his way with family to Lonavala, said, “I filled up a full tank for my SUV, but it was stressful to see rates at the pump. Also, with mileage coming down due to traffic snarls, I will end up spending more travelling out of town for an extended weekend getaway.” Petrol dealers’ association president M Venkat Rao said there was a rush of customers despite fuel price hikes, as they preferred travelling in their own vehicles during COvid-19. “There is no drop in customers, with petrol vehicles coming to our pumps although Mumbai has the highest rate among metro cities,” he added. Abhishek Gupta of Bombay Goods Transport Association said some trucks were getting repossessed by banks/financiers and are off roads. There is an increase in transportation cost by 15% due to diesel hikes, from Rs66 in April to over Rs82 today, he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/11k-small-transporters-on-brink-of-shutdown-in-maharashtra-as-fuel-prices-rise/articleshow/80430266.cms||Somit Sen
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Model code in place till mayor poll||HYDERABAD: Telangana State Election Commission (SEC) declared that model code of conduct (MCC) will continue till mayor and deputy mayor for Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) are elected. As the notification by SEC pertaining to mayoral election has been released on January 22, the MCC is already applicable and will continue till new mayor is elected. The mayoral election will be held on February 11. Hyderabad district collector Swetha Mohanty has been nominated by GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar to convene a special meeting to conduct mayoral elections. “Party representatives are not allowed to hold campaigns, programmes or rallies from 48 hours before the mayoral elections are held,” read a statement issued by SEC. “Influencing corporators and members who can elect mayor and deputy mayor by bribing and threatening them will be treated as violation of MCC,” said the SEC. SEC also stated that if the party which is ruling along with officials tries to influence corporators or ex-officio members, action will be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/model-code-in-place-till-mayor-poll/articleshow/80428620.cms||Nabinder Bommala
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||11,000 small transporters on brink of shutdown in Maharashtra as fuel prices rise||MUMBAI: Fuel prices set a new record in Mumbai on Saturday morning when scores of people who were out with cars for long weekend journeys were left fuming for paying more to fill up tanks. More than 11,000 transporters see a bleak future ahead and are on the verge of shutting business in Maharashtra due to surging diesel prices, members of transport associations said. The price of petrol and diesel here has risen by around a rupee in less than a week. Petrol was hiked by 24paises to retail at Rs92.28 per litre at pumps, while diesel escalated by 26paise and was sold for Rs82.66 per litre. “Diesel has been hiked by 25% in nine months. This will be the death knell for small-time transporters, who are finding it difficult to operate and meet overhead costs,’‘ said All-India Motor Transport Congress vice-president Vijay Kalra. An emergency meeting of transporters is likely in few days, and there could be a ‘chakka jam’, which may hit transportation of goods across states, he said. The last such protest was in 2018 when transportation came to a standstill for few days. Mahendra Arya, president, All-India Transporters’ Welfare Association (AITWA), said, “Over 11,000 operators in the state incurred losses of crores and many will be in debt and shut shop. These are bad times for transport sector, where our demands for rollback on taxes, VAT on diesel, withdrawal of toll and revision of e-way bill system have fallen on deaf ears.” Kalra said Kisan Rail, promoted by government, also hit transporters’ business across Maharashtra. “While the government gives subsidised rates for transportation of commodities by rail, there is no relief for road transporters. We cannot operate at such low rates as offered by Railways, and are depressed when we see spiralling diesel prices at pumps,” he said. Cars and SUVs were in large numbers at pumps on Saturday morning as many went to refuel before heading out to Lonavala, Pune, Mahabaleshwar, Alibaug, Igatpuri, Nashik and other places. Abhishek Das, who was on his way with family to Lonavala, said, “I filled up a full tank for my SUV, but it was stressful to see rates at the pump. Also, with mileage coming down due to traffic snarls, I will end up spending more travelling out of town for an extended weekend getaway.” Petrol dealers’ association president M Venkat Rao said there was a rush of customers despite fuel price hikes, as they preferred travelling in their own vehicles during COvid-19. “There is no drop in customers, with petrol vehicles coming to our pumps although Mumbai has the highest rate among metro cities,” he added. Abhishek Gupta of Bombay Goods Transport Association said some trucks were getting repossessed by banks/financiers and are off roads. There is an increase in transportation cost by 15% due to diesel hikes, from Rs66 in April to over Rs82 today, he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/11k-small-transporters-on-brink-of-shutdown-in-maharashtra-as-fuel-prices-rise/articleshow/80426888.cms||Somit Sen
January 24, 2021||Thane||11,000 small transporters on brink of shutdown in Maharashtra as fuel prices rise||MUMBAI: Fuel prices set a new record in Mumbai on Saturday morning when scores of people who were out with cars for long weekend journeys were left fuming for paying more to fill up tanks. More than 11,000 transporters see a bleak future ahead and are on the verge of shutting business in Maharashtra due to surging diesel prices, members of transport associations said. The price of petrol and diesel here has risen by around a rupee in less than a week. Petrol was hiked by 24paises to retail at Rs92.28 per litre at pumps, while diesel escalated by 26paise and was sold for Rs82.66 per litre. “Diesel has been hiked by 25% in nine months. This will be the death knell for small-time transporters, who are finding it difficult to operate and meet overhead costs,’‘ said All-India Motor Transport Congress vice-president Vijay Kalra. An emergency meeting of transporters is likely in few days, and there could be a ‘chakka jam’, which may hit transportation of goods across states, he said. The last such protest was in 2018 when transportation came to a standstill for few days. Mahendra Arya, president, All-India Transporters’ Welfare Association (AITWA), said, “Over 11,000 operators in the state incurred losses of crores and many will be in debt and shut shop. These are bad times for transport sector, where our demands for rollback on taxes, VAT on diesel, withdrawal of toll and revision of e-way bill system have fallen on deaf ears.” Kalra said Kisan Rail, promoted by government, also hit transporters’ business across Maharashtra. “While the government gives subsidised rates for transportation of commodities by rail, there is no relief for road transporters. We cannot operate at such low rates as offered by Railways, and are depressed when we see spiralling diesel prices at pumps,” he said. Cars and SUVs were in large numbers at pumps on Saturday morning as many went to refuel before heading out to Lonavala, Pune, Mahabaleshwar, Alibaug, Igatpuri, Nashik and other places. Abhishek Das, who was on his way with family to Lonavala, said, “I filled up a full tank for my SUV, but it was stressful to see rates at the pump. Also, with mileage coming down due to traffic snarls, I will end up spending more travelling out of town for an extended weekend getaway.” Petrol dealers’ association president M Venkat Rao said there was a rush of customers despite fuel price hikes, as they preferred travelling in their own vehicles during COvid-19. “There is no drop in customers, with petrol vehicles coming to our pumps although Mumbai has the highest rate among metro cities,” he added. Abhishek Gupta of Bombay Goods Transport Association said some trucks were getting repossessed by banks/financiers and are off roads. There is an increase in transportation cost by 15% due to diesel hikes, from Rs66 in April to over Rs82 today, he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/11k-small-transporters-on-brink-of-shutdown-in-maharashtra-as-fuel-prices-rise/articleshow/80430269.cms||Somit Sen
January 24, 2021||Jaipur||Elephants of Hathigaon healthy and stress-free, says research||JAIPUR: A recent study on 18 elephants of Jaipur’s elephant village has suggested of them being well-nourished, healthy and stress-free. The captive Asian elephants were tested on various parameters of nutrition and activity over a considerable period of time, for the first time in the country. These elephants are a popular tourist attraction and ferry tourists at the historical Amber Fort. “The safari elephants were also tested for their stress levels along with various physical and physiological traits. The results indicate of an overall well-being of the animals,” said Dr Dharmendra Chharang, veterinarian who conducted the research. The research reads that the elephants were selected to see the effect of probiotic supplementation on parameters of elephants such as digestibility of nutrients, minerals and energy values, analysis of blood and faecal samples, gastro-intestinal parasites prevalence and stress levels. Chharang added, “All the elephants in this research showed positive health effects on supplementation of probiotics.” As the Asian elephants are categorised under the endangered migratory species of red list of International Union for Conservation of Nature and Schedule I animal of India, the permission for the research was taken from the state forest department and Union ministry. The research could prove to be a silver lining for Jaipur mahouts as Union forest ministry panel advised withdrawal of elephant rides at the iconic Amber Fort. The panel has recommended the withdrawal in a phased manner and to replace it with electric or battery-operated vehicles. The panel was formed on a Supreme Court order based on concerns over alleged cruelty to elephants and their illegal use for joy rides and other activities at Amber Fort and the elephant village in Jaipur. In its report dated December 28, the committee has advised withdrawal of elephant rides considering the advancing age of jumbos and declining trend among tourists for rides. The report reads, “The declining trend of tourists on elephant rides and ageing animals are indicators for changes. The owners of the elephants also may be rehabilitated suitably in such situations. The new addition of elephants for rides should be completely banned.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/elephants-of-hathigaon-healthy-stress-free-research/articleshow/80427224.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Dyes, intermediates: Costs hit orders||AHMEDABAD: Orders of dyes and intermediate manufacturers have taken a hit in Gujarat, thanks to the reduced price competitiveness triggered by the rise in the prices of basic chemicals. Dyes and intermediate manufacturers are dependent on import of raw materials from China; however, the anti-dumping duty imposed on certain items has caused raw material prices to soar over the past three months. Estimates by the Gujarat Dyestuff Manufacturers’ Association (GDMA) suggest that the price of chemicals such as phthalic anhydride has increased from Rs 50 per kg to Rs 100. Similarly, phosphorous trichloride’s price has nearly doubled, from Rs 70 to Rs 130 a kg; whereas aniline oil’s price rose from Rs 20 to Rs 40 per kg. “Prices have almost doubled in certain cases and for some other chemicals, there is at least a 30% increase,” said Yogesh Parikh, president, GDMA. “Most of these chemicals are used for manufacturing paints, pigments as well as dyes and reactive dyes. However, expensive raw materials have pushed the cost of production up by 30%.” Parikh added: “Due to this, we are compelled to pass on a part of the cost to the finished product.” He went on to say: “This has reduced our competitiveness and therefore, fresh orders have taken a hit, both from the domestic and international market.” Gujarat accounts for at least 50% of the total production of dyes and intermediates. Industry players mentioned that while fresh orders are impacted, manufacturers are also reeling under working capital woes. “Increased raw material prices come as a big blow to industries, particularly MSMEs,” said Bhupendra Patel, chairman, Gujarat region, Chemexcil. Since export orders too have suffered, industry players expect some incentive schemes to be announced in the upcoming Union budget. “The government had repealed the Merchandise Export Incentive Scheme last year as part of which 2% export incentive was available,” said a GDMA official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dyes-intermediates-costs-hit-orders/articleshow/80427228.cms||Niyati Parikh
January 24, 2021||Kolhapur||11,000 small transporters on brink of shutdown in Maharashtra as fuel prices rise||MUMBAI: Fuel prices set a new record in Mumbai on Saturday morning when scores of people who were out with cars for long weekend journeys were left fuming for paying more to fill up tanks. More than 11,000 transporters see a bleak future ahead and are on the verge of shutting business in Maharashtra due to surging diesel prices, members of transport associations said. The price of petrol and diesel here has risen by around a rupee in less than a week. Petrol was hiked by 24paises to retail at Rs92.28 per litre at pumps, while diesel escalated by 26paise and was sold for Rs82.66 per litre. “Diesel has been hiked by 25% in nine months. This will be the death knell for small-time transporters, who are finding it difficult to operate and meet overhead costs,’‘ said All-India Motor Transport Congress vice-president Vijay Kalra. An emergency meeting of transporters is likely in few days, and there could be a ‘chakka jam’, which may hit transportation of goods across states, he said. The last such protest was in 2018 when transportation came to a standstill for few days. Mahendra Arya, president, All-India Transporters’ Welfare Association (AITWA), said, “Over 11,000 operators in the state incurred losses of crores and many will be in debt and shut shop. These are bad times for transport sector, where our demands for rollback on taxes, VAT on diesel, withdrawal of toll and revision of e-way bill system have fallen on deaf ears.” Kalra said Kisan Rail, promoted by government, also hit transporters’ business across Maharashtra. “While the government gives subsidised rates for transportation of commodities by rail, there is no relief for road transporters. We cannot operate at such low rates as offered by Railways, and are depressed when we see spiralling diesel prices at pumps,” he said. Cars and SUVs were in large numbers at pumps on Saturday morning as many went to refuel before heading out to Lonavala, Pune, Mahabaleshwar, Alibaug, Igatpuri, Nashik and other places. Abhishek Das, who was on his way with family to Lonavala, said, “I filled up a full tank for my SUV, but it was stressful to see rates at the pump. Also, with mileage coming down due to traffic snarls, I will end up spending more travelling out of town for an extended weekend getaway.” Petrol dealers’ association president M Venkat Rao said there was a rush of customers despite fuel price hikes, as they preferred travelling in their own vehicles during COvid-19. “There is no drop in customers, with petrol vehicles coming to our pumps although Mumbai has the highest rate among metro cities,” he added. Abhishek Gupta of Bombay Goods Transport Association said some trucks were getting repossessed by banks/financiers and are off roads. There is an increase in transportation cost by 15% due to diesel hikes, from Rs66 in April to over Rs82 today, he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/11k-small-transporters-on-brink-of-shutdown-in-maharashtra-as-fuel-prices-rise/articleshow/80430265.cms||Somit Sen
January 24, 2021||Nagpur||11,000 small transporters on brink of shutdown in Maharashtra as fuel prices rise||MUMBAI: Fuel prices set a new record in Mumbai on Saturday morning when scores of people who were out with cars for long weekend journeys were left fuming for paying more to fill up tanks. More than 11,000 transporters see a bleak future ahead and are on the verge of shutting business in Maharashtra due to surging diesel prices, members of transport associations said. The price of petrol and diesel here has risen by around a rupee in less than a week. Petrol was hiked by 24paises to retail at Rs92.28 per litre at pumps, while diesel escalated by 26paise and was sold for Rs82.66 per litre. “Diesel has been hiked by 25% in nine months. This will be the death knell for small-time transporters, who are finding it difficult to operate and meet overhead costs,’‘ said All-India Motor Transport Congress vice-president Vijay Kalra. An emergency meeting of transporters is likely in few days, and there could be a ‘chakka jam’, which may hit transportation of goods across states, he said. The last such protest was in 2018 when transportation came to a standstill for few days. Mahendra Arya, president, All-India Transporters’ Welfare Association (AITWA), said, “Over 11,000 operators in the state incurred losses of crores and many will be in debt and shut shop. These are bad times for transport sector, where our demands for rollback on taxes, VAT on diesel, withdrawal of toll and revision of e-way bill system have fallen on deaf ears.” Kalra said Kisan Rail, promoted by government, also hit transporters’ business across Maharashtra. “While the government gives subsidised rates for transportation of commodities by rail, there is no relief for road transporters. We cannot operate at such low rates as offered by Railways, and are depressed when we see spiralling diesel prices at pumps,” he said. Cars and SUVs were in large numbers at pumps on Saturday morning as many went to refuel before heading out to Lonavala, Pune, Mahabaleshwar, Alibaug, Igatpuri, Nashik and other places. Abhishek Das, who was on his way with family to Lonavala, said, “I filled up a full tank for my SUV, but it was stressful to see rates at the pump. Also, with mileage coming down due to traffic snarls, I will end up spending more travelling out of town for an extended weekend getaway.” Petrol dealers’ association president M Venkat Rao said there was a rush of customers despite fuel price hikes, as they preferred travelling in their own vehicles during COvid-19. “There is no drop in customers, with petrol vehicles coming to our pumps although Mumbai has the highest rate among metro cities,” he added. Abhishek Gupta of Bombay Goods Transport Association said some trucks were getting repossessed by banks/financiers and are off roads. There is an increase in transportation cost by 15% due to diesel hikes, from Rs66 in April to over Rs82 today, he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/11k-small-transporters-on-brink-of-shutdown-in-maharashtra-as-fuel-prices-rise/articleshow/80430267.cms||Somit Sen
January 24, 2021||Meerut||From running 'sex racket to gang of dacoits': 6 UP cops booked, 4 arrested||MEERUT: At least six policemen were booked and four of them arrested in three separate incidents in Uttar Pradesh last week, leaving the department red-faced. The incidents were severely criticised on social networking platforms. Claiming criminalisation to be rampant in police force, experts cite several reasons for its prevalence with one being "compromised" recruitment in the state, in the past. "There are times when political parties in power make it a point that their caste-men are recruited in the services. There are recorded instances when police verification was dispensed with and people were recruited irrespective of their criminal background. This has happened on a large scale in UP," Prakash Singh, former director general of UP police, said. On January 17, two constables were suspended in Pilibhit district for allegedly running an extortion-cum-sex racket. In Hapur district, Brijesh Kumar Yadav, a sub-inspector, posted at UPSIDC outpost was arrested after his alleged links with liquor mafia in Meerut. It was exposed following the arrest of two suspects. The most worrying of all was the recent expose of a "gang of dacoits" in Gorakhpur district. Two jewellers, residents of Maharajganj district, on their way to board a bus from Gorakhpur to Lucknow were allegedly abducted and robbed of jewellery and cash worth Rs 35 lakh by "men in khaki". Prima facie, investigating sleuths thought assailants posing as cops were behind the incident. However, to their utter shock, the role of real cops who were running the gang came to fore during the investigation. Sub-inspector Dharmendra Yadav and two constables - Mahendra Yadav and Santosh Yadav - posted in Basti district were arrested. Gorakhpur SSP Jogendra Kumar claimed the gang was behind another robbery in the city last month. When contacted, the state's top cop dubbed the recent incidents as "personal aberration". "They are being terminated and sent to jail. There is no leniency either by the government or the department. This is personal aberration," Prashant Kumar, additional director general (law and order), said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/from-running-sex-racket-to-gang-of-dacoits-6-cops-booked-4-arrested/articleshow/80426074.cms||Piyush Rai
January 24, 2021||Meerut||Excise inspector, 2 constables arrested for taking bribe from illicit liquor trader||MEERUT: In a joint operation, Bulandshahr and Hapur police have arrested an inspector of excise department and two constables for allegedly receiving a bribe of Rs 3 lakh in lieu of releasing illicit liquor traders who they had caught red-handed with consignment. According to police sources, the consignment has been recovered and three excise officials have been arrested and sent to jail. Working on a tip-off from Hapur police on Thursday, a joint team of Hapur and Bulandshahr police had raided the premises of one Brahmpal who was a licensee contractor for liquor trading at Anivas village in Bulandshahr's Anupshahr town where 18 cartons of illicit liquor was seized and Brahmpal's assistant Bimal Raghav was arrested. "During questioning, Raghav revealed how on January 8, an excise department's crack team comprising inspector Suresh Chauhan and constables Khem Singh and Anuj Kumar intercepted his car in Hapur and seized eight cartons of illicit liquor. Later, all of them reached Bulandshahr and contacted Brahmpal. A deal was struck in which Brahmpal gave the excise department team Rs 3 lakh in lieu of releasing Raghav. With the help of electronic surveillance and call detail reports, all claims of Raghav were found to be corroborating with the location of the team at the time of crime and after a thorough inquiry, all three members of the excise department were arrested," Bulandshahr SSP Santosh Singh said. All three have been booked under relevant sections of Excise Act and the Prevention of Corruption Act and sent to jail. "Police inquiry against Brahmpal and Bimal Raghav is still ongoing," SSP Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/excise-inspector-2-constables-arrested-for-taking-bribe-from-illicit-liquor-trader/articleshow/80426066.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 24, 2021||Meerut||Army recruitment scam busted in Meerut, two, including ex-serviceman, arrested||MEERUT: Acting on a tip-off from the Military Intelligence (MI), the Uttar Pradesh Police on Saturday busted an Army recruitment scam and arrested two persons, including an ex-serviceman, from a hotel in Meerut. The kingpin of the racket has been identified as Rajinder Dalip Bhilare of the 101st engineer regiment. He was dismissed from the service in 2014. The other accomplice has been identified as Rajinder Dinkar Sapkal. Both are from Satara district in Maharashtra. According to police sources, they used to charge Rs 6 lakh (approximately) per candidate for getting them recruited in the Army. Once the money was collected from the gullible candidates, they used to dupe them by providing fake joining letters and then left them in the lurch. Talking to TOI, station officer Sadar Police station, Dinesh Baghel said, “We got an MI input that 10 persons were staying in a local hotel for the last 10 days and were involved in some sinister activity. Upon questioning, we unearthed an Army recruitment scam, following which Rajinder Dalip Bhilare and Rajinder Dinkar Sapkal were arrested.” Police have also seized a diary with the details of transactions worth crores of rupees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/army-recruitment-scam-busted-in-meerut-two-including-ex-serviceman-arrested/articleshow/80426058.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 24, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Gir Somnath registers first case of bird flu in poultry||RAJKOT: Gir Somnath district officials on Saturday confirmed the region’s first case of bird flu in poultry birds. After the report, 220 poultry birds were culled in one day while restriction orders were issued in the entire district regarding consumption and sell of eggs and chickens. More than a dozen poultry birds were found dead in Dolasa village of Kodinar taluka a few days ago. The carcasses were sent to Bhopal for forensic testing and the report on Friday night confirmed avian influenza. A team of animal husbandry department surveyed the area and culling orders were given to four poultry farms within one kilometre radius from the affected farm. In a statement, the Gir Somnath district administration said that the entire area has been disinfected and a 10km radius area has been declared as the surveillance zone for next 60 days. The district collector, through a notification, also prohibited buying and selling of chicken and eggs. The 10km radius area has been declared a prohibited area banning all types of poultry related farming activities while people have been advised to wear masks, gloves and gumboots and avoid travelling to the area unless in emergency. Strict action will be taken against the violators, it stated. Junagadh district’s Manavadar taluka first tested positive of avain flu following the death of many birds including migratory birds. However, this time poultry birds tested positive too. Bird flu cases have so far been reported in five districts including Gir Somnath, Junagadh, Valsad, Surat and Vadodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gir-somnath-registers-first-case-of-bird-flu-in-poultry/articleshow/80426096.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Biker smashes car’s windshield||Ahmedabad: A Chandkheda resident, working as a nayab subedar in the Indian Army, lodged a complaint against an unknown biker for breaking the windshield of his car. Bipin Solanki, 37, told police that he was posted in Jalandhar in Punjab but had come to Ahmedabad after his mother expired on January 11. “On Friday, he was returning home after meeting his friend, when he saw a bike rider coming towards him at full speed. Both of them applied brakes, but the biker fell off his vehicle,” said police. “Angered by this, he approached Solanki’s car and banged his fists on the windshield, shattering it. The subedar allegedly asked him to desist, but the biker abused him. When people began gathering at the spot, the biker fled away,” policeadded. Chandkheda police lodged a complaint against the bike rider under section 294(b) and 427 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/biker-smashes-cars-windshield/articleshow/80427257.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Udaipur||Restrictions under Section 144 in Rajasthan extended till February 21||JAIPUR: In view of the Covid situation in Rajasthan, the state’s home department has extended its order to impose restrictions under Section 144 in 33 districts from January 22 to February 21. The directions have been issued to the district collectors and magistrates of all the districts. Section 144, which was initially imposed in the state on March 18, 2020, with spread of coronavirus, has now been extended again up to February 21 by the state’s home department looking at the Covid situation in the state. The department had reiterated its order instructing all the district collectors and police commissioners of Jodhpur and Jaipur to impose Section 144 from November 21, 2020. “Looking at the risks to human life and people’s health condition with the spread of Covid infection, the restrictions under Section 144 has been extended by a month in the state,” said home secretary N L Meena. 65 mobile phones seized in ‘Operation Flush Out’Jaipur: Under “Operation Flush Out” campaign, which was launched on November 20, to prevent use of mobile phones and prohibited items in prisons, 2,700 sudden intensive searches have been conducted in jails by police and SOG, informed DG (Prisons) Rajeev Dasot. During the searches, 65 mobile phones, 18 chargers, 29 SIM cards, 16 earphones and 8 data cables have been recovered. In these FIRs have been lodged in 46 cases. Among the prison employees, three have been dismissed, 18 have been suspended, 16 and 17 CCA proceedings were initiated against 44 persons and 20 officials have been transferred following complaints for indulging in various criminal activities. He said 33 hardcore detainees have been moved out of the comfort zone and shifted to other prisons to eliminate the possibility of alliances developing among criminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/restrictions-under-sec-144-extended-up-to-feb-21/articleshow/80430054.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Jaipur||48 electric buses to be introduced on Jaipur-Delhi route||JAIPUR: The state transport department will introduce 48 electric buses on Jaipur- Delhi route in the coming week and the vehicles will stop at Bikaner House in Delhi which had been stopped for over a year back. The trial for the electric bus was held about a year ago. The state transport minister will also hold a meeting on Monday regarding the midways on various routes across the state. Transport minister Pratapsingh Khacharyiawas said, “In coming days, we will start the electric buses which will ply passengers between Jaipur and Delhi. Although not my department, I will hold a meeting with RTDC officials to ensure that the buses stop at Behror midway. We will also take steps to curb corruption in the department so that passengers get the best facilities possible.” A test ride of approximately 30 kilometre in an electric bus, was taken by the state transport department officials last year in April. According to officials, 50 electric buses have been approved by Centre’s Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric Vehicles, or FAME 2 scheme. Rajasthan, however, will not be purchasing these vehicles but will be floating tenders soon to get them on rental basis. “We will also start roadways buses on those routes in rural areas where they are no buses at present. The private operators will be given relaxation in taxes though it will not burden the state government. Permits will also be issued for these routes. We are getting details about such routes where there are no buses so that permits can be issued at the earliest”, added the minister. The roadways will also recruit over 500 drivers in addition to 410 existing ones as it was found that every day buses travel approximately 14 lakh kilometre due to which the department is facing shortage of drivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/48-electric-buses-to-ply-on-jaipur-delhi-route-soon/articleshow/80427256.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Jaipur||Restrictions under Section 144 in Rajasthan extended till February 21||JAIPUR: In view of the Covid situation in Rajasthan, the state’s home department has extended its order to impose restrictions under Section 144 in 33 districts from January 22 to February 21. The directions have been issued to the district collectors and magistrates of all the districts. Section 144, which was initially imposed in the state on March 18, 2020, with spread of coronavirus, has now been extended again up to February 21 by the state’s home department looking at the Covid situation in the state. The department had reiterated its order instructing all the district collectors and police commissioners of Jodhpur and Jaipur to impose Section 144 from November 21, 2020. “Looking at the risks to human life and people’s health condition with the spread of Covid infection, the restrictions under Section 144 has been extended by a month in the state,” said home secretary N L Meena. 65 mobile phones seized in ‘Operation Flush Out’Jaipur: Under “Operation Flush Out” campaign, which was launched on November 20, to prevent use of mobile phones and prohibited items in prisons, 2,700 sudden intensive searches have been conducted in jails by police and SOG, informed DG (Prisons) Rajeev Dasot. During the searches, 65 mobile phones, 18 chargers, 29 SIM cards, 16 earphones and 8 data cables have been recovered. In these FIRs have been lodged in 46 cases. Among the prison employees, three have been dismissed, 18 have been suspended, 16 and 17 CCA proceedings were initiated against 44 persons and 20 officials have been transferred following complaints for indulging in various criminal activities. He said 33 hardcore detainees have been moved out of the comfort zone and shifted to other prisons to eliminate the possibility of alliances developing among criminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/restrictions-under-sec-144-extended-up-to-feb-21/articleshow/80427238.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||BMC plans second waste-to-power plant at Deonar||MUMBAI: Even as its first waste-to-energy plant is yet to take off, BMC has cleared a plan for a second such plant at Deonar dumping ground. It has called for an Expression of Interest (EOI) for the second plant.  The first plant is still to take off despite getting approvals of the standing committee in November last year. According to the EOI issued this week, the second plant (see details in info box) will process 1,200 tonnes of waste a day. The BMC estimates that 25MW of power will be generated from the second plant each day. In November, the nearly Rs 1,100 crore proposal for the first such plant was cleared by the standing committee without any discussion. The contract was allotted to the lowest bidder — Chennai MSW Pvt Ltd. BMC has agreed to give 12 hectares of the over 120-hectare Deonar landfill to the contractor to set up the plant within 40 months and operate it for 15 years. The first plant will process around 600 metric tonnes of garbage daily and generate power for sale in the open market. Set up in 1927, the dumping ground extends over 132 hectares and mountains of garbage rise as high as 114 feet. Samajwadi Party corporator Rais Shaikh, also an MLA, who had opposed the plant, said, “There are no environmental clearances for this project. The dumping ground is surrounded by residential areas and waste-to-energy plants will cause pollution and health issues. Health of locals will be affected,” he said. He added that the state government must intervene and look at a healthier and more environmentally friendly option.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-jumps-the-gun-2nd-waste-to-power-plant-given-the-push/articleshow/80411785.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||ED arrests 2 directors of MLA Hitendra Thakur’s firm||Mumbai: Enforcement Directorate late on Friday arrested two directors of Virar-based Viva Group as part of its probe into money-laundering aspect of HDIL-PMC bank scam and Yes Bank fraud. Those arrested were Mehul Thakar, a relative of Vasai MLA Hitendra Thakur, and chartered accountant Madan Gopal Chaturvedi. Hitendra’s son Kshitij is also an MLA from Nallasopara and the Thakur family enjoys tremendous clout in Vasai-Virar-Palghar belt. On Friday, Kshitij had denied involvement of Viva Group in money-laundering. Chaturvedi, in a statement to ED, said that he sold his laptop, which contained sensitive information to a scrap dealer for Rs300 and destroyed his mobile records. Chaturvedi told officials that “he deleted all data on his phone, including WhatsApp chats, call logs, contact details and messages to hide crucial information from the investigation, which would have been otherwise relevant in establishing the charge of money-laundering against the accused person,’’ ED said in the remand application. In his statement to ED on Friday, Chaturvedi provided a wrong residential address. In their remand application, ED stated that “it was a mala fide attempt to hoodwink the directorate and to detrail the investigation  ED produced the two before a special court on Saturday, which remanded them to four days ED custody. Sources said they did not cooperate in the probe, prompting the agency to arrest them. Viva Group, which is primarily into real estate in North Mumbai, has business interests in media, travel, education, retail and logistics, according to its website. In the remand application, ED stated that they found Viva Holdings, managed by Mehul along with other relatives, was involved in dubious transactions with HDIL promoter Rakesh Wadhawan. Mehul Thakur, through his family and relatives, owns more than 25 companies and many of them are defunct. ED alleged that HDIL diverted around Rs 200 crore to companies controlled by Mehul along with his relatives. In the remand application, ED accused Mehul and Chaturvedi of money-laundering through their deal with HDIL related to two office spaces in an Andheri building. ED said Wadhawans fraudulently transferred two commercial properties of Mack Star in Kaledonia building, worth Rs 34 crore to Viva Group. Separate sale agreements dated June 26, 2017, were prepared. In the agreements, the purchase amount was shown to be paid via 37 cheques by Viva Holdings (Viva Group) to Mack Star Marketing against purchase of the properties. But investigators found that the cheques were never encashed in the account of Mack Star. ED alleged that Chaturvedi assisted Mehul in transferring the property of Mack Star to Viva Holdings. They said the properties were not shown in balance sheets of Viva Holdings, prepared by Chaturvedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ed-arrests-2-directors-of-mla-hitendra-thakurs-firm/articleshow/80426889.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 24, 2021||Jaipur||AIMIM, Jamiat urge Rajasthan CM to intervene in goat seizure case||JAIPUR: Following the seizure of 2,800 goats/sheep under the prevention of cruelty to animals act in Pratapgarh, the AIMIM and Jamiat Ulema-E-Hind, a frontal body of Muslims, appealed chief minister Ashok Gehlot to intervene in the matter by releasing the goats confiscated by police on January 13. A local court ordered the goat traders to pay Rs 50 per day per goat in advance for 30 days as maintenance fee for keeping it in cow shelters. Traders are finding it hard to arrange Rs 1.40 lakh per day or Rs 42 lakh for a month in the court for the same. Pratapgarh police, acting on a tip-off, searched 13 trucks for cows on the highway, but found goats heading to Maharashtra. Since January 13, many goats have died in the shelters adding to the woes of the goat traders. The traders approached AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi who assured them to look into the matter. His party leader Waris Pathan told STOI that they are keeping an eye on the issue which seems to be a misuse of the Prevention of Cruelty To Animals Act. The AIMIM has recently announced alliance with BTP which is an emerging force in the tribal areas of the state. In a letter to the CM, Jamiat Ulema-E-Hind said that goat trading is a traditional business for people in Rajasthan. “It is unfortunate that Pratapgarh police has acted at the behest of Gau Rakshaks and confiscated 2,884 goats. The traders come from poor families and if the harassment continues, their source of livelihood would be in danger,” the letter said. Pratapgarh SP Chuna Ram Jat refused to divulge details of the case stating that the matter is in the court. The traders have been slapped sections for transporting animals more than the permissible limit in trucks. “There was no proper arrangement of fodder in the truck,” read the court order while directing police to hand over the animals to three cow shelters. Mohsin Rasheed, a social activist, said that several Supreme Court judgments stated that livestock is part of livelihood and in case of any legal violation, confiscation of animals is not desirable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/aimim-and-jamiat-urge-cm-to-intervene-in-goat-seizure-case/articleshow/80427230.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Ajmer||Restrictions under Section 144 in Rajasthan extended till February 21||JAIPUR: In view of the Covid situation in Rajasthan, the state’s home department has extended its order to impose restrictions under Section 144 in 33 districts from January 22 to February 21. The directions have been issued to the district collectors and magistrates of all the districts. Section 144, which was initially imposed in the state on March 18, 2020, with spread of coronavirus, has now been extended again up to February 21 by the state’s home department looking at the Covid situation in the state. The department had reiterated its order instructing all the district collectors and police commissioners of Jodhpur and Jaipur to impose Section 144 from November 21, 2020. “Looking at the risks to human life and people’s health condition with the spread of Covid infection, the restrictions under Section 144 has been extended by a month in the state,” said home secretary N L Meena. 65 mobile phones seized in ‘Operation Flush Out’Jaipur: Under “Operation Flush Out” campaign, which was launched on November 20, to prevent use of mobile phones and prohibited items in prisons, 2,700 sudden intensive searches have been conducted in jails by police and SOG, informed DG (Prisons) Rajeev Dasot. During the searches, 65 mobile phones, 18 chargers, 29 SIM cards, 16 earphones and 8 data cables have been recovered. In these FIRs have been lodged in 46 cases. Among the prison employees, three have been dismissed, 18 have been suspended, 16 and 17 CCA proceedings were initiated against 44 persons and 20 officials have been transferred following complaints for indulging in various criminal activities. He said 33 hardcore detainees have been moved out of the comfort zone and shifted to other prisons to eliminate the possibility of alliances developing among criminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/restrictions-under-sec-144-extended-up-to-feb-21/articleshow/80430056.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Jodhpur||Restrictions under Section 144 in Rajasthan extended till February 21||JAIPUR: In view of the Covid situation in Rajasthan, the state’s home department has extended its order to impose restrictions under Section 144 in 33 districts from January 22 to February 21. The directions have been issued to the district collectors and magistrates of all the districts. Section 144, which was initially imposed in the state on March 18, 2020, with spread of coronavirus, has now been extended again up to February 21 by the state’s home department looking at the Covid situation in the state. The department had reiterated its order instructing all the district collectors and police commissioners of Jodhpur and Jaipur to impose Section 144 from November 21, 2020. “Looking at the risks to human life and people’s health condition with the spread of Covid infection, the restrictions under Section 144 has been extended by a month in the state,” said home secretary N L Meena. 65 mobile phones seized in ‘Operation Flush Out’Jaipur: Under “Operation Flush Out” campaign, which was launched on November 20, to prevent use of mobile phones and prohibited items in prisons, 2,700 sudden intensive searches have been conducted in jails by police and SOG, informed DG (Prisons) Rajeev Dasot. During the searches, 65 mobile phones, 18 chargers, 29 SIM cards, 16 earphones and 8 data cables have been recovered. In these FIRs have been lodged in 46 cases. Among the prison employees, three have been dismissed, 18 have been suspended, 16 and 17 CCA proceedings were initiated against 44 persons and 20 officials have been transferred following complaints for indulging in various criminal activities. He said 33 hardcore detainees have been moved out of the comfort zone and shifted to other prisons to eliminate the possibility of alliances developing among criminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/restrictions-under-sec-144-extended-up-to-feb-21/articleshow/80430055.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Dehradun||Thousands of farmers from Terai belt head to Ghazipur for tractor parade on Republic Day||RUDRAPUR: Around 7,000 farmers from Terai region, regarded as Uttarakhand’s rice bowl, left for Delhi on Saturday to join the tractor parade which farmers will be holding at Ghazipur border. The farmers, hailing from villages like Kashipur, Bazpur, Gadarpur, Kichha, Sitarganj and Khatima of Udham Singh Nagar district left their villages in the morning and were expected to reach Ghazipur by late night. Residents of some villages in the district also joined them. Vishwajeet Singh, descendant of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh was part of the group that left from Bazpur. “Fighting for the right cause and not giving in to injustice is in our blood. We have vowed at Bhagat Singh’s statue to not come back till the laws are repealed,” he said. A convoy of over 150 tractors started its journey from Maharaja Palace banquet hall in Bazpur. In Kashipur, more than 3,000 farmers in over 500 tractors assembled at New Grain Mandi at Moradabad road and headed for the national capital through Aliganj road. The farmers did not face any resistance from police in Uttarakhand or Uttar Pradesh. Superintendent of Police (SP) city, Devendra Pincha said that barricades had been placed at the Rudrapur-Rampur border and vehicles were checked on Saturday but all were let through. “It was never our intention to stop the farmers from joining the march in Delhi. We conducted checking of the vehicles to make sure no anti-social element infiltrates the movement and no one carries arms or weapons to the protest site,” the SP said. Tejender Singh Virk, president of the Terai Kisan Sabha, said that tractors had been loaded atop trolleys to save fuel and let more vehicles reach the capital. “Our ground-level volunteers organised bike and tractor rallies in villages for several days. They went to every nook and corner to get more people to join the rally planned in Delhi on January 26,” Virk told TOI over phone. State president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) youth wing Ravindra Singh Rana said, “We have packed enough ration and other necessary items to last us at least two months at Ghazipur border. We intend to stay after the parade. We have hoisted the tricolour on each tractor and being part of the Republic Day rally is a matter of immense pride for us.” Ajit Randhawa, a farmer leader, said the trolleys attached to the tractors have been converted into makeshift homes. “Most farmers are already camping at Ghazipur border. We will join them and not return till the farm laws are repealed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/thousands-of-farmers-from-terai-belt-head-to-ghazipur-for-tractor-parade-on-r-day/articleshow/80426586.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 24, 2021||Meerut||Ahead of tractor rally, UP cops put farmers under house arrest||BIJNOR: Tightening noose around farmers’ leaders ahead of their Republic Day tractor rally, UP Police has put many of them under house arrests in Bijnor and Muzaffarnagar districts and stopped a large number of farmers marching towards Delhi from Baghpat on hundreds of tractors. Several western UP districts have been witnessing mock drills by farmers, wherein they assembled at different places in large numbers. In Shamli, they took out a tractor march to the Haryana border. On Saturday, several protests were reported from different districts. Though police are “preventing” them from going to Delhi in the name of the pandemic, west UP farmers continue to reach Ghazipur border using several alternative routes. In Bijnor district, farmers with national flags in their hands in more than 150 tractor-trolleys and other vehicles moved to Delhi to participate in the tractor parade. Many women farmers and their children were also travelling in tractor-trolleys to make the protest success. Besides, thousands of farmers from Bijnor led by state BKU youth wing president Digambar Singh reached Ghazipur border and pitched their tents there. They chose alternative ways to reach Delhi as police were patrolling highways. According to Digambar Singh, “Police are threatening farmers and preventing them from taking part in the parade. On Friday night, police stopped us, too, but we managed to reach Ghazipur border. It’s right of every Indian to take part in the tractor parade on Republic Day. How can any government or state machinery stop us?” West UP coordinator of Rashtriya Kisan Majdoor Sangathan Kailash Lamba alleged, “Police have put several leaders and workers under house arrest. They are not allowing us to move to Delhi. We somehow managed to leave Bijnor.” Hundreds of farmers on their way to Delhi under the banner of Rashtriya Kisan Majdoor Sangathan were stopped by police in Ganj area. As police did not allow them to move forward, they staged a dharna against the police action. “The dharna continued for hours. Later, we left Bijnor for Delhi late Saturday evening by tricking police,” said district president of the outfit Vinod Kumar. Meanwhile, farmers are also taking Gajraula route in Amroha district to reach Delhi. Thousands of farmers crossed the Ganga barrage. Besides, scores of tractors from Amroha district are on the roads to make the agitation successful. Bijnor superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh said, “We did not allow farmers to move to Delhi because of the pandemic and law and order situation.” In Baghpat, farmers travelling in 12 tractor-trolleys staged a protest after police stopped them at Basaud village. Wakeel Ahmed, a protesting farmer, said, “We will reach Delhi at any cost. No one can stop us. As of now, police have stopped us, but we will leave for Delhi late in the night.” In Shamli, too, police prevented farmers from joining the agitation in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-cops-tighten-noose-around-farmers-preparing-for-tractor-march-to-delhi/articleshow/80426075.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Vaccination centres tripled in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Vaccination session centres in Gujarat tripled with the number jumping from 161 on Friday to 510 on Saturday. The result was seen in the number of vaccinations, which also shot up from 11,352 on Friday to 31,116 on Saturday. In fact, vaccination on Saturday accounted for 40% of the total drive carried out so far. Interestingly, Gujarat had reported a dip of about 10% on Friday compared to Thursday.State health department officials attributed the drop primarily to session sites which had come down from 161 on Thursday to 138 on Friday. On Saturday, 88% of the registered beneficiaries got vaccinated, said officials. For Ahmedabad, the number of session sites rose from 20 to 51 and vaccination numbers rose from 1,580 on Thursday to 3,174 on Saturday. The push was primarily from addition of private hospitals as vaccination centres, said senior officials. State immunization officer Nayan Jani told TOI that all districts and municipal corporations have been asked to increase the number of vaccination centres based on the infrastructure available, in order to speed up the process. “We tripled the capacity on Saturday, and we expect the number to grow,” he said, adding that they are also satisfied by the turnout of healthcare workers. Several private and government hospitals carried out special drives to vaccinate prominent doctors so as to encourage healthcare workers. Experts admitted that while the compliance is more among the top rung, the participation from nurses, ward boys, sanitary staff and other employees is still low. At Civil Hospital, 125 healthcare workers got vaccinated on Saturday. Among those who took the shot included Dr Rima Joshi and Dr Vidhi Joshi – a mother-daughter duo. Dr Rima Joshi’s husband Dr Rakesh Joshi, professor of paediatric surgery, was among the recipients of the vaccine on the first day. “It is everybody’s duty and privilege to get the Covid shot. It will only make the society safer for all,” said Dr Joshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vaccination-centres-tripled-in-guj/articleshow/80427261.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: GHMC launches special drive for beggars||HYDERABAD: GHMC on Thursday launched a special drive to make Hyderabad a beggar-free city, in coordination with the police and revenue department. The decision to conduct the drive was taken at a convergence meeting held at GHMC head office. Identification of additional buildings besides GHMC night shelters, ensuring health services, enrolling them in skill training institutions, counselling and education are part of the drive. The drive will also be monitored by Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-launches-spl-drive-for-beggars/articleshow/80428640.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Chennai||No better therapy than family time||CHENNAI: The year-long lockdown was a learning phase for special educator Lakshmi Satish. She and the other teachers at Mirra — a remedial centre for children who are neuro diverse — learned how to empower caregivers and their wards in terms of learning, independence and self-care. So much so, that the centre will be changing its pattern of teaching when it reopens in a month or so. "We have decided to reduce the amount of time a child will spend here by 25%, and cut down the number of days they will have to come in," says Lakshmi. "We have found that for most children, working with parents has facilitated their development. For many, the tantrums and meltdowns have reduced considerably. Some have become more responsive, independent." Lakshmi owes it to the fact that during the lockdown, parents had no choice but to be more involved in the child’s education. "Earlier, when they would bring the child to the centre, parents would take a backseat and depend solely on the special educator to take things forward. There was minimal involvement. But the lockdown has helped demystify special education," she says. "The more they work with their children, the more they are beginning to understand their capabilities." Kavitha Krishnamurthy of Canbridge Academy — a centre for youth with disabilities — noticed the "connectedness" with her son with developmental difficulties, improved a lot during lockdown. "As parents, we were a lot more relaxed and available, so my son, who usually prefers to be by himself in his room, would come out and talk to us," she says. "Before the lockdown, when we had fuller days, there was little time between school and home. In lockdown, there was enough time for him to get more involved in household chores, which is a skill development," she says. "But for some young people, the dependence on parents has increased. For instance, in some sessions, when teachers are giving them instructions for cooking, they keep turning to their mothers for confirmation." "Children with sensory issues too found it hard during the lockdown. And there are parents who are overwhelmed. For them we have a monthly self-care session," says Lakshmi. Salem-based psychologist Aarti C Rajaratnam says children with differences in learning and behaviour have shown improvement, because there is no longer an overload of therapy. "The neural pathways are getting time to relax between interventions. Earlier even for the smallest problems, parents would reach out to the therapists. In the past year, their bonding with the child has increased, so the healing too has quickened." When it comes to the brain, there are four processes, she says — neuro stimulation, where the brain creates and prunes circuits; neuro modulation, where the brain balances excitement and inhibition; neuro relaxation, where the brain returns normal functioning (sleep, etc, help here), and neuro differentiation, which is the time for assimilation and application. "Sleep and play are as important as therapy and stimulation. The lockdown helped create that balance," says Aarti. "In therapy too, less can be more."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-better-therapy-than-family-time/articleshow/80429088.cms||Kamini Mathai
January 24, 2021||Vadodara||Four detained for grabbing farmer’s land||Vadodara: Four persons were detained on Saturday under the Gujarat Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Act for taking illegal possession of a farmer’s land at Ramangamdi village in Vadodara taluka. An offence was registered at Varnama police station on Saturday as the district administration ordered Vadodara rural police after receiving a complaint from the farmer Mahendra Patel. Patel said that he had purchased a non-agricultural land from Jayanti Patel, Vidya Patel, Bhaskar Patel, Kalpana Patel and Hemangi Patel in May 2019 as he wanted to build a factory there. On June 8, 2019, the eight accused Bhagu Patel, Naran Prajapati, Raju Patel, Mani Damor, Ajit Vaghela, Rahim Sindhi, Imran Sindhi and Irshad Sindhi trespassed onto the land and damaged vehicles. When Patel confronted them, Bhagu said that he had done a deal for the land with Prajapati and he occupied the land. Next day, Patel was arrested with atrocities charges as Damor had filed a complaint under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. While Patel was in jail, the accused built a room on the land. After he was released, Patel again went to retake possession of his land, but he was threatened so he now filed a complaint with the district administration after the new law came into effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/four-detained-for-grabbing-farmers-land/articleshow/80426595.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP: Less than 200 cases for 10th day in a row, 13,000 get vaccine||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state reported another 158 cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, making it the tenth consecutive day with less than 200 cases. The cumulative case load rose to 8,86,852 while the death toll rose to 7,147 with one patient succumbing to the virus in Visakhapatnam district. There are currently 1,473 active cases in the state with 172 patients being discharged on Saturday. The state has so far conducted 1.28 crore Covid-19 tests with an overall case positivity rate of 7%. So far, seven districts have achieved a recovery rate of 99% with case load also below 100 in seven districts. East Godavari reported 35 infections on Saturday, the most in the state. Meanwhile, the health department administered vaccines to 13,162 persons across all districts. According to the data, 22 cases of adverse impacts were recorded during the drive of which 16 were from Guntur, three in Vizianagaram, two in Visakhapatnam, and one in Prakasam. Visakhapatnam saw the most number of vaccines administered with 2,167 health workers getting the dose, followed by 1,601 in East Godavari while only 493 were vaccinated in Guntur. Covaxin was administered to 355 people in Krishna district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/less-than-200-cases-for-10th-day-in-a-row-13k-get-vaccine/articleshow/80426303.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Surat||Loan sharks’ harassment pushes bizman to kill self||Surat: A 50-year-old textile businessman was found hanging at his home in Althan on Friday evening. Deceased Ajay Singh named five persons who were harassing him to recover Rs 28 lakh in his suicide note, said police investigating the case. According to cops, Singh’s body was found in his residence in SMC Awas at Althan. He used a rope to hang himself from the ceiling fan. Singh was running a textile business in Sachin area and was depressed owing to debts for the past few months. Deceased’s note also contains the mobile numbers of the people whom he accused of allegedly harassing him for money. Singh also mentioned that these persons were not allowing him to do business as well. Registering a case of accidental death in Khatodara police station, cops started probing on basis of the note to find out that how the accused harassed him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/loan-sharks-harassment-pushes-bizman-to-kill-self/articleshow/80426477.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Rajkot||Lion attacks man trying to save his buffaloes||Rajkot: A 35-year-old man was injured in a lion attack in Dahida village of Dhari taluka of Amreli district in the wee hours of Saturday. The victim Joru Jebaliya was attacked by a fully grown lion when he tried to save his buffaloes from becoming prey. According to forest officials, Jebaliya, a resident of Dahida village in Dhari taluka suffered injuries on his back and legs.Jebaliya was attacked by a fully grown lion around 5 am when he was milking the buffaloes. Seeing the lion, Jebaliya tried to save his buffaloes by trying to scare the lion. Pratap Jebaliya, brother of the victim said, “When my brother tried to scare the lion it attacked him and knocked him down. I took a stick and scared away the lion.” According to doctors, the victim’s condition was stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lion-attacks-man-trying-to-save-his-buffaloes/articleshow/80426111.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Vijayawada||AP: Poll notification draws ire of ruling party, govt staff||VIJAYAWADA: Members of the YSRC, including ministers and state government employees, have raised their objection against the release of the panchayat election notification by state election commissioner (SEC) Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar on Saturday. They pointed out that the issue was still pending before Supreme Court and that the entire state administration was engaged in the vaccination drive. Several officials, including district collections, did not attend the SEC’s video conference on Saturday claiming that they had no such instructions from the chief secretary. Incidentally, chief secretary Adityanath Das had written a letter the SEC on Friday requesting him to defer the releasing of notification as the issue was pending before Supreme Court. The chief secretary had also cited the vaccination programme and said the government machinery was fully engaged in the exercise. He further said that employees, who would have to shoulder election responsibility were also apprehensive of contracting Covid-19 by way of coming in contact with large numbers of voters on polling day and requested SEC to wait for vaccination of government employees. However, the SEC set aside the objections to release the notification which has been slammed by the ruling party, members of whom accused him of toeing the line of opposition leader N Chandrababu Naidu. Panchayat raj minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, whose ministry will be responsible for the elections, alleged the SEC was acting at the behest of the TDP chief. The minister sought to know as to why the SEC was rushing polls when the case was ready for hearing before the apex court. Several other ministers also raised similar objections. Meanwhile, government employee associations have announced that they will boycott poll duties if they were forced into it without being vaccinated. AP NGOs Association president N Chandrasekhar Reddy, employees JAC president Bopparaju Venkateswarlu along with others opposed the notification. “The SEC, who addressed the press conference from behind a protected glass chamber over fears of coronavirus, is asking us to get exposed to the crowd. We cannot take this risk,” said Chandrasekhar Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/poll-notification-draws-ire-of-ruling-party-govt-staff/articleshow/80426298.cms||Gopi Dara
January 24, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Road caves in near Chomu House Circle, two hurt||JAIPUR: A woman and an auto rickshaw driver were injured after the road near Chomu Circle caved in, causing a nearly 25-feet-deep and 30-feet-wide pit in the ground. Passersby helped rescue the two out of the pit. According to the police, the woman identified as Rekha Kotia (28) arrived at Sindhi Camp bus stand in the morning and took an auto rickshaw to her home at 5.45am. “When the auto was passing through Sahakar Road towards Tonk Road, around 6am the road suddenly caved in. Some locals and a security guard came over to help them out of the pit,” said a senior police officer. After the accident, the people present on the road intimated the police control room. “Some people brought a rope, a towel and other things and somehow managed to bail the auto rickshaw driver and the woman out of the pit. Both of them have sustained injuries and have been hospitalised,” said an official. The busiest road is merely 1 km away from the state’s secretariat and similar incident of road caving in took place in 2017 as well. Police have registered a case and have initiated investigation. “Prima facie, it was found that an underground sewerage line is passing through this road and there is a possibility that the sewerage line had some heavy leakage that resulted in the caving in of mud and thus the road collapsed. We have registered a case and action would be taken against those responsible for the faulty road and leakage in the sewerage line,” said a senior police officer of accident police station. People after the accident lambasted the department concerned for poor road construction. “It is one of the busiest roads of the city and vehicles including two-wheelers, cars, buses pass through it all day. Had this accident taken place in the busy hours, it would have been fatal,” said Narayan Singh, a retired government employee who was taking a morning walk on the road. The injured woman hails from Madhuban Colony near Tonk Phatak. She has been discharged from the hospital after treatment. Box — Life saving attempt - Soon after the accident, Prahlad, a security guard having tea nearby, reached the spot. After hearing the woman and the driver shouting for help from inside the pit, he rushed to help. Thereafter, some auto drivers came to the spot and everyone brought out the rope they use to start the auto rickshaw and bailed out the trapped woman and the auto rickshaw driver. Road was closed for public and a team of JMC and PWD arrived at the spot – After the mishap, the road was closed for the public and senior officers of the JMC and PWD reached the spot. Also, transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas also went to the mishap spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/road-caves-in-near-chomu-circle-2-injured/articleshow/80427262.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||IIIT-Hyderabad app to help ryots tackle crop diseases||HYDERABAD: Researchers at IIIT-H have created Crop Darpan, an application, to help farmers with issues related to crop growth, pests, fungal diseases and nutritional deficiencies. The main aim of the app, which was developed under an Indo-Japan joint research laboratory project, is to mimic the presence of an agriculture expert who is not only well-versed with visual symptoms of diseases plaguing crops but can also guide farmers on measures to tackle it.  “It was however designed in such a way that it is scalable for all crops and can be extended in all Indian languages. We have already begun work on seeding the system in Hindi,” said Srinivas Annapalli, who was part of the team that developed this app. “The system comes seeded with a hierarchy of questions related to visual symptoms displayed by the crops. These range from high-level generalized questions to more specific ones. When the farmer confirms the presence of the symptom, he is guided to the next question ultimately narrowing down on the exact diagnosis of the crop’s ailment. Advice on measures to mitigate the problem is also given,” said Annapalli. Before Crop Darpan, the institute had developed an agro-advisory system at the farm and village level called eSagu. “In eSagu, the presence of educated village-level coordinators bridged the gap between farmers and agricultural scientists. It also has issues of scalability and generality that Crop Darpan hopes to overcome,” said Krishna Reddy, professor, who guided the team that developed the app. He said that with a mobile tool at his disposal, the individual farmer is more empowered to handle plant protection. The research is a joint venture under the India-Japan joint research laboratory project titled ‘Data science-based farming support system for sustainable crop production under climatic change’ with other participating institutes such as IIT Hyderabad, IIT Bombay, Professor Jayashankar, Telangana State Agricultural University, Hyderabad and the University of Tokyo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iiit-h-app-to-help-ryots-tackle-crop-diseases/articleshow/80428649.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Amaravati||AP: Less than 200 cases for 10th day in a row, 13,000 get vaccine||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state reported another 158 cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, making it the tenth consecutive day with less than 200 cases. The cumulative case load rose to 8,86,852 while the death toll rose to 7,147 with one patient succumbing to the virus in Visakhapatnam district. There are currently 1,473 active cases in the state with 172 patients being discharged on Saturday. The state has so far conducted 1.28 crore Covid-19 tests with an overall case positivity rate of 7%. So far, seven districts have achieved a recovery rate of 99% with case load also below 100 in seven districts. East Godavari reported 35 infections on Saturday, the most in the state. Meanwhile, the health department administered vaccines to 13,162 persons across all districts. According to the data, 22 cases of adverse impacts were recorded during the drive of which 16 were from Guntur, three in Vizianagaram, two in Visakhapatnam, and one in Prakasam. Visakhapatnam saw the most number of vaccines administered with 2,167 health workers getting the dose, followed by 1,601 in East Godavari while only 493 were vaccinated in Guntur. Covaxin was administered to 355 people in Krishna district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/less-than-200-cases-for-10th-day-in-a-row-13k-get-vaccine/articleshow/80430350.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: 23,000 health workers get vaccinated, highest in a day||JAIPUR: With the state scaling up Covid-19 vaccination drive by adding more vaccination sites, it reported biggest single-day figure of 23,323 healthcare workers receiving vaccine on Saturday. Along with it, the achievement percentage of target has also gone up to 71%. The achievement percentage of target was 68% on January 22 and 55% on January 19. On January 18, it was 69% and on the launch day of the vaccine drive (January 16), it was 74. Overall achievement percentage in five days of vaccination remained at 68%. The health department report issued on Saturday showed that 67,270 healthcare workers out of 4.5 lakh registered for vaccination received the jab in the first five days of vaccination drive. “We are scaling up our vaccination drive and in the coming days, we will expand our vaccination sites for Covaxin. Private hospitals will also be added in increased numbers in the coming days for vaccination,” said a senior health department official. Among the districts which achieved highest percentage of target are Bundi (103%), Ajmer (97%), Jodhpur (96%), Sikar (94%), Nagaur (91%) and Bhilwara (87%). Among the districts which reported lowest achievement of target are Pratapgarh (45%), Sriganganagar (46%), Jhalawar (50%), Jalore (52%) and Dausa (52%). Moreover, state reported 14 adverse events following immunisation from Barmer (4), Pratapgarh (3), Pali (2), Banswara (2), Dholpur (1), Jalore (1) and Jhunjhunu (1). In the past five days, the state has reported 76 adverse events following immunisation. No adverse events have been reported after Covaxin administration while in Covishield, 14 adverse events were reported. The achievement of Covishield in state was 71%, while of Covaxin was 42%. As many as 23,057 received Covishield jab while 266 got Covaxin doses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/23k-health-workers-get-covid-vaccine-jab-in-a-day/articleshow/80430050.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan: 23,000 health workers get vaccinated, highest in a day||JAIPUR: With the state scaling up Covid-19 vaccination drive by adding more vaccination sites, it reported biggest single-day figure of 23,323 healthcare workers receiving vaccine on Saturday. Along with it, the achievement percentage of target has also gone up to 71%. The achievement percentage of target was 68% on January 22 and 55% on January 19. On January 18, it was 69% and on the launch day of the vaccine drive (January 16), it was 74. Overall achievement percentage in five days of vaccination remained at 68%. The health department report issued on Saturday showed that 67,270 healthcare workers out of 4.5 lakh registered for vaccination received the jab in the first five days of vaccination drive. “We are scaling up our vaccination drive and in the coming days, we will expand our vaccination sites for Covaxin. Private hospitals will also be added in increased numbers in the coming days for vaccination,” said a senior health department official. Among the districts which achieved highest percentage of target are Bundi (103%), Ajmer (97%), Jodhpur (96%), Sikar (94%), Nagaur (91%) and Bhilwara (87%). Among the districts which reported lowest achievement of target are Pratapgarh (45%), Sriganganagar (46%), Jhalawar (50%), Jalore (52%) and Dausa (52%). Moreover, state reported 14 adverse events following immunisation from Barmer (4), Pratapgarh (3), Pali (2), Banswara (2), Dholpur (1), Jalore (1) and Jhunjhunu (1). In the past five days, the state has reported 76 adverse events following immunisation. No adverse events have been reported after Covaxin administration while in Covishield, 14 adverse events were reported. The achievement of Covishield in state was 71%, while of Covaxin was 42%. As many as 23,057 received Covishield jab while 266 got Covaxin doses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/23k-health-workers-get-covid-vaccine-jab-in-a-day/articleshow/80430051.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Puncture shop operator kills self in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 42-year-old man from Kerala, Shibu Maniyan Irva, set himself on fire at the IOC petrol pump in Memnagar on Friday night. He was rushed to Civil Hospital but succumbed to his burns on Saturday morning. Assistant commissioner of police, A division, Mukesh Patel, said they lodged a case of accidental death and on the basis of a video posted by the deceased on social media, CCTV footage of the petrol pump and Irva’s CDR details, they are registering a case of abetment to suicide against the owner of the petrol pump, Jeetu Rana, who is former municipal councillor and Vishal Goswami, the administrator of the petrol pump, at Ghatlodia police station. Patel added that in his dying declaration, Irva said he ran the puncture shop at the petrol pump on contract with a deposit of Rs 3 lakh and monthly rent of Rs 16, 650. “As repairs were going on at his house in Kerala, he had run up an expense of Rs 8 lakh and needed money. As the puncture shop contract had lapsed, Jeetu Rana and Vishal Goswami were pressuring him to vacate the cabin. He also alleged that they did not return his deposit money. He then took about 800ml of petrol from the petrol pump itself and set himself ablaze with it. “He died on Saturday evening. After lodging a case of abetment to suicide we will conduct an investigation. A certain ‘notice’ is doing rounds on social media. We will try and authenticate it and also consider it during the investigation if it is genuine,” Patel added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/puncture-shop-operator-kills-self/articleshow/80427265.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Delhi||Delhi records worst January AQI in 3 years||NEW DELHI: This January, Delhi has already recorded six “severe” air days, three times more than last January and close to the 2019 count of seven, the data of Central Pollution Control Board shows. The city has also seen a higher spike in pollution readings this January than in the last two. Track the pollution level in your cityExperts are saying that while a spell of rain at the start of the month brought down pollution, it was the only western disturbance recorded in January so far. In comparison, last January had six western disturbance spells, which had not only brought rain but also led to an increase in wind speed. “Since January 14, the air quality in Delhi dipped to ‘severe’ and ‘very poor’ levels on account of the calm atmospheric conditions. In addition, prevailing cold weather conditions will demand more space heating, leading to additional loads of emissions in the atmosphere,” said L S Kurinji, research analyst at Council on Energy, Environment and Water that has analysed data for this January, comparing it with the same month in 2020 and 2019. “With lower mixing height, pollutants remain trapped closer to the surface and deteriorate the air quality.” Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said a mix of temperature and low wind speed had played a key role this year. “There has been adequate moisture, which has led to a number of dense and very dense fog days. Only one western disturbance has been recorded this month. With each western disturbance, there is an increase in wind speed and rain also brings down pollutants,” said Srivastava. The worst air quality index in these three January has been 460, recorded on the 15th of this year. In comparison, it was 437 on January 1, 2020, and 444 in 2019. Experts say more “severe” air days could be on the way by the end of the month, with the mercury set to fall once again after January 24. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director of research and advocacy at Centre for Science and Environment, said related data needed to be analysed over a longer duration. “A smog episode can take place any time, based on meteorological factors, and this can stay for a few days, impacting data for the month,” she said. Severe cold conditions and factors such as low wind speed are impacting Delhi now, Roy Chowdhury pointed out. “The key is also to have strict enforcement on the ground.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/severe-air-days-this-january-3-times-more-than-last-year/articleshow/80428670.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
January 24, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 23,000 health workers get vaccinated, highest in a day||JAIPUR: With the state scaling up Covid-19 vaccination drive by adding more vaccination sites, it reported biggest single-day figure of 23,323 healthcare workers receiving vaccine on Saturday. Along with it, the achievement percentage of target has also gone up to 71%. The achievement percentage of target was 68% on January 22 and 55% on January 19. On January 18, it was 69% and on the launch day of the vaccine drive (January 16), it was 74. Overall achievement percentage in five days of vaccination remained at 68%. The health department report issued on Saturday showed that 67,270 healthcare workers out of 4.5 lakh registered for vaccination received the jab in the first five days of vaccination drive. “We are scaling up our vaccination drive and in the coming days, we will expand our vaccination sites for Covaxin. Private hospitals will also be added in increased numbers in the coming days for vaccination,” said a senior health department official. Among the districts which achieved highest percentage of target are Bundi (103%), Ajmer (97%), Jodhpur (96%), Sikar (94%), Nagaur (91%) and Bhilwara (87%). Among the districts which reported lowest achievement of target are Pratapgarh (45%), Sriganganagar (46%), Jhalawar (50%), Jalore (52%) and Dausa (52%). Moreover, state reported 14 adverse events following immunisation from Barmer (4), Pratapgarh (3), Pali (2), Banswara (2), Dholpur (1), Jalore (1) and Jhunjhunu (1). In the past five days, the state has reported 76 adverse events following immunisation. No adverse events have been reported after Covaxin administration while in Covishield, 14 adverse events were reported. The achievement of Covishield in state was 71%, while of Covaxin was 42%. As many as 23,057 received Covishield jab while 266 got Covaxin doses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/23k-health-workers-get-covid-vaccine-jab-in-a-day/articleshow/80427264.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan: 23,000 health workers get vaccinated, highest in a day||JAIPUR: With the state scaling up Covid-19 vaccination drive by adding more vaccination sites, it reported biggest single-day figure of 23,323 healthcare workers receiving vaccine on Saturday. Along with it, the achievement percentage of target has also gone up to 71%. The achievement percentage of target was 68% on January 22 and 55% on January 19. On January 18, it was 69% and on the launch day of the vaccine drive (January 16), it was 74. Overall achievement percentage in five days of vaccination remained at 68%. The health department report issued on Saturday showed that 67,270 healthcare workers out of 4.5 lakh registered for vaccination received the jab in the first five days of vaccination drive. “We are scaling up our vaccination drive and in the coming days, we will expand our vaccination sites for Covaxin. Private hospitals will also be added in increased numbers in the coming days for vaccination,” said a senior health department official. Among the districts which achieved highest percentage of target are Bundi (103%), Ajmer (97%), Jodhpur (96%), Sikar (94%), Nagaur (91%) and Bhilwara (87%). Among the districts which reported lowest achievement of target are Pratapgarh (45%), Sriganganagar (46%), Jhalawar (50%), Jalore (52%) and Dausa (52%). Moreover, state reported 14 adverse events following immunisation from Barmer (4), Pratapgarh (3), Pali (2), Banswara (2), Dholpur (1), Jalore (1) and Jhunjhunu (1). In the past five days, the state has reported 76 adverse events following immunisation. No adverse events have been reported after Covaxin administration while in Covishield, 14 adverse events were reported. The achievement of Covishield in state was 71%, while of Covaxin was 42%. As many as 23,057 received Covishield jab while 266 got Covaxin doses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/23k-health-workers-get-covid-vaccine-jab-in-a-day/articleshow/80430049.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Congress plans citywide FIRs for arrest of Arnab Goswami||MUMBAI: A day after marching to the office of Arnab Goswami’s Republic TV, senior Congress leaders led by Mumbai Congress president Bhai Jagtap and working president Charan Singh Sapra will meet police commissioner Parambir Singh to press for his arrest. “We are demanding the immediate arrest of Goswami for violation of Official Secrets Act and treason. Goswami deliberately used confidential information to enhance his channel’s TRP,’’ Sapra said. Sapra said after meeting the police chief, senior Congress leaders will visit police stations in Mumbai to press for their demand for Goswami’s arrest. “We will lodge complaints against Goswami and expect that on the basis of our complaints criminal cases will be registered against him at all police stations across the metropolis,’’ Sapra said. Jagtap said in view of serious complaints against Goswami, he is hiding in New Delhi. “First, we will lodge a first information report in Azad Maidan police station, it will be followed by other police stations. I am sure Mumbai Police will arrest him and bring him to Mumbai as per provisions of law,’’ Jagtap said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cong-plans-citywide-firs-for-arrest-of-goswami/articleshow/80428651.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
January 24, 2021||Dehradun||RT-PCR testing made compulsory for Kumbh pilgrims||HARIDWAR: In a bid to contain the spread of Covid-19 during the Kumbh Mela, the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to be followed during the religious fair, which is likely to start from February 27 and continue till April 30. According to the directive, pilgrims must have a Covid-19 RT-PCR negative test report (test done 72 hours prior to the date of visit). "The devotees may carry such test reports either on their mobile phones or in hard copies," says the SOP order. Similarly, the registration of all devotees, who wish to take the holy dip during the Kumbh Mela, has been made compulsory and the state government will make arrangements for the same. Urban Development minister Madan Kaushik told TOI, "The state government is examining the guidelines issued by the Centre. Thereafter, a report will be submitted before the Uttarakhand high court, where a case regarding the preparation of Kumbh Mela is pending. After the court decision, SOPs regarding the mela will be issued again.” The SOPs also stress upon 'appropriate Covid-19 behaviour' like social distancing, wearing of masks, and installing Aarogya Setu App.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rt-pcr-testing-made-compulsory-for-kumbh-pilgrims/articleshow/80426605.cms||MS Nawaz
January 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Active cases drop below 5k||AHMEDABAD: On Saturday, the active cases of Covid-19 in Gujarat went below 5,000 for the first time in the past seven months. The highest active cases for Gujarat was registered on October 4 when the state hospitals had 16,804 patients. The number dipped and rose again post-Diwali – on November 30. The second peak was recorded at 14,970. In 54 days, the number dipped to 4,960, recording a decline of 66% or two-third cases. According to state health department officials, Ahmedabad district accounts for 38% of the active cases. With 1,892 active cases, Ahmedabad is the only district with over 1,000 cases. Vadodara (16%), Rajkot (13%) and Surat (11.5%) are other major districts with active cases. The four districts cumulatively account for 78.5% or more than three-fourths of the active cases. The daily cases also recorded a dip. From 736 cases on January 1 to 423 on January 23, 43% decline in cases was registered in Gujarat. In 2021, the state has not crossed the figure of 750. Likewise, analysis of mortality reveals that January so far recorded deaths of 69 positive patients, averaging three deaths per day. In December, the previous 23 days (Dec 9-31), had recorded 196 deaths, averaging 8.5 deaths per day. The tests for Covid-19 also recorded decline – against the monthly average of 42,950 daily tests, the past seven days have recorded average 35,461 daily tests, giving the test positivity rate of 1.4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/active-cases-drop-below-5k/articleshow/80427276.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Delhi||Doctor held for kidnapping: Colleagues yet to come to terms with arrest||NEW DELHI: Dr Abhishek Singh, who has been arrested by the UP STF on the charge of kidnapping a medical student, had joined Rathi Hospital in Najafgarh last year. His colleagues recall him as a good co-worker and never thought that he could be hatching such a conspiracy with a fellow doctor. The owner of the hospital says that his staff were yet to come to terms with the fact that someone among them kidnapped a teenager. It has also come to fore that Dr Preeti Mehra, co-accused with Singh and currently absconding, was sacked by the same hospital within a month of joining as she was not coming to work regularly. Dr Singh and Dr Mehra worked at the hospital as floor managers/coordinators. While Mehra would follow up with patients having gynae issues, Dr Singh would check and follow up on routine patients. Dr Ankur Rathi, owner of Rathi Hospital, told TOI: “It is shocking and disturbing for us at the same time. He had been working with us for the last one year and before that was working at another hospital in Dwarka. His record was clean.” Dr Rathi said that Dr Mehra was hired by the hospital in October 2020. However, because she was irregular, she was asked to leave in just a month. “Her father had even come to the hospital when she was asked to leave.” Hospital authorities revealed that Dr Singh was a punctual man but on January 18, his mobile phone was switched off. From the following day, he stopped coming to the hospital and later they were informed about his arrest. Since the kidnapped teenager was injected with anaesthesia, the hospital even checked their inventories but no drug was found missing from the hospital premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/doctor-held-for-kidnapping-colleagues-yet-to-come-to-terms-with-arrest/articleshow/80428726.cms||Sakshi Chand
January 24, 2021||Patna||Bird strikes B’luru-Patna flight before touchdown||PATNA: The passengers of a Bengaluru-Patna flight had a narrow escape on Saturday afternoon when a bird hit the plane during landing at the Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport on Saturday. The incident took place around 12.25 pm when the full-service carrier Vistara flight UK- 717 carrying 72 passengers, including seven crew members, suffered a bird hit a few seconds before landing in Patna. Patna airport director Bhupesh CH Negi confirmed the incident. Airport sources said the Airbus A320 aircraft landed safely and no passengers were hurt but the aircraft has suffered minor damage in one of its engines. The flight has been grounded and taken in the parking bay. A technical team has been sent from Delhi for maintenance and repair work on the aircraft. An airlines executive at the city airport said, “The flight UK-717 from Bengaluru was supposed to land at Patna airport at 11 am but it got delayed by one-and-half hours due to bad weather in the city. The incident of bird-hit took place around 12.25 pm when it was about to land at Patna. The flight landed safely and a technical team from the airlines are inspecting the aircraft.” “The grounded aircraft would operate only after the safety engineers give the green signal. Of the passengers who were scheduled to go to Bengaluru on the returning aircraft (UK- 718) in the afternoon, some were accommodated in another flight for Delhi and will be taken to Bengaluru from there,” airport sources said. The airport’s deputy general manager (air traffic management) Santosh Kumar said maintenance and repair work on aircraft was slated to be completed by Saturday evening and it may return to Bengaluru the same day. Patna airport has 14 bird chasers and three LPG operated guns positioned near the runway to keep the birds away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bird-strikes-bluru-patna-flight-before-touchdown/articleshow/80427282.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 24, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan scales up Covid vaccination drive, adds 163 new sites||JAIPUR: Giving a major push to Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state, the health department will add more vaccination sites in the state for Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine manufactured by Bharat Biotech. The state increased its vaccination sites from 167 to 330 from Saturday, scaling up the drive. Currently, the vaccine is being administered to healthcare workers of six hospitals in the state, all of them in Jaipur. Among those are ESI hospital, Kanwatia hospital, Gangauri hospital, Metro Mas, Narayana Hrudayalaya and Jaipur National University. The state received 1.52 lakh doses of Covaxin on Friday, which will be distributed to different districts. “We are chalking out our strategy to expand our vaccination sites for Covaxin,” said a senior health department official. Earlier, the health department had received 20,000 doses of Covaxin on January 13 and all of them were sent to six vaccination sites in Jaipur. Till now, the state has received 12.66 lakh doses, including 1.72 lakh doses of Covaxin and 10.94 lakh doses of Covishield. Meanwhile, two persons died and 203 others tested positive in the state on Saturday bringing its overall tally to 3,16,485. With two more deaths, state’s toll rose to 2,758. Districts which reported new cases are Kota (47), Jaipur (42), Nagaur (26), Jodhpur (18), Bhilwara (11), Alwar (8), Ajmer (7), Pali (7), Udaipur (6), Bharatpur (6), Rajsamand (4), Chittorgarh (3), Dungarpur (3), Sriganganagar (3), Baran (2), Bikaner (2), Tonk (2), Dausa (1), Dholpur (1), Hanumangarh (1), Jhalawar (1), Sawai Madhopur (1) and Sirohi (1). Jaipur reported its 514th Covid death and Udaipur reported its 114th fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/state-scales-up-vaccination-drive-adds-163-new-sites/articleshow/80430044.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan scales up Covid vaccination drive, adds 163 new sites||JAIPUR: Giving a major push to Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state, the health department will add more vaccination sites in the state for Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine manufactured by Bharat Biotech. The state increased its vaccination sites from 167 to 330 from Saturday, scaling up the drive. Currently, the vaccine is being administered to healthcare workers of six hospitals in the state, all of them in Jaipur. Among those are ESI hospital, Kanwatia hospital, Gangauri hospital, Metro Mas, Narayana Hrudayalaya and Jaipur National University. The state received 1.52 lakh doses of Covaxin on Friday, which will be distributed to different districts. “We are chalking out our strategy to expand our vaccination sites for Covaxin,” said a senior health department official. Earlier, the health department had received 20,000 doses of Covaxin on January 13 and all of them were sent to six vaccination sites in Jaipur. Till now, the state has received 12.66 lakh doses, including 1.72 lakh doses of Covaxin and 10.94 lakh doses of Covishield. Meanwhile, two persons died and 203 others tested positive in the state on Saturday bringing its overall tally to 3,16,485. With two more deaths, state’s toll rose to 2,758. Districts which reported new cases are Kota (47), Jaipur (42), Nagaur (26), Jodhpur (18), Bhilwara (11), Alwar (8), Ajmer (7), Pali (7), Udaipur (6), Bharatpur (6), Rajsamand (4), Chittorgarh (3), Dungarpur (3), Sriganganagar (3), Baran (2), Bikaner (2), Tonk (2), Dausa (1), Dholpur (1), Hanumangarh (1), Jhalawar (1), Sawai Madhopur (1) and Sirohi (1). Jaipur reported its 514th Covid death and Udaipur reported its 114th fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/state-scales-up-vaccination-drive-adds-163-new-sites/articleshow/80430043.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Developer told to pay Rs 48L to 202 homebuyers||Ahmedabad: In what may be the first such case in the state, a developer has been found to be involved in profiteering and has been told to pay Rs 48 lakh to 202 homebuyers. A complaint had been filed by a homebuyer. The resulting probe of the Directorate General of Anti-Profiteering revealed that an Ahmedabad company earned Rs 48 lakh by not passing the input credit tax to homebuyers. The case relates to a residential property called ‘Reflections’ on SG Highway. The complaint was filed by Rachna Sharma, a resident of Chandkheda, who had booked a flat in the residential scheme of Pacifica Developers Pvt Ltd. The Directorate General of Anti-Profiteering, Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs, in a recent report said that Section 171 of the Central Goods and Services Act, 2017, appears to have been contravened by Pacifica Developers. The report states that the introduction of GST law brought benefits to the builder to the tune of 1.13% and this amount of differential tax rate benefit had to be passed on to the homebuyers. The order calculates the benefit not passed to be Rs 48 lakh. The investigating team took into account GST, VAT and RERA documents before arriving at the conclusion. Sharma booked the flat in 2012, when she was living in Muscat with her husband Sunil Agarwal. The developer had promised to complete the construction and deliver the home keys to them in October 2014, according to Agarwal. “In February 2016, we stopped making further payments and sent a legal notice seeking compensation for the delay in giving the possession of the flat,” he said. “GST law provides that any benefit accruing to the builder due to a change in GST rates shall be passed on to the homebuyers,” said advocate Vishal Dave who is appearing for the complainant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/developer-told-to-pay-rs-48l-to-202-homebuyers/articleshow/80427304.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Chennai||Investor seeks criminal action against investment firm||Chennai: A Coimbatore-based investor has moved the Madras high court seeking criminal action against Franklin Templeton under the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors (TNPID) Act and freeze its bank accounts.Petitioner Premnath Shanker also wanted the court to direct the economic offences wing of state police to file a status report on the steps taken to secure the money of investors in the possession of the company after filing FIR based on his complaint.Admitting the plea, the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed the EOW police to respond to the plea in four weeks.Recently, Franklin Templeton announced closure of its six mutual fund schemes affecting more than three lakh investors to the tune of Rs28,000 crore. The company made the decision on the ground of an extraordinary situation due to Covid-19.According to the petitioner, he made a complaint to the EOW police against the company on which FIR was filed under Sections 409, 420, 120-B, 34 of IPC.Though the complaint had specific allegations and ingredients to make out an offence under the TNPID Act the same was not included for the reasons best known to the officers, he said.“The company was a financial establishment as per TNPID Act and there was a default in terms of Section 5 of the act. The fraud committed by the company has resulted in loss of about Rs28,000 crore to 3,15,621 depositors. In a case of this magnitude and considering the background, it was just and necessary to include offence under he TNPID Act,” the petitioner said.In cases of this nature, it is common practice that the police will exercise their powers under CrPC and attach the movable properties at the hands of the accused. The accused in this case have made a wrongful transfer of almost Rs3,549 crore after winding up the six schemes. All these monies could have easily been attached by the police. But for the reasons best known to the police, they are not taking effective action in the case, he alleged.Therefore, he wanted the court to direct the EOW police to conduct a fair and effective investigation besides monitoring the probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/investor-seeks-criminal-action-against-investment-firm/articleshow/80429092.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 24, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan scales up Covid vaccination drive, adds 163 new sites||JAIPUR: Giving a major push to Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state, the health department will add more vaccination sites in the state for Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine manufactured by Bharat Biotech. The state increased its vaccination sites from 167 to 330 from Saturday, scaling up the drive. Currently, the vaccine is being administered to healthcare workers of six hospitals in the state, all of them in Jaipur. Among those are ESI hospital, Kanwatia hospital, Gangauri hospital, Metro Mas, Narayana Hrudayalaya and Jaipur National University. The state received 1.52 lakh doses of Covaxin on Friday, which will be distributed to different districts. “We are chalking out our strategy to expand our vaccination sites for Covaxin,” said a senior health department official. Earlier, the health department had received 20,000 doses of Covaxin on January 13 and all of them were sent to six vaccination sites in Jaipur. Till now, the state has received 12.66 lakh doses, including 1.72 lakh doses of Covaxin and 10.94 lakh doses of Covishield. Meanwhile, two persons died and 203 others tested positive in the state on Saturday bringing its overall tally to 3,16,485. With two more deaths, state’s toll rose to 2,758. Districts which reported new cases are Kota (47), Jaipur (42), Nagaur (26), Jodhpur (18), Bhilwara (11), Alwar (8), Ajmer (7), Pali (7), Udaipur (6), Bharatpur (6), Rajsamand (4), Chittorgarh (3), Dungarpur (3), Sriganganagar (3), Baran (2), Bikaner (2), Tonk (2), Dausa (1), Dholpur (1), Hanumangarh (1), Jhalawar (1), Sawai Madhopur (1) and Sirohi (1). Jaipur reported its 514th Covid death and Udaipur reported its 114th fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/state-scales-up-vaccination-drive-adds-163-new-sites/articleshow/80430045.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan scales up Covid vaccination drive, adds 163 new sites||JAIPUR: Giving a major push to Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state, the health department will add more vaccination sites in the state for Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine manufactured by Bharat Biotech. The state increased its vaccination sites from 167 to 330 from Saturday, scaling up the drive. Currently, the vaccine is being administered to healthcare workers of six hospitals in the state, all of them in Jaipur. Among those are ESI hospital, Kanwatia hospital, Gangauri hospital, Metro Mas, Narayana Hrudayalaya and Jaipur National University. The state received 1.52 lakh doses of Covaxin on Friday, which will be distributed to different districts. “We are chalking out our strategy to expand our vaccination sites for Covaxin,” said a senior health department official. Earlier, the health department had received 20,000 doses of Covaxin on January 13 and all of them were sent to six vaccination sites in Jaipur. Till now, the state has received 12.66 lakh doses, including 1.72 lakh doses of Covaxin and 10.94 lakh doses of Covishield. Meanwhile, two persons died and 203 others tested positive in the state on Saturday bringing its overall tally to 3,16,485. With two more deaths, state’s toll rose to 2,758. Districts which reported new cases are Kota (47), Jaipur (42), Nagaur (26), Jodhpur (18), Bhilwara (11), Alwar (8), Ajmer (7), Pali (7), Udaipur (6), Bharatpur (6), Rajsamand (4), Chittorgarh (3), Dungarpur (3), Sriganganagar (3), Baran (2), Bikaner (2), Tonk (2), Dausa (1), Dholpur (1), Hanumangarh (1), Jhalawar (1), Sawai Madhopur (1) and Sirohi (1). Jaipur reported its 514th Covid death and Udaipur reported its 114th fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-scales-up-vaccination-drive-adds-163-new-sites/articleshow/80427266.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Man accuses hospital of overcharging for Covid treatment||Ahmedabad: A Ghodasar resident has written a letter to Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, accusing a city-based hospital of overcharging him for the treatment of his father, who was admitted to the hospital as a Covid patient. He also claimed that when his father died during treatment, the hospital refused to hand over the body for final rites till the family paid the entire amount. Vasvani claimed that SAL hospital had handed him a bill of Rs 7.30 lakh including Rs 1.50 lakh bills for medicine. He alleged that the hospital had levied charges higher than the one fixed by the government. In his letter to the CM, Jitendra Vasvani accused SAL hospital of charging him Rs 18,050 per day for ICU and Rs 12,600 for a normal room. He said his father was in the ICU for 12 days and normal room for four days. He claimed that his father’s condition had begun improving, but he suddenly breathed his last on the night of November 12. “The hospital refused to release the body for final rites till we paid the entire amount. With the help of locals, I paid Rs 3.71 lakh and got them to release the body. However, the hospital has still not handed over my father’s treatment file,” he wrote to the CM. Jitendra sought the CM’s help to get the file from the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-accuses-hospital-of-overcharging-for-covid-treatment/articleshow/80427336.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||How Kipling wove a Parsi into his fantasy tale||By: Firoza Punthakey Mistree Wonder how the world-famous author Rudyard Kipling, a Parsi artist and a Rhinoceros are connected? Look at the portrait of a Parsi artist, Pestonjee Bomanjee (1851-1938) with his long white beard, working on a canvas and beside it is a facsimile of a story written by Rudyard Kipling, on ‘How the Rhinoceros got his Wrinkly Skin’. This is a must for all English literature buffs and all those who have for long inhabited the mesmerising world of Rudyard Kipling. Pestonjee Bomanjee’s connection to Rudyard Kipling is quite fascinating. Bomanjee was the first Indian student to study art under Kipling’s father, John Lockwood Kipling, who was appointed as head of the department of artist-craftsmen at the ‘Sir JJ School of Art and Industry’ in 1865. The school was established in Bombay in 1853, by another Parsi Sir Jamsetjee Jejeebhoy, a wealthy China Merchant. Rudyard Kipling was born in the principal’s bungalow on the grounds of the Sir JJ School of Art and a bronze plaque commemorates this event. Bomanjee was a natural artist and his time was spent largely in the big airy studio on the grounds of the school, making the various clay models of flora and fauna, griffons and fantastic creatures, required to decorate the many neo-Gothic style, buildings that were being built on Hornby Road (now Dadabhai Naoroji Road) a mile and a half away from the art school. Harry Ricketts, the biographer of Rudyard Kipling notes, that Rudyard remembered ‘vast green spaces and wonderful walks through coconut woods on the edge of the sea where the Parsees waded in and prayed to the rising sun.’ This was perhaps one of Kipling’s earliest memories of the Parsis. Bomanjee, then the only Parsi student at the JJ School of Art, was well acquainted with Rudyard whom he described as an impish child, who would frequently wander across the compound to the School of Art where Bomanjee and other artists were creating models and would pelt them with clay pellets, before being scolded and banished to his home by his father. These and other encounters with Bomanjee, inspired Rudyard to weave a fantastical tale centred on the artist titled ‘How the Rhinoceros got his Wrinkly Skin’. It was one of the bedtime stories Rudyard narrated to his daughter Josephine. Kipling weaves this story around a Parsi who lived ‘on an uninhabited island on the shores of the Red Sea… and from whose hat, the rays of the sun were reflected in more-than-oriental splendour’. This was Kipling’s imaginary description of Bomanjee. The story is about a Rhinoceros who rudely invaded the home of a Parsi and chased him out and of how the beast ate up a freshly baked cake and the way the clever Parsi took revenge on the beast. The curious lesson to be learned from this strange adventure was put into verse by Kipling — ‘Them that takes cakes/ Which the Parsee-man bakes/ Makes dreadful mistakes’. In a note in the 1955 edition of Just so Stories For Little Children, Kipling confirmed, ‘This is the Parsee Pestonjee Bomonjee sitting in his palm tree... wearing a new more-than-Oriental-Splendour hat of the sort that Parsees wear…’. Perhaps a reference to the shiny lacquered hats Parsis in Bombay wore on a regular basis. The small portrait of Bomanjee by Ardeshir Pestonji, which is nothing like Kipling’s fantastical drawings of him, depicts the artist precariously balanced, with his foot raised on a stool, intensely mixing paints on a wooden palette. Bomanjee eventually took up painting under John Griffiths who taught him the rigours of European portrait painting, and he was among the first group of Indian artists trained by European teachers who worked on reproducing the Ajanta frescoes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/how-a-parsi-came-to-inhabit-rudyard-kiplings-fantasy-tale-about-a-rhino/articleshow/80428708.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Chennai||Lawyer drags CMRL to HC over cave-ins near Central station||Chennai: Frequent road cave-ins near Chennai Central railway station due to ongoing Central Square work by CMRL has prompted a lawyer to move the Madras high court saying the decking plates placed on the dredged area to serve vehicular movement were causing great threat to life and safety of people.Advocate Ajay Francis Loyola, in his plea, wanted the court to direct the CMRL and other state authorities to ensure the public is not harmed in any way by building a temporary bridge in the area.Admitting the plea, the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy has directed the authorities, including the CMRL, to respond to the PIL in six weeks.According to the petitioner, the Chennai Central Square project to develop people-friendly pedestrian subways, two bus terminuses, three-level underground parking and walkways in and around Chennai Central railway station is underway for years now and the subway linking the railway station was expected to be completed in 2018.The 14m wide underground subway which is incomplete is posing serious danger to the general public at large, he said.“On October 26, 2020 a container truck from Chennai port passed through these decking plates and the entire portion caved-in leaving a creator of more than 20ft. In another unreported incident a non-commercial vehicle succumbed to this hazard leaving the driver and the vehicle stranded for minutes before their rescue, he added.Authorities should take all necessary steps to make sure that while the commuters waiting for signal in the Central railway station junction are prevented from stationing on top of the decking plates which cause a dead weight, and which might lead to a collapse, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lawyer-drags-cmrl-to-hc-over-cave-ins-near-central-station/articleshow/80429096.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 24, 2021||Pune||Cops unearth Karnataka link to illegal gutka trade case||PUNE: Tumakuru, an industrial city in southern Karnataka, has emerged a vital link in the manufacture and supply of gutka and tobacco products to traders in Pune. The Karnataka link surfaced during the interrogation of a suspect arrested in connection with the Pune police investigation into the illegal manufacture and distribution of the banned tobacco product in the city. “Arun Tolani — one of 18 arrested in the case so far — told us that gutka/tobacco products were supplied from Tumakuru to Pune and other places in Maharashtra,” senior inspector Rajnish Nirmal (crime branch, Unit IV) said on Saturday. Nirmal said a 30-member police team, including seven officers, raided seven manufacturing units in Tumakuru and collected Samples on January 16 and 17. He said they were unable to seal the facilities or seize the material and machinery — valued at Rs120 crore — as gutka was not banned in Karnataka. “We took Manoj Srivastav — managing director of those manufacturing units — into custody and wanted to question him to identify others involved in the operation, but could not bring him to Pune after he complained of chest pain. He was admitted to a local government hospital,” he said. “We have shared the information with the Karnataka police and their Food and Drugs Administration,” Nirmal added. Since the case was registered with the Chandannagar police last November, the police raided 28 places to crack down on businessmen involved in the illegal gutka trade in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-unearth-karnataka-link-to-illegal-gutka-trade-case/articleshow/80427318.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 24, 2021||Delhi||Three held for staging theft in Delhi's Rohini||NEW DELHI: A 47-year-old jewellery shopowner, who allegedly staged a theft of 650gm gold and Rs 8 lakh cash from his car in Rohini, was arrested along with a ragpicker and one of his servants for their involvement in the theft. Police said the man, Mukesh, had staged the theft to delay payment of debt and to bust his wife’s superstition that wearing a blue sapphire would help him lead a prosperous future. On January 16 at 9.35pm a call was received at Rohini south police station reporting a theft of a bag from a car in Sector 3 Rohini. Mukesh told the cops that around 9.10pm when he reached home and parked his Swift Dzire outside his house, he forgot to lock it. After some time when he returned to check, he found two bags containing 650gm gold jewellery and Rs 8 lakh cash missing. DCP (Rohini) PK Mishra said the activities of Mukesh’s help, Sunny, were found suspicious. It came to fore that he was the bags were with him. “When Sunny was interrogated with evidence, he said Mukesh had planned the theft and roped him and a ragpicker, Suraj, for the job,” Mishra said. Police then questioned Mukesh, who revealed that the bags were empty. “It was also revealed that, while keeping the bags in the car, he had deliberately left the front door unlocked. Meanwhile, as per the plan, Suraj opened the car and fled with the bags. He was given prior training to execute the theft and was promised Rs 700,” the DCP said. Police said Mukesh owed a colossal amount to his partners and was being constantly harassed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/three-held-for-staging-theft-in-rohini/articleshow/80428706.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Patna||Rise in number of healthcare workers opting for vaccines||PATNA: Though the overall Covid-19 vaccination rate in Bihar is hovering around 50%, individual state government-run hospitals are showing an upward trend with more and more healthcare workers coming forward to get the shots. For instance, the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) on Saturday saw a 107% turnout. While 90 healthcare workers were registered on the Co-WIN portal to be vaccinated, an additional six persons volunteered, taking the figure to 96. “Thankfully six beneficiaries, who were supposed to take the shot on another day, voluntarily came forward to get the vaccine on Saturday,” PMCH’s superintendent Dr Bimal Karak said. He cited several reasons for this improvement, including the positive report on Covaxin appearing in reputed international journals like Lancet. Another factor, he said, was the coming forward of heads of hospitals, health department senior officials to take the vaccine which helped address the hesitancy among healthcare workers. “Initially, we had a team to ensure that registered beneficiaries turn out for vaccination and over the first two days, we had to put efforts into bringing them. However, now they are coming on their own. We finished the entire vaccination drive by 4 pm on Saturday, which normally goes on till 7 pm,” Dr Karak said. The Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), too, reported improvement in the turnout for vaccination. Data shared by the district administration pegged the vaccination rate at IGIMS at 69% on Saturday, which was significantly more than the average turnout of 52% so far. IGIMS’s superintendent Dr Manish Mandal said people are slowly getting confident about the vaccines. “The shots taken by senior officials of the health department in the past few days has also built confidence among other healthcare staff and workers,” he said. Dr Mandal, who was scheduled to be vaccinated on January 30, also took the shot on Saturday. “Healthcare workers like trolley boys, sanitation workers and ward boys were a little confused. But now that they have seen doctors and officers taking the jab, they are now confident. I got myself vaccinated today to boost their confidence,” he said. Even at some private hospitals, the flow has started to improve. The principal of the Madhubani Medical College and Hospital, Dr Rajiv Ranjan Prasad, said there were doubts in the minds of the beneficiaries, but now those have been cleared. “Initially, false information also got viral, such as people with blood pressure or diabetes should not get vaccinated. But now they have seen many senior people with such ailments taking the vaccines,” said Dr Rajiv, adding positive reports in the media have also led to the improvement. The IGIMS board of governors member Dr Sunil Singh said the demand for India-manufactured vaccines in the international market was another reason for growing people’s faith in the shots. “Covaxin has been supplied to Brazil. Also, a study published in Lancet has mentioned that Covaxin has no side effects. Yes, there is certain confusion so we have asked the government to advertise as to who all can take the vaccine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rise-in-number-of-healthcare-workers-opting-for-vaccines/articleshow/80427355.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 24, 2021||Pune||Pune techie tries to sell laptop online, duped of Rs 40,000||PUNE: A 28-year-old software engineer from Wakad, who was trying to sell her used laptop online, lost Rs40,000 to cyber fraudsters. As per a complaint lodged by the woman, who works for a prominent IT company in Hinjwadi, the incident occurred on January 17. Police said the complainant posted an advertisement on a classifieds website, offering her laptop for sale for Rs10,000. The suspect got in touch with her, expressing interest in buying the laptop. ‘The suspect promised make the payment via a UPI application and told her to accept a ‘payment request’,” police said. As per the complaint, the fraudster sent her a QR code, which the unsuspecting woman scanned using a UPI application on her smartphone. She then entered a four-digit authorizing the transaction. “Immediately, Rs40,000 was debited from her account,” police said. Police said the suspects then stopped answering her calls and blocked her number. The woman hails from Gurugram. After registering the FIR, she went back to Gurugram, police said. Police are basing their probe around the UPI transfer details and the mobile number(s) from which the complainant received the call. A case has been registered under IPC Section 420, as well as the IT Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/techie-tries-to-sell-laptop-online-duped-of-rs-40000/articleshow/80427342.cms||---
January 24, 2021||India||Their way, the highway. Three friends beat WFH boredom||BENGALURU: What do you do when work from home gets monotonous and taxing? If you happen to be Bakcen George, Allwyn Joseph or Ratish Bhalerao, chances are that you would be logging in to your workstation from a highway dhaba. When Covid-induced work from home got boring, the three friends took off on their cycles, pedalling over 1,600km across three states. They never missed out on office duties along the way. For George, 37, a digital marketing executive and adventure buff from Thane, the lockdown was trying. “I was slipping into depression and the dream of cycling from Mumbai to Kanyakumari was constantly on my mind. I knew I wasn’t going to get 20 days leave to travel, so I thought why not work from a highway instead,” he said. On 19 November, George told childhood pals Joseph (37) and Bhalerao (36) of his plan. Both Joseph and Bhalerao, who didn’t even own bicycles, decided to join him. “It sounded very adventurous and clearly a change from the routine,” laughed Allwyn Joseph, an executive with a Mumbai-based logistics firm, who bought a second-hand cycle for the trip. Bhalerao had quit his job but was engaged in freelance online work. They began their trip from Kalyan on November 21, armed with a plan to pedal along the coast till Kanyakumari, Tamil Nadu. “We would ride from 4am to 11am and halt at dhabas or teashops to open our laptops and finish office work,” George said. They reached Kanyakumari on December 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/their-way-the-highway-three-friends-beat-wfh-boredom/articleshow/80429368.cms||Petlee Peter
January 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||532 students awarded degrees at CEPT University convocation||AHMEDABAD: CEPT University on Saturday organized its 15th convocation in virtual mode where 532 students were conferred degrees. Shashi Verma, director of strategy and CTO at Transport for London (TfL) was the chief guest at the event. Among those who received the degrees included one doctoral student, 372 post-graduate students, and 159 graduate students. University Awards of Proficiency was conferred to 61 meritorious students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/532-students-awarded-degrees-at-cept-university-convocation/articleshow/80427351.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Waste management startup set to raise series-A funds||Ahmedabad: The very sight of Mount Pirana, a garbage dump in Ahmedabad, is a stark reminder of the need and urgency of proper waste management. Ahmedabad-based startup, Ishitva Robotic Systems, has developed a series of products that helps automate the segregation and sorting of waste to enable better recycling, using Artificial Intelligence (AI) and IoT (Internet of Things) technologies. The startup is in the process of raising funds as part of the Series-A funding, which will be between $2 million to $5million.“We are already in an advanced stage of negotiations with investors for the series-A round of funding. With the fresh funds, we plan to introduce new products for better waste segregation and expand our footprint,” said Sandip Singh, CEO, Ishitva Robotic Systems.“Going forward, we plan to foray into more geographies in India to cater to our clients. Some 15 locations are already in the pipeline where we are negotiating contracts to deploy technology solutions for waste segregation and sorting,” he added.As on date, the startup is an Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) for companies who work in the waste management sector for industrial as well as domestic waste disposal. These companies (clients of Ishitva Robotic Systems) in turn work for urban local bodies too.The startup was founded by Jitesh Dadlani in 2018, with a view to utilize AI, IoT and machine learning technology to effectively segregate waste to help recover recyclable items, making way for a circular economy. It offers a range of tech-enabled products for sorting of complex waste of different kinds.“Be it household waste or industrial waste, the key is segregating and sorting it right – a crucial requirement for recycling. Deciphering the waste based on its polymer is tricky and therefore, automation is the key to enhancing waste sorting process,” said Jitesh, who has pursued his BSc with Electronics along with MCA and worked for 13 years in various tech-companies in Dubai, UK and the US.“Our tech-enabled products not just help minimize human intervention and consequent health hazards in sorting and segregating waste, but it also provides a scalable, faster and more efficient sorting of complex waste classified based on different polymers and colours, using high-speed air sorters,” he further added.The need for automation in waste segregation and sorting only went up post pandemic, especially for handling Covid-19 waste. The company began commercializing its products in 2020 and following the coronavirus pandemic outbreak, the inquiries for automated sorting of waste have gone up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/waste-management-startup-set-to-raise-series-a-funds/articleshow/80427353.cms||Niyati Parikh
January 24, 2021||Pune||Best suited model of joint theatre command to be adopted by armed forces: Southern Army commander||Pune: The armed forces would adopt the best suited model of the joint theatre command in a phased manner to enhance operational abilities, Southern Army Commander Lt Gen CP Mohanty said on Saturday.“We are looking at stony jointness among the forces. Right now, we fight in different domains. But under joint theatre command there would be integration in terms of planning and execution of operations. Currently, we are studying various modern models of the command that exist across the world. The best model suited for the Indian Armed Forces would be adopted in due course of time,” he said while speaking to reporters at the Command Headquarters here.Lt Gen Mohanty, who recently reviewed the ongoing tri services exercise at Vizag in Andhra Pradesh, expressed happiness at the high level of integration achieved by the troops.He also said that there was a need to enhance amphibious capabilities of the Indian Army to play a role in maritime security in the southern sector, which has over 7,000km coastline.On maritime security in the southern sector, Lt Gen Mohanty reiterated that the entire domain is under the Indian Navy and Indian Coast Guard. “We ourselves are responsible for as and when the need arises, particularly in terms of manpower required from the specialised forces. As far as other areas of Gujarat and Sir Creek are concerned, we are ensuring that security is maintained at high level. But when it comes to management of coastal bay, it is essentially of the Navy and the Coast Guard,” he added.Regarding emergence of new security threats in Southern India, Lt Gen Mohanty said that the security and intelligence agencies are working effectively towards keeping citizens safe.“The army is focused towards the national initiative of “Atmanirbhar Bharat’. Towards this end, the Defence Research and Development Organisation has been meeting our new battlefield requirements tactically and strategically,” he said.‘Efforts on to address cantonments fund shortage’ Lt Gen CP Mohanty General Officer Commanding-in-Chief Southern Command said on Saturday that efforts are on to seek more funds from the Ministry of Defence to address fund shortages in 19 cantonments, including Pune.“I am in contact with senior hierarchy and having dialogue with the Ministry of Defence to seek more funds to meet the aspirations of the cantonments in the southern sector,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/best-suited-model-of-joint-theatre-command-to-be-adopted-by-armed-forces-southern-army-commander/articleshow/80427354.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Dead rape victim’s family meets Kamal Nath||BHOPAL: The relatives of the 17-year-old rape victim who passed away on Thursday in Hamidia hospital, met PCC chief Kamal Nath on Saturday morning. The girl was one of the victims of newspaper owner Pyare Mian, who allegedly raped her. Congress alleged that the victim’s family was not given her body for performing the last rites. Nath also compared the incident to the Hathras rape case. “Very sad rape incident like Hathras,” the former chief minister said. “The girl’s father and other members of her family met me. I have heard what they had to say and it is extremely sad that in ‘mama’ Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s regime, girls in Madhya Pradesh are not safe. Our mothers are sisters are unprotected and he campaigns by calling himself mama,” he added. Nath said that the state government needs to initiate firm steps to protect women and the girl child. “I am demanding a CBI investigation in the case. But I don’t know how many such incidents are occurring daily that are being suppressed. This is a very serious matter. The state ranks number one in offences against women and there are many cases that don’t even get reported,” he said. A state Congress release said that the family members of the deceased girl demanded a CBI investigation and asked Nath to get them justice. The veteran leader assured the family that he stands with them in their hour of grief and will fight for justice. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/dead-rape-victims-family-meets-nath/articleshow/80427352.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Chennai||PMK top body will meet on Jan 25 over govt stand on quota||Chennai: With uncertainty continuing over poll ties with the ruling AIADMK for the assembly election, the PMK executive committee announced it would meet on January 25 to take a ‘political decision’ on the state government’s stand on reservation for vanniyars in education and jobs. PMK founder S Ramadoss had been urging the state to extend internal reservation for vanniyars within 20% quota for most backward classes, stepping down from his original demand of 20% reservation for the community. While the BJP has indicated keenness to continue its alliance with the AIADMK, the PMK has made consent to its reservation demand a pre-condition for ties. On Friday, Ramadoss took a dig at the government for calling itself ‘cradle of social justice’ when it was “reluctant to extend quota for the most backward community”. The Maharashtra government had extended 16% quota for Marathas in 2018 after state-wide protests, he pointed out. “The emergency meeting of the executive committee will take place via video conferencing,” PMK president G K Mani said. Ramadoss and his son Anbumani Ramadoss, Vanniyar Sangam president P T Arulmozhi among others will take part in the meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pmk-top-body-will-meet-on-jan-25-over-govt-stand-on-quota/articleshow/80427360.cms||Julie Mariappan
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||First timers take a leap of faith, start new restaurants in pandemic||When an ambitious new French dessert bar opens in the right neighbourhood at the wrong time, they’re not just serving up tarts and meringues, but a little bit of hope. “It wasn’t easy, though. I had already rented the property before the pandemic shut everything down, didn’t have a force majeure clause in my contract, couldn’t set foot in it till July and my Dad who manages my accounts contracted Covid. But I didn’t want to give up on my dream,” says 25-yearold Freny Fernandes, a pastry chef who returned from New York two years ago to create a space “that’s unlike anything Mumbai has ever seen.” She took a leap of faith and opened Moner in December. And despite the harsh realities, remains bullish about her bistro’s future. Times have never been tougher for the Indian restaurant industry with challenges for everyone involved — be it owners, chefs, suppliers or servers. Yet, in true Mumbai fashion, the city’s dining scene refuses to call it quits. While businesses have been nervous about simply reopening while existing restaurants have flipped their space and menus into something more pandemic and people friendly to tide over losses, a slew of new restaurateurs are rolling the dice and entering the city’s dining quarters, smack in the middle of a pandemic. It takes years of plan-andprep to birth a Japanese restaurant, so it only made sense for Lakhan Jethani, owner and head chef of Mizu to soldier forward and open despite an unprecedented downturn and safety measures that would cut his capacity by half. “It was a matter of quitting what we’d been working towards for two years or going ahead. So we mustered all that we had and took the plunge,” says Jethani who opened a brand new outlet of Mizu in December. Like Mizu, most of these eateries were in the works long before the country went into forced hibernation. Epitome, a 160-seater restaurant at Todi Mill was one of the first new restaurants to see the light of day in October. For Vishal Karia it was as much a bold step forward as it was a means of survival. “After our launch got deferred by the lockdown, we had to house 32 members of our new staff at an industrial gala behind the restaurant until lockdown ended,” says Karia who was confident that his 7000 sqft “family restaurant” would offer people the seclusion and peace of mind they needed. If going ahead with the opening was a risk that some were forced to take because of plans already in motion, others saw an opportunity in a dire situation. Puneet Alag is all set to make her switch from a real estate professional to restaurateur next month. “Because I see 2021as a year for hospitality. This is the right time for those who want to be in the industry in all earnestness. With so many shutdowns but people still wanting to dine out, serious players will thrive,” says Alag set to throw open three new restaurants. Then there are some that emerged winners in the pandemic. It's been a busy few weeks for Nuzha Ebrahim and her staff at Kuckeliku Breakfast House since she opened her experimental art cafe in December. “For me the problem has been inverse. Of trying to manage more patrons than we’d expected,” smiles Ebrahim whose well laid plans of pivoting from pop-ups to a brick and mortar space in Colaba hit a speed bump in March. With no history to look back on, she decided to wait and watch other restaurants find their bearings. “We did a three day practice run with gallery enthusiasts before the launch and I’ve been surprised by the turnout. Since we were minimally designed with a breakfast menu, which is comforting and homely, it brought in a steady flow of patrons,” says Ebrahim, who also had the added advantage of a landlord who is her father. Yet, there’s no sugar coating the worries that still abound with discounts on rentals set to expire by April, staff shortage, changing customer demands, and of course the pressure to still have the most selfie-friendly corners. “Yes, terms of trade have changed, the bustle of a physical space has to be toned down and sourcing supplies remains a big challenge especially for us with Japan still locked down but you have to find ways to adapt to a pandemic-proof future and think of backups like delivery and cloud kitchens,” says Jethani. Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, president, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India points out:, “Thirty percent of the city’s restaurants have closed permanently while six percent have found rejuvenation. To cut losses some are selling off their restaurants lock, stock and barrel.” It worked for Alag who picked a recently-vacated eatery inside a corporate park in Lower Parel to start her new venture. “It was previously occupied by The Khaki Drill. With kitchen equipment, furniture and decor already in place, it was labour and cost effective for us to just plug and play with a little bit of rearrangement to establish our brand. Also, the process of acquiring liquor licenses can take months. The transfer makes it far easier.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/first-time-biz-owners-take-leap-of-faith-open-new-restaurants-in-the-pandemic/articleshow/80428752.cms||Mohua Das
January 24, 2021||Pune||Jail tourism to start in India from Yerawada on Republic Day||PUNE: A section of the Yerawada Central Prison would be thrown open to tourists from January 26. Home minister Anil Deshmukh announced the jail tourism initiative in Nagpur on Saturday. Of the 60 prisons in the state, Thane, Aurangabad, Ratnagiri, Dhule, Nashik, Chandrapur, Byculla women’s jail and others, are of historical importance. Based on a proposal initiated by the state prisons department, the state government has decided to launch jail tourism at Yerawada. Additional director-general (prisons) Sunil Ramanand told TOI, “For the first time in India, we are starting the concept of jail tourism at the Yerawada facility, opened in 1871, because it has historical importance. The younger generation is not aware of the sacrifices made by freedom fighters and revolutionaries during the Independence movement. We want them to visit the jail and get a glimpse of its importance as it has been preserved for a very long time.” He said, “The Poona Pact — an agreement signed between Mahatma Gandhi and Babasaheb Ambedkar on reservation of electoral seats for depressed/upper caste in the legislature of British India government — was signed at the Yerawada jail in 1932.” Ramanand said, “The Poona Pact was signed under a tree, which we have maintained till date. The tourists will get an opportunity to see the tree. We shall allow them to visit the Gandhi and Tilak yards and we shall show them places, where leaders of the Independence struggle were lodged.” The senior IPS officer pointed out that national leaders like Lokmanya Tilak, Mahatma Gandhi, Pandit Nehru, Motilal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, and others, were lodged at the Yerawada jail. Revolutionaries like the Chaphekar brothers were hanged here during the British regime. “Terrorists Sukhdev Singh, alias Sukha, and Harjinder Singh, alias Jinda, who had assassinated General Arun Kumar Vaidya in Pune, and the lone 2008 Mumbai terror attack convict Ajmal Kasab were hanged to death at Yerawada jail,” he said. “The jails, located in the state, have remained out of bounds for the general public but now we shall be allowing students from schools, colleges, universities and other institutes to visit the jail in a group of 50, per day, and charge them a nominal fee. Four jail guards have been appointed as guides and they will share details of historical events with the tourists,” Ramanand said. Watch Maharashtra govt to inaugurate jail tourism facility at Pune's Yerwada prison on January 26||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jail-tourism-to-start-in-india-from-yerawada-on-r-day/articleshow/80427356.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Labour woes, material costs throttle foundries||They have been the backbone of the engineering and electrical companies in Gujarat since decades and were doing brisk business till a year ago. But the foundry sector has been floundering in the state following the exodus of skilled and experienced workers during the lockdown for Covid. Those in the foundry business say many skilled labourers who had left for UP or Bihar during the lockdown haven’t returned. And as if the labour loss wasn’t enough, the industry’s woes increased due to the steep hike in raw material prices over the last few months. “The foundry industry is in a bad shape in the state. It is labour intensive and a major chunk of the labourers who work here are from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. During and after lockdown, many of them left for their hometowns,” said Anil Agrawal, owner of Gujarat Foundries located in Vatva GIDC, Ahmedabad. “Most of these labourers haven’t returned to work since then. They were skilled and experienced in work that requires both physical strength and precision. Many foundry firms are struggling to cope with their work orders, as the local labourers aren’t good enough in the foundry work,” Agrawal told TOI. According to industry sources, Gujarat is home to about 2,500 to 3,000 foundry firms of small, medium and big scale. Most of these firms are located in Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Ahmedabad and their turnover runs into thousands of crores. The foundry firms mainly cater to the textile sector, engineering sector, and castings for agricultural machinery sector. “Foundries are also hit by the persistent increase in raw material prices over the last few months. Due to shortage of labourers, the companies aren’t able to make products on time and quality is suffering as skilled labourers haven’t returned to work,” said Vrajlal Thummar, managing director of Rajkot-based Meghmani Precisions Casting Pvt Ltd that has 110 employees. “Prices of raw materials like iron, scrap and alloys have gone up by 40% in the last few months. We can’t raise prices of our products as buyers aren’t willing to pay extra. This has put a burden on our industry and many foundries are on the verge of closure,” Agrawal said. “Add the steep hike in raw material prices with the lack of skilled labourers and it is now a battle for survival,” Suresh Hirpara, director at Universal Technocast, who is a member of Indian Investment Casting Manufacturing Association, Rajkot. Kirit Soni, president, Saurashtra Chambers of Commerce & Industry (SCCI) that has 150 foundries as members, confirmed that foundry firms are in trouble. But he also pointed at some firms getting good export orders. A senior official of a Vadodara-based engineering major said, “The quality of products from foundries has gone down since few months as they don’t have quality labour now. Lots of companies are rejecting products and it is increasing the production costs of the foundry units.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/labour-exodus-costly-raw-materials-put-foundry-industry-in-quandary/articleshow/80427375.cms||Tushar Tere
January 24, 2021||Pune||PMPML to run 1,700 buses daily by end of February||PUNE: Over 1,700 Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) buses are expected to be on the road daily by the end of February, with classes from Standard V to VIII set to start from January 27. “At present, we are operating around 1,500 buses and by February end, 200 buses will be added to the daily fleet. The opening of schools is an important development as many students use our buses to go to schools. With 1,700 buses on road, we will be able to reach the pre-Covid numbers,” a senior official said. TimesViewThe Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) should ensure snag-free bus service to students when they return to schools. The transport utility’s vehicle maintenance team should closely check the road worthiness of vehicles before they hit the streets. The students could be a little shaky when they go back to classes after a long break because of the pandemic. Bus breakdowns midway through the journey would do no good to their confidence.“The buses have an average load factor of 60% at present, which is a cause for concern. We are banking on re-opening of schools. During pre-Covid times, the average load factor used to be 90% or even more at times,” the official added. The transport body had resumed services after lockdown with 421 buses on 190 routes. Since November, the buses are operating at full capacity. “We have to improve the income and that can happen only if there is an increase in the number of passengers. The transport body is currently earning Rs96 lakh per day against over Rs1.50 crore it used to earn before March. Initiatives like the ATAL service, which runs buses on short routes of 5km at five-minute intervals with Rs 5 fare are working fine,” another official said. The official said that they tried to reach out to the IT employees in Hinjewadi, but the plan didn’t work out. “We went to many companies with the proposal of starting a bus service for their employees. However, all of them said most of their employees were working from home and wouldn’t need the service. We are hoping to implement the plan from April as the companies are planning to call their employees to office after March, depending on the pandemic scenario,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-to-run-1700-buses-by-february-end/articleshow/80427358.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 24, 2021||Nagpur||Number of those taking vax will increase: Experts||Nagpur: More doctors and health workers will take Covid-19 vaccine jabs in the coming week according to the doctors who have taken the vaccine in the last three days. This, despite all the confusion and problems. Even though the numbers are increasing, health care workers in Vidarbha are still hesitant about taking both Covishield and Covaxin in Vidarbha.Senior doctors are leading the way and this should inspire many health workers, say experts. TOI spoke to doctors who have taken the vaccine and also to those who have postponed it for the time being. Those who have skipped vaccination in the first five days have given reasons such as being unwell, busy in urgent work or out of station. But, on condition of not being named, most of them stated that the real reason behind skipping vaccination was lack of confidence on vaccine.“I am waiting for a week or two before getting vaccinated. I will definitely get the vaccine but let the nationwide picture get clear before that,” said a dentist from Nagpur.A health worker who skipped vaccination on January 21 said that he is keenly following news and still sceptical about the vaccine’s side effects. “If more doctors, seniors and HODs in hospitals take the jab, I will also go for it,” he said.Many senior doctors are leading from the front. “Vaccine is 100% safe and it’s a national responsibility of health workers to take it without fear,” said Dr Rajesh Swarnakar, secretary of Indian Chest Society. On Saturday, district health officers, civil surgeons and other officials of health department took the vaccine in Buldhana, Washim, Akola, and other districts of Vidarbha. In Nagpur, civil surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar, Rajya Sabha MP Dr Vikas Mahatme got the jab on Friday.Medical directors of leading private hospitals, where Covid-19 patients are being treated in Nagpur, told TOI that they are waiting for their hospitals to become Covid vaccination centres. Vidarbha Hospital Association (VHA) coordinator Dr Anup Marar said that health workers and doctors in private hospitals will get vaccinated once their turn comes. On Saturday, more vaccination centres which includes leading private hospitals were announced as new vaccination centres. This will also ensure more vaccination next week.VAX QUOTESVaccine is the most effective medium to stop the Covid-19 spread. Whenever your turn comes, don’t think twice and get yourself vaccinated Dr Abhay Bang | GadchiroliThere has been a misunderstanding about vaccine in country which is unnecessary. Vaccine is safe for all age groups and we should take it not only for our safety but for the safety of entire countryDr Rani Bang | GadchiroliBoth vaccines approved by the Government are safe. Despite being a patient of hypertension, I took the vaccine. I am facing no problem at all. Dr Madhukar Rathod, district civil surgeon, WashimGot my first shot of vaccine and official certificate as well. It's really a huge exercise and been executed very nicely. I urge all to get the shot whenever your turn comesDr Ashwini Tayade | infectious disease specialist, Nagpur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/number-of-those-taking-vax-will-increase-experts/articleshow/80426674.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 24, 2021||Delhi||23-year-old man murders woman over debt in Delhi, held||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has arrested a 23-year-old man for allegedly strangulating to death a woman who was forcing him to return Rs 47,000, which he had taken from her on pretext of getting her a loan. His accomplice has also been arrested. The accused have been identified as Ankit and his associate Nitesh, 20, both residents of Holambi Kalan. Police officers said, on Wednesday, one Surendra Singh from Jahangirpuri lodged a complaint at Kotwali police station reporting that his 25-year-old daughter was missing. Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said, during a search for the woman, an unidentified body of a woman was found in Alipur. “It was established that the body was of the missing woman and in medical examination, it was found that she was strangulated. A case of murder was registered,” Alphonse said. During investigation, police zeroed in on Ankit and Nitesh who were in touch with the woman before she went missing. “Both of them were detained and during interrogation, Ankit disclosed that he also earlier worked with the woman in a medical store. He said he had later started working for a financial company in Noida. Ankit took Rs 47,000 from her at different instances promising to get her a loan, but when he didn’t, she asked for her money,” the DCP said. On the day of the incident, Ankit called the deceased to Punjabi Bagh West Metro Station on the pretext of returning her money. “The duo then, in a car, took the woman to an isolated location in Karala where they strangled her with a phone charger cable and threw her body away,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/23-year-old-man-murders-woman-over-debt-held/articleshow/80428753.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Pune||Fire at Ramtekdi garbage plant||Pune: A major fire gutted the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s garbage collection and processing plant at Ramtekdi industrial area on Saturday night. No casualties were reported. Altogether 11 fire tenders and water tankers rushed to the scene and started dousing the blaze after the local residents alerted the central fire brigade control room around 8.15pm. PMC chief fire officer Prashant Ranpise said, “A major fire broke out at the plant and our firemen have started operation to put out the blaze.” He said the cause of the fire could not be ascertained immediately. PMC additional municipal commissioner Kunal Khemnar said, “The 50-tonne garbage plant at Ramtekdi is functional. Our officials have rushed to the spot to take stock of the situation. We will conduct an inquiry into the incident.” PMC corporator Yogesh Sasane said, “The civic body has appointed a private contractor for disposing garbage at the plant. The fire broke out inside the plant when it was closed.” Another corporator, Ashok Kamble, said, “I don’t know why the plant is prone to fire incidents, but we will check CCTV cameras to find the probable cause of the blaze .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fire-at-ramtekdi-garbage-plant/articleshow/80427362.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Nagpur||Covaxin: 120 take jab in Amt, only 42 at GMCH||Nagpur: The number of Covid vaccination beneficiaries again dropped below 50 with only 42 of them taking the Covaxin jab at GMCH which is the only centre in the city for the indigenous drug. In a sharp contrast, the numbers zoomed beyond 100% at the only other centre in Vidarbha at Amravati district general hospital where 120 took the jab.GMCH officials said the low number indicates that the staffers are still undecided and have doubts about the vaccine. Those taking the jab had been trying to lift the morale of other beneficiaries by posting their pictures on social media while getting injected. They have also given positive feedback to motivate their colleagues.Yet, the confusion and doubts seem to persist in the minds of GMCH beneficiaries. As per the official record, around 5,200 frontline healthcare workers are registered for the jab. However, 256 have been vaccinated against a target of 600 in six days of the drive since January 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covaxin-120-take-jab-in-amt-only-42-at-gmch/articleshow/80426680.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM announces Parakram award to celebrate Netaji||BHOPAL: Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said that five students of Madhya Pradesh will be awarded Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Parakram Award annually for their acts of courage and outstanding work. Chouhan made the announcement minutes after garlanding the statue of Netaji Subhas on the freedom fighter’s 125th birth anniversary at the Government Subhas Higher Secondary School of Excellence here in the state capital. Remembering Netaji’s contribution towards India’s independence movement, Chouhan said that the freedom fighter went abroad and formed the Azad Hind Fauj (Indian National Army) to free the country from the shackles of slavery. “As a result of this act of courage, the British were forced to quit the country”, the CM said. . Later in the day, Chouhan went to the Jabalpur Central Jail where Netaji was imprisoned twice. He also went to the barrack where the freedom fighter stayed. The CM said that visiting the place made him comprehend the pain that our freedom fighters have gone through. Chouhan also saw the handcuffs that were used to tie the freedom fighters before they were hanged inside the jail premises. “A copy of a handwritten letter of Netaji is still preserved in the jail”, Chouhan said. “It is no less than a religious place for all of us. It is also a motivational spot and a thought crossed my mind and I want to develop the place where Netaji stayed for people to visit. A documentary film and exhibition on his life can be displayed here”, he added. The CM said a separate gate can be made in the jail premises for the purpose. “It will be discussed with the experts and a decision to develop it will be taken soon”, Chouhan added. Chouhan gave the example of the Cellular Jail in Andaman and Nicobar Islands where freedom fighter Veer Savarkar was imprisoned for revolting against the British rule. It was later developed for people to visit and get motivated. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has decided to celebrate Netaji’s birth anniversary as ‘Parakram Diwas’ from this year||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-announces-parakram-award-to-celebrate-netaji/articleshow/80427361.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Navi-mumbai||FIR lodged in Mahad gas leak incident||NAVI MUMBAI: The Mahad MIDC police have registered a first information report (FIR) against the location head, plant manager and administration of a chemical firm in connection with the gas leak incident reported on Thursday. Seven persons were hospitalized after hydrogen sulphide leaked from plant no. six of the chemical manufacturing company called Indo Amines Ltd in Mahad MIDC. They were admitted in a critical condition. No arrests have been made yet. The company management has been accused of being negligent, said the police. Four victims were discharged from hospital on Saturday,” said J Shetty, a company manager.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/fir-lodged-in-mahad-gas-leak-incident/articleshow/80428756.cms||Umesh K Parida
January 24, 2021||Pune||More than half of teaching posts lying vacant at Savitribai Phule Pune University||PUNE: Only 186 of the 386 sanctioned teaching posts in 42 departments at Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) have been filled in the last four years. There are over 200 vacant posts, affecting the quality of teaching and research output at the university. The stay on recruitment has crippled one of the biggest universities in the country with over 800 affiliated colleges and recognised institutes in the three districts of Ahmednagar, Pune and Nashik. SPPU officials said they were unable to provide a wide range of subject-electives in each department, consultancy jobs have decreased and quality independent research has also dwindled. University Grants Commission vice-chairman Bhushan Patwardhan said SPPU’s situation was causing concern and will affect funding and rating. Some core branches requiring huge practical laboratory work have the maximum number of sanctioned teachers, but also over 50% vacancies. For example, chemistry and physics branches have the highest teaching strength at 42 and 40 sanctioned posts, respectively, but there are 22 vacancies in each. Statistics, which is one of the most in-demand courses across the city due to increasing interest in data science, has 20 sanctioned posts. But only seven have been filled. Vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said the workload on the existing professors was too much to spare time for independent research. “In the last two years, the number of consultancy research work from outside has fallen. In fact, for the smooth functioning of the university, we need at least 500 teachers for 6,000 students,” he added. The last recruitment was four years ago for some of the sanctioned posts. “Some interviews were held during the last VC’s tenure, but interviews with candidates for big departments were not. When I took charge, the whole process had to be started again, but the government stayed the recruitment and the vacancies remained,” Karmalkar said, adding that Covid-19 also resulted in delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-than-half-of-teaching-posts-lying-vacant-at-sppu/articleshow/80427368.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 24, 2021||Nagpur||Panel finds mental hospital clerk guilty of sexual abuse||Nagpur: The Vishaka committee led by psychiatrist Dr Archana Zode has found a senior clerk at the Regional Mental Hospital guilty of sexually abusing a staff nurse last month.Medical superintendent Dr Purshottam Madavi said the committee submitted report three days back. “It has been forwarded to deputy director of health services (DDHS) who will take suitable action. The report was completed without the clerk turning up despite giving all opportunities to present himself before the panel to explain his side,” said Dr Madavi.However, Dr Madavi refused to disclose what action follows. “The higher authority will take action against the accused (clerk),” he said when asked if the clerk was given a clean chit in the case.DDHS Dr Sanjay Jaiswal said he was yet to see the report. “Once I see it, whatever action is recommended will be taken,” he said.The clerk has been absconding since December last week when the complaint was filed against him.The committee had issued an ultimatum to the accused after he failed to appear before the panel for two consecutive hearings held on January 4 and 6.The complainant nurse had accused the clerk of sexual harassment by sending her obscene messages on WhatsApp.On December 29, a fight had broken out at the hospital between the complainant and the accused clerk over the alleged message. Sources claimed the two had been exchanging messages for a while on mobile but suddenly something went wrong and the fight came out in the open. The statement of complainant was recorded and the panel had decided to issue an ex parte order in case the accused fails to attend the hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/panel-finds-mental-hospital-clerk-guilty-of-sexual-abuse/articleshow/80426707.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 24, 2021||Pune||Unfilled positions may impact funding: UGC vice-chairman||Pune: No recruitment in the last four years for teaching vacancies at Savitribai Phule Pune University have raised a host of concernsUniversity Grants Commission vice-chairman Bhushan Patwardhan said the shortage of quality teaching faculty in SPPU is worrisome. “UGC insists that the status of the faculty recruitment process should be available on the website. Faculty vacancies have implications on funding and National Assessment and Accreditation Council ranking,” he said. National Education Policy 2020 strongly recommends mitigation of the shortage of faculty. NEP is silent on the student-teacher ratio, but ideally it should be less than 20. The UGC has issued advisories on October 22, 2019 informing universities that any delay in filling up vacant faculty positions will be viewed seriously, Patwardhan added. “For instance, funding under RUSA may be delayed when a large number of faculty vacancies exist in the universities. To improve education quality, it is necessary to fill up vacant positions,” he said. Student activist Satish Gore said a single professor teaches two-three subjects in departments that have fewer staff. He said many contract staff do not have a command over the subject or the language, as is expected in a postgraduate department. “Human resources matter the most in a university. SPPU used to have teachers recognised everywhere. Such was their scholarship that industry experts would come to the university to attend their lectures. But that is not the case any more,” Nitin Karmalkar, vice-chancellor of SPPU, said.Joint research under Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan is happening where faculty from different institutes come together, but independent research is not much, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/unfilled-positions-may-impact-funding-ugc-vice-chairman/articleshow/80427372.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 24, 2021||Nagpur||City schools allowed to resume Std V-VIII classes from Feb 8||Nagpur: Students of classes V to VIII will be allowed to physically attend classes from February 8. Issuing a notification, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B directed all schools to strictly adhere to Covid safety guidelines.The civic chief also allowed the plying of school buses and vans on the condition that school management would ensure all Covid safety guidelines, including sanitization of vehicles while ferrying students. Sanitation of vehicles must be done twice a day (before and after the pick and drop, respectively), the notification read.Radhakrishnan has issued some guidelines for the schools to be followed strictly. It is mandatory for teaching and non-teaching staff to get RT-PCR tests before they reopen, while it is not needed for students. Masks, thermal scanning, sanitizer bottles, safe distancing between two benches are to be followed too. Other guidelines included regular sanitization of toilets, doors and windows of classrooms to remain open, one student on one desk, and physical distancing among teachers in the staff room.Schools have already been allowed to start classes for Std IX to XII, earlier this month. However, most schools are witnessing thin attendance as parents were sceptical to send their wards to schools. Now that the vaccine is here, the situation may improve, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-schools-allowed-to-resume-std-v-viii-classes-from-feb-8/articleshow/80426692.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Pune||PMC’s road widening plan death knell for bungalows: Sahakarnagar residents||PUNE: Over 200 bungalow owners in Sahakarnagar have been spending sleepless nights for the past one week after the civic body pasted notices in the locality announcing its plan to take over the side margins of their properties for widening lanes to nine metres from the existing six metres. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s clarification to the property owners that the actual widening work would start only after hearing their objections failed to reassure the residents. Members of several bungalow societies have been holding a series of meetings to draft letters and memorandums to voice their anguish against the move, which will eat into their small bungalow plots. The issue is not just limited to the bungalow colonies in Sahakarnagar. As many as 335 six-metre-wide roads in various parts of Pune, including those in upmarket areas of Aundh, Baner, Prabhat Road (all lanes 1 to 10), Deccan, Kothrud, Shivajinagar and a few other tranquil bungalow pockets in Katraj and Dhankawdi, have been shortlisted for widening to nine-metre lanes. At the crux of the road widening plan are the current rules pertaining to utilisation of the Transfer of Development Rights (TDR) stipulating that an additional floor space index (FSI) by way of TDR cannot be loaded on plots fronting roads that are less than nine-metre wide. Leaders of Congress, Nationalist Congress Party and Shiv Sena told TOI that instead of a unified policy for all narrow roads in Pune, the widening of these “select 335 roads” has been proposed so that these could be milked by builders into the business of redeveloping old bungalows by amalgamating plots. Leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party refuted the allegation of nexus with developers and said the move was essentially aimed at helping the middle-class property owners to redevelop their old dwellings along narrow lanes. In the long run, the move would help boost the civic revenue too, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmcs-road-widening-plan-death-knell-for-bungalows-sahakarnagar-residents/articleshow/80427379.cms||Abhijit Atre
January 24, 2021||Nagpur||Vidarbha to get more 1.57L doses to cover all healthcare staff by Feb 14||Nagpur: The state government has allotted an additional 1.57 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses for the 11 districts of Vidarbha. Now, all registered healthcare workers can be covered before the February 14 deadline.According to the allotment letter received by the offices of the deputy directors of health services, Nagpur and Amravati, 96,000 doses have been allotted to six districts of Nagpur division and 61,000 for five districts of Amravati division. All districts are likely to get the second lot of doses on January 26.Vidarbha received 1.84 lakh doses of Covishield on January 13 and 14. Later, 4,000 doses of Covaxin, 2,000 each for GMCH Nagpur and Amravati District General Hospital, were received for a total of 1.88 lakh doses.The first lot was for the first and second shot for healthcare workers. The government had even permitted wastage up to 10%. Thus, the doses could cover around 53% of the total registered healthcare workers.On January 15, TOI had highlighted how the remaining 47% registered healthcare workers will have to wait till the second lot arrives.With the allotment of the second lot, total number of doses in Vidarbha will be 3.45 lakh. If wastage of 34,500 doses is excluded then 1,55,250 healthcare workers can be covered.Still, 8,354 doses will be required for 4,177 healthcare workers.“Doses of Covaxin are also expected for GMCH Nagpur and Amravati District General Hospital. GMCH had registered 5,210 staff for vaccination. The first lot will cover only 900 staffers. Thus, all the healthcare workers will be covered after the arrival of Covaxin doses for GMCH Nagpur,” officials told TOI.The doses will also cover doctors, nurses, technicians, attendants of government and private hospitals who did not turn up in the five days/sessions. They are likely to get a chance in the last stage. Some doses will be left in case wastage is not up to 10%.With the allotted stock of vaccines, the round for second doses to all healthcare workers will begin on February 15.District-Wise Allotted Vaccine Doses and Healthcare Workers Registered For VaccinationDistrict—1st Lot—2nd Lot—Healthcare StaffNagpur—44,000—38,500—34,333Wardha—20,500—16,500—16,754Chandrapur—20,000—16,000—16,110Gadchiroli—12,000—9,500—9,947Gondia—10,000—8,000—8,563Bhandara—9,500—7,500—7,602Nagpur Division—1,16,000—96,000—93,309Buldhana—19,000—17,500—13,428Yavatmal—18,500—15,000—14,967Amravati—19,000—14,500—16,266Akola—9,000—9,000—15,806Washim—6,500—5,000—5,651Amravati Division—72,000—61,000—66,118Vidarbha Total—1,88,000—1,57,000—1,59,427||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbha-to-get-more-1-57l-doses-to-cover-all-healthcare-staff-by-feb-14/articleshow/80426714.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 24, 2021||Pune||Fuel prices continue to climb up, petrol just shy of Rs 92/lakh in Pune||PUNE: Fuel prices continued their upward march, with petrol selling for nearly Rs92 per litre in the city on Saturday. A litre of diesel was priced at more than Rs81. Parbhani continued to have the most expensive fuel in the state, with petrol selling for nearly Rs95 per litre and diesel for almost Rs84 per litre. Nanded was not far behind — the price for a litre of petrol was Rs94.49 per litre; diesel was priced the same as in Parbhani In Mumbai, petrol touched an all-time high of Rs92.72 per litre, while diesel sold for Rs82.66 per litre. Petroleum dealers blamed the price rise — especially in smaller towns — on local taxes imposed by cash-strapped municipal bodies, on increased transportation charges from remote depots and global spikes in the price of crude oil. The dealers demanded that the state government remove the two-year-old “drought cess” of Rs2 per litre to provide immediate relief to the public. “The petroleum and natural gas ministry recently observed that members of OPEC (Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries) were creating an artificial shortage by lowering production to drive up crude oil prices. Otherwise, there is not much demand for crude oil in the international market,” Ali Daruwalla, national spokesperson for the All India Petrol Dealers Association (AIPDA) said. Daruwalla said the government was working on a long-term solution to encourage a move away from fossil fuels and towards gaseous fuels, such as CNG and LNG. Petrol pump owners are being be encouraged to set up biogas plants on their premises, Daruwalla said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fuel-prices-continue-to-climb-up-petrol-just-shy-of-rs-92/l-in-pune/articleshow/80427382.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
January 24, 2021||Chennai||Vijay decries father’s political outfit again, issues public notice||CHENNAI: Actor Vijay has, yet again, distanced himself from the political aspirations of his father film director S A Chandrasekhar. In a public notice on Saturday, the actor’s advocate, S Kumaresan, said his client will not be responsible for rumours and any consequence that could occur to anyone through the activities of Chandrasekhar and his Vijay Makkal Iyakkam, Virugambakkam. He noted that Chandrasekhar, without his client’s authorization, registered a political party in the name “Äll India Thalapathy Vijay Makkal Mandram” and registered a society “Vijay Makkal Iyakkam” on June 8, 2020. On November 5, 2020, Vijay issued a public notice disapproving of the activities of his father and requested his fans to not be involved in the political party or society or a movement organised by Chandrasekhar. The notice said Vijay did not authorise the activities of Chandrasekhar and that he had been strictly intimated through a legal notice to stop using Vijyay’s name in the party/society as well as his photos in public meetings. Appropriate legal measures were initiated on the activities of the All India Thalapathy Vijay Makkal Mandram and Vijay Makkal Iyakkam, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/vijay-decries-fathers-political-outfit-again-issues-public-notice/articleshow/80427416.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Nagpur||22k health workers take jab in 1st week of vax programme||Nagpur: Around 22,077 of 1,59,427 registered healthcare workers got the jab over five days in the first week of Covid-19 vaccination programme in 11 districts of Vidarbha. Though the authorities claimed a 77.46% turn out, less than 60% healthcare staff turned up for the inoculation.The authorities of 11 districts are planning to complete vaccination of remaining 1,37,350 doctors, nurses, technicians and attendants by February 14. As against the existing 56 centres, inoculation will now be undertaken at over 100 centres in the region.The officials from the deputy director of health services in Nagpur and Amravati division told TOI that the exact number of revised centres will be finalized on Sunday. “They will start functioning from Monday. Also, vaccination will be done over five days and not just four. The second dose will be given from February 15,” they said.The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is keen to increase the vaccine centres to 19 from the existing five. “12 of the new centres will be at private hospitals and, seven at NMC and government-run hospitals,” said an official from NMC.In six days, NMC has covered mostly its own healthcare staff and from government-run hospitals. After Akola, even NMC started vaccination of staff from private hospitals at Pachpaoli and Daga Hospital from January 21 due to a low turnout.NMC medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar said that vaccination programme was a grand success in the first week. “The doctors and nurses, especially those treating Covid-19 patients, are turning up for the inoculation. Asha workers of NMC and attendants of other government hospitals not turning up is a worrying factor. We are creating awareness and are hoping for a good response this week,” he said.Vidarbha had received 1.88 lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin on January 13 and 14 which would have been sufficient for only 53% of the total registered healthcare workers. The government has not allotted doses for the remaining staff.Earlier, all 56 centres in the region used to register only 100 per day. After the initial low turnout, districts started to register 120-150 per day from January 20.As per officials, no major case of AEFI was registered in the first week. Minor cases of AEFI including mild fever, vomiting, body ache and rashes were registered and all were reportedly stable after one or two days.The government has also reportedly allowed changing of centres to ensure all registered health workers get vaccinated in the deadline. Also, two or more centres can be started at one location subject to availability of three rooms and staff.The process to prepare the list of frontline workers — employees of NMC, police personnel from state and centre etc — is in the final stage. They will be administered vaccine in the second phase followed by people above 50 years and below 50 years with comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/22k-health-workers-take-jab-in-1st-week-of-vax-programme/articleshow/80426718.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 24, 2021||Pune||Pune: Bank official held for theft of mortgaged gold worth Rs 41 lakh||PUNE: The Deccan Gymkhana police on Friday arrested an assistant manager of a private bank and her relative on the charge of stealing mortgaged gold ornaments from the bank’s Apte Road branch earlier this month. A city court on Saturday remanded Kiran Dhotre (24) of Wadarwadi and her brother-in-law Deepak Dhawale (32) in police custody till January 27. Police said the duo stole the ornaments, worth Rs40.63 lakh, from the locker between January 8 and 11 and sold a portion of the loot. The incident came to light after a bank staffer, Atul Ghaware, noticed discrepancies in the mortgaged gold stored in lockers. He lodged a complaint on Friday. Assistant inspector Shilpa Lambhe and sub-inspector Kishor Shinde studied CCTV footage of the locker area. “On January 8, Dhotre was seen putting three packets containing 1kg of gold from a partially open locker in her backpack,” senior inspector Muralidhar Karpe said. Karpe said she handed over the stolen items to Dhawale the same day. “We have seized ornaments weighing 770gm and Rs8 lakh in cash from Dhawale’s Alandi residence,” Karpe said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bank-official-held-for-theft-of-mortgaged-gold-worth-rs-41l/articleshow/80427384.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||Man held with 58kg cannabis at Malad||The Mumbai crime branch arrested a 42-year-old man from Malvani, Malad in possession of 58kg of cannabis (ganja) worth Rs 15 lakh. While the unit 9 team managed to arrest Afsar Hussain Sayyed, the other accused, Abid Hamid Qureshi, managed to escape. Sayyed has been booked under the NDPS Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-held-with-58kg-cannabis-at-malad/articleshow/80428765.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Pune||Pune: Opposition terms civic road-widening plan a move to help select builders||Residents usually welcome a road-widening proposal because it helps ease traffic movement in an area. But the civic body’s notification issued last week seeking suggestions and objections to widen 335 roads in Pune under Section 210 of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act has evoked a sharp protest from the bungalow owners in Sahakarnagar. Led by senior radiologist Anant Bhagwat, Jayant Pandit, Shrikant Sewak, Dhanashree Bodhani, Mahesh Marathe, Parag Thopte and Tushar Tagde -- the office-bearers of four big bungalow societies in the area -- Kranti Society, Savarkar Society, Swanand Society and Sanmitra Society, the residents of the area carrying out a signature campaign against the road-widening proposal. Most bungalow owners argued that their societies were formed 50 years ago with a resolve that no member would be allowed to build a high-rise. Hence, they stressed, the proposal to widen the internal colony roads on the pretext of helping them get additional FSI (floor space index) in future to reconstruct additional floors was unfounded and against the basic rule of their housing societies. Their main apprehension is that the compound walls of their small bungalows would get pushed inside to accommodate the setback of 1.5 metres due to the widening of roads. Also, the growth in heavy vehicular movement just outside their gates would deal a blow to the tranquil surroundings they are used to live in. “The issue is not just limited to Sahakarnagar, this will sure become a precedent. The bungalow culture in Pune will eventually get eroded. This proposal is a death knell for bungalow colonies in Pune,” local corporator Aba Bagul, also the leader of the Congress in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), told TOI. “There is a nexus between the BJP and some developers, eyeing these bungalow colonies to construct the high-rises,” he said. BJP leader Hemat Rasane, who had chaired the civic standing committee meeting that approved the administrative proposal to widen the 335 roads in June last year, strongly refuted the charges made by Bagul. “You please visit the municipal ward I represent or visit any Peth areas in Pune. You will see several old properties along narrow lanes. The redevelopment of these properties cannot happen as the roads are less than nine metres in width and hence, TDR (Transfer of Development Rights) cannot be loaded,” Rasane said. “Several middle-class property owners will benefit from this proposal. It will also help redevelopment of old and dilapidated structures. Also, considering the growing traffic, the city needs wider roads,” Rasane said. Shiv Sena leader Sham Deshpande said while his party was not against the redevelopment of old properties owned by the middle-class, the BJP made a mistake by not drafting a transparent proposal. “Now, at least give an assurance to the protesting bungalow owners that the margins of their properties will not be acquired and still they will be granted the TDR benefit for redevelopment.” NCP leader and Hadapsar MLA Chetan Tupe disagreed with the BJP’s Rasane. “If redevelopment of old properties in Peth areas is the issue, then identify such properties and submit to us that list of roads. The BJP’s focus on roads in upmarket places like Prabhat Road, Deccan and Kothrud indicates that they plan to favour builders. Instead of these select 335 roads, why not draft a uniform policy for all narrow roads in Pune?” asked Tupe. The PMC’s road department chief, V G Kulkarni, told TOI, “We have carried out a ground-level assessment of the roads that needs to be widened considering the traffic flow. We are getting arguments for and against the proposal. Even in the same locality, some property owners are in favour of widening the roads and some are against it. We shall take a call about widening each proposed road after giving a hearing to all those who submit an official objection to the move.” Another senior BJP leader, who did not wish to be quoted, justified the PMC’s move arguing that the civic body needed funds for better infrastructure projects. Since the old bungalows were constructed many years ago, their rateable values are very low and hence, the subsequent property tax generated from them is very less. The nine-metre-wide road proposal would pave way for high-rises and it would help increase the civic revenue through building permission charges and property tax, he said. “The Sahakarnagar societies’ members seem to have been misguided. They should realise that it will be a win-win situation for them and the PMC. The widening of the roads will enable them to opt for redevelopment in future, after their families grow and when they need more space. We are sure that the bungalow owners in other parts of the city will support the proposal,” the BJP leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/oppn-terms-civic-road-widening-plan-a-move-to-help-select-builders/articleshow/80427405.cms||Abhijit Atre
January 24, 2021||Nagpur||Police recover pistol, arrest two goons||Nagpur: Tehsil police team arrested dreaded goon Pinnu Pandey and his accomplice Nagol Patil after intercepting their car at Bhagwagar Square on Friday. Police have also recovered a country-made pistol and a live cartridge from the duo.Police said Pandey, having many offences, had managed to flee with the car after cops had stopped it. His accomplice Patil was arrested after a chase. Police recovered the firearm from Patil’s possession.Pandey was later nabbed by constable Sameer Shaikh’s team from Central Avenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/police-recover-pistol-arrest-two-goons/articleshow/80426724.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Pune||One held in teachers’ recruitment scam case||Pune: The officials of the economic offences wing arrested the former secretary of an aided school in Akurdi on Friday night in the infamous teachers’ recruitment scam, police said. A team headed by the assistant commissioner of police, economic offences wing, Shivaji Pawar arrested Govind Dabhade.  Dabhade was produced before a city court on Saturday and was sentenced to custodial remand till January 27. “The search for the five other primary suspects — officers of the education department and trustees of the schools — was intensified on Saturday,” an officer of the economic offences wing (EOW) said. According to them, Dabhade was one of the main conspirators in the case, which caused a loss of Rs2 crore to the state treasury. The city police had registered a case of cheating in this regard in October 2019. According to the FIR lodged, as many as 28 suspects, including trustees of school and some Zilla Parishad officials, had prepared fake back-dated appointment documents of teachers. The fake recruitments were for different primary schools in the Pune division. The EOW team seized fake and fabricated rubber stamps of the Zilla Parishad (ZP) office in the schools during the search operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-held-in-teachers-recruitment-scam-case/articleshow/80427420.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Pune||Placement agent & aide dupe job aspirants of Rs 3L||Pune: The police on Friday booked a placement cell operator from Gujarat and his accomplice from Vimannagar for duping two jobseekers to the tune of Rs3 lakh on pretext of offering them jobs in Canada. The incident occurred between March 16, 2016, and April 2019. Inspector (crime) Mangesh Jadhav of the Airport police said that two men deposited Rs1.5 lakh each to the suspects. The victims realised that they had been tricked after the Canadian embassy confirmed that selection letters issued to them were fake. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/placement-agent-aide-dupe-job-aspirants-of-rs-3l/articleshow/80427385.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||One arrested with gutkha worth Rs 8 lakh in Malad||One person was arrested with gutkha worth Rs 8.4 lakh from Dharavli village in Malad. The Malwani police said they acted on a specific tip-off about the presence of large quantities of gutkha in the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/one-arrested-with-gutkha-worth-rs-8l/articleshow/80428768.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Chennai||EPS, OPS have no moral right to open Jayalalithaa memorial: M K Stalin||CHENNAI: DMK president M K Stalin on Saturday said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam had “no moral right” to inaugurate the memorial of former CM J Jayalalithaa without completing the probe into her death. The unveiling of the memorial by the AIADMK leaders is scheduled for January 27. “Mystery still shrouds Jayalalithaa’s death. It was Panneerselvam who demanded that an inquiry commission be constituted to probe it. Though the commission summoned him (Panneerselvam) eight times, he failed to turn up,” Stalin said, speaking at Maduravoyal. “Without concluding the probe, what moral right do they (EPS and OPS) have to inaugurate her memorial?” Stalin asked. He reiterated that he would bring out the truth behind her death after the DMK is voted to power. On behalf of the DMK, he wished V K Sasikala, who tested positive for Covid-19 and is undergoing treatment in a Bengaluru hospital, quick recovery. He welcomed the news of her release from prison on January 27. On DMK’s month-long campaign ‘Makkal Grama Sabha’ (People’s grama sabha) with the theme ‘We Reject AIADMK’, Stalin said his party had initially planned to convene the meetings in 16,000 villages and panchayats. It received an overwhelming response from the public, particularly women, he said. “We held meetings in 22,000 villages and panchayats and around 25 lakh people participated and passed resolutions, rejecting the AIADMK,” said Stalin, who took part in 20 to 25 such programmes since it was launched on December 23. He said he would travel to all 234 constituencies from next week to reach out to the people and listen to their demands. Unleashing a scathing attack on the EPS government for floating tenders for several crores of rupees just three months before its tenure ended, Stalin termed it “an attempt to loot the state exchequer at the fag-end”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eps-ops-have-no-moral-right-to-open-jaya-memorial-stalin/articleshow/80427425.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Bhopal||Leopard & cub found dead in Madhya Pradesh's Balaghat; 5 deaths in 4 weeks||BHOPAL: Barely a week after a leopard was shot dead and its claws chopped off in Balaghat, a female and its cub have been found dead in the same district. At least five leopards have died in the last four weeks. Officials say the carcasses were found in Agarwada area, around 15km from the district headquarters. They were decomposed and found 500 metres apart. DFO G K Barkade told local mediapersons that all the body parts were intact and ruled out they were poached for organs. Sources however say that they were either electrocuted or poisoned. The carcasses have been sent for autopsy. The exact cause of death is yet to be ascertained. A month ago, Madhya Pradesh had got the crown of ‘Leopard State’ as it topped the country in leopard population. Within a week, however, two of the spotted cats were killed in Satna and Shahdol. Madhya Pradesh has 3,421 leopards or nearly a quarter of the country’s 12,852. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan expressed his happiness over the growing population of leopards in the state and said: “Tiger State is now a Leopard State as well.” Leopard population: MP’s nearest rival is KarnatakaMP’s nearest rival is Karnataka with 1,783 leopards — as per a report released by Union minister Prakash Javadekar last month. Forest minister Vijay Shah congratulated the residents of state as well as the forest department for becoming home to the largest number of leopards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/leopard-cub-found-dead-in-balaghat-5-deaths-in-4-weeks/articleshow/80427421.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Jaipur||Govt set to regulate budget hotels in residential areas of Jaipur||JAIPUR: The urban development and housing (UDH) department has laid down parameters to regulate unauthorised budget hotels operating in the residential areas of the city. According to the department, hotels constructed after March 31, 2020 will not be regularised. It has been categorised that properties which do not fall under luxury tax ambit will be considered as budget hotel. Moreover, a budget hotel should have a minimum investment of Rs 2 crore, it said. As per the proposal, the hotels constructed on plot size should be G+3 up to 225 square metre. Similarly, on a plot size above 225 square metre and up to 350 square metre, the department will regularise hotels having maximum G+4 construction and 30 rooms. For regularisation, minimum 30-feet road width will be mandatory and height should not exceed 15 metre. Minimum 40-feet road width would be required for the hotels developed on plot size measuring 350 square metre and up to 500 square metre. Moreover, the construction should be maximum G+5 and height should not exceed 18 meters. The budget hoteliers will also have to develop provisions including fire-fighting and parking. An official said, “The proposal has been given approval by the expert committee. The rates will be fixed after receiving a nod from the UDH minister.” Sources further said, the state is eyeing to earn Rs 1,000 crore revenue after regulating these budget hotels. As per the department officials, there are over 2,000 budget hotels operating in the state, including 525 in the Jaipur alone. Last year, the long-pending demand of the hoteliers was put forward by the UDH department in a meeting called by the chief minister’s advisor to boost revenue. The department had also given a presentation to regulate these unauthorised budget hotels. An official at the town planning wing said, “Over the years, these hotels have illegally flourished near the bus stand area, railway station and many residential areas of the city. The existing owners will have to deposit building bylaws approval charges along with additional fees. The UDH minister has asked the wing to examine the nitty-gritties.” Many fear the state government might get stumped as high court has banned commercial activity in residential areas and directed the state government to adhere to the masterplan. However, the UDH department official said, “The government can always regulate these establishments after bringing the policy. The policy will be framed following the high court directions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-set-to-regulate-budget-hotels-in-residential-areas/articleshow/80426728.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Goa||For Rs 38.7 crore, accounts department to get new office at Porvorim next year||PANAJI: The directorate of accounts will get a new premises soon in Porvorim at a cost of Rs 38.8 crore, the state government said here on Saturday. The Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) will oversee the construction of the four-storey building, which is expected to be ready in 18 months. The directorate of accounts currently operates out of the Fazenda building, opposite the Adil Shah palace in the state capital. However, the department is running out of space. Also, the government is struggling to maintain the Portuguese-era structure. The project, conceptualised in early 2018, is expected to see the light of day by early 2022, officials said. The new building will come up on 5,300sqm of land, next to the state education department office at Porvorim. The tender for the project was floated on December 16. Six bidders responded and Decor Home (India) Pvt Ltd won the contract on a technical basis. UCJ Architecture and Environment will be the project consultants. “The work order has been issued to the contractor and the firm has submitted the acceptance of work letter,” a GSIDC official said. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, who is the chairman of GSIDC, will lay the foundation stone on January 26. The proposed building will have a total built-up area of 10,670sqm with space for a training hall, bank, and basement parking for cars and two-wheelers. “A modular approach has been adopted for planning within the department, mainly driven by the flow of interaction required between the main officers and assisting officers. Though the completion time is 18 months, our target is to complete it in one year,” a GSIDC engineer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/for-rs-38-7-crore-accounts-dept-to-get-new-office-at-porvorim-next-yr/articleshow/80428776.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 24, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: North Corporation hopes to gather more funds||NEW DELHI: The standing committee chairman of cash-strapped North Delhi Municipal Corporation presented budget proposals for 2021-22 on Saturday. The budgetary speech for over Rs 7,728 crore estimates focused on blaming Delhi government for the current economic state of the civic body and implementing several revenue-generating ideas. Some of the key proposals included charging paying guesthouses on a per-room basis for registration, sanctioning of building plans on a floorwise basis and use of municipal parks for various purposes. No new taxes were proposed. Chhail Bihari Goswami, the chairman, said, “the government owes Rs 6,504 crore to the north corporation alone.” He claimed that even during the ongoing pandemic year, only Rs 449 crore of basic tax assignment share had been released against the allocation of Rs 850 crore. “Due to Delhi government’s political antipathy towards BJP-led corporations, which provide basic sanitation, primary health, horticulture services to the city, people of Delhi are suffering along with lakhs of employees. Constitutional norms are not being followed in the capital of the country,” he added. Sinking deeper into an economic mess, the corporation has seen its liabilities increase from Rs 6,176 crore last year to Rs 7,524 crore this year, the commissioner budget had revealed. Among the various revenue-generating proposals moved by the committee to pull the civic body out of this mess are expanding the licence regimes and tax nets to unauthorised colonies. “Our 60% area is covered by unauthorised colonies, which house 30% of the commercial units, which is leading to no income for the corporation through trade and health licences. Process to register them will soon initiate,” he added. The jurisdiction of the civic body also has north campus of Delhi University among other educational hubs and the corporation will start charging paying guesthouses for registration on per-room basis. Goswami has announced that civic buildings, offices, parking areas and Bhalswa landfill will be used for LED advertisement boards and their 6,100 parks for revenue generation via incorporation of ATMs, LED advertisements, kiosks, milk booths and private nurseries. “Young people with family income less than Rs 25,000 per annum will be allotted these kiosks,” he said. The budget also states that a new series of licence for food vans will be provided to such youngsters from EWS families. Use of parks for commercial purposes and new food vans has, however, invited ire from opposition parties. A new gaushala and pig slaughterhouse will come up in Ranikhera and five new mini-forests will be developed near Azadpur Mandi, Sultanpuri, Prashant Vihar and Rohini. Goswami announced that the north corporation too would take up waste-to-art projects in its parks. The budget also talks about recycling several long-pending redevelopment and infrastructure projects by 2022. The AAP government has repeatedly claimed during the tussle with local bodies that all the necessary funds for municipal bodies have been released regularly and nothing remains pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/budget-proposal-north-corporation-hopes-to-gather-more-funds-no-new-tax-proposed-but-may-levy-registration-fee-on-pgs-utilise-parks/articleshow/80428818.cms||Paras Singh
January 24, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam leads citizen feedback in AP for Swachh Survekshan 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM: Visakhapatnam has got a head start in Swachh Survekshan 2021 as more than 3.8 lakh Vizagites submitted their feedback for the survey as of Saturday. Only Bhopal (4.4 lakh responses) and Ahmedabad (4.2 lakh) are ahead of Visakhapatnam, with both cities having gathered over four lakh responses. As per official statistics, the number of responses garnered from Vizagites is manifold compared to any other major city of Andhra Pradesh, such as Vijayawada (1.3 lakh responses), Tirupati (one lakh), Rajahmundry (40,000) and Kakinada (95,000). Other cities at the national level and trailing behind Visakhapatnam are Lucknow (3.7 lakh), Indore (2.7 lakh), etc. As always, citizen participation continues to be a crucial component of the survey. In an effort to strengthen this component further, the 2021 survey’s indicators would have marks for innovations led by citizens and their contribution to the overall reduction of the city’s solid waste. Citizen’s voice has a weightage of 1,800 (30%) out of the total 6,000 marks. Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) additional commissioner Dr V Sanyasi Rao said the civic body wants to make it to the list of top five cities in this year’s Swachh Survekshan. “The GVMC has launched several initiatives to improve the cleanliness and urban sanitation of the city, which would in turn improve the city’s ranking in the survey,” said Dr Rao. The GVMC has been conducting city-level campaigns and promotions as part of the survey to enhance citizens’ understanding of about Swachh Survekshan-2021. Awareness is being created among the public on the role they can play in improving the performance of the city in the national-level cleanliness competition. The 2021 survey indicators would also assess sustainability of the sanitation value chain. Parameters that would measure the sustainability of the initiatives include thecity’s waste processing capacities, unprocessed/processed waste going to the landfill, remediation of dumpsites, wastewater treatment and reuse, along with faecal sludge management. Citizen’s feedback for the programme will be collected from January 1 to March 31. Face-to-face citizen’s feedback , however, will be collected between March 1 and March 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/port-city-leads-citizen-feedback-in-ap-for-ss-21/articleshow/80426179.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
January 24, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan high court notice to govt over transfer of forest land to RIICO||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan high court issued notice to the chief secretary, principal secretary, forest, revenue and others over 441 hectares of forest land at village Dubbi Bidarkhya, Sawai Madhopur being transferred to RIICO for industrial purpose. The respondents have been asked to reply by April 6. The division bench of Justice Sabina and C K Songara issued the notice on a Public Interest Litigation by Badrilal Meena and Prabhu Lal Meena, retired public servants of village Dubbi Bidarkhya regarding transfer of forest land illegally for industrial purpose. Counsel for petitioners A K Jain argued that since 1963, the land is treated as forest land and forest department has invested a lot of money for fencing, establishment of chowkis and trenches over the land. Even in 1996, district collector Sawai Madhopur set aside the land for forest resurrection. However, the land in 2015 has been allotted to RIICO for industrial purpose. Even the forest department has regularly objected to the same and categorically stated that the land belongs to forest as per the directions of Supreme Court in P N Goda Varman’s case and the land cannot be used for any other purpose except forest. But the state government acted arbitrarily in violation of Supreme Court order. The HC, after hearing the counsel, has sought explanation by way of show-cause notice to chief secretary, principal secretary, revenue and forest, and district collector of Sawai Madhopur, who allotted land to RIICO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/high-court-notice-to-govt-over-transfer-of-forest-land-to-riico/articleshow/80426776.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Jaipur||Tractor rally by Kisan Mahapanchayat in Dudu||Jaipur: Kisan Mahapanchayat, under the leadership of Rampal Jat, organised a rally of nearly 300 tractors at Jaipur’s Dudu panchayat samiti on Saturday in support of the farmers’ agitation against the farm laws.“We travelled nearly 20 kms on Saturday from Dudu to Gidani village. We have also submitted a representation in the name of the President of India. The struggle for guaranteeing MSP for crops had started 10 years from Dudu itself. In 2016, a tractor rally which was headed for Delhi from this place was stopped at Shahjahanpur border,” said Jat. The birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose was also observed at the protest site on Saturday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tractor-rally-by-kisan-mahapanchayat-in-dudu/articleshow/80426751.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 24, 2021||Vijayawada||TikTok sensation Rafi Shaik kills self in AP's Nellore town||VIJAYAWADA: Rafi Shaik, a youth who had a large following on the video-sharing social media platform TikTok, committed suicide by hanging himself at his residence in Nellore town on Saturday. Police said they are yet to ascertain the reason behind the suicide, however, they confirmed that they have received a statement from Rafi’s parents that some youngsters were allegedly harassing him. As per the statement given by Rafi’s family, he was kidnapped by some of his friends a couple of days ago but later released. Angered by the incident, his family members claimed that the miscreants assaulted Rafi again and took objectionable videos of him and threatened to release them. Police said that they are yet to look into the claims but have registered a case of suspicious death. Addressing the media, Rafi’s family members said he went to meet a girl at a Cafe Coffee Day outlet and from there, went on to meet a few other friends at Narayana Reddy Peta in the evening. He returned home beaten up. Police said that they have summoned some suspects for investigation and would soon take necessary action. Rafi was known to have courted controversy in 2019 when he met with a bike accident with fellow TikTok sensation Sonika Kethavath who died on the spot. Rafi had appealed to the youth and announced he was quitting the social media platform for good.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tiktok-sensation-rafi-shaik-kills-self/articleshow/80426188.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Jodhpur||Cold wave in Rajasthan to revive from next week||JAIPUR: Mercury continued to take an upward swing across the state for the sixth consecutive day on Saturday. Majority of the places witnessed an average rise of 2°C in their day and night temperatures. However, Jaipur Met office stated that from Sunday onwards, the state will witness a dip in temperatures. From the next week, there is a possibility of the revival of shivering cold conditions in the state. Pilani remained coldest in the state with a minimum temperature of 5.3°C, Met reports said. Attributing the upcoming dip in the temperatures to the active northerly winds coming from hilly areas, Jaipur Met office stated that there is a possibility of a dip of almost 4°C in minimum and maximum temperatures. People in Jaipur woke up to a comparatively warmer morning as a minimum temperature of 11°C was recorded. It was followed by a lesser chilly afternoon as a maximum temperature of 25.6°C was recorded. However, mild fog and mist during early morning hours also affected the vehicular traffic on the roads. The vehicles on the highways connecting Jaipur to Sikar, Jaipur to Agra and Jaipur to Ajmer were moving at a slower pace due to poor visibility. Similarly, at least three early morning trains arrived late at Jaipur due to fog and mist in the neighbouring states including Haryana and Delhi. For past one week, there has been an increase in the day and night temperatures in almost every part of the state. However, Jaipur Met office stated that winter is not yet over in the state. “A spell of seven days of shivering cold is expected from Monday onwards,” said an officer with the Jaipur Met office. Pilani was followed by Udaipur where a minimum temperature of 8°C was recorded, Chittorgarh 8.2°C , Alwar 8.6°C , Sriganganagar 9.9°C , Churu 10.5°C , Kota 11.2°C , Sikar 11.5°C , Jaisalmer and Jodhpur 12°C each and Ajmer at 13°C. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office stated that mercury will take a dip across the state especially in the northern and eastern parts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/cold-wave-to-revive-from-next-week/articleshow/80430062.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Udaipur||Cold wave in Rajasthan to revive from next week||JAIPUR: Mercury continued to take an upward swing across the state for the sixth consecutive day on Saturday. Majority of the places witnessed an average rise of 2°C in their day and night temperatures. However, Jaipur Met office stated that from Sunday onwards, the state will witness a dip in temperatures. From the next week, there is a possibility of the revival of shivering cold conditions in the state. Pilani remained coldest in the state with a minimum temperature of 5.3°C, Met reports said. Attributing the upcoming dip in the temperatures to the active northerly winds coming from hilly areas, Jaipur Met office stated that there is a possibility of a dip of almost 4°C in minimum and maximum temperatures. People in Jaipur woke up to a comparatively warmer morning as a minimum temperature of 11°C was recorded. It was followed by a lesser chilly afternoon as a maximum temperature of 25.6°C was recorded. However, mild fog and mist during early morning hours also affected the vehicular traffic on the roads. The vehicles on the highways connecting Jaipur to Sikar, Jaipur to Agra and Jaipur to Ajmer were moving at a slower pace due to poor visibility. Similarly, at least three early morning trains arrived late at Jaipur due to fog and mist in the neighbouring states including Haryana and Delhi. For past one week, there has been an increase in the day and night temperatures in almost every part of the state. However, Jaipur Met office stated that winter is not yet over in the state. “A spell of seven days of shivering cold is expected from Monday onwards,” said an officer with the Jaipur Met office. Pilani was followed by Udaipur where a minimum temperature of 8°C was recorded, Chittorgarh 8.2°C , Alwar 8.6°C , Sriganganagar 9.9°C , Churu 10.5°C , Kota 11.2°C , Sikar 11.5°C , Jaisalmer and Jodhpur 12°C each and Ajmer at 13°C. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office stated that mercury will take a dip across the state especially in the northern and eastern parts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/cold-wave-to-revive-from-next-week/articleshow/80430061.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Nagpur||World’s largest office made of bamboo to come up in Chanda||Chandrapur: A grand architectural marvel made completely of bamboo, at a cost of Rs88.8 crore and in an area of 9 hectares, will soon see the light of day at Chichpalli, just 30km away from the fort city of Chandrapur. The G+1 construction, which will be the new office of Bamboo Research and Training Center (BRTC), will probably make it the largest bamboo-made construction in the world and open new avenues in the bamboo building construction sector in the country.Tata Trusts played a key role in selection of consultant company, SHIFT, for architecture design, which comprises of administrative building, workshop, academic building, residential quarters, hostels for boys and girls, canteen, nursery and water tank. PWD-II executive engineer Anant Bhaskarwar said the construction work of the building is almost complete. “The administrative building and all four blocks of the academic building and roof of the ground floor is entirely made of engineered bamboo wood. Green Rating for Integrated Habitat Building (GRIHA) has acknowledged the campus as exemplary demonstration of sustainable building material and technology,” he said.He further said the PWD has applied for five-star rating of the green building. “Minimum use of concrete has been made for construction of the campus. Balcoa bamboo (100mm diameter) from northeast and Stocksii bamboo (50mm diameter) from Sindhudurg have been used in the construction. Every lot of bamboo is treated and goes under tensile strength test before being used. The roofs are made by amalgamated layers of bamboo mats, CVPC sheets, bitumen sheets and shingles while joints in the building are combined together by using epoxy-coated MS plates,” Bhaskarwar said. Assistant engineer Mallikarjun Jawale, who has been supervising the construction, said the entire building has been coated with fire retardant polish for safety. Sanjay Prakash of the SHIFT made the architecture design of the building, while it has been checked and approved by Dr Prem Krishna of IIT Bombay.The BRTC, which was established on December 2014 by the initiative of the then forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar, began with a workshop to provide vocational training in bamboo basketry, furniture, handicraft etc. “We have trained over 1,500 people, including 1,033 women, in bamboo craftsmanship. The BRTC has also launched community facility centres, Bamboo Handicraft and Art Unit (BHAU), at four places where these trained craftsmen work and make bamboo articles to earn their livelihood,” said BRTC director Abharna KM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/worlds-largest-office-made-of-bamboo-to-come-up-in-chanda/articleshow/80426804.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 24, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur railway division’s employees win awards||Jaipur: The Jaipur division was awarded with eight individual efficiency shields and two shields jointly by Anand Prakash, GM, North Western Railway during the 65th zonal railway week award function held on Friday. All four divisions joined the function virtually through video conferencing. Twenty five individual and one group award in which cash award, merit certificate and medal were given to the staff of Jaipur division. The staff was given the awards in a function held in the state capital. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-railway-divisions-employees-win-awards/articleshow/80426779.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Jaipur||Cold wave in Rajasthan to revive from next week||JAIPUR: Mercury continued to take an upward swing across the state for the sixth consecutive day on Saturday. Majority of the places witnessed an average rise of 2°C in their day and night temperatures. However, Jaipur Met office stated that from Sunday onwards, the state will witness a dip in temperatures. From the next week, there is a possibility of the revival of shivering cold conditions in the state. Pilani remained coldest in the state with a minimum temperature of 5.3°C, Met reports said. Attributing the upcoming dip in the temperatures to the active northerly winds coming from hilly areas, Jaipur Met office stated that there is a possibility of a dip of almost 4°C in minimum and maximum temperatures. People in Jaipur woke up to a comparatively warmer morning as a minimum temperature of 11°C was recorded. It was followed by a lesser chilly afternoon as a maximum temperature of 25.6°C was recorded. However, mild fog and mist during early morning hours also affected the vehicular traffic on the roads. The vehicles on the highways connecting Jaipur to Sikar, Jaipur to Agra and Jaipur to Ajmer were moving at a slower pace due to poor visibility. Similarly, at least three early morning trains arrived late at Jaipur due to fog and mist in the neighbouring states including Haryana and Delhi. For past one week, there has been an increase in the day and night temperatures in almost every part of the state. However, Jaipur Met office stated that winter is not yet over in the state. “A spell of seven days of shivering cold is expected from Monday onwards,” said an officer with the Jaipur Met office. Pilani was followed by Udaipur where a minimum temperature of 8°C was recorded, Chittorgarh 8.2°C , Alwar 8.6°C , Sriganganagar 9.9°C , Churu 10.5°C , Kota 11.2°C , Sikar 11.5°C , Jaisalmer and Jodhpur 12°C each and Ajmer at 13°C. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office stated that mercury will take a dip across the state especially in the northern and eastern parts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cold-wave-to-revive-from-next-week/articleshow/80426801.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Ajmer||Cold wave in Rajasthan to revive from next week||JAIPUR: Mercury continued to take an upward swing across the state for the sixth consecutive day on Saturday. Majority of the places witnessed an average rise of 2°C in their day and night temperatures. However, Jaipur Met office stated that from Sunday onwards, the state will witness a dip in temperatures. From the next week, there is a possibility of the revival of shivering cold conditions in the state. Pilani remained coldest in the state with a minimum temperature of 5.3°C, Met reports said. Attributing the upcoming dip in the temperatures to the active northerly winds coming from hilly areas, Jaipur Met office stated that there is a possibility of a dip of almost 4°C in minimum and maximum temperatures. People in Jaipur woke up to a comparatively warmer morning as a minimum temperature of 11°C was recorded. It was followed by a lesser chilly afternoon as a maximum temperature of 25.6°C was recorded. However, mild fog and mist during early morning hours also affected the vehicular traffic on the roads. The vehicles on the highways connecting Jaipur to Sikar, Jaipur to Agra and Jaipur to Ajmer were moving at a slower pace due to poor visibility. Similarly, at least three early morning trains arrived late at Jaipur due to fog and mist in the neighbouring states including Haryana and Delhi. For past one week, there has been an increase in the day and night temperatures in almost every part of the state. However, Jaipur Met office stated that winter is not yet over in the state. “A spell of seven days of shivering cold is expected from Monday onwards,” said an officer with the Jaipur Met office. Pilani was followed by Udaipur where a minimum temperature of 8°C was recorded, Chittorgarh 8.2°C , Alwar 8.6°C , Sriganganagar 9.9°C , Churu 10.5°C , Kota 11.2°C , Sikar 11.5°C , Jaisalmer and Jodhpur 12°C each and Ajmer at 13°C. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office stated that mercury will take a dip across the state especially in the northern and eastern parts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/cold-wave-to-revive-from-next-week/articleshow/80430064.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Vizag land scam: SIT’s term extended||VISAKHAPATNAM: The term of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) that was appointed by the government to probe into alleged land scams in and around Vizag city has been extended by a few more weeks. The SIT headed by retired IAS officer Vijay Kumar will submit its report by the end of February. The SIT resumed its probe in June 2020 after the pandemic stalled it for a few months. Sources familiar with the situation said the SIT has almost prepared its report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-land-scam-sits-term-extended/articleshow/80426199.cms||Siva G
January 24, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Man dupes woman of Rs 96 lakh on false house site pretext||VISAKHAPATNAM: A man was arrested for duping an elderly woman by promising her a good deal in the purchase of house sites. The accused was identified as Imandi Nagabhushanam, a resident of Mindi village near Gajuwaka. According to police, Nagabhushanam cheated an elderly woman S Leelavathi of Srinagar near Gajuwaka by posing as a municipal corporation employee and promising her he would purchase house sites at a low cost. Believing him, the woman gave him Rs 96 lakh in cash. Nagabhushanam kept the money in a house belong to one Ramanamma of Gontivanipalem, with whom he had an extramarital affair. Suspecting his behaviour, the woman informed her daughters who advised her to lodge a complaint. Police swung into action and arrested Nagabhushanam. They recovered Rs 24 lakhs in cash, bonds worth Rs 5 lakh, 560 grams of gold ornaments, seven kilos of silver, a Scooty and an iPhone from Ramanamma’s house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/man-dupes-woman-of-rs-96l-on-false-house-site-pretext/articleshow/80426202.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Jaipur||I-T raids in Jaipur: Over 100 assessees under department’s lens||JAIPUR: The income tax raids at nearly 31 premises of the prominent builders and jewellers may have fetched unaccounted and unrecorded transactions of Rs 1,600 crore till Saturday, but it has also fetched a list of at least 100 assessees who are on the radar of the income tax department. Sleuths close to the investigation on Saturday stated that the indirect take away from these raids is that the department has now got details of some other defaulters whose accounts would be checked very soon. For the past few days, I-T Jaipur had started searches and surveys at three major groups involved in real estate and jewellery. Till Saturday, they concluded their survey on two groups, while survey work at one of the groups was still on. In a search and survey conducted by the Income Tax department at nearly 31 premises of prominent builders and jewellers, unaccounted and unrecorded transactions exceeding Rs 1,600 crore have been unearthed. “We have got a huge database of people who have been involved in unaccounted transactions. They are on our radar and their accounts would be checked very soon. This includes big investors in real estate, jewellers and hawala traders,” said a senior officer of Income Tax who is close to the investigation, on condition of anonymity on Saturday. On the progress of the survey at one of groups associated in selling art and antique items, officers stated that some antique items were found in a tunnel and also documents citing selling of some of the items to the foreign nationals. According to income tax sources, the documents and antique material found in the tunnel are under investigation. “Many antique items are said to be more than 100 years old. After the evidence of selling antique items to foreigners came to light, now the police have also joined the case,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/i-t-raids-over-100-assessees-under-departments-lens/articleshow/80426807.cms||Ashish Mehta
January 24, 2021||Goa||Apna Ghar seeks to upgrade in-house school till Class VIII||PANAJI: The government-run children’s home, Apna Ghar in Merces, wants to have in-house schooling till Class VIII for its inmates. Presently, classes are conducted till Class IV. The proposal to add classes to the existing school has been placed before the education department and one round of meetings was held recently, a senior official told TOI. The officer said that an in-house school up to Class VIII will be of great help as Apna Ghar will not be required to make independent schooling arrangements for the children. “Some children remain with Apna Ghar till their parents are traced or repatriated to their home states. It will be convenient to have classes conducted within the premises,” the official said. Some children — either abandoned by their families or orphans with no guardian who can assume responsibility — grow-up in the home. Their schooling from Class V onwards is done through a convent school or a high school with a boarding facility within the state and expenses are taken care of by Apna Ghar till they turn 18. “During vacations, children studying in boarding schools return to Apna Ghar, as this is their home,” he said. The home places the children for adoption, but the chances diminish after age four. Some children are brought to Apna Ghar when they are five or older. Some of these are missing children found by police. They remain in the government children’s home till their parents are traced. “Sometimes, police are able to find them within a few months. At times it can take a year or more. In some cases, the whereabouts of parents are not known despite inquiries,” the official said. In such circumstances, he said, it would be better to have the schooling facility within the premises, as it gives the children access to education in the intervening period. Presently, there are 29 children, including juveniles, at Apna Ghar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/apna-ghar-seeks-to-upgrade-in-house-school-till-class-viii/articleshow/80428785.cms||Bindiya Chari
January 24, 2021||Bareilly||Elderly priest killed inside temple complex in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: A 60-year-old priest of a Kali temple at Sindhaura Bhinduwa village in UP's Pilibhit district was found dead on Saturday. He was struck by a sharp object on his head by some unidentified miscreants inside the temple complex, sources said. An FIR has been registered against the miscreants under section 302 (murder) of IPC following a written complaint filed by the priest’s younger sister. The body has been sent for autopsy and results are awaited. The elderly priest, identified as Sohan Pal, had served at the Pilibhit temple for 20 years. He belonged to Tejpur village under Banda police station in Shahjahanpur. Police have started a probe, but are yet to ascertain the reason behind his killing, even as angry locals want immediate arrest of the culprits. “The local police have no answers. They are unaware of the priest's background. Did he have any dispute or enmity with anyone? We want the cops to crack the case soon and arrest those behind his murder," Ambrish Mishra, the district chief of Vishwa Hindu Parishad, said. When contacted, SHO Mani Ram said that there was mud all over the priest's clothes which indicates that he had possibly resisted before the miscreants overpowered him. "The police also found a considerable quantity of cooked fish and chicken - sufficient for at least 6-7 persons - at his cottage. It seems more than one person was involved in the killing," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/elderly-priest-killed-inside-temple-complex-in-pilibhit/articleshow/80425760.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Anger on streets as govt staff launch rally for Pay Revision Commission||HYDERABAD: After various organisations exerted pressure on the government over reservations to the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS), now government employees are mounting pressure on the government to announce Pay Revision Commission (PRC). State government employees, teachers, pensioners, public sector and contract employees formed a Joint Action Committee (JAC) and launched an agitation on Saturday. “The chief minister announced PRC on May 18, 2018, and the government has not opened recommendations. We have given notice to the chief secretary, but there was no response from the government,” G Sadanand Goud, steering committee member of the JAC told TOI. The JAC demanded the government announce fitment from July 2018 and restore old pension scheme. Meanwhile, nearly 100 employees sat for a one-day hunger strike at Indira Park on Saturday, which was foiled by the police department. Village revenue officers (VRO) are also getting ready to launch agitation as their fate hangs in balance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/anger-on-streets-as-govt-staff-launch-rally-for-prc/articleshow/80427430.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Meerut||Enraged over ‘inappropriate’ pictures, man shoots sister dead a day before her wedding||MEERUT: Enraged over sister’s ‘inappropriate’ pictures, a man allegedly shot her dead a day before her wedding in Meerut's Lisari Gate area on Saturday morning. According to sources, the victim Firdaus (21) was set to get married on Sunday. Circle officer (Kotwali) Arvind Kumar said, “The victim was in a relationship with her elder sister’s brother-in-law Qasim. On Saturday, he sent inappropriate pictures of Firdaus to her brother Firoz and would-be in-laws. This enraged Firoz and he shot her dead using a countrymade pistol. We have arrested both Firoz and Qasim.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/enraged-over-inappropriate-pictures-man-shoots-sister-dead-a-day-before-her-wedding/articleshow/80426198.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 24, 2021||Lucknow||Police foil farmers’ bid to gherao Raj Bhawan in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Hundreds of farmers gathered at Gosainganj in Lucknow with their tractors to gherao the Raj Bhawan in a show of strength on the call of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) and the Sanyukt Morcha of farmers protesting against the three farm laws. Lucknow Police commissioner DK Thakur said the protest was peaceful and all security measures were taken. He said the gathering of around 500 men, from local areas and other districts, had come with 70 tractors. Barricades had been set up in advance at several places to stop protestors from Awadh and Purvanchal districts following the announcement of farmers planning to gather in the capital and protesting at Raj Bhawan. Around 16 members of BKU were reportedly put under house arrest in Mahoba to stop them from attending the protest in Lucknow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/police-foil-farmers-bid-to-gherao-raj-bhawan/articleshow/80428781.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Vijayawada||Jilted youth arrested for attacking minor girl at AP's Kadapa district||TIRUPATI: A youth who attacked and injured a 17-year-old girl when she was alone at home on Friday was arrested at Proddatur in Kadapa district on Saturday. The accused was identified as Sunil, a former ward volunteer and was known to the girl for three months. Proddatur deputy superintendent of police Y Prasad Rao said the accused had proposed to the girl but she had rejected him. Sunil then developed a grudge against the girl and continued to harass her. After the girl’s parents lodged a complaint, police summoned Sunil thrice and warned him to stay away from the girl. However, upon learning that the girl was alone at home on Friday, Sunil barged into her house at Nethaji Nagar and attacked her. When she raised an alarm, the accused fled from the spot. The girl was later admitted to the local government hospital. Proddatur police registered a case on Friday and arrested the accused within 24 hours on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jilted-youth-arrested-for-attacking-minor-girl/articleshow/80426210.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Akhila Priya released from prison||HYDERABAD: A day after a local sessions court granted bail in the case of alleged kidnap, former Andhra Pradesh minister Akhila Priya was released from Chanchalguda jail on Saturday. She was received at the prison by her family members and her advocates. Akhila Priya came out of the prison on Saturday evening. She and her husband Bhargav Ram are accused of kidnapping three persons—Sunil Rao, Naveen Rao and Praveen Rao, who are the relatives of CM K Chandrasekhar Rao’s personal assistant. The former AP minister was arrested by Hyderabad police on January 6 and she has been in judicial remand since. Bhargav Ram is still at large.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/akhila-priya-released-from-prison/articleshow/80427433.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Contract worker falls to death in storage pit||VISAKHAPATNAM: A 50-year-old contract worker of Alufluoride Private Limited died after he accidentally fell inside a deep storage pit for heavy material in the factory. The deceased was identified as Bammidi Vasu of Himachal Nagar from Malkapuram in Vizag city. The incident took place at around 5.30 am on Saturday when Vasu was on the first shift. Other workers who were present at the spot alerted the management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/contract-worker-falls-to-death-in-storage-pit/articleshow/80426216.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 7,000 applicants in job mela||HYDERABAD: City police, who organized Job Connect programme on Saturday in coordination with private companies, said that 7,000 persons applied seeking jobs in various companies. Police said that since the turn-out of applicants was more than their expectation, interviews were conducted only for 2,000 candidates and for the remaining persons, interviews will be conducted in next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/7000-applicants-in-job-mela/articleshow/80428790.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Bareilly||Dalit girl, 18, ‘raped at gunpoint’ by youth of her community in Budaun||BAREILLY: An 18-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly raped at gunpoint by a youth belonging to the same community in a village under Mujaria police station jurisdiction in Budaun district on Friday night. Police booked the youth and later arrested him. The girl was sent for a medico-legal examination at the district hospital on Saturday, and police recorded her statement. The girl is a school dropout and helps her father in farming. Police said the girl had gone to collect fodder on Friday evening, but as she did not return home for long, her father started searching for her. The father found her screaming for help in a crop field while a local youth sexually assaulting her at gunpoint, said police, adding that the accused fled the scene seeing her father. The father-daughter duo then lodged a complaint in this connection based on which police booked the accused under sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Mujaria SHO Jaibhagwan Singh told TOI, “Both the girl and the accused are Dalit. We have arrested the accused on Saturday afternoon. He will be sent to jail on Sunday. The condition of the girl is stable. Now, she will record her statement in a court." (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dalit-girl-18-raped-at-gunpoint-by-youth-of-her-community-in-budaun/articleshow/80425770.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Cyberabad cops track down stolen valuables after two-hour hunt||HYDERABAD: After receiving information of the stolen valuables belonging to Muthoot Finance’s Hosur branch were inside a container lorry, Cyberabad police intercepted the vehicle at Medchal but found it empty. Following a two-hour-long treasure hunt, police located the valuables in a hidden compartment in the lorry’s drivers’ cabin. Upon further investigation, police found that the container’s cabin width was smaller than usual. They found a hidden compartment where the ornaments were hidden. Five of the seven accused said that they had hired taxi at Ananthapur. Narayana Swamy, the taxi driver, was promised Rs 7,000 for a trip till Shamshabad. “I don’t know Hindi, and they don’t know Telugu. There was absolutely no interaction between me and them. After police took us into custody, I told them that I am taxi driver, I was let off,” Narayana Swamy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-track-down-stolen-valuables-after-2-hour-hunt/articleshow/80427434.cms||Srinath Vudali
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Tank Bund gets swanky after makeover||HYDERABAD: The state government has taken up beautification works on either side of the Tank Bund road to elevate its look and create facilities for the citizens, which include seating, shopping and parking. Lake View Night Bazar will be set up in Hussainsagar soon. The night bazar will operate on a length of 1,300 metres along the lake. Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) minister KT Rama Rao on Saturday sought suggestions from residents as the work is under way. “How do you like the renovated Tank Bund Guys? Please share comments & suggestions Work still in progress & will be completed soon,” tweeted the minister. As a part of the works, Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) laid flamed granite on the footpaths and has set up specially-designed cast iron railing, grilles and aligned designer lamp posts to bring more glory to the Tank Bund. Street furniture, kiosks, and decorative lightings are also being set up. The cables are being run through electrical cable ducts to leave the pavement undisturbed or dug in the future. The loose ends are also being capped to prevent the cables from hanging outside. To avoid stagnation problem, a proper drain system has been created for the smooth flow of storm water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tank-bund-gets-swanky-after-makeover/articleshow/80428792.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Goa||Congress to oppose amendments in assembly||Panaji: Congress will object to any move to amend the Goa Lokayukta Act and will want the amendment bills to be submitted to the select committee for scrutiny and deliberations. The party said stakeholder discussions have to be held before any amendment is introduced in the state legislative assembly session. Opposition leader Digambar Kamat said Congress will raise all issues pertaining to Goa in the House, including the three linear projects coming up in Mollem and the agitation by Shel-Melauli villagers for land ownership. Kamat said the state’s contradictory remarks over implementation of the new MV Act has created confusion among people. Congress also wants one stand of the Fatorda stadium to be named after former sports minister Francisco Monte Cruz.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-to-oppose-amendments-in-assembly/articleshow/80428819.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 10-year-old girl kills herself fearing rebuke from mother||HYDERABAD: Miyapur police said that a 10-year old girl killed herself by hanging, fearing that her mother might reprimand her after the girl had a quarrel with a friend. In Narsingi, a 17-year-old boy was found dead, also by hanging, on Saturday morning. The reason for his extreme step is not known.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/10-year-old-girl-kills-herself-fearing-rebuke-from-mother/articleshow/80427436.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Lucknow||10 Hamirpur cops to be booked for torture, fake cases against BSF jawan||LUCKNOW: Hamirpur police is set to lodge an FIR against 10 policemen, including a station officer for torturing and lodging fake case against a BSF jawan, Mohammed Shahid, in September last year. The charges are being examined by the police brass and cases will be registered soon. CJM court ordered lodging of an FIR against a station officer, four sub-inspectors and five constables of Maudaha police station. The BSF jawan’s father, Mohammed Ramzan, had moved court on December 3 and narrated his son’s ordeal. Rizwan said, his son Mohammed Shahid had come on leave from Delhi on September 19, when a few truckers told him how local cops were extorting from them. “He lodged a complaint with the DGP and DIG. On the night of September 24, cops stormed into his house and whisked away Shahid to the police station, where he was tortured and false cases lodged against him,” said Ramzan in his plea in court. Circle officer, Maudaha, Saumya Pandey, said, senior officers were examining the case and an FIR would be registered. However, police said, Shahid would operate an illegal mining business in the area and when a local journalist tried to capture the scam on camera, he was thrashed by the BSF jawan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/10-hamirpur-cops-to-be-booked-for-torture-fake-cases-against-bsf-jawan/articleshow/80428793.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||NCLT strips Telangana of ‘creditor’ status in AP gems case||HYDERABAD: The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) stripped Telangana of ‘creditor’ status and declared it as a ‘related party’ in a case pertaining to AP gems and jewellery park, which was launched as a public-private venture in 2001. The state handed over Rs 100 crore worth land on Road No. 10, Banjara Hills, to the proposed gems park, which never came into being in the last two decades. The Telangana State Trade Promotion Corporation Ltd (TSTPC) had facilitated the land for the proposed park with Suresh Chukkapalli of Hyderabad-based Phoenix Group as its promoter. A tribunal bench comprising K Anantha Padmanabha Swamy, member (judicial), and Veera Brahma Rao Arekapudi, member (technical), said the Telangana State Trade Promotion Corporation cannot be treated as a creditor. The tribunal also directed the resolution professional (RP) to reconstitute the committee of creditors (CoC) afresh. The counsel, who argued the case of Telangana State Trade Promotion Corporation, told STOI that since the tribunal has now ordered reconstitution of the CoC, they will oppose inclusion of Phoenix in the creditors’ list at the time of convening the meeting of creditors by the RP. “Phoenix Group too should be treated as a related party and not as a creditor. This is going to be our stand before the RP,” he stressed. The TRTPC is now struggling to get back the land and the money. The private partner got 89% of the project, while the state got 11% stake. Though the private partner firm was supposed to invest Rs 12 crore initially towards partial cost of the land, it invested only Rs 6 crore. The balance amount was treated as a loan from the TSTPC. Suresh, who is Phoenix chairman, is also director of Gitanjali Group, which is owned by Mehul Chinubhai Choksi. In a sudden turn of events, however, Choksi’s Gitanjali Group bought AP gems and jewellery park and became its sole owner. But on account of surfacing of a bank fraud involving Choksi, the Enforcement Directorate attached the gems park, which was later upheld by the National Company Law Tribunal. Choksi, who is absconding, is accused of duping Punjab National Bank to the tune of Rs 6,500 crore and is facing charges under IPC sections of criminal conspiracy, criminal breach of trust, cheating and dishonesty and money laundering. Earlier Phoenix, which lent Rs 9 crore to the gems park entity, got it declared as insolvent and the RP, KV Srinivas, is trying to find out a resolution on the issue. He had included the TSTPC as creditor and gave it 65% of voting rights in the CoC. As Phoenix was the sole creditor in the CoC till then and was enjoying 100% voting rights, it felt aggrieved by the decision of the RP and challenged his decision before the National Company Law Tribunal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nclt-strips-t-of-creditor-status-in-ap-gems-case/articleshow/80427439.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan releases four postal covers unique to Telangana||HYDERABAD: Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan released four special postal covers on cheriyal paintings of Siddipet, nirmal paintings of Nirmal, Gadwal saris of Mahabubnagar and silver filigree work of Karimnagar which are unique to Telangana and have GI Tags, in the Raj Bhavan on Saturday.  She appreciated the efforts of Telangana Postal Circle for conceiving this idea of issuing special covers on GI Tag products making them self reliant and ‘atmanirbhar’. AK Poddar, additional director general, postal directorate, explained the importance of geographical indication of goods and products and its contribution to tourism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/guv-releases-4-postal-covers-unique-to-t/articleshow/80427444.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||PM Modi to inaugurate revamped RFCL soon, says G Kishan Reddy||HYDERABAD: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the revamped Ramagundam Fertilisers and Chemicals Limited (RFCL) soon. With works at the RFCL plant nearing completion and Kisan brand of urea production set to begin at the revived plant, the PM will open the fertiliser unit, Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy said on Saturday. At the inauguration of Krushi Vigyan Kendra in Tunk village of Kowdipally mandal in Medak district, the Union minister said production in the Ramagundam plant will begin in a month or two. “Under the leadership of Modi, farmers across the country are benefited in many ways,” Kishan Reddy said. He said the agri laws would enable farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country and for the best price. “If a product manufactured in a company can be priced and sold wherever the company wants to, why can’t farmers do the same thing?” Kishan Reddy without referring to the farmers’ agitation in Delhi opposing the new farm laws. Kishan Reddy also said it was because of the Centre’s policies that farmers were able to get 24-hour power supply and fertilisers in time. “Government has taken measures to see how much urea is needed in every part of the country. This is the reason why we don’t see farmers queuing up at fertiliser shops ,” he said. Previously, urea used to arrive at the port from abroad. But, the government has taken measures to see how much urea is needed in every part of the country and distribute it accordingly||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pm-to-inaugurate-revamped-rfcl-soon-says-kishan/articleshow/80427440.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: ‘Functional meter, CAN-Aadhaar must for 20,000 water sop’||HYDERABAD: To avail the 20,000 (20K) litre free water scheme, Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) has made it mandatory for having functional water meters and Aadhaar linkage with customer account number (CAN), a unique number for each water connection. In order to clear doubts of consumers regarding water meters, billing and Aadhaar linkage, HMWSSB officials on Saturday issued certain guidelines. Domestic-slum, domestic-individual, domestic-multi storied building (MSB)/bulk connections are eligible for the 20K free water supply scheme, according to HMWS&SB managing director, M Dana Kishore. He added that 24 agencies have been empanelled for supply of mechanical meters for both 15 mm and 20 mm size water connections. “We have allotted two agencies to each division for supply and fixing water meters,” the official said. For 15 mm water connection, the cost of the water meter would be Rs 1,100, Rs 198 towards 18% GST and another Rs 200 for meter fixing charges. For the 20 mm connection, a customer has to pay Rs 1,650 for meter, Rs 297 GST and Rs 200 fixing charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/functional-meter-can-aadhaar-must-for-20k-water-sop/articleshow/80427450.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Secunderabad: Old grant bungalows to pay commercial property tax||SECUNDERABAD: Owners of old grant bungalows (OGBs) located in the Secunderabad Cantonment, will soon be issued notices with a huge hike in property tax assessment. The Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) officials completed an assessment of 86 old grant bungalows (OGBs) of the British-era as part of the triennial revision, i.e. between 2018 and 2022. “Notices will be served to all the owners of these bungalows in a day or two. They will be given 30 days to submit objections,” Secunderabad Cantonment Board deputy chief executive officer, Vijaykumar Balan Nair told STOI. Though, the defence estates office, Telangana circle is a custodian of old grant bungalows, the SCB has been collecting property tax for decades, he said. Agreeing that most of the OGBs are using their open spaces for commercial purpose, the Secunderabad Cantonment Board official said that the tax department made an assessment solely based on the commercial tariff. The range per square meter is between Rs 4 and Rs 10, added the official. Most of the old grant bungalows are located in Sikh Village while few are in Balamrai, Bowenpally and other prime areas. Several old grant bungalows have given their open spaces to function halls, furniture showrooms, car showrooms. They collect rent in lakhs. The rent of a function hall starts from Rs 1.5 lakh and goes up to Rs 10 lakh per day. On an average, the owners of these old grant bungalows earn Rs 2 to Rs 10 crore per annum only on rentals. Secunderabad Cantonment Board officials who set their eyes on old grant bungalows are expecting huge revenue through the triennial revision assessment. “We are expecting nearly Rs 3 crore revenue,” said SCB senior tax official. Agreeing that most of the OGBs are using their open spaces for commercial purpose, the SCB official said tax department made assessment solely based on the commercial tariff||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/old-grant-bungalows-to-pay-commercial-property-tax/articleshow/80427464.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Now, voters can download EPIC on mobile||HYDERABAD: The Election Commission of India has come up with a new initiative e-EPIC as part of which registered voters can now download their electronic photo identity card (EPIC) on their mobile and can save it as PDF or take a print of it. People need to visit http://voterportal.eci.gov.in/nvsp.in/ or log into voter helpline mobile app. They can register/login on voter portal and from the menu they need to click on the option 'download e-EPIC'. The user needs to enter the EPIC number and verify with the OTP sent on his or her registered mobile number. Once the OTP is verified, they can download e-EPIC card .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-voters-can-download-epic-on-mobile/articleshow/80427457.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||30 flat buyers face eviction in Mhada, builder dues row||MUMBAI: Thirty flat buyers face eviction from their new homes while another 50 await possession of their flats as Mhada and developer Rajan Shirodkar slug it out over dues to be paid to the housing authority. Shirodkar, also a member of Maharashtra Navnirman Sena, has blamed Mhada’s delay in granting permissions as the reason for not completing his housing project at Parel on time. Shirodkar had taken up a tenanted building in Parel housing 142 tenants for redevelopment in 2002. He said the Congress government of Prithviraj Chauhan announced 300-square-foot free tenements to tenants in 2009, though the circular was issued only in 2015. This, coupled with the refusal of 28 tenants who had taken up residence in Mhada transit camps to pay rent to the authority, had delayed the occupation certificate for the project. Mhada has raised a bill of Rs 3 crore (including rent, penalty and interest) and has refused to issue a no-objection certificate for the sale component. The result is that 30 flat buyers in the sale building who had no option and occupied their flats are now facing eviction as the building does not have an OC. They were first promised possession in August 2016, then December 2016 and finally in May 2017. The builder’s reasons have also not cut ice with the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA), which was approached by seven flat buyers. It said the builder should have approached RERA for extension to complete the project. “There is no fault on part of the complainants who have put their hard-earned money into booking the flats,” reads a RERA order. In two recent orders, RERA directed the builder to form an association of the flat buyers and complete the project. In another order, it has directed Shirodkar to pay interest from May 1, 2017, to the actual date of possession.  “We have appealed to Mhada to reduce the amount and we are hopeful of a positive outcome,” he said. Dhananjay Daund, a flat buyer, said they are suffering for no fault of theirs. “Why must Mhada punish us for the developer’s lapses?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/30-flat-buyers-face-eviction-in-mhada-builder-dues-row/articleshow/80426848.cms||Clara Lewis
January 24, 2021||Chandigarh||Rs 21k crore development charges add up against Haryana realtors||CHANDIGARH: Due to the heavy penal interest of 15% per annum, arrears of extra development charges (EDC) and infrastructure development charges (IDC), to the tune of Rs 21,678.88 crore, are outstanding towards the real estate developers across the state. Nearly 80% arrears are penal interest on EDC and, in the case of IDC, the penal interest amount has crossed even 100%. Of Rs 10,810.16 crore EDC arrears, Rs 2,087 is simple interest and Rs 7,971.81 is penal interest. Similarly, Rs 809.90 crore is outstanding IDC, out of which Rs 403 crore is penal interest on default amount of Rs 399.39 crore. The town and country planning department has cancelled the licences of 44 developers for defaulting on payments. To encourage clearing of debts, the government had offered various amnesty schemes from time to time. The latest one is ‘samadhan se vikas’, a scheme introduced during lockdown that waived off 75% interest in case the developers remits at least 50% of the outstanding arrears. Even this offer too failed to generate any interest among the defaulters as only 12 developers had availed the scheme, which could yield recovery of just Rs 100.32 crore, the officials said. Director general of town and country planning department, K M Panduranga confirmed the piling up of arrears. He, however, maintained that efforts are being made to recover debts. “Developers are also a source of income to state exchequer. We have got representation from them about certain reliefs and issues. We are hopeful of putting things on track,’’ said Panduranga. Parveen Jain, national vice-president and Haryana president of National Real Estate Development Council (Naredco), however, strongly advocated more support and amnesty schemes. “It is not the intention of developers to not clear the arrears and default amounts of EDC and IDC, but they are unable to clear them due to the poor state of affairs of the real estate market for the last one year,’’ he said. Naredco has discussed this issue with the government and a policy was framed regarding the discount to be availed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-21k-cr-development-charges-add-up-against-hry-realtors/articleshow/80427459.cms||Manvir Saini
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: ED files complaint against directors of Future Maker||HYDERABAD: Enforcement Directorate (ED) has a filed a prosecution complaint against Radhe Shyam and Bansi Lal, directors of multi-level marketing firm Future Maker Lifecare Private Limited under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The complaint was filed before the special judge (PMLA) at Panchkula. ED had initiated its investigation on the basis of various FIRs registered in Telangana and Haryana under sections of criminal conspiracy, cheating and sections of the prize chit and money circulation for cheating lakhs of investors. Radhe Shyam and Bansi Lal, both residents of Haryana, had floated companies in the name of Future Maker Life Care Private limited and FMLC Global Marketing Private Limited and allegedly cheated several people. ED, in its complaint, said: “The MLM scheme consisted of a pyramidal structure, where the persons at the top of the pyramid gain at the behest of the losses borne by the persons at the base of the pyramid. Investigation conducted under PMLA revealed that around 31 lakh investors lost their money by making investments in the schemes floated by the accused.” “In this scheme, the initial investors were paid high returns to attract more people and current investors to invest more money. When other investors begin to participate, a cascade effect began,” it added. The complaint added that Radhey Shyam used to lure innocent persons through speeches at seminars conducted across India, promising high returns of up to 5 to 8 times the investment in two years. Bansi Lal, on the other hand, was the financial mastermind whose role consisted of layering and laundering of the tainted money collected from the investors in various concerns which were just on paper. The funds so collected were diverted into the bank accounts of their family members and thereafter properties were acquired using the ill-gotten money. On identification of these assets in the form of a flat in Chandigarh, two in Delhi, agricultural land, balances in bank accounts, cash, all worth Rs 261.3 crore, was seized, they were provisionally attached under the PMLA, which was also confirmed by the adjudicating authority. Now, the prosecution complaint has been filed before PMLA court, Panchkula.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ed-files-complaint-against-directors-of-future-maker/articleshow/80428822.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 24, 2021||Shimla||Probe Himachal CM principal secretary’s assets: Special court||SHIMLA: The court of Special Judge (Forests) Shimla has directed the state vigilance and the anti-corruption bureau to look into the allegations of acquisition of assets disproportionate to his known sources of income by senior IAS officer Jagdish Chander Sharma when posted as excise and taxation commissioner from December 8, 2009 to December 4, 2013. Sharma at present is posted as principal secretary to chief minister of Himachal Pradesh. The court has directed to complete the inquiry in three months. In a judgment decided on January 20, Special Judge (Forests) Shimla Arvind Malhotra stated that applicant Geeta complaint of acquisition of assets disproportionate to known sources of income by Sharma has not been specifically dealt with. Court said though, investigating agency has submitted that Sharma had purchased 30 bighas of land for Rs 60 lakh, but investigating agency has not reported or commented on this first allegation which appears to be the main allegation. The court deemed it proper and in the interest of justice to have complete report on all allegations so as to finally consider the allegations of complainant. Court consequently ordered that further inquiry or investigation into allegation of acquisition of assets disproportionate to known sources of income be conducted by the respondent in accordance with law. It said applicant-complainant be joined during the course of inquiry or investigation in the interest of justice and fair play. It said police file along with copy of this order be returned to the respondent for further compliance of this order. It also directed the respondent to conclude further inquiry/ investigation in the matter in accordance with law within a period of three months from the date of receipt of police file. Geeta Singh had alleged that Sharma had purchased 30 bighas of valuable land from royal family of Koti, Tehsil Theog without prior approval of the government. The petitioner had alleged that sale deed was executed for Rs 60 lakh, but actual transaction is believed to be over Rs 1crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/spl-court-probe-himachal-cm-principal-secys-assets/articleshow/80427466.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Bareilly||Constable caught gambling, booked||Bareilly: A police constable who was rewarded for good work by the DGP was caught gambling in a deserted location in Moradabad on Friday and booked under the Public Gambling Act. Prabhakar Chaudhri, Moradabad SSP, said, “There were several complaints of misconduct against constable Yasir, deputed at Bhagatpur police station.” Following a tip-off, a team headed by sub-inspector Gaurav Kumar of Mughalpura police station conducted a raid at an isolated spot where several people were gambling. While the others fled, Yasir was caught. An FIR was lodged against him, the SSP added. Cash totalling Rs 1,000 and playing cards were seized from the spot. Further investigation is underway, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/constable-caught-gambling-booked/articleshow/80425801.cms||Maria Khan
January 24, 2021||Kochi||Lakshadweep: Coast Guard rescues Tamil Nadu seafarers||KOCHI: The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) on Friday night rescued seven seafarers from Tamil Nadu, who had to cling onto a partially submerged lifeboat in the sea for nearly 10 hours after their boat sank due to heavy inflow of seawater off Kalpeni coast. KOCHI: Coast Guard ship ICGS Sujeet, an interceptor boat from Kavaratti and a Dornier aircraft from Kochi took part in the search and rescue mission that safely brought the seafarers to Kavaratti. The seafarers were heading to Kavaratti Island from Tuticorin port on the boat MSV Messiah when their boat started sinking due to heavy influx of seawater in the wake of inclement weather. The incident happened around 5am on Friday and the vessel’s master called its owner in Tuticorin who in turn alerted Kavaratti Port Control for help. The Coast Guard had deployed its assets immediately to track them. The communication equipment on board was completely damaged within one hour. As they were sure that the boat would sink, they tried to stay afloat in a lifeboat but that could not survive for long in the rough sea and was partially submerged. Through an intensive sea-air coordinated search, the Coast Guard traced them before dusk. The Dornier spotted the lifeboat and directed ICGS Sujeet to the location. Around 7.30pm the Coast Guard vessels reached the location and rescued all the seafarers. The seafarers said that the MSV Messiah had completely sunk by 9am and the lifeboat was fully damaged by the time they were rescued. “All the seafarers were shifted to the hospital in Kavaratti and necessary steps are being taken to send the rescued crew back to their hometown,” said a Coast Guard statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/coast-guard-rescues-tn-seafarers/articleshow/80426833.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Kozhikode||Kozhikode airport authorities submit safety assessment report||KOZHIKODE: The Calicut International Airport has submitted the safety assessment report to the DGCA to enable resumption of operation of wide-bodied aircraft from the airport. The DGCA had suspended operation of wide-bodied aircraft from the airport in August last year after the crash of the Air India Express flight which overshot the runway on August 7. The jumbo flight operations were suspended even though the aircraft involved in the crash was not a wide-bodied one. In a bid to recommence operation of wide bodied aircraft, the airport has submitted the joint safety assessment report conduct by it along with the airlines apart from the standard operating procedure of the Saudi Arabian Airlines. Currently only Saudia has submitted the revised SOP and other operators, including Air India, Emirates and Qatar Airways, are expected to submit it soon. The DGCA had earlier taken the stand that the suspension of jumbo aircraft was to be in force during the monsoon months. Following the demands raised by MPs from the region, a DGCA expert had carried out inspections at the airport and has asked the airlines and the airport authorities to review the safety assessment. A joint meeting of AAI and airline firms was held on January 5, in which the airlines were asked to submit revised SOP. The suspension of operation of wide-bodied aircraft from the airport is believed to have led to exclusion of the airport from the list of Haj embarkation points. Earlier, the DGCA had given NOC to Air India, Saudia, Emirates and Qatar Airways to operate wide-bodied aircraft from Calicut airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/koz-airport-authorities-submit-safety-assessment-report/articleshow/80426843.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Bareilly||55 days on, PTR’s stray tiger tranquilized||Pilibhit: A three-year-old tiger that strayed out of Barahi forest range of Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR) on November 29 and moved from village to village in Puranpur and Kalinagar tehsil areas was tranquilized on Saturday evening at Kakraua village under Madhotanda police station. The tiger would be shifted to Garha forest guest house in PTR’s Mala forest range for medical examination. If found to be fit, it would be released in Dudhwa tiger reserve in an area with low density of the big cats, forest officials said. A two-member team -- Dr Daksh Gangwar of PTR and Dr Dushyant Sharma of Corbett tiger reserve --successfully hit the tiger with a tranquilizing dart at 4.13 pm from a safe distance. The action was taken after chief wildlife warden of UP Pawan Kumar Sharma granted permission for the operation on Friday. The officials said the tiger was spotted in a cane field at Kakraua village in the morning. Soon after, a net encircling the field was installed to confine the big cat in it. Additional principal chief conservator of forest (project tiger), UP, Kamlesh Kumar, chief conservator of forest, Bareilly zone, Lalit Verma, officiating field director of PTR Javed Akhtar, divisional forest officer, of forest and wildlife division, Sanjeev Kumar, deputy director of PTR Naveen Khandelwal, and project manager of WWF-India Naresh Kumar were present on the spot to supervise and assist in the operation. The decision to tranquilize the tiger was taken as a last option for averting man-tiger conflict. The big cat had dodged all attempts to trap it several times in the last 55 days, said chief wildlife warden of UP Pawan Kumar Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/55-days-on-ptrs-stray-tiger-tranquilized/articleshow/80425810.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 24, 2021||Chandigarh||Every official bound to give authentic info: Haryana CIC||Kurukshetra: Chief information commissioner (CIC), Haryana Yashpal Singhal has said that it is the duty of every officer to give authentic information for public interest. Singhal quoted the Bhagwad Gita and said that the truth of action and that of inaction must come to light. Haryana CIC Singhal was delivering a special lecture on ‘Right to Information (RTI) Act, 2005’ in an event organised by Kurukshetra University’s (KU) legal cell at senate hall on Friday. Singhal said, “The Constitution of India gives the right to freedom of expression to citizens of the country, but in the absence of information and transparency, freedom of expression is of no importance. The RTI plays an important role in strengthening large democracies like India and their citizen-centric development. The right to information is an important tool to ensure citizens’ participation in democracy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/every-official-bound-to-give-authentic-info-haryana-cic/articleshow/80427468.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Delhi||Graft row: North corporation Panel brings SDMC ‘rent’ back in budget proposal||NEW DELHI: The standing committee chairman of North Delhi Municipal Corporation has once again added an amount of Rs 2,477 crore to the budget income sources as the rent amount owed by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation for sharing office space at Civic Centre. This is likely to put an end to the “corruption” allegations levelled by Aam Aadmi Party. Delhi government had earlier called a special assembly session to discuss the matter. The party had alleged that the north corporation had foregone the rent owed by South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) in the budget proposals made by the municipal commissioner in Delhi leading to a loss to public exchequer. The committee chairman, Chhail Bihari Goswami, said that a sustained baseless propaganda was carried out on this issue. While delivering his budget speech on Saturday, Goswami said: “This lie of Rs 2,457 crore scam was pushed by the opposition party through a propaganda machinery only to sully the image of the corporation. Not a single penny has been exchanged and no money has been taken or provided but still our friends from the opposition used false propaganda to create this controversy.” Goswami claimed that people of Delhi were being misled by AAP. “They do not even know that the amount of rent is Rs 2,477 crore and not Rs 2,457 crore as they had claimed. This was not shown in the commissioner budget and being the standing committee chairman, I am rejecting the proposal by the commissioner. The amount has been added to income head 66/0122 and we continue to claim that SDMC owes us this amount as rent of Civic Centre,” he said. The controversy over alleged rent arrears due from the south corporation stems from trifurcation in 2012 when no separate office space was allocated for SDMC. Civic Centre fell under the jurisdiction of the north corporation and the south corporation has been sharing the building ever since. The south corporation claims that the Sheila Dikshit cabinet had allowed them to stay in Civic Centre until a new headquarter is built and since it was built from funds of unified MCD, no rent should be charged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/graft-row-n-corpn-panel-brings-sdmc-rent-back-in-budget-proposal/articleshow/80428869.cms||Paras Singh
January 24, 2021||Kozhikode||A song to back voiceless farmers||Kozhikode: When some artists in the state decided that it would be a crime to sit idle when farmers are locked in a struggle for survival in other parts of the country, the group’s efforts at giving voice to the voiceless culminated in the music video ‘Kanalkatta’. “The farm bill 2020 is a sign of what is in store. The way it was introduced speaks volumes. Its long-term impact will be devastating,” said Jassie Gift, the producer of the video. Jassie released the video on his YouTube channel. “Initially, many thought the legislation would be of no consequence to Kerala. But it is now almost certain that the state will also bear the brunt of the law carved out to suit the needs of corporates,” Jassie said. Haris Abdul Vahid’s lyrics attempt to capture the different moods of a farmer. “They convey how we are indebted to farmers whose labour appears on our dinner tables in various forms. There is an emotional bond between the farmer and his field where he sows his dreams along with the seeds,” said Nazar Malik, who tries to capture all that passion in his rendition of the song. “It is not mere financial gain that drives a farmer; it is the bond with his field that compels him not to seek greener pastures, even amid utter misery. Even after a serious crop loss he returns with added vigour,” Malik said. “Not many in Kerala can fathom the amount of exploitation that farmers undergo. We cannot remain silent while farmers are sitting on roads, braving the harsh weather. So we decided to express solidarity with the agitators through the song,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/a-song-to-back-voiceless-farmers/articleshow/80426855.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 24, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: 7-year-old boy’s family blocks road for arrest of doctor||HISAR: On Friday, family members of the seven-year-old boy who died during an operation had blocked a road near a bus stand, demanding the arrest of the doctor. The surgery was supposed to have corrected boy’s squint. The family left only after chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar talked to the boy’s father and assured him of appropriate action. The boy died on Friday due to an overdose of anaesthesia. Civil Line police station has registered a case under sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against the doctors of the hospital on the complaint of Mohit Wadhwa, the father of the deceased child. The boy’s grandfather, Subhash Wadhwa said the CM had assured action in an hour and asked to speak again, but so far he did not receive any call nor did any action was taken till Saturday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/7-yr-old-boys-family-blocks-road-for-arrest-of-doc-who-caused-his-death/articleshow/80427488.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Centre should give progressive states like Telangana their due: KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: Despite being ranked among the top states in the country, progressive states like Telangana are left high and dry when it comes to central government allocation for mega projects like industrial corridors, high-speed rail or defence industrial corridors, Telangana IT & industries minister KT Rama Rao said on Saturday. Speaking at the Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FTCCI) Excellence Awards, KTR said though Telangana is an integral part of India, big-ticket projects only go to states that have a higher number of seats in Parliament. Pointing out that it is all a numbers game, he said that a state with 80 seats rules the roost while “unfortunately” a state like Telangana, that has only 17 seats, loses out on key projects like bullet trains, which will run only in the Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC). “We have been demanding projects like the Hyderabad-Nagpur, Hyderabad-Ramagundam, Hyderabad-Bengaluru and Hyderabad-Warangal industrial corridor and have written multiple letters to the Centre but all we get is lip service. Union ministers shower praise on Telangana but what purpose will lip service serve without the necessary central budgetary allocation?” he wondered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-should-give-progressive-states-like-t-their-due-ktr/articleshow/80427528.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai to see 80% increase in vaccination booths in first phase of drive||MUMBAI: The BMC plans to increase the number of vaccination booths or vaccinators by almost 80% during the ongoing first phase of the drive in the city. Currently, BMC has 40 booths in nine hospital-centres across the city; big hospitals such as KEM, Sion, Nair and Cooper have prepared 10 booths while smaller ones in the suburbs have five booths each. ‘We can ramp up to 72 if there is a good turnout,” said BMC’s additional commissioner Suresh Kakani. This follows the state government’s announcement on Friday that the number of vaccination booths across the state would increase from 285 to 511 from Monday. On Saturday itself, total booths had increased to 290. “Mumbai’s capacity has increased from 40 to 72,” confirmed Dr Archana Patil, state director of health services, on Saturday. Kakani said the civic public health department has identified a few hospitals that could provide vaccination at a short notice. “We have 15 booths ready in Seven Hills Hospital, Marol, which can be commissioned shortly,” said Kakani. Moreover, the number of booths at the BKC jumbo facility can be increased. Incidentally, the number of booths and vaccination sessions per day are generated by the centre’s Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) software based on the data fed by the local health department. Each vaccinator in a booth has to vaccinate 100 people a day. In cities such as Mumbai which have the infrastructure and the manpower, the corporations have decided to increase the number of vaccinators. “If there is a heavy turnout, we will add one vaccinator in a booth to speed up the process,” said BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare. There is also an option to operate double shifts. The BMC has trained over 5,000 nurses and doctors for the vaccination process. These ramping up measures are needed if all the healthcare workers have to be vaccinated within 28 days. “From the 29th day, we will have to start giving the recipients the second dose of the vaccine,’’ said Kakani. Each recipient has to take two shots of Covid-19 vaccine, 28 days apart. In the first phase of vaccination, almost 8 lakh healthcare workers across the state (including 1.3 lakh in Mumbai) will be vaccinated. The state has also decided to increase the number of vaccination days in a week to five from the present four. The five fixed days are Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday. Due to the Pulse Polio drive on January 30, though, there will be no COvid-19 vaccination drive next Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-to-see-80-increase-in-vax-booths-in-first-phase-of-drive/articleshow/80426857.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Counselling for those on the fence||HYDERABAD: While the state health department had planned to cover 1.6 lakh government healthcare workers this week, nearly 10-% to 20% of the enrolled beneficiaries (who are likely to be convinced) are yet to be vaccinated. Authorities are hoping to wrap it up on Sunday and Monday, even as the vaccination of 1.55 lakh private healthcare workers is set to begin from Monday amid some hesitancy. As per official figures, 1.1 lakh government healthcare workers were vaccinated up to Friday, January 22. “While some of the beneficiaries may have conditions which are counter indicative for the vaccine and few others who are not willing to take the vaccine, there are some who were not able to take it. These numbers will be small, mostly doctors and staff in teaching hospitals. We are trying to counsel them and cover them in the next two days,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director public health, Telangana. Counter-indicative conditions include having comorbidities, being on immune suppressive drugs, etc. In fact, the district medical and health officers (DMHO)s of different districts have been circulating awareness messages to the healthcare staff about contraindications for taking the Covid-19 vaccine. This includes pregnant women, lactating mothers, people on immunosuppressants, and staff with symptoms such as fever. Meanwhile, an awareness drive is currently under way for beneficiaries who might be sitting on the fence and are being counselled. While a chunk of the government healthcare workers have adopted the wait and watch policy, the sentiment among the private sector employees too is that of wait and watch, as per insiders. “Most of the staff in the healthy category are ready to take the vaccine, but after the senior doctors take it,” said an insider from a corporate hospital in the city. With the roll-out for the private healthcare workers on Monday, the vaccination for the first line of beneficiaries—government and private healthcare workers—is expected to be wrapped up in little over a week. For the second line of frontline workers, the process of enrolment is not yet over. “We are yet to get the vaccine supply for the frontline workers. The enrolment process is on currently but we are awaiting directions from the centre on when will the vaccination of this group start,” added Dr Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/counselling-for-those-on-the-fence/articleshow/80427501.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 24, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Netaji, Vivekananda books in school syllabus||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has instructed the school education department to include ‘His Call to the Nation’, written by Swami Vivekananda, and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s ‘Taruner Swapno’ and ‘Sabujer Obhijan’ in the school curriculum. While addressing a rally on Saturday, Banerjee suggested the books be made a mandatory part of the teaching-learning process. The school education department said it would meet soon to decide on how the books would be incorporated in the syllabus. “We have to see in which class the books will be introduced and accordingly abridge them and make them appropriate for students of that age,” said a senior school education department official. The syllabus reforms committee decides on the modification of the syllabus. ‘Taruner Swapno’ is a collection of Bengali essays and letters written by Bose. The book was first published on December 26, 1928, in the morning of the Congress session in Kolkata. Swami Vivekananda’s ‘His Call to the Nation’, on the other hand, traces his life in the first part. The second part is about his teachings. Meanwhile, CM Banerjee on Saturday tweeted that the state government will set up a university named after Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. The university, to be funded entirely by the state government, will have tie-ups with foreign universities, the CM said. The state already has a Netaji Subhas Open University for distance learning. It was set up in 1997 and functions from Sarat Bose’s residence at 1, Woodburn Park. Sources in the higher education department said the new university would award general degrees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/netaji-vivekananda-books-in-school-syllabus/articleshow/80426856.cms||Somdatta Basu
January 24, 2021||Aurangabad||City bus service faces Rs 4L losses per day||Aurangabad: The city bus service in Aurangabad, which completed two years of its launching on Saturday, has been facing financial issues due to Covid-19 outbreak, adding to the teething problems of the public transport facility. Chief operating officer of the city bus service Prashant Bhusari on Saturday said that the transport utility is facing daily losses of Rs four lakh. “While we were engaged in increasing passenger response to the bus service in the early phase, the Covid-19 outbreak affected the operations very badly. Even a large section of passengers turned their back to the city bus service during different phases of unlock out of fear of contracting the disease. It has collectively affected our financial health,” he said. According to Bhusari, the bus service which runs under the aegis of Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Limited (ASCDCL) is facing average losses of Rs 42 per km per litre. “We have introduced different passes and concession schemes for students and others to increase the public response to the city bus service. Within no time, we have launched a dedicated mobile application for passengers and facilitated e-ticketing system. We appeal to citizens to make the best use of public transport instead of using personal vehicles,” he said. Notably, the city bus service had witnessed an abrupt closure in the past after loss-making for considerable period. As per official records, the bus service catered to around 22,000 passengers per day since its launch. “We have a fleet of 50 buses which run a total distance of around 10,000 km per day. The bus service has been receiving good response in some fringe areas. With promotional activities on, we hope that break-even point in operations reaches soon,” Bhusari said. Sharad Advant of advocacy group Marathwda Janta Vikas Parishad, said the maximum use of public transport was a sign of any developed society. “The public transportation must be preferred over personal transportation for varied personal and social benefits. We all should strive collectively to ensure sustainable run of the city bus service,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/city-bus-service-faces-rs-4l-losses-per-day/articleshow/80427529.cms||Prasad Joshi
January 24, 2021||Chandigarh||SGPC demands postal stamp dedicated to ninth Sikh Guru||Amritsar: The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has urged the Centre to release a commemorative postal stamp to mark the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur, the ninth Sikh Guru. After chairing a meeting of the Sikh History Research Board, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur asked the Centre to issue the commemorative postage stamp, coin and a first day cover dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of the ninth Guru. The SGPC president also appealed to the Prime Minister and chief minister of Odisha to embody the shabd ‘gagan mein thalu’ of Guru Nanak Dev by erecting a minaret in the square of Jagannath Puri, where the shabad be played in Punjabi as well as in national and state languages. She also said the SGPC would publish various books dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur along with diaries and illustrated booklets for children. “In order to commemorate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur Sahib, various old books would be republished by the SGPC along with new books based on recent research. Illustrated books will be prepared especially for children.” She also said a commemorative diary dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of the Guru would be published. According to her, the SGPC would soon record documentary interviews of prominent personalities of the Sikh community who have contributed in various fields. “The aim is to preserve the contributions of various Sikh personalities and to inspire the Sikh youth,” she said. Box: Recognition for SGPC Hockey Academy The hockey academy run by SGPC has been recognised by Hockey India. This was announced by the executive board of Hockey India during its meeting held on January 19, 2021, SGPC chief Jagir Kaur said.“The hockey academy is being run successfully by the SGPC and now with recognition by Hockey India, the academy will be able to participate directly in national championships,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sgpc-demands-postal-stamp-dedicated-to-ninth-sikh-guru/articleshow/80427530.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Goa||Reserve 75% pvt sector jobs for locals: Cong||Panaji: The BJP-led government in Goa should take a cue from other BJP-ruled states such as Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Karnataka, and bring in a law to set aside 75% jobs in the private sector for Goans, Youth Congress said on Saturday. The party also demanded that the state government should put in place a regulatory mechanism, including periodic checks to track the exact employment created by investment projects that get priority approvals through the Goa Investment Promotion Board, Public Private Partnership cell and other government bodies. Congress said it wants the government to introduce stiff penalties if industries fail to give 75% of the jobs to locals. Wherever skilled manpower is unavailable, the government should direct the companies to train local candidates to make them employable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/reserve-75-pvt-sector-jobs-for-locals-cong/articleshow/80428930.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Aurangabad||‘Need uniform exam system for varsities’||Aurangabad: Vic-chancellor of Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (BAMU) Pramod Yeole on Saturday demanded a uniform exam system for all state universities in Maharashtra. Submitting his views before the panel formed by the State Higher and Technical Education Department for introducing reforms in Maharashtra Public University Act 2016, Yeole said that having such uniformity would be in sync with the upcoming National Education Policy (NEP). “Currently, different universities have different exam systems, including separate passing criteria and the practice of either semester or annual pattern. While the Covid-19 outbreak has already exposed the evils associated with such non-uniform exam system, the existing pattern would not gel with the NEP in near future,” he told TOI. In his suggestion made before the panel led by former UGC chairman Sukhadev Thorat, Yeole also sought amendment in the university act to ensure centralized recruitment of teachers in affiliated colleges. “The body can be formed on the line of Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) in order to ensure recruitment in merit-based and transparent manner. We come across many complaints of unethical practices during recruitment at the level of colleges which will be addressed by default if centralized recruitment takes place,” he said. Among other major suggestions, the V-C has sought recruitment of statutory posts of the university without any involvement of the government to deal with issues arising out of recruitment policies of the government. Student activist Tukaram Saraf, who also presented his views before the aforesaid panel, demanded that the deemed universities in the state must come under the purview of Maharashtra Public University Act 2016. “The number of deemed universities has increased to around 40 in Maharashtra. These universities do not come any under effective legal framework posing admission and fees-related issues,” he said. Former management council member of BAMU Ulhas Udhan said that Maharashtra Public University Act 2016 should be amended in such a way that purely graduates find representation on statutory bodies. Aurangabad: Vice Chancellor of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (BAMU) Pramod Yeole on Saturday demanded a uniform examination system for all state universities in Maharashtra. Submitting his views before the panel formed by the State Higher and Technical Education Department for introducing reforms in Maharashtra Public University Act 2016, Yeole said having such uniformity would be in sync with the upcoming National Education Policy (NEP). “Different universities currently have different examination systems, including separate passing criteria and the practice of either semester or annual pattern. While the Covid -19 outbreak has already exposed the evils associated with such non-uniform exam system, the existing pattern would not gel with the NEP in near future,” he told ToI. In his suggestion made before the panel, led by former UGC chairman Sukhadev Thorat, Yeole also sought amendment in the university act to ensure centralized recruitment of teachers in affiliated colleges. “The body can be formed on the line of Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) in order to ensure recruitment in merit-based and transparent manner. We come across many complaints of unethical practices during recruitment at the level of colleges, which will be addressed by default if centralized recruitment takes place,” he said. Among other major suggestions, the VC has sought recruitment of statutory posts of the university without any involvement of the government in order to deal with issues arising out of recruitment policies of the government. Student activist Tukaram Saraf, who also presented his views before the aforesaid panel, demanded that the deemed universities in the state must come under the purview of Maharashtra Public University Act 2016. “The number of deemed universities has increased to around 40 in Maharashtra. These universities do not come any under effective legal framework posing admission and fees-related issues,” he said. Former management council member of BAMU, Ulhas Udhan said Maharashtra Public University Act 2016 should be amended in such a way that purely graduates find representation on statutory bodies. “Currently, teachers from university departments and affiliated colleges encroach upon the quota reserved for graduates, which should not be the case,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/need-uniform-exam-system-for-varsities/articleshow/80427565.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Amritsar||Gujarat man repatriated after nearly 13 years in Pakistani jails||AMRITSAR: After having spent nearly 13 years in different Pakistani jails, all Ismail Samma, 52, wants to know is if his wife and eight children are doing well. “He just wants to know about the well-being of his wife, five sons and three daughters. He is not interested in talking about anything else,” said Yunus, Ismail’s younger brother while talking to TOI on Saturday. Yunus arrived here to receive his brother along with another relative. He said Ismail lived in Nana Dinara village, Kutch district, Gujrat and worked as a shepherd. According to him, Ismail was handed over to the Border Security Force (BSF) by Pakistan Rangers on Friday and he was currently with Amritsar police for completion of formalities before heading for his village in Gujarat. Yunus said his brother went missing in August 2008 and later, it came to be known that he had strayed into Pakistan while grazing cattle. The Indo-Pakistan border was about 50 kilometres from his village. Samma was reportedly sentenced to five years on charge of espionage. He said his brother had served a jail sentence in two to three different jails in Pakistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/gujarat-man-repatriated-after-nearly-13-years-in-pak-jails/articleshow/80427590.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Chandigarh||Cong accuse BJP of appropriating statehood jubilee celebrations||Shimla: Ahead of 2022 assembly elections, politics has started over the celebrations of 50 years of statehood of Himachal Pradesh on January 25. While chief minister Jai Ram Thakur led government has planned year-long events to celebrate the golden jubilee, opposition has questioned the intent by claiming that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had opposed the statehood. Congress state president Kuldeep Singh Rathore said BJP leaders today are spending crores for the celebrations, but when state came into full existence, BJP leaders had opposed the same by giving the slogan “statehood ko maaro thud” (kick the statehood). Himachal was accorded full statehood by the parliament on December 1970 by passing the State of Himachal Pradesh Act and then Prime Minister late Indira Gandhi had come to Shimla to make the announcement amid heavy snowfall on January 25, 1971. While addressing media persons in Shimla on Saturday, CM Thakur said all arrangements have been completed for the golden jubilee celebrations and main function will be held at the Ridge in Shimla on January 25 in which Union home minister Amit Shah would be the chief guest while governor Bandaru Dattatraya will preside over the function. He said BJP national president J P Nadda and Union minister of state for finance Anurag Singh Thakur would also remain present. He said programme would be live telecast at sub-division level in all 68 assembly constituencies. He said a documentary on last 50 years journey of state would also be shown and a coffee table book will be launched. He said 51 events would be organised during the year-long celebrations and a rath yatra will also be started. Meanwhile, Congress has also decided to visit Ridge to pay their tributes to late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and first chief minister of state Y S Parmar. Rathore said BJP has no role in providing statehood to Himachal Pradesh, adding that the BJP was in favour of merging state with Punjab. He said on January 25, Congress leaders would pay floral tributes to Indira Gandhi and Parmar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-accuse-bjp-of-appropriating-statehood-jubilee-celebrations/articleshow/80427564.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Aurangabad||4 arrested for carrying swords||Aurangabad: Crime branch unit of the Aurangabad city police has nabbed four suspects for carrying a dangerous weapon while moving around in the city limits. The suspects have been identified as Amit Gehlot (23) Mukeshkumar Mangnaram (29), Bhaveshkumar Sureshkumar (21) and Hrithikkumar Bhavarlalji Tak (19), all residents of Rajendranagar of Jalor in Rajasthan. Police have also seized a sword, four mobile phones, spanner used for breaking open shutters/doors and a car from their possession. Crime branch inspector Avinash Aghav said that Amit Gehlot is a criminal on police record and was sometime in the past arrested by the Mumbai police on the charges of committing a robbery at gunpoint. Aghav said that though the suspects have been booked under relevant sections of Indian Arms Act, probe is still under way to ascertain the exact reason for them to be in Aurangabad. “Our team received specific information about the movement of a car with some sharp-edged weapon. Accordingly our team laid a trap on the road from Osmanpura to Kranti Chowk. The car with the given description was intercepted and sword was found,” said Aghav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-arrested-for-carrying-swords/articleshow/80427587.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 24, 2021||Aurangabad||Pocso accused dies after consuming acid in police custody in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: A 35-year-old man, who had consumed toilet-cleaning acid while in the custody of the Pishor police of Aurangabad rural, died on Saturday at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Aurangabad. The deceased, a resident of Khandi Pimpalgaon of Khultabad, had been booked on charges of kidnapping and sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act were also slapped on him. He was booked following a complaint lodged by the father of a 15-year-old girl, who said the accused had kidnapped his daughter. Police said the deceased used to sing bhajans in the rural areas and during one such visit to a village in Pishor, he came in contact with the minor girl. After being produced before the court on January 20, the accused was remanded in five-day police custody. As per police records, on Friday, around 8 am, Mahalakar requested the on-duty guard to take him to the washroom as he wanted to relieve himself. The guard, along with three home guards, took the accused to the washroom. The accused allegedly consumed the toilet cleaning acid kept in a bottle. A couple of minutes later, he started vomiting. The policemen somehow brought him out of the washroom, but the accused collapsed on the floor complaining of severe stomach ache. The policemen then rushed him to the Pishor-based rural hospital. After his condition deteriorated, he was referred to the GMCH. He succumbed while undergoing treatment on Saturday afternoon. The deceased is survived by his wife and three kids. Soon after the news of his death broke, his family members and relatives started gathering at the hospital. Sub-divisional police officer Vishal Nehul Patil went to the hospital and interacted with the family. He assured them that an inquiry will be conducted and action will be taken if the policemen are found guilty of dereliction of duty. Superintendent of police Mokshada Patil said, “We have suspended the guard duty amaldar with immediate effect and a preliminary inquiry has been ordered into this incident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pocso-accused-dies-after-consuming-acid-in-police-custody/articleshow/80427600.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Support system to up ease of doing business||HYDERABAD: The Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI), in collaboration with Tata Institute of Social S ciences, Mumbai, and the Azim Premji University, has mooted the setting up of Udyog Sahayak Enterprises Network (USENET), a support system for improving the ease of doing business for informal micro and small entrepreneurs. The new policy proposal and report for creation of USENET, which was unveiled at a virtual conference on Saturday, estimates that by helping such MSMEs scale up, USENET can help create an additional one crore jobs over the five years and 6 crore jobs over the next 10 years. “Based on value-added per worker observed in this sector and assuming a 12% nominal rate of growth in GVA (gross value added), these jobs represent an additional economic value of Rs 2,16,000 crore at the end of 5 years and over Rs 19 lakh crore at the end of 10 years,” the report said. The report has proposed that USENET will take services, such as digitisation, to the doorsteps of micro-entrepreneurs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/support-system-to-up-ease-of-doing-biz/articleshow/80427621.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Nashik||Transporter arrested in robbery plot of liquor worth Rs 1.38 crore||Nashik: A 39-year-old man who was arrested by Nashik city police in connection with an Arms Act case on Friday turned out to be the main suspect in a highway robbery incident dating back to January 18. In the highway robbery case, unidentified criminals had beaten up a truck driver named Jagdish Borkar in the Indiranagar area of the city and had decamped with the truck loaded with liquor worth Rs 1.38 crore. The criminals had blindfolded truck driver and had taken him with them till Umrane, about 80 km from Nashik where he was released. The arrested suspect has been identified as Mandar Hari Kulkarni of Sainath Nagar in Nashik. The crime branch unit 1 said that Kulkarni was arrested after they received a tip-off about him carrying a country made fire-arm and two rounds of fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/transporter-arrested-in-robbery-plot-of-liquor-worth-rs-1-38-crore/articleshow/80427630.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 24, 2021||Chandigarh||Pb hikes ‘shagun’ for daughters of construction workers||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has announced a hike from Rs 31,000 to Rs 51,000 in the shagun amount for the marriage of daughters of construction workers in Punjab from April 1, 2021. He also approved Rs 1,500 aid if they or their family members test positive for Covid-19. This was decided at the 27th meeting of the building and other construction workers (BOCW) welfare board held virtually on Friday evening. Further, to ease the process of availing the Shagun benefit, Amarinder approved modification in the existing conditions. Now, marriage certificates issued by any religious body — gurdwaras, temples and churches – are acceptable for the purpose. While 50% payment can be availed in advance, the rest shall be provided on submission of the marriage certificate by the competent authority under the revised rules. Daughters of those registered with the BOCW welfare board are eligible under the scheme. In another decision, Amarinder announced compensation of Rs 2 lakh in case of death of a worker in an accident while working in construction site even if he/ she was not registered with the construction board, provided he/ she is otherwise eligible to be registered as a construction worker. The board also announced a hike in the annual stipend — to Rs 35,000 from Rs 25,000 for boys and to Rs 40,000 from Rs 30,000 for girls pursuing degree/ post graduate degree courses in pharmaceutical/ para medical studies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-hikes-shagun-for-daughters-of-construction-workers/articleshow/80427613.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Madurai||Community volunteers to be trained in disaster management||Tuticorin: The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) will soon launch disaster management training for community volunteers in 16 districts in Tamil Nadu. NDMA joint secretary Ramesh Kumar Ganta, who interacted with the district collector and officials in Tuticorin on Saturday, said that the training will emphasise on environmental hazards such as floods, cyclones landslides and earthquakes. “We had a pilot project that concluded in Chennai on December 31 last year in which we trained 200 volunteers. We will soon be launching a similar training programme in 16 districts including 12 coastal districts,” he said. Kumar said that MOUs in this regard will be signed with the respective district collectors in February and that the training could be imparted through the national disaster response force or the state disaster response force or the state’s fire and rescue services department. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/community-volunteers-to-be-trained-in-disaster-management/articleshow/80427631.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Madurai||79 cases in south TN, 65 in central districts||Madurai/Trichy:The ten southern districts of the state reported 79 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the tally to 1,35,580. Total active cases marginally dropped to 589 with Madurai (135) being the only district with more than 100 active cases. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 65 fresh cases taking the tally to 75,532, which include 452 active cases. While south TN recorded one death, the central region reported no casualties. The lone death is a 53-year-old woman from Tirunelveli. Dindigul (17) recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the south, followed by Madurai (12), Tirunelveli (10) and Kanyakumari (10). The other districts recorded less than 10 cases each – Sivagangai (4), Virudhunagar (4), Theni (7), Tuticorin (7) and Tenkasi (8). No fresh cases were recorded in Ramanathapuram district.  In the central region, Tiruvarur saw fresh cases rising to 26 from eight on Friday. Nagappattinam came second with 14 fresh cases. Thanjavur recorded nine fresh cases as it continued to keep its top position with 17,604 fresh cases. Trichy registered seven fresh cases taking the tally to 14,571, the second highest in the region. It may be noted that Trichy is reporting fresh cases in single digit after a long time. Karur registered three cases, while Ariyalur, Perambalur and Pudukottai registered two fresh cases each. Thanjavur and Trichy have 115 and 106 active cases. The region witnessed a dip in the number of active cases from 500 to 400 plus in the past few days. Perambalur, which had only one active case, recorded three cases on Saturday. Ariyalur (9) is another district having active cases in single digit. The number of recoveries in the region is 74,140, while the death toll is 940. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/79-cases-in-south-tn-65-in-central-districts/articleshow/80427618.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Goa||Congress hopes to complete party revamp in 3 months||PANAJI: The state coordination committee tasked with overhauling the Congress unit in Goa has its task cut out with the party organisation in disarray and stuck in deep slumber. The 16-member committee is expected to meet before the end of this month to chalk out the roadmap to revive the party’s fortunes ahead of the 2022 state assembly elections. Speaking to TOI, state coordination committee chairman Ramakant Khalap said that the party plans to complete the reconstitution of the state, district, block and booth committees within three months and ahead of the municipal elections. “The committee will meet before the end of this month,” said Khalap. “Within three months we are supposed to undertake all the activity and I think it should be sufficient. We will delegate the responsibilities to efficiently follow the process.” Since 2017, where the Congress emerged as the single largest party and yet failed to form the government, the party has suffered a series of setbacks, such as the desertion by 13 MLAs and most recently, the decimation in the zilla panchayat polls. Given that Girish Chodankar was at the helm during the party’s slide into political oblivion, the local organisation has been desperate for a change. Most vocal in the call for Chodankar’s exit have been South Goa MP Francisco Sardinha and Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginald Lourenco, who now find themselves on the state co-ordination committee. “The Congress needs a lot of work to be done. We have to meet and discuss what strategies have to be taken,” said Lourenco. Party insiders say that a change in the party president and the opposition leader is likely as the state heads for elections. Opposition leader Digambar Kamat is seen as the likely successor to Chodankar though Navelim MLA Luizinho Faleiro is also seen as a strong contender. Kamat said that AICC’s decision to overhaul and reconstitute the Congress in Goa is “a good thing to happen”. “They have formed the state coordination committee to supervise the entire membership drive and ensure that it is complete in a time-bound manner,” said Kamat who expects the membership drive to take about a month. Within three months we are supposed to undertake all the activity and I think it should be sufficient. We will delegate the responsibilities to efficiently follow the process||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-hopes-to-complete-party-revamp-in-3-months/articleshow/80428933.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao wants Palamuru LI by year-end||Hyderabad: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has directed officials to complete Palamuru-Rangareddy Lift Irrigation Project works by the end of this year. He said areas such as Munugode and Devarakonda, which come under the Dindi project, should also be given water water by completing the project within six months. The CM held a review meeting with water resources department officials here on Saturday. He said there is no dearth of funds for the two projects and added that the government would allocate adequate funds in the coming budget. He asked officials to prepare final designs for reservoirs and pumphouses of Palamuru project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-wants-palamuru-liby-year-end/articleshow/80427599.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Aurangabad||2 minors stab 20-year-old, detained||Aurangabad: A 15-year-old boy along with his 14-year-old friend allegedly stabbed a 20-year-old youth for eyeing the boy’s sister. The injured, identified as Rahul Pandit, was stabbed by the two boys at Tarangan Nagar area of Garkheda in the city on Friday. The incident has left the youth with a deep injury, following which, he was admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital. He is currently recuperating. Pundaliknagar’s assistant inspector Ghanshyam Sonawne said, “The 15-year-old’s family was upset with the victim for allegedly eyeing their daughter. Over to the same issue, a heated argument broke out followed by a brawl between the two families about two days back.” On Friday, the two boys went to Pandit’s house and got hold of him while he was standing outside. They allegedly abused him for getting into a brawl with the 15-year-old’s family. This led to a heated argument followed by a brawl, during which one of the minors stabbed Pandit in the stomach. Based on Pandit’s mother’s complaint, the boys have been booked on the charges with attempt to murder and also slapped with other sections of the IPC. The suspects are students of Class X, while the Pandit is a worker. Later, the police team detained the boys and sent them to the remand home. “The locals and victim’s family are upset over the incident. The minors were produced before the child welfare committee and they were remanded in correctional home,” said Sonawne.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-minors-stab-20-year-old-detained/articleshow/80426281.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 24, 2021||Madurai||Rs 40L kudimaramath work in Sellur tank stands exposed||Madurai: The Sellur tank on which kudimaramath works were carried out in an incomplete manner, as the capacity of the tank has not been increased while hyacinths have already started invading the tank, is proof that work has not been carried out properly, according to local people.K Thilagar, president of the Sellur Tank Groundwater Protection People’s Movement, said that if the authorities had taken little more efforts and fulfilled the work in a qualitative manner, the tank would have had copious water now. “The scheme was sanctioned in 2019 - 20 and Rs 48 lakh was sanctioned. Early last year, the tank user group constituted by the government asked Rs 21 lakh for completed works which was opposed by then president M P Sankarapandian, following which he was relieved from the association.”In December last year, the tanker user group led by Thilagar had approached PWD officials and sought to know how much had been spent on the allocated funds as the work had not been completed due to rain and lockdown. “We were shocked when we were told that Rs 35 lakh had been spent,” he said.“This tank had originally been spread over an area of 300 acres and has now shrunk to just 65 acres. In the kudimaramathu works it was specified that a 1km trench should be dug up with 30m width and 1m depth. “But it is only 650m long and the funds have almost been spent,” said Sankarapandian.R Abu Bakker, secretary of the newly formed Sellur Tank users association, who is the signatory to release the funds for the kudimaramathu works, said that he has signed cheques to the tune of Rs 40 lakh till date and that the work has been satisfactorily. “Even the supply channels were cleared and water came to the tank.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rs-40l-kudimaramath-work-in-sellur-tank-stands-exposed/articleshow/80427653.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Agra||Farmers’ protest causes dip in price of vegetables in Agra region||AGRA: Following farmers protest around Delhi borders, the price of vegetables has significantly reduced in the Agra region. Traders are facing difficulty in supplying vegetables in Delhi and other states connected to it. Large stocks of seasonal vegetables like cauliflower, carrot and peas are being sold at marginal rates in local markets. Potato, which is a major crop of the region, was selling at Rs 40 per kg one month back. The wholesale price of potato has now reduced to Rs six per kg. Cauliflower is selling only at Rs two per kg. Tomato price has reduced from Rs 15 to Rs 10 per kg, spinach from Rs 18 to Rs six per kg, Brinjal is also selling at a reduced price of Rs six per kg. The price of onion has reduced from Rs 45 to Rs 30 per kg. Vegetable trader Vinod Gupta said, “The supply chain from the region to Delhi-NCR has been severely affected. Surplus stocks of vegetables are available in local markets of Agra region. This has led to the drop in price of vegetables. Profit margins for both farmers and traders have significantly reduced in the past one month. For cauliflower, farmers are not even able to retain their investments.” President of Agra Public Carrier Association Charan Singh said, “Trucks are not able to reach major mandis in Delhi and NCR region directly. Operations have been affected following the farmers’ protest. We are also suffering from regular losses. The central government must take time-bound action to address the issues of the farmers. If the situation continues for one more month then farmers, traders and trucks operators will be suffering from major losses”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/farmers-protest-causes-dip-in-price-of-vegetables-in-agra-region/articleshow/80425832.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 24, 2021||Chandigarh||HC fines Kurukshetra woman Rs 25k for ‘bench hunting’||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has imposed a cost of Rs 25,000 on a woman petitioner from Kurukshetra for “bench hunting” and “wasting” the precious time of courts by filing multiple petitions on an issue which had already been heard several times and even attained finality. “The facts of the case disclose how the criminal justice system is being clogged with unnecessary litigation and how the courts are being burdened with cases which have already attained finality, even during trying times. The petitioner has approached this court for the fifth time for seeking the same relief under the same provisions of law by cleverly re-wording some portions of her petition…. “The court cannot also but express its dismay at the manner in which the petitioner has repeatedly been filing petitions on the same cause which gives an impression that she is indulging in ‘bench hunting’ which has to be deprecated in the strongest possible words,” the HC observed while imposing the cost on petition. She has been directed to deposit the amount in the Haryana Corona Relief Fund. Justice Alka Sarin has passed these orders while dismissing a plea filed by Vijay Lata, a resident of Kurukshetra district, under Section 340 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPc), 1973 for granting sanction to initiate criminal proceedings against senior Haryana bureaucrat Rajiv Arora for the offence of knowingly filing a false affidavit before the HC in a case when he was registrar of the Kurukshetra University in early nineties. The petitioner had challenged her termination as a lecturer in the Kurukshetra University by filing a petition in 1993 in the HC. Arora, who was the registrar at that time, filed a written statement in that petition after her plea was dismissed. She has been claiming that the statement filed by Arora was false. However, her appeal against that orders were dismissed and the matter had attained finality. Her petition on similar grounds seeking similar relief was dismissed by the HC on four more occasions. Even in March 2020, while dismissing her plea on similar grounds, she was let off by the HC without imposing any fine, presuming her to be not well versed with the intricacies of the procedural law. However, again on December 17, 2020 she filed the petition on similar ground without disclosing about her first second and third petitions and orders. Dismissing her petition, the HC observed that the present proceedings must be labelled as nothing more than an abuse of the process of the court. “She has not come to court with clean hands. It is well settled that litigants who, with an intent to deceive and mislead the courts, initiate proceedings without full disclosure of facts... are not entitled to relief. Cost has been imposed since precious judicial time, during the Covid-19 pandemic, has been wasted on an issue which already stands decided against the petitioner on four earlier occasions,” the HC has ordered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-imposes-rs-25k-cost-on-kshetra-woman-for-bench-hunting/articleshow/80427645.cms||Ajay Sura
January 24, 2021||Madurai||MP’s showcause to collector for cancelling DISHA meeting||Madurai:The cancellation of Saturday’s scheduled meeting of the Madurai district development coordination and monitoring committee (DISHA) by the collector on Friday night has triggered a controversy with committee chairman and Madurai MP Su Venkatesan issuing a showcause notice to the former. The MP along with Virudhunagar MP Manickam Tagore said they will take up the issue with the Lok Sabha Speaker as the collector had misused his power by cancelling the much-delayed meeting.Addressing reporters on Saturday, Su Venkatesan and DISHA co-chairman Manickam Tagore said in the presence of Thiruparankundram MLA Dr P Saravanan that the meeting was important to review the ongoing central government schemes. It was after many reminders to the collector that they had decided to conduct it on Saturday. They had sent written communication to the Union government, Tamil Nadu chief secretary and the Madurai district collector, who is member-secretary of the committee. However, late on Friday, the collector issued an order stating that the meeting had been cancelled for administrative reasons.Collector T Anbazhagan told TOI that he had not cancelled the meeting but only postponed it due to lack of quorum. ``This meeting should have the presence of the ten MLAs, three MPs including those of Madurai, Virudhunagar and Theni and it is only an advisory meeting, but as eight of the MLAs had other work and could not be present in today's meeting it was postponed,'” he said. The MPs said that a 126-page review document for 46 ongoing schemes in Madurai had been prepared and circulated to all members of the committee in advance. The purpose of DISHA is to ensure that the schemes are being implemented according to the rules of the central government and that quality is maintained.Madurai had received about Rs 120 crore for the implementation of Jalsakthi schemes and the Union minister had been regularly seeking updates on the implementation of the schemes in the districts from the MPs. ``Many drawbacks were noted in the implementation of this scheme and it was to be taken up for discussion at this meet, but it was cancelled by the collector,’’ said Tagore. They said that in the last meeting of DISHA, it was decided that funds allocated under Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Generation Scheme, (MGNREGS) should be equally divided among the ten assembly segments of Madurai. But, they said that Rs 97 crore of the Rs 110 crore allocated under the scheme for Madurai had been diverted to Thirumangalam, the constituency of minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, R B Udhayakumar. ``Even the constituency of his cabinet colleague Sellur K Raju did not receive a single paise from this allocation and we are not sure if he is aware of it,’’ they said. “The collector has no powers to cancel the meeting and he may have done it due to pressure from the ministers,” Tagore said. He added that they were considering moving a privilege motion in Parliament against the action of the collector, which has prevented them from discharging their duties.DISHA meetings were conducted in many southern districts including Virudhunagar and Ramanathapuram, but it is only here that it has been cancelled. It is only at DISHA meetings that all government departments are represented and a thorough review of all schemes being implemented can be reviewed, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mps-showcause-to-collector-for-cancelling-disha-meeting/articleshow/80427635.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Aurangabad||Good news for art lovers! Classical dance events resume in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: After a considerable gap, classical dance events have been resuming in Aurangabad city— either live or in a virtual manner — offering relief to artists and art-lovers. In one such event, city-based budding Bharat Natyam dancer Manali Sudhalkar presented her Arangetaram in presence of eminent personalities from the field of art and a large group of audience at Tapadiya auditorium in the Nirala Bazaar area of the city on Saturday. The stage performance of around two hours in presence of musicians on mridangam, flute, and violin accompanied the dancers, saw dances on Marathi poems and saint literature among other themes. In another recent event held in a virtual manner, classical dance performances of MAHAGAMI students on Odissi and other traditional dance forms was organized. Composed by Parwati Datta, director of MAHAGAMI, a traditional dance academy in the city, students had learnt the dance online during the nationwide lockdown period announced in view of Covid-19 outbreak. Aurangabad: After a considerable gap classical dance events have been resuming in Aurangabad either live or in a virtual manner, offering relief to artists and art-lovers. In one such event, city-based budding Bharat Natyam dancer Manali Sudhalkar presented her Arangetaram in presence of eminent personalities from the field of art and a large group of audience, on Saturday. The stage performance of around two hours in presence of musicians on mridangam, flute, and violin accompanied the dancers, saw dances on Marathi poems and saint literature among other themes. In another event held in a virtual manner, classical dance performances of MAHAGAMI students on Odissi and other traditional dance forms was organized recently. Composed by MAHAGAMI director Parwati Datta during lockdown, students had learnt the dance online during outbreak of Covid 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/good-news-for-art-lovers-classical-dance-events-resume-in-aurangabad/articleshow/80427659.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Delhi||Three men caught from Jharkhand for operating fake call centre||NEW DELHI: Three men from Jharkhand have been arrested for allegedly operating a fake call centre. Dwarka police said that the men ran a BPO scam, claiming to work for banks, and pushed a fake number on search engines to dupe people who lost their bank cards. The victims would end up calling the fake number to block their lost cards. On the pretext of confirming details and verifying the identity of the customer, the imposters took confidential information and siphoned money from their accounts. The accused have been identified as Iqbal Ansari (24), Fenul Shah (22) and Sahabuddin (22), who belong to Jamtara area, which has become notorious for such frauds. According to DCP (Dwarka) Santosh Meena, police have seized three mobiles, nine debit cards and 23 SIM cards used by crooks in their crimes. Police had started to track this module after a woman named Sonia filed a complaint on December 25 after being duped by the gang. “The woman had lost her wallet and her debit card, and looked up the customer support number of her bank on the internet. She saw the fake number in her search and called the crooks, who took down her details and assured her that her card had been blocked. She even got a message after an hour that her card had been successfully blocked,” the DCP said. However, after sometime, she came to know that her fixed deposit of Rs 10 lakh had been liquidated and withdrawn. During investigation, the cops analysed the call details of the suspect’s number and also ran Internet Protocol Details Analysis on the portals propagating the number on search engines. The recipient’s bank account was also examined. Based on these details, raids were conducted and on January 19, the cops nabbed the suspects. The cops are now probing deeper into their syndicate and tracing their associates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-men-caught-from-jkhand-for-operating-fake-call-centre/articleshow/80428934.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Hesitant health staff get morale booster dose to take Covid shots||HYDERABAD: Health workers are hesitating to take the vaccine against Covid-19, if figures available are an indication. On the first day of the vaccination drive that began on January 16, the ‘targets’ were reached to an extent, but after that the numbers have only been dwindling. While senior health officials and the political machinery has been encouraging health workers to avail the vaccination, targets are not being met. For instance, in Nagarkurnool district, in the five days that the vaccination drive was done, targets were set, but the achievement fell drastically on Day 5—January 22. Of the target of 1,474, only 291 health workers took the vaccine, which is 19.7%. On the first day, only 60 was the target and it was reached. On the second day while the target was 396, the achievement was 76.2% with 302 taking the vaccination. The figures fell to 45% on day 4 with 874 getting vaccinated against the target of 1,910. In all, 2,784 got vaccinated, which is 70.9% of the target. It is being made clear in every district that it is not mandatory but voluntary to take the vaccine. Meanwhile, Mahbubnagar collector S Venkat Rao has said vaccination of medical staff in private hospitals would begin from January 25. As many as 4,118 medical workers would be vaccinated. In Rajanna Sircilla district, collector Krishna Bhasker reiterated that the vaccination should be given only to those who register first.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hesitant-health-staff-get-morale-booster-dose-to-take-covid-shots/articleshow/80427660.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana records 221 new Covid cases, two deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Saturday recorded 221 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths even as the positivity rate came down to 0.7% in the state for the first time. Meanwhile, the caseload so far is 2,93,056, while the death toll climbed to 1,588. So far, 2,87,899 patients have recovered from the infection. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation recorded 36 new cases on Saturday. The number of active cases in the state further decreased to 3,569 on Saturday, after mid-June last year. Of these, 19,73 patients were currently in hospital. The case fatality rate (CFR) in the state is currently stable at 0.54% as against the country average CFR of 1.4%. The recovery rate meanwhile is 98.2% now, also better than the country average of 96.8%. On Saturday, 30,005 samples were tested for Covid-19 from across the state. With this, Telangana has now completed testing 76.3 lakh samples and has reached 2,05,077 sample testing per million population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-221-new-covid-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/80427640.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Madurai||Two men arrested for killing stray dog||Madurai:In one of the first cases under the PCA Act, Sellur police in the city have arrested two men for allegedly clubbing a stray dog to death. They have been identified as K Muthu Saravanan of Sathyamoorthy Street at Sellur and S Vimalraj. Animal activists in Madurai and members of the Blue Cross from Trichy raised a hue and cry over a video circulated in Whatsapp groups on Friday. The clip showed a man beating a dog to death with a log. Three women from Sivagami Street at Sellur in Madurai city filed a police complaint. Police registered a case under Section IPC 429 r/w 11(i) (1) Prevention of Cruelty Against Animals Act (PCA) and arrested them,based on a complaint given by Madurai North VAO Muthumozhi. Saravanan had given Rs 500 to Vimalraj to kill the dog. K P Marikumar founder of Nandrimaravel, an organisation working with community dogs, said that this was the first case registered under the PCA Act in Madurai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-men-arrested-for-killing-stray-dog/articleshow/80427667.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Madurai||Services of 10 special trains from southern TN extended||Madurai: The railway board has approved the extension of services of 10 festival special trains from the southern districts of Tamil Nadu. The trains will run a total of 98 trips – in both directions – from February to April.According to a statement issued by the Madurai division of Southern Railway, eight weekly specials and two bi-weekly specials will be operated. Train No. 06053 Madurai - Bikaner weekly festival special on Thursdays will be extended on February 4, 11, 18 and 25 and March 4, 11, 18 and 25. Train No. 06054 Bikaner - Madurai weekly festival special on Sundays will be extended on February 7, 14, 21 and 28 and March 7, 14, 21 and 28.Train No. 06733 Rameswaram - Okha weekly festival special on Fridays will be extended on February 5, 12, 19 and 26 and March 5, 12, 19 and 26. Train No. 06734 Okha - Rameswaram weekly festival special on Tuesdays will be extended on February 9, 16 and 23 and March 2, 9, 16, 23 and 30.Train No. 06070 Tirunelveli – Bilaspur weekly festival special on Sundays will be extended on February 7, 14, 21 and 28 and March 7, 14, 21 and 28 (8 trips). Train No. 06069 Bilaspur - Tirunelveli weekly festival special on Tuesdays will be extended on February 9, 16 and 23 and March 2, 9, 16, 23 and 30. Train No. 06072 Tirunelveli – Dadar weekly festival special on Wednesdays will be extended on February 3, 10, 17 and 24 and March 3, 10, 17, 24 and 31. Train No. 06071 Dadar - Tirunelveli weekly festival special on Thursdays will be extended on February 4, 11, 18 and 25, March 4, 11, 18 and 25 and April 1.Train No. 06352 Nagercoil - Mumbai CST biweekly special on Sundays and Thursdays will be extended on February 4, 7, 11, 14, 18, 21, 25 and 28 and March 4, 7, 11, 14, 18, 21, 25 and 28. Train No. 06351 Mumbai CST - Nagercoil biweekly special on Mondays and Fridays will be extended on February 5, 8, 12,15, 19, 22 and 26 and March 1, 5, 8, 12, 15, 19, 22, 26 and 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/services-of-10-special-trains-from-southern-tn-extended/articleshow/80427661.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra turnout for vaccination up to 83%, Mumbai stays at 90%||MUMBAI: Around a quarter of 1 lakh healthcare workers (24,282) took the Covid-19 vaccine on the fifth day of vaccination in Maharashtra on Saturday. The state managed to cover 83% of the targeted number —up from 73% on Friday, reports Malathy Iyer. Maharashtra, in fact, saw the highest turnout among 27 states that had vaccination drives on Saturday. In absolute numbers, Mumbai, too, managed its highest score so far with 4,374 healthcare workers— 90% of the intended target —taking the vaccine on Saturday. The BMC’s largest hospital, KEM in Parel, recorded almost 150% higher turnout when 733 healthcare workers took Covidshield against expected 500 on Friday. A BMC doctor said the weekend effect could have led to more people turning up. BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said 3,300 of the 4,374 who got vaccinated on Saturday were “walk-in” beneficiaries. Navi Mumbai, Thane see over 100% turnout for shotThe walk-in provision was introduced on the third day of vaccination due to glitches in the Centre’s vaccine software Co-WIN; to-be beneficiaries were not getting SMSes reportedly sent out by the app, leading to low turnout. As per the walk-in provision, any healthcare worker who has pre-registered for the vaccine can take the vaccine any time and at any of the nine centres. In Thane and Navi Mumbai, too, the turnout was well over 100%. National Health Mission director N Ramaswami attributed the better turnout to “increasing acceptance” of the vaccines. Ten out of the 36 districts in Maharashtra registered over 100% turnout on the fifth day of Covid-19 vaccination drive on Saturday. These were mainly districts (Gondia, for instance, managed 143% turnout with 428 taking the vaccine) with smaller targets of less than or 500 recipients for the day. Only three districts (Nashik, Raigad and Parbhani) saw less than 60% coverage. State director of health services Dr Archana Patil said the higher turnouts are not surprising. “Any process takes some time to get established. Healthcare workers have learnt the drill of going to centres, getting the verification done and waiting for 30 minutes after the vaccination. With five vaccination days, the process has become clear, leading to better turnout,” she said. For the second consecutive day, the NMMC area reported 100% turnout on Saturday. A total of 400 health workers were vaccinated at the four centres located at Vashi FRU, Airoli Civic Hospital, Apollo Hospital at Belapur and D Y Patil Hospital in Nerul. In all, 1,713 beneficiaries—that is 85.65% of the listed 2,000 healthcare workers—have been vaccinated at the four centres till Saturday. The Thane Municipal Corporation on Saturday claimed that nearly 773 beneficiaries were vaccinated in its jurisdiction. TMC’s Sandeep Malvi said the initial plan was to vaccinate 400 beneficiaries on Saturday, but with prior permission from the state, 773 were vaccinated, “which is 193% more”. (With inputs by B B Nayak & Nishikant Karlikar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-turnout-for-vaccination-up-to-83-city-stays-at-90/articleshow/80428939.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 24, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra turnout for vaccination up to 83%, Mumbai stays at 90%||MUMBAI: Around a quarter of 1 lakh healthcare workers (24,282) took the Covid-19 vaccine on the fifth day of vaccination in Maharashtra on Saturday. The state managed to cover 83% of the targeted number —up from 73% on Friday, reports Malathy Iyer. Maharashtra, in fact, saw the highest turnout among 27 states that had vaccination drives on Saturday. In absolute numbers, Mumbai, too, managed its highest score so far with 4,374 healthcare workers— 90% of the intended target —taking the vaccine on Saturday. The BMC’s largest hospital, KEM in Parel, recorded almost 150% higher turnout when 733 healthcare workers took Covidshield against expected 500 on Friday. A BMC doctor said the weekend effect could have led to more people turning up. BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said 3,300 of the 4,374 who got vaccinated on Saturday were “walk-in” beneficiaries. Navi Mumbai, Thane see over 100% turnout for shotThe walk-in provision was introduced on the third day of vaccination due to glitches in the Centre’s vaccine software Co-WIN; to-be beneficiaries were not getting SMSes reportedly sent out by the app, leading to low turnout. As per the walk-in provision, any healthcare worker who has pre-registered for the vaccine can take the vaccine any time and at any of the nine centres. In Thane and Navi Mumbai, too, the turnout was well over 100%. National Health Mission director N Ramaswami attributed the better turnout to “increasing acceptance” of the vaccines. Ten out of the 36 districts in Maharashtra registered over 100% turnout on the fifth day of Covid-19 vaccination drive on Saturday. These were mainly districts (Gondia, for instance, managed 143% turnout with 428 taking the vaccine) with smaller targets of less than or 500 recipients for the day. Only three districts (Nashik, Raigad and Parbhani) saw less than 60% coverage. State director of health services Dr Archana Patil said the higher turnouts are not surprising. “Any process takes some time to get established. Healthcare workers have learnt the drill of going to centres, getting the verification done and waiting for 30 minutes after the vaccination. With five vaccination days, the process has become clear, leading to better turnout,” she said. For the second consecutive day, the NMMC area reported 100% turnout on Saturday. A total of 400 health workers were vaccinated at the four centres located at Vashi FRU, Airoli Civic Hospital, Apollo Hospital at Belapur and D Y Patil Hospital in Nerul. In all, 1,713 beneficiaries—that is 85.65% of the listed 2,000 healthcare workers—have been vaccinated at the four centres till Saturday. The Thane Municipal Corporation on Saturday claimed that nearly 773 beneficiaries were vaccinated in its jurisdiction. TMC’s Sandeep Malvi said the initial plan was to vaccinate 400 beneficiaries on Saturday, but with prior permission from the state, 773 were vaccinated, “which is 193% more”. (With inputs by B B Nayak & Nishikant Karlikar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/state-turnout-for-vaccination-up-to-83-city-stays-at-90/articleshow/80429800.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 24, 2021||Agra||19 passengers arrive from Goa to Agra in AI’s inaugural flight||Agra: Air India started the operation of weekly Goa – Agra – Delhi flight on Saturday. In its inaugural flight, 19 passengers arrived from Goa to Agra in AI 883 which is a 180-seater Airbus 320. The flight landed at Agra civil terminal inside Kheria air base at 11:20am and was accorded ‘water cannon salute.’ The passengers were welcomed by airport authorities. At 12:20pm, the flight departed for Delhi. According to the airport authorities, more flights will start from the summer season. People from Agra will be able to avail flight services to Lucknow, Indore, Bhopal and Bengaluru. Director of Agra airport AA Ansari said, “The Air India flight service from Goa to Agra was expected to start from the second week of January but it got delayed due to technical clearance issues. Other airlines including IndiGo, Zoom and Spicejet are expected to operate their flights in the coming months.” “From March 28, IndiGo will operate daily flights for four destinations including Ahmedabad, Bhopal, Lucknow and Bengaluru, while Zoom is expected to operate four days a week for cities like Delhi, Lucknow, Bhopal and Indore. Date for the operation of Zoom airlines is yet to be finalized,” he said. Permission from the air force, which controls the Kheria air base, is necessary to start a flight. The Union civil aviation ministry has drawn a plan to provide an independent approach road and a new terminal building to avoid security bottlenecks. The boundary of the new complex is almost complete. Agra Tourism Development Foundation president Sandeep Arora said, “Flights providing air connectivity between Agra and major cities will definitely enhance the opportunities. Authorities must also try to connect Agra with West Bengal and the northeast.” “Due to Covid-19 pandemic, the tourism industry suffered a major jolt, but now that the conditions are coming back to normal and the number of visitors has also gone up, work would yield better results,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/19-passengers-arrive-from-goa-to-agra-in-ais-inaugural-flight/articleshow/80425841.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 24, 2021||Bareilly||Charred body of 40-year-old man found tied to a tree in UP’s Bareilly||Bareilly: The charred body of a 40-year-old farmer, who had gone missing on Friday night, was found tied to a tree with steel wire in Sheeshgarh area of Bareilly district on Saturday evening. Police suspect the man was tied to the tree and then burnt alive. They sent the body for an autopsy that will be conducted on Sunday. The family has, however, not lodged a complaint, so far. They have been waiting for the autopsy report.Sheeshgarh police station SHO Rajkumar Bhardwaz told TOI, “The victim has been identified as Dharampal whose death is still a mystery. He had no enmity with anyone. Besides, his family has not yet lodged a complaint. Our forensic team has collected evidence and we have also started our investigation. The circumstantial evidence suggests that the man was tied to a tree and burnt alive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/charred-body-of-40-year-old-man-found-tied-to-a-tree-in-ups-bareilly/articleshow/80426289.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 24, 2021||Kolhapur||Man held for murdering woman||Kolhapur: Shirala police in Sangli district have arrested a 21-year-old man for allegedly murdering a woman by pushing her into a well. Police are checking whether the woman was sexually assaulted. Injury marks were found on the victim’s body during the post mortem. The accused has been identified as Dhanaji, alias Niwas Pandit Khot, a resident of Devgaon village in Shirala tehsil. He has been booked under sections 302 and 354 of the IPC Shirala police said Khot made advances when he saw that the 35-year-old woman was alone in the field. Police suspect that when he made the advances, the married woman resisted. Khot told police during the interrogation that he pushed her in a nearby well. The incident came to the light when the woman’s 15-year-old son came to the spot looking for her and noticed her bangles near the well. He also spotted Khot running away. The son immediately alerted the police. Khot was arrested within a few hours. The incident causes tension among the locals as they allege that Khot was a habitual offender. Senior police officials and elected representatives rushed to the spot to control the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-held-for-murdering-woman/articleshow/80426286.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Madurai||Woman kills husband, 38, over remarriage plan||Tuticorin: Agitated over her husband evincing interest in remarrying, a woman murdered him and surrendered at the Kovilpatti East police station in the early hours of Saturday. The deceased A Prabhu, 38, of Loyal Mill Colony in Kovilpatti, worked in a private mill. He lived with his wife Umamaheshwari, 30, and their two children. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the man used to get drunk and quarrel with his wife as it happened late on Friday night. It is learnt that he told his wife that he is planning to get remarried to a relative who lives in a village close by.  At this, the woman lost her cool and attacked him on his neck and hand with a machete. Prabhu rushed out of the house but fell down on the street and died in a pool of blood. Following Umamaheshwari’s surrender, the police recovered the body and sent it to the Kovilpatti government hospital for autopsy. The woman was booked for murder and is being questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-kills-husband-38-over-remarriage-plan/articleshow/80427695.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Coimbatore||Car mows down Chennai Hospitals owner||COIMBATORE: Dr D Umashankar, 54, owner of Chennai Hospitals at Gandhipuram, was run over by a car on Kannappa Nagar on Saturday. Umashankar, a native of Chetpet in Chennai, was staying at his sister’s house at Kavundampalayam here. On Saturday around 11am, he took his car to a service station on Kannappa Nagar. The service station staff told him that they would return the vehicle within an hour. Hospital manager Maruthavanan was waiting for Umashankar in another car nearby. The doctor visited an ATM centre and was standing in front of a bakery when a car hit him, killing him on the spot. The driver of the car abandoned the vehicle and ran away. As many as 50 staff members of the hospital gathered at the district police office (DPO), claiming that Umashankar was murdered. According to sources, the city crime branch (CCB) had arrested Umashankar and Maruthavanan in December for allegedly cheating Dr P Ramachandran, 72, owner of Ellen Hospital, of Rs 4.95 crore. Ramachandran had lodged a complaint against the duo with CCB police inspector A Ravi on November 2. As per his complaint, Umashankar had approached him in 2017 to lease the hospital building to start Chennai Hospitals. Ramachandran agreed to lease the facility to Umashankar from July 5, 2017 to July 4, 2027 and signed an agreement. “As per the agreement, Umashankar had to pay Rs 15 lakh per month and 18% GST. But after taking over the building, he refused to pay up and along with Maruthavanan, threatened me of dire consequences,” he said. Ramachandran said he received information from another doctor that Umashankar was planning to sell the hospital building for Rs 100 crore. Based on Ramachandran’s complaint, police registered a case. On December 4, some goons entered the Chennai Hospital and removed the hospital’s name boards and installed a board of Ellen Hospital. They removed in-patients and staff members and took over the building. According to sources, city police personnel present there did not stop the goons. Hospital staff recorded the incident and uploaded it on social media. CCB police arrested Umashankar and Maruthavanan, and lodged them in the Avinashi sub-jail. They had secured bail in December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/car-mows-down-chennai-hospitals-owner/articleshow/80427694.cms||A Subburaj
January 24, 2021||Thane||Maharashtra turnout for vaccination up to 83%, Mumbai stays at 90%||MUMBAI: Around a quarter of 1 lakh healthcare workers (24,282) took the Covid-19 vaccine on the fifth day of vaccination in Maharashtra on Saturday. The state managed to cover 83% of the targeted number —up from 73% on Friday, reports Malathy Iyer. Maharashtra, in fact, saw the highest turnout among 27 states that had vaccination drives on Saturday. In absolute numbers, Mumbai, too, managed its highest score so far with 4,374 healthcare workers— 90% of the intended target —taking the vaccine on Saturday. The BMC’s largest hospital, KEM in Parel, recorded almost 150% higher turnout when 733 healthcare workers took Covidshield against expected 500 on Friday. A BMC doctor said the weekend effect could have led to more people turning up. BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said 3,300 of the 4,374 who got vaccinated on Saturday were “walk-in” beneficiaries. Navi Mumbai, Thane see over 100% turnout for shotThe walk-in provision was introduced on the third day of vaccination due to glitches in the Centre’s vaccine software Co-WIN; to-be beneficiaries were not getting SMSes reportedly sent out by the app, leading to low turnout. As per the walk-in provision, any healthcare worker who has pre-registered for the vaccine can take the vaccine any time and at any of the nine centres. In Thane and Navi Mumbai, too, the turnout was well over 100%. National Health Mission director N Ramaswami attributed the better turnout to “increasing acceptance” of the vaccines. Ten out of the 36 districts in Maharashtra registered over 100% turnout on the fifth day of Covid-19 vaccination drive on Saturday. These were mainly districts (Gondia, for instance, managed 143% turnout with 428 taking the vaccine) with smaller targets of less than or 500 recipients for the day. Only three districts (Nashik, Raigad and Parbhani) saw less than 60% coverage. State director of health services Dr Archana Patil said the higher turnouts are not surprising. “Any process takes some time to get established. Healthcare workers have learnt the drill of going to centres, getting the verification done and waiting for 30 minutes after the vaccination. With five vaccination days, the process has become clear, leading to better turnout,” she said. For the second consecutive day, the NMMC area reported 100% turnout on Saturday. A total of 400 health workers were vaccinated at the four centres located at Vashi FRU, Airoli Civic Hospital, Apollo Hospital at Belapur and D Y Patil Hospital in Nerul. In all, 1,713 beneficiaries—that is 85.65% of the listed 2,000 healthcare workers—have been vaccinated at the four centres till Saturday. The Thane Municipal Corporation on Saturday claimed that nearly 773 beneficiaries were vaccinated in its jurisdiction. TMC’s Sandeep Malvi said the initial plan was to vaccinate 400 beneficiaries on Saturday, but with prior permission from the state, 773 were vaccinated, “which is 193% more”. (With inputs by B B Nayak & Nishikant Karlikar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/state-turnout-for-vaccination-up-to-83-city-stays-at-90/articleshow/80429799.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 24, 2021||Pune||Pune Metropolitan Region has best vaccine day yet with 60% inoculation||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region on Saturday recorded an impressive 60% vaccination — its highest daily coverage since Covid inoculations began a week ago. A total of 1,853 beneficiaries out of the target 3,100 received their shots, across the 31 session sites in the region. Officials said the rise in vaccinations was due to better CoWIN performance, participation of private hospitals and walk-in vaccinations. In Pune city, the PMC’s eight sites registered 67% attendance. In Pimpri Chinchwad, the PCMC’s eight centres scored 52% and the 15 sites serving areas part of Pune rural had 62% attendance. Deputy director of health services, Pune region, Sanjay Deshmukh, said, “The ironing out of CoWIN’s glitches helped, along with walk-in vaccinations among listed, but unscheduled, beneficiaries at private hospitals. We expect the drive to scale up further by the next week.” In fact, from next week, the district is set to have 55 vaccination sites, compared to the 31 now. The second round of doses among those who have received their first shots is expected to start from February 14. On Saturday, officials said the involvement of private hospitals boosted vaccinations within PMC limits. Three hospitals — Jayabai Nanasaheb Sutar hospital, Ruby Hall and Deenanath Mangeshkar — registered 100% vaccinations. The 91%, posted by Bhosari hospital in PCMC limits, came next. Ashish Bharati, the PMC’s health chief, said, “During the first four days, private hospitals suffered technical glitches. But they have been resolved. With more private hospitals sites expected next week, we are hoping for more vaccinations.” In PCMC limits, health chief Pravin Salve said officials were also expecting vaccine hesitancy to ease. “During the first week, anxiety and glitches cut vaccination numbers. Also, most beneficiaries in the first few days were in the 45-50 age group, which has a high anxiety quotient. It will all settle down soon,” he said. In the rural areas, officials said most beneficiaries listed for the day were ASHAs, many of whom have been reluctant to accept the vaccines. But the Junnar rural hospital saw 100% turnout. It was followed by the Jejuri rural hospital (96%) and the Wagholi PHC (95%). Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer of Pune Zilla Parishad, said efforts were on to boost vaccine confidence among ASHAs and ward personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-has-best-vaccine-day-yet-with-60-inoculation/articleshow/80427658.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 24, 2021||Coimbatore||Zentangle art marks Nat’l Girl Child Day||Coimbatore: Students of the NIFT-TEA College of Knitwear Fashion in Tirupur have unveiled a 100sqft zentangle artwork to mark the National Girl Child Day on Sunday.The National Girl Child Day was first initiated in 2008 by the ministry of women and child development to create awareness about gender-based discrimination.Twenty final year Apparel Fashion Design students, all girls, had launched the work on Thursday. “It depicts fetal development. Only a woman can give birth and host all the stages — right from fusion of egg and finally birth — that occur over nine months,” said P Aishwarya, a student from the team.The work shows a pregnant woman leaning against a tree, to show that women are as important to the society as trees to nature. “We chose zentangle as it is a mix of lines and stripes in an abstract form. This depicts how women face difficult situations but organize them neatly in their mind at the end of the day,” Aishwarya told TOI.The girls worked for 54 hours to complete it on Saturday.4 CORNERS, a Tirupur-based architecture firm, sponsored the materials for the artwork.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/zentangle-art-marks-natl-girl-child-day/articleshow/80427706.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Coimbatore||Only 40% beneficiaries take vaccine||Coimbatore: As many as 791 health workers got vaccinated on Saturday, which was a small drop from the 890 to 1,000 people who have been taking vaccination. Hardly 39.5% of the targeted 2,000 people were covered on Saturday. This takes the total number of people vaccinated to 5,049. With the district receiving 40,300 vaccines, officials plan to vaccinate 20,000 health workers, who will require two doses each. As of the end of first week, they have achieved only 25% of that target.On Saturday, 791 health workers were vaccinated. 451 took it at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, followed by 191 people took it at SLM Home Urban primary health centre, 92 took it at Dhaliyur PHC, 38 at Pollachi GH and 19 people took it at Mettupalayam GH.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/only-40-beneficiaries-take-vaccine/articleshow/80427696.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 24, 2021||Madurai||Nethaji’s birth anniv celebrated||Madurai: Members of the All India People Science Network (AIPSN) and Tamil Nadu Science Forum (TNSF) celebrated the 125th birth anniversary of Nethaji Subhash Chandra Bose as ‘national self-reliance day’ at Jhansi Rani park in Madurai on Saturday. “Nethaji had initiated the planning committee during the freedom struggle while he was the president of Congress and later it became the Planning commission of India after independence. Now it has been dissolved and replaced by a small group called Niti Aayog by the present government,” said P Rajamanickam, general secretary, AIPSN. He said that the event was conceived as ‘national self-reliance day’ across India by AIPSN to make the people aware about the current government’s path of privatization of public sector and public services and to prevent this privatisation spree. Members of TNSF, Dakshin Railways Employees Union (DREU) and Tamil Nadu Retired College Teachers’ Association (TANRECTA) together formed a human chain carrying placards urging the Central government to save public sectors and refrain from privatising them. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/nethajis-birth-anniv-celebrated/articleshow/80427722.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 24, 2021||Nashik||Attendance in rural schools better than in urban areas||Nashik: The attendance of students of classes IX to XII, which had resumed on January 4, is better in the rural areas than in the urban areas, said the school authorities. Though the attendance in the rural areas is far from 100%, the figures indicate the attendance in the urban areas is way behind as the parents there are still sceptical about allowing their wards to join the physical classes. “The situation is better in the rural areas as the areas are scattered and Covid-19 cases are fewer. The parents are, therefore, not very worried about the spread of the disease. This is the major reason that the schools in rural areas have about 60-80% attendance,” said RR Patil, one of the headmasters from Niphad taluka. According to the zilla parishad education department, of the 1,324 schools around 1,101 have resumed while 1.32 lakh students of the 3.46 lakh students are attending schools. The students are attending on an odd-even basis or in two separate sessions, which depends on the strength of the children and availability of the infrastructure besides the permission from the parents. The attendance is higher in smaller villages than in semi-urban areas. The ZP schools and government-aided school in Niphad taluka or Sinnar taluka headquarters have lower attendance. “There are more schools at taluka headquarters and hence have a higher number of students. Since the attendance is on the lower side, the average attendance drops sharply,” said SB Deshmukh, an office bearer of the headmasters’ association in Sinnar taluka. Since schools have resumed, the teachers are finding it difficult to manage both the online classes and classes taking place in schools. “The teachers are engaged in the physical schooling for a longer time, which includes preparation for the school, sanitization and other works,” said Keshav Gangurde, a headmaster of a government-aided private high school. “Though the Covid cases have reduced, there is still some fear among the parents. However, witnessing there is no spread of the disease so far in schools, the parents are gaining confidence,” said Rakesh Salunkhe a parent from Sinnar town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/attendance-in-rural-schools-better-than-in-urban-areas/articleshow/80426293.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 24, 2021||Madurai||As schools reopen, NEET coaching shifts to evening hours||Madurai: The government’s online NEET coaching classes through the E-box platform have been shifted to evening hours following the resumption of classes at schools this week. According to officials, the response continues to be good for the online coaching, so offline coaching in classrooms is yet to be considered. More than 1,000 students from government and government-aided schools in Madurai district have enrolled for the E-box NEET coaching programme. Through the E-box platform, students are given video lessons, study material and mock tests for NEET preparation. “The classes on the E-box platform were scheduled in the morning. Now, students can access them in the evening time too after school as the classes are recorded. We are trying to balance NEET coaching and school classes. We were giving additional mock tests and live classes through video conferencing, which we have had to hold back now,” said S Vennila Devi, district co-ordinator for NEET coaching. “The E-box coaching has been really helpful for students even outside of the focus on NEET. When classes started since reopening, students who were studying using the E-box found it easier to pick up when we began the lessons,” said the headmaster of an aided school. Though there were some technical and network issues for the students when completing tests, more than 90% of attendance was recorded for the online tests conducted through WhatsApp and Google Forms by the district education department. “As of now, the primary focus for students will be on board exams. Plans for holding offline classes are yet to be considered. However, we are looking to select those performing well in mock tests to be given additional coaching,” said Devi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/as-schools-reopen-neet-coaching-shifts-to-evening-hours/articleshow/80427697.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Trichy||14 injured during jallikattu event||Pudukottai: Total 14 tamers sustained injuries during Pudukottai district’s first jallikattu event at Vanniyanviduthi in Alangudi Taluk on Saturday. State health minister Dr C Vijayabaskar inaugurated the event in the presence of Pudukottai collector P Uma Maheswari and superintendent of police L Balaji Saravanan. Jallikattu event organised to mark the Pongal festival in Perumal and Vinayagar temple in the village saw the participation of 389 bulls and 105 tamers in the event. The bulls and tamers were allowed to enter the arena only after the medical check-up by the veterinarians and the doctors respectively. More than 4,000 spectators were present at the event. Out of the 14 injured, 12 of them were given first-aid by the medical teams posted at the spot while two others were referred to the higher medical centres. One bull tamer was taken to government medical college hospital in Pudukottai while the other one was brought to government hospital in Alangudi. The event was slated to be held in Vanniyanviduthi on January 16 but the unforeseen rain forced the organizer to postpone it to January 23. Pudukottai district was also gearing up to host a mega Jallikattu at Viralimalai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/14-injured-during-jallikattu-event/articleshow/80427734.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 24, 2021||Agra||‘Malayali journo arrested on way to Hathras has no links with PFI’||Agra: The Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) filed an additional rejoinder in the Supreme Court earlier this week, refuting UP Police’s allegations about Malayalam journalist Siddique Kappan’s links with the banned Popular Front of India (PFI). The journalist was arrested along with three others while they were on their way to meet the family of the Hathras gang rape and murder victim in October last year. In its affidavit, the journalists’ union, while denying Kappan’s links with PFI, stated that he was prepared to undergo a Narco test to prove this. The union contended that in its first affidavit, the UP government on November 20, 2020, had stated that Kappan was “the office secretary” of PFI. However, in the second affidavit filed after a month on December 9, they vaguely stated that Kappan was "in touch with the officials" of the said organisation.The rejoinder stated that the UP government filed a “misleading affidavit, justifying the unlawful detention and malicious prosecution of Kappan”. As a journalist, Kappan has been in touch with people from all walks of life, including the PFI, which is essential for discharging his professional duty, the rejoinder stated. Kappan’s lawyer Wills Mathews said that Kappan is ready to undergo any scientific tests, including Narco analysis or brain mapping, to prove his innocence. Mathews said, “Kappan wants to meet his mother as her condition is critical. Though the court gave permission for a video-conferencing with her during the hearing on Friday, his mother, who is 90 and in hospital, is not able to speak to him.”“Kappan has been in detention for over 100 days without any charge sheet or evidence to link him with the accused,” the lawyer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/malayali-journo-arrested-on-way-to-hathras-has-no-links-with-pfi/articleshow/80425858.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 24, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala government remains firm on banning single-use plastic||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Reinforcing the complete ban on plastic in the state, the environment & climate change department has rejected the request from manufacturers of compostable plastic carry bags to allow them to dispose of existing stock. The government rejected the request in response to a high court order on a petition filed by manufacturers of compostable plastic. The court directed the government to take a decision after referring to a report of CSIR-NIIST to enable the petitioners to dispose of existing stock. The government was directed to take a decision within a month. The government reached its decision after considering recommendations from expert committees and the task force. The task force stressed the need to implement the plastic ban more effectively citing that any relaxation in implementing the order will defeat the very essence and spirit of the ban on single use plastic in the state. The ban on single-use plastic came into effect in the state on January 1, 2020. The environment department while turning down the request of plastic manufacturers recalled the shocking images of plastic bottles/debris washing up on the banks of water bodies during the flood. The use of plastic carry bags was discussed in the review meeting of the task force held in November 2020 and decisions were taken to curtail the same. The meeting decided to direct industries department to ensure that action is being taken for providing cloth and jute bags in the market, the production of low priced non-woven carry bags is stopped, the units involved in the production of cloth/jute carry bags are provided incentive from industries department and the state pollution control board to make random inspection in shops and to write to them to promote the sale of plastic-free items like cloth, jute and paper carry bags. The director of environment & climate change submitted report to government that no relaxation on the ban on plastic carry bags shall be made since the public have accepted the use of paper, jute and cloth carry bags. If any relaxation in the usage of other carry bags are allowed fake products in the guise of compostable carry bags will flood into the market which will cause a lot of confusion among the public and in a way defeat the very essence and spirit of the order implementing ban on single use plastic in the state, the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/government-remains-firm-on-banning-single-use-plastic/articleshow/80426880.cms||Aswin J Kumar
January 24, 2021||Delhi||To honour Netaji, keep aside differences for education: Manish Sisodia||NEW DELHI: Stating that the pandemic has led to massive unemployment across the globe, deputy chief minister and education minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday said that universities will play a lead role in generating employment. Sisodia inaugurated the Dr APJ Abdul Kalam lecture hall complex at the Netaji Subhas University of Technology (NSUT) on Saturday. He also unveiled the national flag on the campus on the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. The deputy CM said that the biggest tribute to Netaji would be to keep aside differences and work towards creating a strong future of the nation through better education. “Netaji’s dreams would be fulfilled when the children of the country would be skilled enough to contribute to its growth and development. This would embody true patriotism,” he said, adding that NSUT is the only technological university in India named after Netaji. Sisodia also lauded the university students for their performance. “Students of Delhi government schools are making the country proud with their exceptional performance in international Olympiads,” he said. Vice-chancellor of NSUT, JP Saini, thanked Delhi government for its continuous cooperation to the university and informed that there are 11 halls in the new lecture complex with a capacity to house 1,500 students. A new computer centre with a capacity of 400 machines was also started at NSUT. The enrollment in the university has also risen as 14 graduate and 12 post-graduate courses recently started in the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/to-honour-netaji-keep-aside-differences-for-edu-sisodia/articleshow/80428940.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Agra||Jailed innocent couple’s children traced to Firozabad, Kanpur||Agra: The missing minor children of a couple jailed for five years for a crime they never committed were traced to separate children’s homes in Firozabad and Kanpur on Saturday.TOI had on Friday reported that the couple — Narendra Singh, 40, and wife Najma, 30 — was unable to trace their son Ajeet and daughter Anju, who were five and three at the time of the arrest in 2015. While Ajeet was found living at State Children’s Home for Boys in Firozabad, Anju was traced to State Children’s Home for Girls in Kanpur.According to sources, both the children were shifted to Agra child protection home on October 24, 2019 after their grandfather Bhagwan Das expressed inability to take care of them citing poor financial status. They had been handed over to their grandparents immediately after the couple’s arrest on September 2, 2015. Agra CWC chairman Gopal Sharma said, “Both the children were living separately since August last as only those upto 10 years are allowed in child protection homes. They were both sent to separate facilities after age verification revealed that they were above 10 years.”Meanwhile, the couple’s lawyer Vansho Baboo disputed Sharma’s claims and said that the children were wrongfully removed from the child protection home despite their age. He said that the couple’s priority now would be to reunite with them at the earliest, adding that they would meet the CWC officials on Monday to complete the formalities. Child rights activist Naresh Paras, too, sought the committee’s urgent intervention in the matter.Promising all help to the couple, Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said that the district probationary officer is in touch with them and would provide all assistance to bring the children back to the Taj city considering the family’s financial condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/jailed-innocent-couples-children-traced-to-firozabad-kanpur/articleshow/80426282.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 24, 2021||Chandigarh||Tricolour atop tractors, Punjab farmers continue march to Delhi||Bathinda/Ferozepur/Phagwara/Patiala: Thousands of farmers from across Punjab on Saturday continued to leave for Delhi in tractors to participate in the proposed march to the national capital on Republic Day, being organised in protest against the three contentious agriculture laws. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri said nearly 20,000 tractors had left for Delhi via the Khanauri and Dabwali borders of Punjab and Haryana by late afternoon on Saturday. The tractors, many of them especially decked up for the protest, bore flags of the Tricolour and farm organisations. He said they were planning to cross the state borders at 11am, but started leaving early in small batches due to bad weather. The biggest convoy, however, left around noon. Most convoys were expected to reach Tikri by evening. Kokri said youth wings had been established to keep a tab on rumour-mongers and those who wanted to create disturbance. Jagtar Singh, press secretary of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) in Sangrur, said, “Earlier, we had planned to stay in Haryana, but we decided to move ahead and complete the journey in a day. The farmers sitting at the agitation on the Delhi borders will be made sit in these trolleys during the march.” In Punjab’s Ferozepur and Kapurthala districts, several tarctor-trolleys could be seen on the highways to Delhi, with all of them carrying ration supplies. Younger protesters travelling in tractor-trolleys shouted slogans. From many tractors, protest music could be heard as they headed for the national capital. Bhupinder Singh of Khai Pheme Ki village in Ferozepur said their only aim was to make the January 26 ‘Tractor Parade’ a “record-breaking success”. “(PM Narendra) Modi government has tried everything to sabotage this movement, which is going on uninterruptedly for two months. Our morale is so high that we won’t return without getting the laws revoked,” he said. The entire stretch of Ferozepur-Delhi highway was doted with langers serving meals, snacks, tea and fruits. The movement of protesters was massive on the Jalandhar-Delhi national highway too. There was a clear difference in the quantum of traffic going to Delhi and that moving in the other direction. At Jamalpur village, which falls on the national highway and is around 5km from Phagwara, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Doaba) was providing lodging and fuel for free to protesters. Free diesel is being provided with the help of volunteers. Gursharan Singh, one of the volunteers, said diesel was being given to only those who genuinely needed it. Before heading towards Delhi border on Saturday, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) activists had held tractor marches in 16 districts of Punjab on January 21 and 22. Activists of the farm group had been inspecting tractors for the last one week and getting them repaired. A large number of farmers even decorated the tractors. It was learnt that though the farm organisations had asked farmers to start crossing both borders at around 11am, farmers started crossing at nearly 9am. Kokri said farmers were ready for a bigger fight. “The central government wants to impose the failed system of the US and European countries, but farmers will not allow it,” he ended. Tractors tow tractors to save fuel To save fuel, many tractors were seen towing two-three tractors behind them along with multiple trollies. Enquiries from farmers who have already made a round of Delhi revealed that the average cost of one a to-and-fro trip for a tractor was around Rs 15,000. “It is a substantial cost and people are now taking two-three extra tractors to ensure participation of maximum tractors and also saving on the fuel cost,” said Kandhi Kisan Sangharash Committee vice-chairman Jarnail Singh Garhdiwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tricolour-atop-tractors-punjab-farmers-continue-march-to-delhi/articleshow/80427770.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Coimbatore||600 bulls take part in Koolamedu jallikattu||Salem: Around 600 bulls participated in the famed Koolamedu jallikattu in Salem district on Saturday. As many as 27 tamers were injured during the event, of which three were admitted in the Attur government hospital.After collector S A Raman inaugurated the event and administered an oath not to harm or harass the bulls around 9am, the Koolamedu temple bull was released first from ‘vaadivasal’ (entrance gate). Subsequently, the bulls were released one-by-one and around 500 youths in total tried to tame the bulls. The organiser allowed 100 tamers in one session and totally five sessions were conducted.The event ended around 4pm after which prizes were distributed for tamers and bull owners.Of the injured, the condition of three admitted in the hospital is stable, a doctor from Attur GH said.Earlier, veterinarians from the animal husbandry department checked bulls for their fitness and issued certificates.Similarly, the health department officials also tested tamers if they exhibited any Covid symptoms.About 300 police personnel were deployed in and around the venue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/600-bulls-take-part-in-koolamedu-jallikattu/articleshow/80427736.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Coimbatore||21,217 people respond to Swachh Survekshan||Coimbatore: As many as 21,217 city residents have provided feedback for the Swachh Survekshan Cleanliness Survey-2021, which will go on till March 31.While 13,553 people submitted their feedback through the VoteForYourCity app, the rest used the SS-2021 portal, according to the Swachh Survekshan website. In March, a team of central government officials will visit the city for inspection. Cleanliness is analysed based on citizens’ feedback, direct observation of officials and certification process. Of the total 6,000 marks, 1,500 will be allotted to citizens’ feedback. The survey has questions on the rank of the city in last year’s survey, cleanliness of your neighbourhood, commercial, public areas and community toilets, and segregation of waste.Last year, the city was in the 40th place in the list of 47 cities with over 10 lakh population. It obtained an overall score of 2,337 out of 6,000 831 marks out of 1,500 in citizens’ feedback and 842 marks in direct observation. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/21217-people-respond-to-swachh-survekshan/articleshow/80427766.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Goa||One held for cheating man of Rs 20 lakh in Goa||PANAJI: Cyber Crime Cell (CCC) of Goa police on Saturday arrested Swapnil Naik for allegedly cheating a person from Sattari of Rs 20 lakh by creating fake social media account in the name of a girl. PI Vishwesh Karpe said that the accused befriended the victim through the fake social media account and started demanding money by giving various reasons including payment to get a job and father’s illness. The accused asked the victim to deposit the money in different accounts belonging to different persons. A few days ago, Naik, who pretended to be a VIP, checked into a hotel in Bengaluru with five bodyguards and fled without paying the room rent. Naik is said to have cheated the bodyguards too. Bengaluru police said that Naik arrived at hotel in Gandhinagar on January 2 rented a room. On January 8, his wife arrived, and two more rooms were rented for the bodyguards. On January 9, they hired a mini-bus and went for a trip towards Ramanagara, but little did the hotel staff know that the couple had actually fled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/one-held-for-cheating-man-of-rs-20-lakh/articleshow/80428948.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Jallikattu ‘winner’ took all for a ride in CM-sponsored car||MADURAI: When Kannan of of Virattipattu drove away the car sponsored by chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami after winning the Alanganallur jallikattu on January 16, few would have imagined that he had taken everyone for a ride too. A week after the world-famous event was held, an inquiry has brought to light that he had not tamed all the 12 bulls which fetched him glory, but only five. He had cleverly taken the place of M Harikrishnan of Achampattu who went out after taming seven following an injury. According to the records, Kannan came into the arena at 8.30am in the first round and tamed 12 bulls following all rules. He wore a T-shirt with number 33 printed on it. However, tahsildars Sivakumar and Palanikumar who viewed the videos of the games at the Vadipatti taluk office along with revenue officials found that this was not true. They saw Harikrishnan leave the arena after taming seven bulls after suffering an injury and Kannan entering wearing the same shirt. Kannan is believed to have swapped his T-shirt with Harikrishnan’s and bagged the honours through impersonation. Adjudged the best tamer, he was given the car announced as the prize on behalf of the chief minister. In the days following the event, word has been going around that Kannan was not the true winner and that he had impersonated another tamer. Later, it was revealed that Kannan’s name was not even there in the list of tamers who had registered with the revenue department. Subsequently, Karuppanan of Pothumbu, who won the second prize, lodged a complaint in this regard with the collector. When contacted, district collector T Anbazhagan said prizes were under the control of the organising committee and not the district administration. Their role was to ensure the arrangements for jallikattu were made according to government norms. He had asked the RDO to conduct an inquiry and take appropriate action following the complaint. The tahsildars have submitted their report to the collector for further action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/jallikattu-winner-took-all-for-a-ride-in-cm-sponsored-car/articleshow/80427752.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Pune||Boost confidence now: Expert||Pune: State technical committee member on Covid-19 Subhash Salunke said on Saturday that the Centre should have pushed to boost vaccine confidence among beneficiaries before the rollout. Salunke, who has taken a Covid shot himself, said the problem of vaccine hesitancy needs to be addressed as soon as possible. He added that a vaccine confidence drive should have been started first to ease anxiety among beneficiaries. State deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday had directed the regional administration to take steps — including the preparation of messages — to boost confidence among phase 1 vaccination beneficiaries. Public health experts have said that it’s vital for Covid-19 inoculation to gain pace among phase 1 beneficiaries who are mostly patient-facing healthcare workers at hospitals treating the illness. Next in line after phase 1 beneficiaries are frontline workers. This category includes members of the police units and civic bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/boost-confidence-now-expert/articleshow/80427662.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 24, 2021||Trichy||Survey reveals kids of migrants being employed as child labourers||Trichy: A survey conducted by Campaign Against Child Labour (CACL) has revealed that children belonging to migrant labourers are missing out on education, access to health and most importantly they are being employed as child labourers.District police inspector (anti-child traffic unit) P Azeem released the study – Unaccounted, invisible, migrant children deprived of other rights - conducted by R Vidhyasagar and K Shyamalanahchiyar and mentored by CACL state convenor R Karuppasamy, here on Saturday. CACL central zone coordinator R Maruthanayagam said that the study focused on the condition of children, access to health, hygiene, early childhood care, education, nutrition, reviewing existing policies on migrant children and working out policy needs to suggest policy measures to the government. The sample survey revealed that nearly half of the migrants belonged to Bihar and migrated from Odisha, Maharashtra, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh.The study covered 304 migrant families including 81 in Coimbatore, 74 in Erode and 149 in Tiruppur districts and recommended that the findings can be generalised for all migrant families. Of the total population of 1,090 in the three districts, children below 14 years of age constituted 42% and below 18 years accounted for 43.4%. CACL study also pointed out lack of immunisation among most of the children. Out of 304 households, 171 (about 56%) had no access to full immunisation. The forum recommended the issue should be tackled on an urgent basis to prevent preventable diseases as Tamil Nadu has been at the forefront of full immunisation drive. Out of 209 children in the age group of 6-11 years, only 110 were enrolled in schools. Of the 45 children in the age group of 12-14 years, 56% were in school. Most importantly, 61% of the children in 15-18 years were child labourers. The study also highlighted that some children were retained at home for sibling care. The study also pointed out that though there are some ad-hoc efforts by the government to provide education to migrant children, but lacked systematic policy and efforts. CACL recommended issuing identity cards to children of migrants to enable them access to education and providing full immunisation to children in the age group of 0-5 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/survey-reveals-kids-of-migrants-being-employed-as-child-labourers/articleshow/80427761.cms||Gokul Rajendran
January 24, 2021||Kolhapur||Dedicated bicycle track along SUK campus gets DPDC nod||Kolhapur: Developing a dedicated bicycle track along Shivaji University, Kolhapur, campus and setting up public addressal systems in every village of the district for disaster response were among the few plans approved by the district planning and development council (DPDC) during a meeting held on Saturday. District guardian minister Satej Patil chaired the DPDC meeting which was attended by the MPs and MLAs along with top officials. “The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has submitted a proposal seeking funds to develop a dedicated bicycle track along SUK campus. We have found that a large number of citizens use highways for cycling in the morning. DPDC has, thus, approved Rs 18 lakh for the project.” Patil further said that for effective communication and response during disasters like flood, public addressal systems will be set up in every village. “District administration has proposed the idea. In the next two to three years, every village will have such systems in place. They will be controlled at tehsildar office level. Also, a dedicated radio station will be set up for proper messaging to the public during disaster-like situation,” said Patil. The DPDC also approved setting up of an exhibition centre at Valivade village where refugees had arrived from Poland during the second world war in search of shelter. The exhibit will display photographs and information about Polish refugees and their life in India. Recently in 2019, Polish delegation had visited the site which holds a memorial pillar in the remembrance of Polish refugees who had come to India during the world war period. Meanwhile, DPDC has approved an outlay of Rs 366 crore which is to be spent in the next one year. Patil said that cognisance has been taken regarding unspent funds of over Rs 90 crore of last year’s plan and authorities concerned have been directed to utilise the funds as early as possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/dedicated-bicycle-track-along-suk-campus-gets-dpdc-nod/articleshow/80427769.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Nashik||Poultry association says bird flu rumours eating into biz||Nashik: The stakeholders in the poultry business — including farmers who provide poultry feed, workers and investors — have been adversely affected by social media rumours about chicken being harmful.“There have been baseless rumours about the consumption of chicken and eggs since the Covid-19 outbreak and after that when avian influenza cases being reported. Despite there being no scientific proof on the ill-effects of chicken and eggs, the social media rumors have hit the poultry industry and maize farmers,” said Uddhav Ahire, the secretary of the Poultry Farmers and Breeders’ Association (PFBA).  Briefing the media, the PEBA office-bearers, including Ahire, said the poultry farmers and the government must carry out extensive campaigns to ensure that people consumed chicken — especially during the Covid outbreak as poultry products help boost immunity.Baburao Narawade, the deputy commissioner of Nashik district animal husbandry, said, “Very few cases of the avian flu have been detected in the district. They are mostly among wild birds.”“We had a tough time instilling confidence among people about the safety of poultry consumption. Just when business was getting back on track, the rumours about the avian influenza started spreading. The rumours have become another challenge for those connected with the poultry industry. Even the maize farmers have been affected as they are now forced to sell their produce for less than Rs 1,500 per quintal,” said Ahire. Before the Covid outbreak, maize used to sell for Rs 2,200 per quintal. The price plummeted to Rs 1,200 per quintal as the demand for chicken and eggs reduced. When the business picked up pace, the rates had barely risen touched Rs 1,500 per quintal. Then the rumours struck again.Talking about whether the ‘Chicken Mohatsav’ will be organised like in the past, Narawade said due to the Covid outbreak, the event has not been planned. “We will be making efforts to raise awareness among the masses through programmes and social media campaigns to dispel the fear of chicken consumption,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/poultry-association-says-bird-flu-rumours-eating-into-biz/articleshow/80426299.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 24, 2021||Madurai||After Salem student, teacher at Palani school tests Covid-19 +ve||Madurai: A Class X teacher of a government high school in Palani in Dindigul district tested Covid-19 positive on Saturday. The school has been shut and samples are being collected from all students and teachers. The teacher was the primary contact of her husband who had tested Covid-19 positive. Speaking to TOI, Dindigul district collector M Vijayalakshmi said that the teacher had not come to school since her swab sample was taken. “As per protocol, samples from all nine teachers and 20 students at the school are being taken. Samples from 14 students were collected today (Saturday) while the rest will be collected tomorrow (Sunday). The school has been temporarily closed down,” she added. All high schools and higher secondary schools across Tamil Nadu had reopened for Classes X and XII on January 19. On Thursday, a student in Salem had tested positive after which the school was shut. Meanwhile, parents and teachers in Madurai who expressed concern said practical difficulties remain in enforcement of measures for students. “There is no cause for alarm. But they are children and are playful. Inside the classroom, we can keep them in check, ensure they follow the SOPs. But, outside the classroom and school, there is little we can do to stop them from removing their masks or not maintain social distancing,” a headmaster of a government school, said. Officials in Madura are providing all students and teachers with multivitamin and zinc tablets for immunity. K Vimala, a parent said: “The problem is not all children or teachers are the same. Many also travel in public transport and go to various public places. Anyone can get Covid-19. It is a risk but schools cannot remain closed forever. Schools must strictly monitor and screen students every day and immediately isolate if anyone is found ill.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/after-salem-student-teacher-at-palani-school-tests-covid-19-ve/articleshow/80427733.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Society uplift hits ‘policy wall’||Ahmedabad: The state government’s popular amendment — ‘the 75% members consent’ — to the Gujarat Flat Owners Act, 1973 law, which was to catalyze redevelopment of old societies including those under Gujarat Co-Operative Societies Act, 1961, has hit a wall for hundreds of societies in the city. They are either tangled up in a bureaucratic quagmire or gridlocked in courts. At Vivekanandnagar flats, a 50-year-old society in the posh Jodhpur neighborhood, members skip a heartbeat as chunks of concrete chips away from their society each day. “It feels like sitting on a ticking bomb. For over a year now, we are fighting in the high court just because four of the 78 members dissented for redevelopment in our society ” says the president of Vivekanandnangar flats, Alpesh Patel. In July last year the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) notified and warned the society that “the buildings are a threat to those living around them,” and that “all concrete reinforcements lie exposed.” In December 2018, the whole society was classified as “dangerous”. “Why did the government include the 75% consent rule if there were no mechanisms to enforce it,” says Patel. The registrar, Chetan Parmar, had told TOI earlier that the amendment has been made to the Gujarat Flat Owners Act and not the Gujarat Co-operatives Act and hence no redevelopment. There are 6,714 housing co-operatives in Ahmedabad. Contrary to Parmar’s view the urban development department in its December 2019 government order has clearly stated that the redevelopment clause also applies to housing societies that are governed by Gujarat Cooperatives Act as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/society-uplift-hits-policy-wall/articleshow/80427830.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Coimbatore||2 spotted deer killed by poacher in Nellithurai||Coimbatore: A poacher gunned down two spotted deer in the Mettupalayam forest range on Saturday.Private security guards, who heard gunshots near the Kurundamalai temple around 4.30am, had informed Nellithurai beat forest guard Viji Kumar. A team of frontline staff of the forest department rushed to the temple, located 2.5km from the Nellimalai reserve forest.Forest guards, who were on duty near Samayapuram, also rushed to the Kurundamalai temple – Thekkampatti road and started checking vehicles.Around 5am, they tried to stop a man on a motorcycle, who was heading towards Thekkampatti. As the man sped away, forest guards Viji Kumar and Praveen Kumar started to chase him on a two-wheeler. While they could not catch the man, the guards found an abandoned gunny bag on the road, which had two deer carcasses.A veterinary doctor, who carried out postmortem, recovered two bullets from the carcasses. “We have formed two teams to nab the poacher,” Mettupalayam forest range officer Palaniraja told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-spotted-deer-killed-by-poacher-in-nellithurai/articleshow/80427741.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Pune||Pune: Teachers worry about cleanliness before school reopening on February 1||PUNE: The civic body will have to ensure functional toilets, adequate water supply and basins outside washrooms before reopening schools for Standard V to VIII on February 1 apart from following protocols to prevent the spread of coronavirus, said teachers at these institutions. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)-run schools typically have high student strength, smaller classrooms and relatively younger students so it would be difficult to manage them unless all precautions are undertaken with utmost care and detail, said teachers. “PMC schools have a huge issue of water shortage. Taps in toilets are broken and cleanliness is also a bit questionable. Many schools do not have regular water supply. Then, there is a dearth of washbasins at schools. We need washbasins outside school toilets so that students won’t have to go to the toilets just to wash their hands. There is a need for pedestal-controlled sanitizer dispensers and soaps or hand wash so that students are motivated to wash hands as much as they can,” said a teacher from a PMC school. A member of the PMC Teachers’ Union said that managing a large number of young students would be a toughest ask. “When students come to get the mid-day meal dry ration, they tend to crowd and teachers have to be on their toes to prevent that. So, actual school sessions might be hard. Secondly, most students are from lower economic groups and use public transport to come to school. This would pose a challenge,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/teachers-worry-about-cleanliness-before-school-reopening-on-feb-1/articleshow/80427693.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 24, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Over 300 Aadhaar cards abandoned in Kattakkada||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In what could be a case of serious official lapse, more than 300 out-for-delivery Aadhaar cards were found abandoned by a scrap dealer among a pile of old paper at his shop in Kattakkada, on the outskirts of the state capital. Kattakkada police on Saturday registered a case and launched a probe to find out the circumstances in which the cards reached the scrap dealer. According to police, the Aadhaar cards were found at Peethuraj’s shop. As many as 306 Aadhaar cards were found. Peethuraj also found other official papers including banking, registration and insurance documents – all in sealed envelopes. An initial investigation revealed that the Aadhaar cards were issued for delivery from Karakulam post office and were sold to the scrap dealer by the postwoman’s husband. “The dealer remembered that the documents were among the bundles of old paper sold by an auto rickshaw driver on Friday evening. He noticed the Aadhaar cards and other documents while sorting the papers on Saturday morning. He immediately alerted local activists, who in turn informed us,” said Kattakkada station house officer inspector D Bijukumar. His wife was supposed to deliver the documents to the addressees, who were residents under Karakulam post office limits. But she took them home apparently to deliver later, Bijukumar said. A case was registered, invoking section 102 of CrPC, which pertains to confiscation of property which may be alleged or suspected to have been stolen or which may be found under suspicious circumstances. The documents will now be produced in court, Bijukumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/over-300-aadhaar-cards-abandoned/articleshow/80426883.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Ranchi||Coaching centres demand reopening, Banna vows to help||Jamshedpur/Ranchi: With the government yet to allow coaching centres to operate in the state, owners of 35 private tuition centres sat on a protest at Aam Bagan in Sakchi area of Jamshedpur on Saturday. Although many sectors have been allowed to resume operations, coaching centres have remained locked since the nationwide lockdown was imposed in March last year. Agitating under the banner of Jamshedpur Coaching Sangh, the owners demanded private tuition centres to be allowed to reopen as “they are cash-strapped”. Meanwhile, state health minister Banna Gupta assured them that he will take up the matter with chief minister Hemant Soren. Banna, who met the protesters in Sakchi, said he will see to it that guidelines pertaining to reopening of coaching institutes are announced soon. Jamshedpur MP Bidyut Baran Mahato, who met the protesters, assured them that he would take up the matter with the government. MIITJEE owner Krishna Banerjee said, “When markets and malls, which attract scores of people, have been allowed to reopen, why should coaching centres remain shut?” He cited the example of Bihar where the government has allowed coaching institutes to resume classes from January 4. “Higher secondary classes have resumed and with the impending board exams, students will suffer the most unless we are allowed to reopen,” Shriman Narayan Trigun, the owner of Shriman said. He added, “Besides board exams, there are a slew of upcoming competitive exams for admission to engineering and medical colleges and for that, students will need to consult coaching centres. Moreover, students also rely on coaching centres to crack government examinations, which are conducted round-the-year.” Owner of Chanakya Academy Sujit Jha said although a chunk of institutes are conducting online classes, it is not effective enough in clearing doubts. “Virtual teaching cannot be an alternative to physical classes. There are some subjects and concepts that need to be explained and discussed at length and connectivity issues during online classes become a problem in such cases,” he added. Vijay Singh, the owner of Vijay Academy, said there are about 200 coaching centres, including the 35 recognized ones, in Steel City and close to 1,500 people teach nearly 40,000 school students and government job aspirants in these centres. “Right now, teachers and other staff who work at these centres are not being paid properly as only 20% of the students are paying tuition fees and that too irregularly,” he said. In Ranchi too, similar protests were held in the recent months. Joint secretary of Jharkhand Coaching Association S D Mishra said it is high time the government allows private tuition centres to function. “If schools can be reopened for higher classes with parents’ consent, why can’t coaching centres? Ahead of competitive exams, the role of coaching centres assumes importance for students. Around 10,000 people in Ranchi alone are directly dependent on running their homes through coaching centre. How can anyone sustain?,” Mishra said, adding that out of the 400-odd coaching centres in Ranchi, around 150 have permanently shut since March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/coaching-centres-demand-reopening-banna-vows-to-help/articleshow/80426406.cms||B Sridhar
January 24, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara: Bichhu gang member owns properties worth over Rs 3 crore||VADODARA: Investigations under the Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime Act (GujCTOC) against members of notorious Bichhu gang has revealed that one of its members, who is yet to be arrested, owns properties over Rs 3 crore. The detection of crime branch raided a farmhouse at Diwalipura village near Vadodara city and nearby construction sites owned by Mohammed Hussain Sheikh alias Munna Tarbuch. A team of 25 cops conducted the raid and seized several cheque books, partnership deeds, bills of sale among other documents from Munna Tarbuch’s properties. The properties have been bought by the gangster in his and other people’s names. Police said that they are verifying documents to unearth more details from them. Meanwhile, other teams are searching for Munna Tarbuch and Aslam Sheikh alias Aslam Bodiyo. Fifteen members of the gang, who have been remanded to police custody till February 3 are being interrogated about the gang’s criminal activities, properties among other things.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bichhu-gang-member-owns-properties-worth-over-rs-3-crore/articleshow/80426630.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Ranchi||Govt planning to set up eco-retreats to boost pandemic-battered tourism sector||Ranchi: Following in the footsteps of Odisha government which set up eco-retreats recently, the Jharkhand tourism department is now planning to do the same across multiple locations in an effort to boost the pandemic-battered sector. “If all goes well, we will launch the initiative by the end of February or in March, depending on the weather,” tourism director A Dodde said on Saturday. Eco-retreat is an experience for travellers that includes glamping and enjoying local cuisines, among other things. Currently, the tourism department is looking for private players to organise tourist-centric activities in those retreats. “We are trying to hand-pick event organizers for launching eco-retreats at a few locations,” Dodde said, adding, “We are yet to finalise the locations.” He further said that the tourism secretary (Pooja Singhal) is currently on a vacation. “Once she gets back, a meeting will be held to fine-tune the modalities,” he added. A Jharkhand tourism development corporation official said last year was the worst for the tourism sector all over the world and this year, the state government wants to make the most of it. “In the post lockdown phase, people are not willing to travel to far-off places. Instead, they are opting for weekend getaways and we are working on our tourism policy accordingly,” he added. He further said, “The government acknowledges that encouraging tourism can create jobs for a state like Jharkhand where employment opportunities are limited. Moreover, a boost in tourism will automatically lead to more revenue for the state.” In fact, upon completion of his one year in office in December last year, chief minister Hemant Soren had launched the state tourism policy 2020 to rejuvenate the sector and create jobs by attracting private investments in the sector. As part of the policy, tourist circuits are being categorised into religious tourism, eco-tourism, cultural tourism, rural tourism, craft tourism, adventure tourism, weekend gateways and wellness tourism, among others, to cater to the specific interests of travellers. The department is also planning to geo-tag every tourist spot to document its significance and bring those spots together under a single window platform, either in the form of an app or website, so that the travel enthusiasts can check them out and plan their trips easily at the click of a button.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/govt-planning-to-set-up-eco-retreats-to-boost-pandemic-battered-tourism-sector/articleshow/80426438.cms||ASRP Mukesh
January 24, 2021||Ranchi||Closed since March, small cinema halls to shut forever unless allowed to reopen immediately||Ranchi: Prashant Kumar Singh cannot remember the last time when his single-screen theatre in Dhanbad was filled with viewers as his property has been closed since March when the Covid-induced lockdown was announced. The Puja Talkies owner isn’t even sure if at all he’ll get to entertain movie-goers again since he is considering to down shutters permanently unless the state government allows them to reopen. Singh, who is also the secretary of Jharkhand Cinema Exhibitor Association, said a similar fate awaits around 15 single screen halls in the state. “Single screen halls were already facing stiff competition from multiplexes and OTT platforms. The lockdown proved to be the last nail in the coffin,” he added. He further said, “Despite no business since March, we are being asked to pay municipal tax and exorbitant electricity bills. For example, I was served an electricity bill of Rs 37,000 for the month of November when in the pre-Covid period, I only hd to shell out Rs 10,000 to 15,000 every month. We have been wanting to meet the chief minister (Hemant Soren) for ages to discuss our plight but so far we have been unsuccessful.” There are 33 single screens throughout the state and 18 multiplexes in Ranchi, including PVR, Popcorn and Fun Cinemas, and they have the capacity to accommodate around 15,000 people altogether. Most of these halls run from rented accommodation. Anand Jalan, the chairman of art, culture, films and sports sub-committee of Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries, said that they had met chief secretary Sukhdev Singh on January 7 for reopening halls but it was all in vain. “We had proposed to reopen with 50% capacity like other states have done but the government did not respond. We don’t understand why are halls closed when all other places that attract crowd are allowed to function,” he added. According to Jalan, situation of cinema halls are so grim that even after unlock, many will find it difficult to survive for months. “While multiplexes may somehow survive, single screen theatres may face closure in coming days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/closed-since-march-small-cinema-halls-to-shut-forever-unless-allowed-to-reopen-immediately/articleshow/80426382.cms||ASRP Mukesh
January 24, 2021||Ranchi||Active Cov Cases Hit 6-Mnth Low, Vax Still Key||Ranchi: With the mass vaccination drive likely to show its impact in the weeks to come, Jharkhand took a giant step towards defeating the Covid-19 pandemic on Friday night as the number of active cases fell below the 1,000-mark for the first time since early July. Over the last couple of months, there has been a gradual decrease in the number of active cases as daily fresh cases have consistently been outnumbered by recoveries. On Friday, the number of active cases statewide fell to 978, more than six months after the figure breached the 1,000-mark milestone on July 9. Along with fall in the numbers, a natural safety wall has now been created by the patients who have recovered from the infection. On July 8, the number of cure persons stood at 2,170 while the figure on Friday was 1,16,116. These recovered people are likely to act as natural barriers against any further spread of the virus, the wall which the ongoing vaccination drive aims to strengthen. However, public health affairs still pin their hopes on inoculation as the effectiveness and longevity of naturally developed antibodies is unknown. “Undoubtedly, persons recovering from Covid-19 infection have antibodies against the virus, but their concentration over a period of time varies and little can be said with certainty,” said Dr Devesh Kumar, head of preventive social medicine at Rims, underlining the need for vaccination. Kumar’s concerns gains ground from the fact that certain cases of reinfection were reported in the state, the most high profile case being that of Ajsu Party chief and former deputy CM Sudesh Mahto, who tested positive twice within a matter of a couple of months. Such cases indicate that naturally created antibodies have not been completely effective. IMA State president Dr AK Singh also believes that the chain of infection can be effectively broken only by vaccination. “We are on path of fast recovery, but the need for vaccination still cannot be ruled out,” he said. Though the vaccination drive is gradually picking pace in the state, we can expect the first batch of 3,200 vaccine-guarded people only after February 27. The first vaccine dose was given to 3200 health workers on January 16 and they would be given the second dose on February 13. According to experts the vaccine becomes active two weeks after the second dose indicating that the first batch of people would have efficient antibodies against the virus on and after February 27. “Since vaccination is going to be effective two weeks after the second dose, we are asking people to maintain social distance and wear masks and practice all good sanitation habits for the time being,” said state IDSP head Dr Praveen Kumar Karn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/active-cov-cases-hit-6-mnth-low-vax-still-key/articleshow/80426433.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
January 24, 2021||Surat||Leopard brother duo rescued together||Surat: After his brother got caged, the sibling came in search of the missing leopard and reached the same spot, only to end up getting enclosed in the same trap — in what probably became the first-ever rescue of leopard sibling together in one night. The incident took place in Pardi of Valsad on Saturday, sources in forest department informed. Majority of rural and semi-urban areas in districts of south Gujarat have now become leopard hubs for the past few years. The first leopard was caught at around 7 pm on Friday, while its brother was caught at 5 am on Saturday. Forest department will release them in Vansada national park. Residents of Pardi, around 15 km from Vapi and Valsad, have complained of leopard sightings in residential areas. “A cow was killed by some animal and forest officials visited the spot. We did not know initially that the cow was killed by a leopard. Hence, we placed one cage on January 21,” said Samir Konkani, range forest officer, Pardi. Forest officials also placed a camera to capture images of leopard and found that not one but two leopards. Hence they set up three enclosures in close proximity in the outskirts of Pardi. “Initially, we were not sure but after examining camera footage we came to know that two leopards are moving in the area. As the cats were seen moving together, we believe that they are siblings,” said Konkani. “It is probably the first incident when two leopards have been rescued at the same spot within a few hours,” said Yadu Bhardwaj, deputy conservator of forest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/leopard-brother-duo-rescued-together/articleshow/80426460.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
January 24, 2021||Noida||Two factories in 3 weeks: Was illegal liquor being made for rural polls?||GREATER NOIDA: With the second illegal liquor factory being busted in Greater Noida in less than 20 days — both times at the behest of police from neighbouring districts — cops are now probing a greater nexus of illicit liquor supply emerging out of Greater Noida. Questions are also being raised on the checks and balances of the local police and the excise department. While the Bulandshahr police had earlier busted an illegal liquor factory in Kasna in the aftermath of the deaths due to consumption of substandard liquor there, the Hapur cops have now busted another factory in Greater Noida’s Beta II area. Both the factories had been running in the city for the past 8-12 months at least. The liquor was supposed to target some western UP districts ahead of the panchayat elections too, officials said. In fact, the factory was busted on Thursday after the Hapur police arrested a smuggler from their area with a consignment of liquor and questioned him on January 19. The accused had revealed that the source of the beverage was a factory running out of a house in the Sigma IV area of Greater Noida’s Beta II. Hapur SP Neeraj Jadaun told TOI that the inputs were subsequently shared with the Greater Noida police and a raid was carried out on the factory from where illicit liquor was being supplied to different places in Bulandshahr and Greater Noida. Some 720 bottles of liquor of Miss India brand, 10 kg of urea, two drums, two bottles of chemical, five bags of bottle caps and a Swift Dzire were seized from the possession of four persons, who were arrested from the spot on Thursday. The arrested accused have been identified as Deepak, Manish, Kuldeep and Deepak Lal. Police have identified Veerpal as the main accused. Originally from Mainpuri, he currently stays in Faridabad. A police official said that the liquor recovered from the Kasna factory and the Sigma IV factory pertains to the same Miss India brand. “This is the same brand of liquor which was consumed by the six persons who died in Bulandshahr,” he said. Later, another spot was also raised in Bulandshahr’s Anupshahr area and a large consignment of liquor of the same brand was recovered. A senior police officer told TOI that the liquor was to be supplied during the upcoming panchayat elections. When contacted, additional DCP (Greater Noida) Vishal Pandey said that the owner has been identified, “but he is absconding”. “A wine shop where the liquor was being supplied was raided on January 22 and its owner Narendra and a salesman were arrested. So far, there is information of liquor supply from the factory at only this shop in GB Nagar,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/2-factories-in-3-weeks-was-illegal-liquor-being-made-for-rural-polls/articleshow/80428866.cms||Shikha Salaria
January 24, 2021||World||WHO hails India, PM Modi for support to global Covid response||NEW DELHI: World Health Organisation (WHO) director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Saturday lauded India and PM Narendra Modi for the country’s support to the global Covid-19 response. “Thank you India and PM Narendra Modi for your continued support to the global Covid-19 response. Only if we #ACTogether, including sharing of knowledge, can we stop this virus and save lives and livelihoods,” Tedros said in a tweet. India has supplied Covid-19 vaccines to 13 foreign countries, including its neighbours like Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal, Myanmar, and Bangladesh. The government has also conducted training of immunisation programme managers using Indian vaccines covering all aspects of vaccine rollout. On Friday, the United States also applauded India for gifting Covid-19 vaccines to several countries, saying New Delhi is a “true friend” which is using its pharma industry to help the global community. Brazilian President Jair M Bolsonaro also took to his official Twitter handle to thank PM Modi for vaccine supplies. Bolsonaro tweeted, “Brazil feels honoured to have a great partner to overcome a global obstacle by joining efforts. Thank you for assisting us with the vaccine exports from India to Brazil. Dhanyavaad” India, which is a major supplier of medicines and pharmaceutical products to the world has played a significant role even during Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/who-hails-india-pm-modi-for-support-to-global-covid-response/articleshow/80429414.cms||---
January 24, 2021||India||WHO hails India, PM Modi for support to global Covid response||NEW DELHI: World Health Organisation (WHO) director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Saturday lauded India and PM Narendra Modi for the country’s support to the global Covid-19 response. “Thank you India and PM Narendra Modi for your continued support to the global Covid-19 response. Only if we #ACTogether, including sharing of knowledge, can we stop this virus and save lives and livelihoods,” Tedros said in a tweet. India has supplied Covid-19 vaccines to 13 foreign countries, including its neighbours like Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal, Myanmar, and Bangladesh. The government has also conducted training of immunisation programme managers using Indian vaccines covering all aspects of vaccine rollout. On Friday, the United States also applauded India for gifting Covid-19 vaccines to several countries, saying New Delhi is a “true friend” which is using its pharma industry to help the global community. Brazilian President Jair M Bolsonaro also took to his official Twitter handle to thank PM Modi for vaccine supplies. Bolsonaro tweeted, “Brazil feels honoured to have a great partner to overcome a global obstacle by joining efforts. Thank you for assisting us with the vaccine exports from India to Brazil. Dhanyavaad” India, which is a major supplier of medicines and pharmaceutical products to the world has played a significant role even during Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/who-hails-india-pm-modi-for-support-to-global-covid-response/articleshow/80429402.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Noida||Yogi Adityanath launches stadium and shooting range in Noida||NOIDA: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday inaugurated the indoor stadium and the integrated shooting range located in Sector 21 A of Noida. Yogi presided over the ceremony from Lucknow and inaugurated the facility remotely. Senior officials of the Noida Authority and elected representatives participated in the launch ceremony. While the launch ceremony was scheduled for January 25, it was conducted on Saturday since two-day long national wrestling championship is taking place in the indoor stadium. While the stadium was completed at a budget of Rs 101 crore, the shooting range was commissioned at Rs 14 crore. The stadium will house grounds for 10 sports, including badminton, table tennis, basketball, volleyball, gymnastics, boxing, weightlifting, judo, handball among others. The shooting range will have more than 80 stations to cater to 10-metre, 25-metre and 50-metre championships.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/yogi-launches-stadium-and-shooting-range-in-noida/articleshow/80428830.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 24, 2021||India||MP Congress, cops face off over farm laws||BHOPAL: Congress members led by former CMs Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh had an intense showdown with police in Bhopal on Saturday during a protest against the Centre’s new farm laws. Hundreds of Congress workers rushed towards police barricades while cops fired tear gas and water cannons and lathicharged them to push them back. Singh and Kantilal Bhuria were among those arrested. Nath tweeted: “I strongly condemn the brutal lathicharge, tear-gas, water-cannons and the arrest of thousands of farmer brothers and Congress workers peacefully demonstrating in support of farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mp-congress-cops-face-off-over-farm-laws/articleshow/80429421.cms||Suchandana Gupta
January 24, 2021||India||Tractor rally: UP netas put under house arrest||BIJNOR: Tightening the noose around farmers’ representatives ahead of their R-Day tractor rally, UP police has put many of them under house arrest in Bijnor and Muzaffarnagar and stopped hundreds of farmers marching towards Delhi from Baghpat on tractors. Several west UP districts have been witnessing tractorrally drills. In Shamli, they took out a march to the Haryana border. On Saturday, protests were reported from different districts. Though police are “preventing” them from going to Delhi in the name of the pandemic, west UP farmers continue to reach Ghazipur border via alternative routes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tractor-rally-up-netas-put-under-house-arrest/articleshow/80429422.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 24, 2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 86% turnout as vaccine acceptance grows||NEW DELHI: Various measures adopted by the Delhi government to overcome vaccine hesitancy paid off on Saturday with a turnout of 86% being recorded across the city. Over the past few days, the state government had allowed walk-ins, counselled and mobilised healthcare workers and promoted visible feedback from vaccinated individuals. Many senior doctors were also encouraged to come forward to take the shot, allaying apprehensions of those who had initially decided to wait and watch. As a result, several hospitals which were lagging behind in the past four sessions reported 100% turnouts. North East district reported 100% turnout while South, which has nine centres, notched up 99%. Turnout was high across all 11 districts. Lok Nayak Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital and Delhi State Cancer Institute were among those which reported 100% turnouts. Turnout jump due to few adverse events?The overall turnout was only 53% on the first day, 44% on the second day and 48% on the third day. It increased to 73% on Thursday, showing signs of how healthcare workers were coming around. The authorities attributed the jump also to the negligible number of adverse effects being seen. Only a few dozen among the 25,700 healthcare workers who received the jab in the past one week have reported adverse events. And all those who reported them are now fine and reporting for work and leading normal lives. On Saturday, 6,967 people out of 8,100 planned to be vaccinated across 81 centres got the shots and only 24 adverse events were reported, with no one hospitalised. Across all the hospitals, many healthcare workers not included in the list of those to be vaccinated walked in to get the vaccine. Out of 100 people vaccinated at Lok Nayak Hospital, 40 were walk-ins. “Acceptance of the vaccine is growing very fast because healthcare workers can see that those who have been vaccinated are not reporting any major adverse events. All of them are coming to work with confidence. It is motivating others,” said Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital. According to a government report, one person out of 294 administered Covaxin at six centres reported a minor adverse event while 23 out of 6,673 people given Covishield at 75 centres reported adverse events, including one who reported a severe event. Lok Nayak Hospital, which had struggled to inoculate even 50 people on each of the first two days, saw 97 people being vaccinated by 1.30 pm. A majority of these were walk-ins, whose name did not feature on the day’s list. They had, however, pre-registered on the Co-WIN app. “People are feeling inspired by senior doctors who have volunteered to take the vaccine. We should be able to complete today’s target before 2pm,” said O P Chaudhary, a nursing officer at the hospital. Across the city in east Delhi, GTB Hospital had inoculated 94 people by noon. People who had pre-registered on the Co-WIN app were being allowed as well, encouraging them to alert colleagues. According to Dr Sajneet Kaur, who turned up to get the vaccine at Max Patparganj, the initial hesitancy is going away fast. "As soon as I got to know I could be vaccinated, I came over. For a healthcare worker who is exposed to hundreds of patients daily, this is ideal," said Kaur, who works at the Delhi government’s homeopathic department at IP Extension. OT technician Arvind of Aakash Hospital in Malviya Nagar was among those who had queued up at Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya Hospital in Khirki village, along with many anganwadi workers like Manju Jha and Vandana Mishra besides Asha workers. They felt that the vaccine will give them safety when they visit households as they have been doing through the pandemic. Fifty-nine-year-old Asha worker Binita from Tilak Nagar, who had turned up at DDU Hospital in Hari Nagar, said that her family had insisted that she take the vaccine despite apprehensions of side-effects. "Some who have taken it have complained of headache, pain or some discomfort. It is only after a few days that we would know about the efficacy of the vaccine. Despite that, I and others are here," she said. Mismanagement was alleged at some centres which led to walk-ins being turned away. Aarti, a nursing officer, and Dr Yashika Dixit from prison hospitals complained that many who were coming for the vaccine at DDU Hospital were forced to return. "I got a call to come to DDU but when I turned up, they said my name was not on the list. It was later that they agreed to let us take the vaccine," said Dr Dixit. Mata Chanan Devi Hospital was managing the large turnout well with nodal officer Ishan Sharma saying, "Last time we had over 110 people turning up for the vaccine but it looks like we will cross that figure today." The response at Janakpuri Super Speciality Hospital was also good. According to nodal officer B K Tyagi, by 2pm, over 57 people had been vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-reports-86-turnout-as-vaccine-acceptance-grows/articleshow/80429427.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Vijayawada||Sharp decline: AP saw 31% dip in temple thefts in 2020||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh has seen a sharp 31 per cent decline in temple thefts in 2020 compared to 2019, according to data released by the AP police. However, a fluctuating trend is observed in temple thefts before 2019. While there’s a raging political discussion underway about the alleged desecration of temples in the state, police data show that idol desecration account for 23 per cent of all temple-related offences. 72 per cent of temple-related offences are thefts. A total of 143 temple-related offences were registered in the state in 2020. In the last five years, the highest number of such offences were reported in 2016, a total of 207. Police officials say that most temple-related offences target jewellery and donation boxes. Temple thefts are rampant in Krishna, Guntur (rural), East Godavari and West Godavari police jurisdictions. Interstate gangs are involved in temple thefts in Krishna district, cops said. The police admitted that there was no virtual security apparatus in temples before the Antarvedi chariot burning incident. Following the incident, police conducted a security audit of 13,000 places of worship and installed 43,824 cameras. The new security features have led to a marked reduction in temple thefts, say police. The features have helped the police round up 1,635 people involved in such offences. As a pre-emptive measure, 2,979 ‘communal suspects’ from across the state have been rounded up. “The measures taken have overall helped in solving more than 180 cases which resulted in 335 arrests since September 5,” a senior police official told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sharp-decline-ap-saw-31-dip-in-temple-thefts-in-2020/articleshow/80426463.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
January 24, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Ramatheertham temple: New idols to be installed on Jan 30||Visakhapatnam: New idols of Rama, Lakshmana and Sita will be installed at the Ramatheertham temple in Vizianagaram district on January 30, said Vizianagaram SP B Raja Kumari on Saturday. The SP informed that the temple management has received the idols. The SP, the Vizianagaram district collector and other higher officials have been invited to the idol installation programme. “We will start out job by beefing up security at the temple,” the SP said. On December 29 last year, the idol at the Ramatheertham temple was vandalised. Following the incident, Parameswarappa Sthapati, a sculptor at the temple, communicated with the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) to get the new idols. An order of the new idols was officially placed with the TTD on January 9. TTD awarded the work to sculptors at Sri Venkateswara Institute of Traditional Sculpture and Architecture (SVITSA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ramatheertham-temple-new-idols-to-be-installed-on-jan-30/articleshow/80426483.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 24, 2021||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Notorious thief held for stealing three silver lions from temple chariot||VIJAYAWADA: The special investigation team (SIT) along with the city police arrested 49-year-old Jakkampudi Saibaba for allegedly stealing three lion statues made of silver from the chariot at Kanaka Durga temple on September 16. Speaking to the media on Saturday, Vijayawada city police commissioner Bathini Srinivasulu said that the accused was arrested from Gollavani Tippa village of Bhimavaram mandal in West Godavari district. Police said that the accused is a habitual offender who had served jail terms in 2008 and 2011 and has been involved in nearly 20 such offences. According to the police commissioner, the accused, Saibaba, visited the temple posing as a trash collector. He was carrying two iron rods and other tools and uprooted the three lion statues from the chariot situated near Mahamandapam at around 9pm. However, he couldn’t remove the fourth idol and decided to leave it as it is and fled the spot. The accused then melted the idols and sold them to a 39-year-old jeweller named Muttha Kamalesh. Police found a clue about Kamalesh from West Godavari police which led them to Saibaba. Both Saibaba and Kamalesh have been taken into custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/notorious-thief-held-for-stealing-3-silver-lions-from-temple-chariot/articleshow/80426495.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Vijayawada||AP: Vidya Vahini initiative finds many takers||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh Non-Resident Telugu Society (APNRTS) run Vidya Vahini initiative is witnessing a growth in response. The Vidya Vahini initiative is aimed at supporting students aspiring to study in overseas universities with information about admission processes, scholarships, career recommendations, visa processes, pre and post arrival services and IELTS, PTE, TOEFL and GRE training. APNRTS has conducted 131 awareness programmes across 80 colleges about the initiative which has seen 1,880 participants. Among those who applied, 38 students have received scholarships, 13 students have already received their visas and visas of 68 students are in process. APNRTS officials said that around 27 renowned universities, predominantly from the US, visited their office. “We are looking for more aspirants. The entire counselling and training process is handed out free of cost. Expenses like application fees, visa processing and university fees have to be borne by the applicant,” a senior APNRTS official told TOI. Meanwhile, another programme run by APNRTS — the Global Placements Program — has placed 52 teachers in district schools across USA. APNRTS officials said that 10 placement drives were conducted for graduates and 273 attendees were placed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vidya-vahini-initiative-finds-many-takers/articleshow/80426508.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
January 24, 2021||Vijayawada||AP: Court reprimands cops for false rape allegation||VIJAYAWADA: Highlighting a gaffe made by Tadepalli police, the Mangalagiri sessions court judge on Saturday expressed shock after finding five Telugu Nadu Students Federation (TNSF) activists, who were arrested for allegedly trying to lay siege to the CM’s residence, falsely accused of rape in the remand report. While through most of the remand report the reason for the arrest was stated as ‘unlawful assembly’ near the CM’s residence, the concluding part of the report reads: “I request the honourable court to grant 14 days (about 2 weeks) judicial custody to accused under section 143, 188, 290, 353 r/w 149 IPC and section 51 (b) DM Act, 2005, section 3 of Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 and section 32 Police Act of Tadepalli police station as he attempted to rape the complainant by using criminal force, that enables me to investigate the case further.” Shocked at the mention of rape, the judge questioned the police about how they could mention such an unrelated allegation against the accused students. Police said that they would revise the remand report and submit a fresh one immediately. The five accused were sent on 14-day judicial remand based on the fresh remand report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/court-reprimands-cops-for-false-rape-allegation/articleshow/80426526.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
January 24, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Asha worker suffers stroke three days after receiving vaccine in AP's Guntur district||VISAKHAPATNAM: An accredited social health activist (Asha) worker, Vijaya Lakshmi, suffered a brain stroke in Guntur district on Friday and is battling for life. Incidentally, she had received Covid-19 vaccine shot on January 19, three days before she suffered the stroke. Her family members have alleged that the vaccine may have triggered the brain stroke. They also said that she developed fever and seizures soon after receiving the vaccination. Lakshmi, who works at Penumaka village in Tadepalli mandal of Guntur district, has been admitted at government general hospital in Guntur. Health authorities, however, said the incident has nothing to do with the vaccination. GGH Guntur superintendent Dr G Prabhavati said the patient has suffered a brain stem stroke. “We carried out all radiographic and laboratory investigations after she was brought to the hospital on Friday. Her stroke is not related to Covid-19 vaccine. She is currently being treated in the stroke unit of nurology dpartment. She is otherwise doing fine,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/asha-worker-suffers-stroke-three-days-after-receiving-vaccine/articleshow/80426531.cms||---
January 24, 2021||World||In Senate deal, Trump trial put off until February 8||Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer struck a deal with Republican leader Mitch McConnell that puts off former President Trump’s impeachment trial for two weeks, allowing the chamber to forge ahead with confirmation votes on President Biden’s cabinet picks. The House’s single article of impeachment — “inciting an insurrection” by stoking a mob into storming the Capitol — will be ceremoniously delivered on Monday to the Senate chamber, and read aloud.  But House Democratic impeachment managers and Trump’s defence team then have until the week of February 8 to draft opposing briefs. The deal for this deferred timetable resolves one of Biden’s main challenges — providing days in-between to potentially fill the president’s cabinet and begin work on his Covid-relief plan. It also reflects a compromise with McConnell, who urged setting a timetable that would have pre-trial arguments filed by February 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/in-senate-deal-trump-trial-put-off-until-february-8/articleshow/80429442.cms||---
January 24, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Farmers’ Republic Day tractor rally to have tableaus from 11 states||GURUGRAM: Farmers protesting at Jaisinghpur Khera have decided to bring out tableaus with separate themes for each state as part of the tractor parade on January 26. Called “dhupris” — a Rajasthani term for tableaus — the makeshift structures would be designed on tractors and depict the struggle being faced by farmers in 11 participating states. For instance, the tableau of farmers from Himachal Pradesh will depict the problems of apple growers while that of Maharashtra will say why the rate of farmer suicides is so high there. The theme for the tableau being built by protesters from Punjab is sacrifice. As many as 5,000 tractor-trolleys from Punjab, Rajasthan and Haryana are expected to reach Jaisinghpur Khera by Monday and take part in the protest march on Republic Day. Delhi Police have given the farmers the permission to bring out the parade on Outer Ring Road and the tableaus will only give a symbolic push to their protest against the three agriculture laws. Amra Ram, a farmer who has been camping at the Rajasthan-Haryana border since December 13, said preparations for the tractor parade were going on in full swing. “We have invited farmers from 11 states to join the tractor rally. Just like the Centre does on Republic Day, the farmers from each state participating in our march will design their own tableau,” he added. Repeated rounds of talks between the Centre and the farmers’ representatives have failed to end the stalemate. While the farmers have rejected the government’s offer to keep the three laws on hold for 18 months, the Centre has said this is the best proposal it had. At Jaisinghpur Khera, the protesters have also formed a separate committee to look into the arrangements of the tableaus and their themes. Pawan Duggal, who is heading the committee, said each state would come up with an innovative theme. “Farmers from Himachal Pradesh will also participate in the rally. They will depict the problems being faced by apple growers in the absence of a proper market. Similarly, farmers from Maharashtra will try to portray why the number of suicides is so high among peasants there. Punjab, meanwhile, will show sacrifice,” he added. The protesters will hold a meeting on Sunday to decide the route they would take to reach the Outer Ring Road in Delhi. This time, a number of tractor rallies would be led by women, who have been undergoing rigorous training to drive tractors. Yogendra Yadav, who is spearheading the agitation at Jaisinghpur Khera, said several farmers’ groups from Punjab, Rajasthan and Maharashtra had started their journey for the protest site on the Rajasthan-Haryana border. Rally rehearsalIn Nuh, farmers conducted a rehearsal of the tractor parade. More than 1,000 farmers in over 300 tractors and 200 other vehicles hit the streets of Punhana in the morning and marched towards the Sunhera-Jurehra protest site near the Haryana-Rajasthan border. Residents of neighbouring Rajasthan villages of Alwar, Palwal, and Faridabad soon joined the bandwagon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/farmers-republic-day-tractor-rally-to-have-tableaus-from-11-states/articleshow/80428684.cms||Shahnawaz Alam
January 24, 2021||Surat||Narcotics worth Rs 35L seized, three arrested||Surat: The Surat city crime branch sleuths on Saturday arrested three persons in two separate cases with narcotics including MD drug and ganja, total worth Rs 35 lakh. Last year in September the city police had busted one of the biggest synthetic drug racket from Surat and seized MD drugs worth Rs 1 crore. In the present case, the police arrested Abdulkadar Dobiwala (45) and his son Usmangani alias Salman (23), for allegedly possessing and selling MD drug. They seized 133 gram of the contraband worth Rs 13.30 lakh from the accused. Investigation revealed that the accused used to sell the drugs in small quantities and used code words to identify the buyer. “The accused used to bring the synthetic drugs from Mumbai for sale in Surat. This is the first catch of this year,” city police commissioner Ajay Tomar told TOI. The accused sold the drugs in pouches of one gram. The accused used to call the buyer at a specific location and after keeping watch him for a while, would approach him to hand over the drugs. Both the accused are unemployed and sold drugs to make quick money, police said. In another seizure, 220 kg of gang worth Rs 22 lakh was seized from a truck in Varachha area. Based on specific information, police detained the truck and seized the banned material. The ganja was brought from Mumbai. Police arrested Chandrasinh Pratapsinh Sisodiya (29), owner of the truck, who also used to drive it. The accused used to hide the ganja with other goods in the truck. “The ganja was brought originally from Odisha to Mumbai and then brought to the city,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/narcotics-worth-rs-35l-seized-three-arrested/articleshow/80426444.cms||---
