January 25, 2021||Goa||Knew I could combine well with Clayvin at Churchill, says Majcen||Churchill Brothers FC have found a perfect striking duo in Clayvin Zuniga and Luka Majcen. They have scored all six goals after three matches to put them on top of the I-League table. On Monday, the focus will be again on the attacking duo when they face newcomers Sudeva Delhi FC at the Mohun Bagan ground in Kolkata. Clayvin announced his arrival with a hat-trick against Indian Arrows in the opening game, while Luka also scored a brace. After a goalless draw against Mohammedan SC, it was Clayvin’s winner that helped Churchill secure a solitary goal win over Punjab FC. While many have been surprised at their success rate, Luka knew he could strike a good partnership with the Honduras forward. “Before I came to India, I already watched his (Clayvin’s) highlights and knew we will get together on the pitch and it’s been like this from the first day. We both know that and try to improve and help each other,” Luka told TOI in an online interaction on Sunday. Churchill have played an attacking style of play, influenced by their new head coach Ferrando Varela. It has given his strikers a lot of space to operate and Luka knows they can only get better. “Of course, I would have liked to score in the second and third game. I’ll try to concentrate more on the next match. Important thing is to work hard and get three points. It’s better that the striker has chances to score. So far, it’s been good,” said Luka. Churchill are top of the table with seven points but are not taking their opponents lightly. “Sudeva are a decent team and they have a young squad that can keep us on our toes. However, we are confident in our abilities and experience,” said Varela. Varela praised the mentality of his side during pre-season and knows they have to be consistent to challenge for the club’s third title. “I-League is very tough, and all players are pushing, not only the 11, but even on the bench, to change the game. All players are important, not just the 11. I will try to use them all and help them grow,” said Varela. Placed sixth with four points, Sudeva have picked themselves up since the opening day defeat against Mohammedan. “Churchill are a seasoned team and it will be a challenge against them. However, we will take inspiration from our last match against Real Kashmir where we could have won,” said Sudeva’s assistant coach Pushpender Kundu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/knew-i-could-combine-well-with-clayvin-at-churchill-says-majcen/articleshow/80438379.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
January 25, 2021||World||Israel opens embassy in UAE, expanding new relations||JERUSALEM: Israel on Sunday said it has opened its embassy in the United Arab Emirates, following through on last year's US-brokered agreement to establish full diplomatic ties with the Gulf country. Israel's Foreign Ministry said the embassy would be in a temporary office while a permanent location is prepared. Eitan Na'eh, a veteran Israeli diplomat, will serve as the head of mission. Foreign Minister Gabi Ashkenazi said the opening of the new embassy would allow the broadening of what already are warm ties between Israel and the UAE. Since formally establishing ties in September, the two countries have already established direct flights and exchanged numerous trade delegations, while thousands of Israeli tourists have visited the UAE. The UAE was the first of four Arab countries to establish or renew ties with Israel under a series of agreements brokered by the Trump administration. The Foreign Ministry said Israel would soon open an interest section in Morocco and a consulate in Dubai. It also said an embassy in Bahrain has been operating for several weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/israel-opens-embassy-in-uae-expanding-new-relations/articleshow/80438378.cms||---
January 25, 2021||World||UK PM first European leader to get call from Joe Biden||London: UK prime minister Boris Johnson is believed to be the first world leader outside North America and the third leader in the world to get a call from the new US president Joe Biden, in what is seen as a significant boost to UK-US relations post Brexit. The two leaders spoke on Saturday and vowed to deepen the special relationship between the US and Britain and drive a green and sustainable recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic. They also discussed the benefits of a potential free trade deal between the two countries and the need for coordination on shared foreign policy priorities, including China, Iran, and Russia. The call to the UK prime minister follows Biden’s first two calls after entering the White House which he made to Canadian PM Justin Trudeau and Mexican president Andrés Manuel López Obrador on Friday. This makes Johnson the first leader outside North America to get the coveted phone call — ahead of the likes of German chancellor Angela Merkel and Irish PM Mícheál Martin. Biden has Irish roots. In its readout of the call, the White House has said the US president conveyed his intention to strengthen the special relationship between the two countries and revitalise transatlantic ties, underscoring the critical role of NATO to the UK and USA’s collective defence and shared values. Biden noted the importance of cooperation, including through multilateral organisations, on shared challenges such as combating climate change, containing COVID-19, and ensuring global health security. Johnson tweeted a photo of the call in which he is wearing an open-neck shirt, with his sleeves rolled up, looking relaxed and jovial, standing up in his office at 10 Downing Street chatting to Biden. His tweet said: “Great to speak to President @JoeBiden this evening. I look forward to deepening the longstanding alliance between our two countries as we drive a green and sustainable recovery from COVID-19.” Former US president Donald Trump had relegated former UK prime minister Theresa May to 11th in the list of world leaders he rang following his election victory in November 2016. A Downing Street spokesperson said: “The Prime Minister congratulated the President on his inauguration and the two leaders noted the significant challenges facing the world during the pandemic, but also the unparalleled opportunities to build back better and greener together”. The UK prime minister praised Biden’s early action on tackling climate change and commitment to reach Net Zero by 2050. “The Prime Minister warmly welcomed the President’s decision to re-join the Paris Agreement on climate change, as well as the World Health Organization and the COVAX programme to ensure equitable access for vaccines,” Number 10 said. Building on their country’s long history of cooperation in security and defence, the leaders re-committed to the NATO alliance and their shared values in promoting human rights and protecting democracy. “They also discussed the benefits of a potential free trade deal between our two countries, and the Prime Minister reiterated his intention to resolve existing trade issues as soon as possible,” Downing Street added. Both leaders said they looked forward to meeting in person as soon as the circumstances allow, and closely working together through the G7, G20 and United Nations climate change conference, COP26. Indian PM Narendra Modi will be attending the G7 summit in Carbis Bay, Cornwall in Britain from 11 to 13 June. The UK will host the COP26 Summit in Glasgow in November, which follows on from the G20 summit in Rome at the end of October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-pm-first-european-leader-to-get-call-from-joe-biden/articleshow/80438587.cms||NAOMI CANTON
January 25, 2021||India||Soldier injured in Pak firing succumbs||JAMMU: An Army non-commissioned officer, who was critically injured in a ceasefire violation by Pakistan in J&K’s Rajouri on January 18, succumbed on Sunday at the Udhampur Command Hospital. This is India’s third casualty along the Line of Control (LoC) since January 1. NCO Naik Nishant Sharma of 10 Jammu and Kashmir Rifles was a native of Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur district and is survived by his parents and wife, said official sources. Udhampur-based defence spokesperson Lt Col Abhinav Navneet said, “Naik Nishant Sharma was a brave, highly motivated and sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty.” On January 21, Havaldar Nirmal Singh was killed in a similar breach of truce by Pakistan in Poonch district while on January 1, Naib Subedar Ravinder died during another cross-border fire exchange Rajouri’s Nowshera sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/soldier-injured-in-pak-firing-succumbs/articleshow/80438969.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
January 25, 2021||World||SpaceX launches 143 satellites, breaks world space record||MUMBAI: Nearly a fortnight after Elon Musk’s Tesla entered India on January 8, his SpaceX on Sunday night broke a world space record by launching 143 satellites in quick succession, beating India’s record of deploying 104 satellites in February 2017. The launch vehicle for the SpaceX record-breaking flight was the Falcon 9 and the mission was designated as Transporter-1. The lift-off at Cape Canaveral in Florida was at 8.31pm IST. At one point, the rocket flew over India and its signal was picked up by Isro’s Telemetry, Tracking and Command Network at Bengaluru. The launch marks the first dedicated mission for SpaceX’s SmallSat Rideshare Program, which enables small-satellite customers to book a ride to orbit with SpaceX directly. The 143 satellites launched on Sunday included commercial and government CubeSats, microsats, what are known as orbiter transfer vehicles and 10 Starlink satellites — the maximum number of spacecraft ever to be deployed in a single mission. This batch of Starlink satellites was the first in the constellation to be placed in the polar orbit. The nearly 90-minute deployment sequence of the satellites having different roles was nail-biting because they separated in a span of a few seconds and a minute. Onboard was also a spacecraft belonging to Nasa. With these satellites, SpaceX aims to provide near-global broadband internet coverage all over the world by 2021. About 10 minutes after lift-off, SpaceX recovered the first stage once again on the “Of Course I Still Love You” drone ship stationed in the Atlantic Ocean. Then, about an hour after liftoff, the payloads started deploying over the course of about 90 minutes. According to sources, SpaceX offered a very low price of $15,000 per kilogram for each satellite to be delivered to a polar sun-synchronous orbit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/spacex-launches-143-satellites-breaks-world-space-record/articleshow/80438989.cms||Srinivas Laxman
January 25, 2021||Delhi||#CoronaImpact: Following safety norms, tableaux artistes are all set for Republic Day||With regular sanitisation, social distancing, mandatory COVID test and other safety norms in place, this year is a different experience for tableaux artistes, who have come from different parts of India to participate in the Republic Day parade. But the artistes tell us that the pandemic can’t kill their excitement or deter their spirits. Four days before the parade ceremony, these artistes assembled in their costumes at Rashtriya Rangshala Camp, the day when the tableaux were unveiled. This year, 32 tableaux will be a part of the parade. Safety first: COVID tests were done and following all pandemic protocols, artistes, in costumes, attended a media preview where the tableaux were unveiledFewer artistes at each tableau this yearKeeping COVID-19 safety norms in mind, there would be only 12 performers at each tableau tomorrow. “In the past, we have come here with 25-35 performers, but this time we had to select 12 performers. For those who have been here in the past and could not come this time, it was very sad, as for all of us this is the biggest festival of the year and nothing matters more to us than this. As a performer, this is the best platform that we can get with the entire nation watching us. I have been here in the past and I think I am fortunate that despite so many restrictions this year, I still got a chance to be here,” said Rikhhi Chhatri, a performer from Chhattisgarh. ‘Fought with my family to be here’The tableau from Ladakh will make its debut at the parade this year. With ‘Vision of the future’ as its theme, it focuses on green Ladakh and also presents Ladakh’s art and architecture, customs, costumes, fairs and festivals, craft and music. Most Ladakh artistes say that this is their first visit to Delhi and they couldn’t be happier as they got a chance to be a part of a prestigious event. “When I was told that I was selected to come to Delhi, I was so proud of myself, but my family was afraid. They told me not to go during the pandemic. I told them that if I have got a chance to represent Ladakh at such a prestigious event, there’s no way I would miss it. So I fought with my family members and came here,” Dihkit Palmo, a folk dancer from Ladakh, told us. Artistes consider themselves to be fortunate to be a part of R-Day parade amid the pandemic‘We are very careful about our safety’Like Dihkit, many artistes faced resistance from families and despite that decided to participate in R-Day parade. “We are following social distancing norms, wearing masks at all times, we went for COVID test before we came to Delhi and went for the test again when we reached here. We all are united in celebrations, but we are very careful about following safety norms,” said Neelam Kumari, a performer from Uttarakhand. “We have to start our lives, take precautions and be safe – this is what I told my family members when I told them about coming here,” added Choipha Boham from Arunachal Pradesh. Watch Here's a look at tableaux that will be a part of the Republic Day parade||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/coronaimpact-following-safety-norms-tableaux-artistes-are-all-set-for-republic-day/articleshow/80434005.cms||Divya Kaushik
January 25, 2021||India||Trials to let you vote from any centre soon||NEW DELHI: Remote voting, or allowing a voter to cast her franchise from any polling station in the country and not just the polling station or constituency where she is registered, is among the key future initiatives that the Election Commission is working on, chief election commissioner Sunil Arora said on Sunday and added that mock trials of the project would begin soon. Sharing an “important dimension of the vision of Election Commission of India for future electoral processes”, Arora in a public broadcast on the eve of National Voters’ Day, observed on January 25 each year to mark the foundation day of the EC, said, “We have already started a research project on remote voting, using cutting edge technology, with IIT-Madras and other institutions and it has made good progress. Mock trials of this project will begin soon.” In each election, thousands of voters have to forego their right to vote on account of a geographical barrier. By virtue of occupation, education, medical treatment or other reasons, there have been instances of current residence of such electors being different from the place of registration in electoral rolls. Remote voting marks a departure from the conventional polling station, which is currently tied to a geographic location. The remote voting project aspires to enable voters residing in remote locations, away from their designated polling stations, to cast their ballot in a secured fashion. The EC is also looking to extend postal ballot facility to overseas voters, who currently need to be physically present at their respective polling stations in the country to be able to vote. Arora said the EC’s proposal in this regard was being considered by the law ministry. Underlining the high voter turnout in Bihar polls last year despite the Covid-19 pandemic, Arora called upon voters of four states and one Union Territory due for assembly polls in April to “come out to vote in large numbers without any fear, inducement or influence of any type”. “We also hope that you will make effective use of the C-Vigil app launched by the commission as a pilot project in 2018 and extended to the entire country in Lok Sabha elections 2019. It has over a period of time emerged as the most powerful and effective tool for citizen empowerment. We also assure you that we will make all-out arrangements to ensure that the entire voting process and premises are completely sanitised as well as safe for the exercise of your franchise,” he said. Talking of new EC initiatives, Arora said the e-EPIC card would be launched on Monday “for all our young, newly-enrolled voters to make the process of electoral registration easier and digital”. He added that ‘Hello Voters’, the EC’s web radio, will help to further strengthen the commission’s engagement with voters. “In the days to come, this will emerge as the nerve-centre of voter awareness, information sharing, stories from our unsung heroes and election warriors,” the CEC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trials-to-let-you-vote-from-any-centre-soon/articleshow/80439278.cms||Bharti Jain
January 25, 2021||India||India again asks China for 'complete disengagement, de-escalation' in Ladakh||NEW DELHI: India on Sunday once again asked China for 'complete disengagement and de-escalation' at all the face-off sites in eastern Ladakh, amidst a deepening trust deficit due to the continuing consolidation of military positions by the Chinese Army all along the frontier. Sources said India pushed for the finalization of 'a workable and sequential' roadmap for disengagement, de-escalation and de-induction, with a joint verification mechanism, while restoring status quo ante at the “friction points”in Pangong Tso, Chushul and Gogra-Hotsprings areas as the first step. There was, however, no immediate official word on the outcome of the ninth round of military talks between the delegations led by 14 Corps commander Lt-General P G K Menon and South Xinjiang Military District chief Major General Liu Lin. The meeting, which began on the Chinese side of the Chushul-Moldo border meeting point at 11 am on Sunday, continued till 2.30 am on Monday. Read AlsoChina starts smear campaign against India’s vaccine diplomacyIndia has gifted the Covishield vaccine manufactured locally by Serum Institute of India to all Saarc countries except Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Pakistan. Not surprisingly, Global Times has reacted with a propaganda campaign against India’s ‘Vaccine Maitri’ initiative, raising questions about“With hardened positions on both sides, any tangible breakthrough might be unlikely at this stage. The two delegations will now go to their respective political hierarchies for further directions on the proposals and counter-proposals exchanged during the talks,” said a source. The Indian defence establishment is wary that China has no real intentions of a pullback of troops, tanks and howitzers from the frontlines, given the way it has consolidated its military positions and upgraded its infrastructure all along the 3,488-km Line of Actual Control (LAC) after the Ladakh confrontation erupted in early-May. The People's Liberation Army (PLA) has assiduously built new roads and lateral links, surface-to-air missile positions and helipads in different sectors stretching from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh, while also establishing civilian settlements in “disputed but occupied areas” in the eastern sector, as reported by TOI earlier. “But talks are important to maintain the calm at the frontlines,” said a source. China has been demanding the proposed disengagement should begin from the south bank of Pangong Tso-Chushul area, where Indian troops occupied tactically advantageous positions on the ridge line stretching from Thakung to Gurung Hill, Spanggur Gap, Magar Hill, Mukhpari, Rezang La and Reqin La (Rechin mountain pass) on August 28-30. But with these Kailash range inChushul sector providing India with some leverage in the negotiations, India has been pressing for “a simultaneous whole of eastern Ladakh” approach for the mutual disengagement. This will include the PLA vacating the 8-km stretch it has occupied from 'Finger 4 to 8' (mountainous spurs) on the north bank of Pangong Tso since early-May. With its long-standing Dhan Singh Thapa post between Finger-2 and Finger-3, Indian Army has rejected the PLA's proposal to convert the entire 'Finger area' into a no-patrol zone. As per India, the LAC runs north to south at Finger-8, even though the current face-off is on the Finger-4 spur. “The resources with the PLA are simply staggering. With roads leading right till the LAC, the PLA can swiftly move more forces and firepower to the forward areas in the summer. India will now willy-nilly have to treat the LAC just like the Line of Control with Pakistan, with permanent deployments and posts,” said an officer. As reported earlier by TOI, the new as well as reinforced PLA military positions are spread from opposite the Daulat Beg Oldie-Depsang, Chushul and Demchok areas in eastern Ladakh, Kaurik Pass in Himachal Pradesh and Barahoti Plains in Uttarakhand to north Doklam near the Sikkim-Bhutan-Tibet tri-junction and the Asaphila and “Fish Tail” areas in Arunachal Pradesh. Moreover, additional facilities have also been constructed at the Chinese airbases facing India like Hotan, Kashgar, Gargunsa (Ngari Gunsa), Lhasa-Gonggar and Shigatse, which includes underground hangers and parking bays for fighters by digging tunnels into mountains in some areas. Watch LAC standoff: India again asks China for 'complete disengagement, de-escalation' in Ladakh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-again-asks-china-for-complete-disengagement-de-escalation-in-ladakh/articleshow/80439732.cms||Rajat Pandit
January 25, 2021||India||Spa worker fights cops for dignity, approaches Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: An Indonesian spa therapist working in Chennai, who was granted a compensation of Rs 2.5 lakh by the Madras high court for her illegal detention in a women’s home following a police raid at the spa, has now moved the Supreme Court challenging a subsequent HC order providing relief to the police inspector involved in the action. The HC had ordered TN government to recover the compensation amount from the salary of the inspector in monthly instalments. Later, a division bench stayed the deductions. For years, spa owners, female therapists and masseuses have worked under the constant fear of raids by police, who routinely invoke the Suppression of Immoral Traffic in Women and Children Act to send female workers to women’s homes while accusing spas of indulging in flesh trade. A similar raid was conducted by a Chennai police team led by inspector K Natarajan in October 2018 in which several female workers at a spa were detained. One of them was a therapist from Indonesia, Kadek Dwi Ani Rasmini, who had a valid degree, work visa and was an income tax payee in India. She was forced to spend 26 days in a women's home before being released on the intervention of the Indonesian embassy. And she has not taken this ignominy and harassment lying down. Rasmini moved the Madras high court questioning the ulterior motive behind the raid and alleged that it was because of the inspector wreaking vengeance for his constant run-ins with the spa owner. She alleged that her detention was without any reason and evidence. She demanded Rs 10 lakh as compensation for the illegal detention, loss of personal reputation, harassment and mental agony. A single judge bench of the Madras HC gave a stinging order, termed the police action illegal and attempted to restore the dignity at workplace for female workers at spas. It ordered the Tamil Nadu government to pay Rasmini a compensation of Rs 2.5 lakh through the Indonesian embassy and directed the state to recover the amount from the police inspector in equal instalments. Justice Anand Venkatesh said, “The petitioner came into this country with the fond hope that her services will be used as a massage therapist and that she will be adequately compensated. She could not have thought even in the remotest of her dreams that she would be confined at a home by the police for 26 days. The petitioner has undergone a horrific experience at the hands of the first respondent (Natarajan), and I am sure that she will have a very bad impression about this country and its system." After 286 days of the judgment, that is much after the 90-day limitation period, the police inspector filed an appeal against the judgment so far as it directed recovery of Rs 2.5 lakh, the compensation awarded to Rasmini, from his salary. He did not challenge quashing of the criminal case registered after the raid on the spa. A division bench agreed to condone the huge delay, entertained the appeal and ordered a stay on further deduction of equated monthly instalments from the inspector’s salary. Rasmini, however, was not ready to give up. She moved the Supreme Court, challenging the division bench’s decision to entertain the inspector’s appeal despite the inexplicable and enormous delay. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari issued notice to the police inspector on Friday and asked him to respond within three weeks. What the single judge bench of the HC said rings a bell about the general attitude of police towards spas. “Police have no legal right to prevent a health spa being operated by anyone even if the therapy is done by persons of one sex to those belonging to the opposite sex. A health spa providing cross-gender massages is a worldwide phenomenon and there is no legal prohibition except, to borrow the wordings of the Supreme Court, the majoritarian impulses rooted in moralistic tradition which is attempting to impinge upon individual autonomy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/spa-worker-fights-cops-for-dignity-approaches-sc/articleshow/80440104.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 25, 2021||India||Tractor rally to run routes from Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur||NEW DELHI: Granting a formal nod to protesting farmers to hold the tractor rally or ‘Kisan Gantantra Parade’ in the city on January 26, Delhi Police commissioner S N Shrivastava on Sunday asked his officers and central reserve police personnel deployed for Republic Day Parade security to remain “ready to move at short notice to handle any law and order situation” arising out of the tractor rally. Police have chalked out three elaborate routes for the rally, which will begin, just after the Republic Day Parade concludes, from three city border points at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur and later return to the originating points. Around 12,000 tractors were seen at the borders on Sunday, but the final figure for the rally would be available by Monday evening, cops said. Delhi Police, who have also spoken to their Haryana and UP counterparts about the rally, will not only oversee law and order during it to ensure it is “peaceful”, but will also provide security to it so that “mischievous elements” can’t infiltrate it and cause unrest. From Singhu, the rally will pass through Kanjhawala, Bawana, Auchandi border, KMP Expressway before returning (62km). From Tikri border, it will go to Nagloi and pass through Najafgarh and Western Peripheral Expressway (62km). From Ghazipur border, the rally will head for 56-foot road, Apsara border, Hapur and then return while passing through KMP/Western Peripheral Expressway (46km), Delhi Police spokesperson and special commissioner (intelligence) Dependra Pathak said. “We have shared with the farm unions a list of arrangements we need to make to ensure the event is peaceful. We conveyed to them how the Republic Day is a day of national pride and so there shouldn’t be any hindrance to the main parade,” Pathak said. “We will continue to talk to teh unions to ensure the rally is held under secure circumstances,” he added. “Farm volunteers will work with us to guarantee security arrangements. This will be a challenging task, but details/arrangements are being made for the same, including area security checks, deployment and medical emergencies,” special CP Pathak said. “We have full faith in our farmers and are hopeful the arrangements will be according to our dialogues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tractor-rally-to-run-routes-from-singhu-tikri-ghazipur/articleshow/80440204.cms||Raj Shekhar
January 25, 2021||India||Sex harassment cases of opposition leaders: Kerala wants CBI probe||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala’s LDF government has referred to the CBI sexual harassment cases filed against five Congress leaders, including former chief minister Oommen Chandy and AICC general secretary K C Venugopal, and BJP national vice-president A P Abdullakutty, based on complaints from the prime accused in the solar scam. The decision to transfer the cases registered by the crime branch 27 months ago was taken in the cabinet meeting last week and notified as an extraordinary gazette on Saturday. The order notified six crime cases registered by the crime branch CID in 2018 and conveyed consent under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act so that the CBI can probe these cases in the state. The state government had, in the first week of November last year, withdrawn general consent for a CBI probe in the state. The CBI can probe only those cases referred by the government or ordered by the courts in the state now. Besides Chandy, Venugopal and Adullakutty, the cases referred are those against MPs Adoor Prakash and Hibi Eden, and former minister and MLA A P Anilkumar. Though the complainant had levelled harassment allegations against 10 more leaders, including former MP and new LDF ally Jose K Mani, the crime branch hasn’t registered FIRs against them. The detailed statements of the complainant have been recorded only in these six cases. Welcoming the CBI probe, the complainant said she stood by her allegations against all leaders, including Jose K Mani, and hoped that the CBI would nail the culprits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sex-harassment-cases-of-opposition-leaders-kerala-wants-cbi-probe/articleshow/80440457.cms||---
January 25, 2021||India||Not sex assault if there’s no skin-to-skin contact: Bombay HC||MUMBAI: When there is “no direct physical contact — skin to skin with sexual intent, without penetration,” it would not amount to ‘sexual assault’ under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, Bombay high court held while acquitting a 39-year-old man who had been sentenced to three years’ imprisonment under section 8 of the Act by a trial court for pressing the breasts of a minor. Justice Pushpa Ganediwala of Nagpur bench of the HC said “stricter proof and serious allegations are required’’ given the stringent punishment of three to five years’ imprisonment that ‘sexual assault’ under the Pocso Act entails. “Evidently, it is not the case of the prosecution that the appellant removed her top and pressed her breast,” said Justice Ganediwala adding, “The act of pressing of breast of the child aged 12 years, in the absence of any specific detail as to whether the top was removed or whether he inserted his hand inside the top and pressed her breast, would not fall in the definition of ‘sexual assault’”. Read AlsoWhy Bombay HC's 'sexual assault under POCSO needs skin-to-skin contact' observation is deeply problematicTo think that the victim, who is a child in this case, had to see her experience diminished and trivialised by the very court and law that is meant to ensure her protection, is disturbing on many levelsBut it would attract punishment for molestation under Section 354 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), said the HC, and convicted him for the “minor offence”. He was sentenced to one year in jail. The HC said the issue before it was whether ‘pressing of breast’ and ‘attempt to remove salwar’ would fall within the definition of ‘sexual assault’ as defined under Section 7 and punishable under Section 8 of the Pocso Act. While public prosecutor MJ Khan argued the offence fell within the definition of ‘sexual assault’, the HC held it was “not possible to accept’’ the prosecutor’s submission. The court said the “basic principle of criminal jurisprudence is that punishment shall be proportional to seriousness of crime”. The trial court in Nagpur had last February sentenced the man under section 8 of the Pocso Act and under section 354 IPC (assault or criminal force with intent to outrage a woman’s modesty). The man had appealed his conviction. The girl had testified that she was lured on a false pretext by the accused to his house. She said he had tried to remove her salwar and had pressed her breast. She tried to shout, but he covered her mouth and left the room after bolting the door from outside. Her mother went to his house while looking for her. She had seen the accused leave, and on reaching the first floor found the door bolted from outside and her daughter crying inside. She then went to the police station along with her daughter to lodge an FIR, noted the HC. The man was on bail. The HC issued a non-bailable warrant against him and said all his other sentences shall run concurrently and he would be entitled for a set-off of term undergone in custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/not-sex-assault-if-theres-no-skin-to-skin-contact-bombay-hc/articleshow/80440473.cms||---
January 25, 2021||India||Pregnant after 'sterilisation', mom of 6 to get over Rs 3 lakh in relief||AHMEDABAD: If a pregnancy after a failed sterilisation procedure wasn’t enough, a mother of five from Gujarat’s Gandhinagar district was not offered timely abortion too, resulting in the birth of a disabled sixth child. A court recently ordered authorities to pay her around Rs 3.4 lakh compensation with interest, besides Rs 1,500 monthly maintenance till the child turns 18. The woman, a resident of Kalol’s Sherisa village, will also get Rs 10,000 towards mental agony and Rs 5,000 for legal expenses. The amount will be paid with 6% interest by the health officer of the primary health centre, district health officer, health commissioner and district collector. In February 2007, Premila Thakor opted for a sterilisation operation. To her dismay, however, she conceived for the sixth time. She approached the Hajipur PHC for an abortion but was redirected to a private facility which sought Rs 9,000 for terminating the pregnancy. Unable to afford the fee, she gave birth to a son with disability. She sued the medical officer at Hajipur PHC, the district health officer, health commissioner and district collector along with an insurance company that was liable to pay Rs 30,000 in case of failed sterilisation. Premila told the court that because of the pregnancy, she had to suffer mental stress and physical pain, and demanded Rs 1,500 monthly maintenance to raise her son till he turns 18, besides Rs 5 lakh compensation towards doctors’ negligence. The court refused to believe authorities’ claim that the pregnancy was at an advanced stage. It added that the disabled child wouldn’t have been born if the defendants had terminated the unwanted pregnancy timely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pregnant-after-sterilisation-mom-of-6-to-get-over-rs-3-lakh-in-relief/articleshow/80440599.cms||Saeed Khan
January 25, 2021||India||Two decades after his death, tax officer cleared in graft case||MUMBAI: A sales tax officer, dead for almost two decades, has 25 years after his conviction been acquitted in a corruption and refunds conspiracy case of 1985. A few days ago, Bombay high court allowed his appeal against conviction. His widow and son had in 2015 stepped into his shoes to continue with the appeal filed in 1996, against the conviction, an 18 month imprisonment and Rs 26000 fine. In September 1996 a special trial court in Solapur had convicted Suresh Kagne and two other sales tax officials, relying largely on the testimony of an approver — the son of another co-accused, an oil mill owner. He had been granted pardon at the fag end of the trial after 92 of the 94 prosecution witnesses were examined, “obviously to fill up lacunae in the case,’’ said the HC in its judgmenton January 19. Kagne was tried with two other public servants and a registered ‘dealer’ of an oil extraction business and his son. The charges included conspiracy to making and securing a false claim of refund of sales tax, admissible to those engaged in business of extracting oil from oilseeds and ‘tel ghanis’ (mini oil mills). A co-accused had granted registration to the dealer’s son. Kagne had allegedly “without following due process accepted the claims for set off ’’ of Rs 2.6 lakh, thus causing a loss to the state exchequer. The HC did not find the approver’s testimony reliable. Earlier in 2013, the HC had acquitted two of Kagne’s co-accused, also sales tax officials, while allowing their separate appeals against their conviction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/two-decades-after-his-death-tax-officer-cleared-in-graft-case/articleshow/80440604.cms||---
January 25, 2021||India||Bar councils of five states call for an SC bench in south India||HYDERABAD: In a first such move, bar councils of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala on Sunday came together and unanimously demanded a Supreme Court bench in south India. The councils said, they made the demand keeping in mind the people who end up relinquishing the idea of accessing the highest court of justice due to lack of reach and their inability to afford the costs of reaching a faraway Supreme Court. The chiefs of these bar councils deliberated on this demand at a webinar organised by the Telangana state bar council. They elected Telangana bar council chairman A Narasimha Reddy as convenor of the committee formed to achieve this goal. Though the demand for a SC bench has been there for a while, it is for the first time that top legal experts from the region have jointly vowed to fight for it. Reddy said it was incomprehensible as to why the SC is not setting up its appellate benches in four parts of the country. “The Supreme Court at Delhi can exclusively concentrate on constitutional issues while its appellate benches in the four corners would decide the appeals emanating from the high courts,” he said. The bar councils unanimously resolved to seek an appointment and meet President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, PM Narendra Modi, law minister, the Chief Justice of India, and all the judges of the Supreme Court in the coming days. The delegation will brief them about the problems faced by the people of south India, whose cases are pending at the high courts because reaching the Supreme Court is considered “impractical” in terms of affordability, the delegates said. The meeting also decried the exorbitant fees charged by advocates of the Supreme Court. This is making the top court affordable only by the rich and the corporates, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bar-councils-of-five-states-call-for-an-sc-bench-in-south-india/articleshow/80440609.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
January 25, 2021||India||Mirchi Delhi wins EC award for its campaign to vote||NEW DELHI: Mirchi 98.3 Delhi has won Election Commission of India’s prestigious National Media Award 2020 in the electronic media (radio) category for its outstanding campaign to encourage people to vote. The award, a citation and aplaque, will be conferred on Mirchi Delhi on January 25, the National Voters’ Day. The award winning campaign, “Vote Nahi Doge Toh Murga Banoge”, was initiated by Mirchi during Delhi assembly polls in 2020 and added a twist to the routine campaigns ahead of elections. It reached over 40 lakh listeners of Mirchi 98.3 and an additional 75 lakh viewers through Mirchi’s social media presence. “Mirchi enjoys unparalleled listenership and has yet again proved that it is a creativity powerhouse, delivering community messaging along with listener entertainment. For the 2020 Delhi elections, our unique “Vote Nahi Doge Toh Murga Banoge” campaign was a roaring success and we are proud to have been recognised by the Election Commission of India for our efforts,” said Shivangini Jajoria, senior business director, North, CG & Political at Mirchi. The National Media Award was announced by the Election Commission of India in October last year. As part of the programme, media houses were invited to send entries on the basis of their contributions in creating awareness about accessible elections, educating people about the electoral process and raising awareness among general public about the relevance and importance of registering to vote and voting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mirchi-delhi-wins-ec-award-for-its-campaign-to-vote/articleshow/80440611.cms||---
January 25, 2021||India||Don’t want caste, religion in certs, Gujarat man moves HC||AHMEDABAD: The auto driver who had approached the Gujarat high court seeking to be declared an atheist, has filed another petition for permission to not mention caste and religion in the certificates for all those who do not want such details mentioned. For himself, petitioner Rajveer Upadhyay (36), sought directions to the authorities to state “No Religion, No Caste” in his certificates because he does not want to notify the same. Upadhyay, who belongs to the scheduled Garo-Brahmin caste, mentioned in his petition that he has faced many troubles in life due to the discriminatory caste system. For removal of mention of religion and caste from his certificates, Upadhyay once again relied on the certificate issued to one Sneha Vellore by Tamil Nadu authorities and ratified by the Madras high court. He has also sought the removal of the mention of father/husband’s name and surname from certificates if people are not willing to mention them, contending that authorities cannot compel people to mention such details. He has urged the HC to direct concerned authorities to remove these details from his and his daughter’s certificates besides arguing that orphans and women with multiple divorces always face this problem and feel humiliated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dont-want-caste-religion-in-certs-gujarat-man-moves-hc/articleshow/80440614.cms||---
January 25, 2021||India||‘Dead’ woman, 80, fights lonely battle for pension||BAREILY: An octogenarian woman, who was mistakenly declared dead in legal documents, has been fighting a hard and lonely battle in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad district — to prove that she is alive. The woman reached out to the district administration officials during the recently held Sampoorna Samadhan Diwas and complained that she had not received the widows’ pension for two years. The woman Sharifan, 80, claimed that she had been running from pillar to post, but to no avail. Officials said that a probe has been ordered into the case. “The pension was stopped abruptly around two years ago. We made efforts to approach the officials, but nothing was done. It was later learned that her name was removed from the list of widows’ pension beneficiaries as she was declared dead,” said Shariq Ali, a relative. “I tried to meet the officials concerned. Since then, I have been struggling to get my pension,” Sharifan said. Meanwhile, Moradabad sub-divisional magistrate Prashant Tiwari said, “It has come to light that the woman was declared dead and stopped receiving her widows’ pension. It is negligence on the part of officials. Local officials have been told to rectify the error.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dead-woman-80-fights-lonely-battle-for-pension/articleshow/80440615.cms||Maria Khan
January 25, 2021||India||Dhawan’s post puts boatman in whirlpool||VARANASI: The photographs posted by Indian team cricketer and left-handed opener Shikhar Dhawan of feeding birds during a boat ride in the Ganga during his recent visit to Varanasi almost landed him in trouble since the district administration had imposed a strict ban on feeding birds due to the bird flu scare. The administration, however, gave a reprieve to Dhawan and decided to spare him, but has initiated action against the boatman, who did not stop the cricketer and did not inform him about the ban. The boatman is being identified and traced and will face action. Almost a week after the administration had imposed a ban, Dhawan had visited Kashi and fed migratory birds during a boat ride. The flouting of ban came to light when he himself uploaded pictures of his Kashi visit on his Instagram account on Friday, also including the one of feeding birds with a caption ‘Happiness is feeding birds’. When TOI contacted district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma on Sunday to know the action being initiated in this episode, he said, “Tourists are generally not aware about local issues, directives and guidelines. Apart from river police and Varanasi Municipal Corporation, the boatmen had been made accountable for ensuring strict compliance of the ban. Hence, action would be taken against the boatman.” The district administration had taken note of the incident on Saturday and the river police were asked to search the boatman, who took him on a boat ride but did not stop him from feeding birds. The boatman could not be traced till Sunday evening. Dhawan had visited Kashi and posted photos of offering prayer at Kaal Bhairav temple on January 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dhawans-post-puts-boatman-in-whirlpool/articleshow/80440616.cms||---
January 25, 2021||India||'Driving in India is a real-life videogame'||NEW DELHI: For Sunitha Dugar and her four companions who are part of a national “Safe Speed Challenge”, driving on Indian roads is nothing less than “playing a video game” in real life and one doesn’t know who will come from where on to the road. “When you are driving on the road, you should be prepared for surprises. So, it’s your responsibility to save yourself and save others. It’s actually a real video game on the road risking many lives,” said Sunita, an entrepreneur from Chennai. The five women from different walks of life are participating in the challenge that was flagged off by defence minister Rajnath Singh and road transport minister Nitin Gadkari from Wagah to Kanyakumari. Several factors, including poor infrastructure, unsafe driving, inadequate enforcement and trauma care have made Indian roads unsafe claiming 415 lives daily. Speaking to TOI, Neha Dua from Noida said, “We lack safety culture. More than speeding, speed management is the biggest challenge. You hardly find signage and road markings to help drivers”. For Chaitanya Keloth from Bengaluru, the challenges have been manoeuvring between trucks, rickshaws and cyclists etc. For Amritha Avind, another Bangalorean, the biggest challenge are people not following the traffic rules and confusing signals. Garima Avtar, the first woman who has been driving professionally for Mercedes Benz Luxe Drive since 2016, the biggest challenge is the mechanism and procedures for issuing licences. “People who are not fit to drive and don’t know the traffic guidelines properly are able to obtain driving licences. This makes our roads dangerous,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/driving-in-india-is-a-real-life-videogame/articleshow/80440617.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 25, 2021||Erode||Rahul Gandhi links China intrusion to economy||DHARAPURAM: Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said the Chinese gathered guts to intrude into the Indian territory because of a weakening economy which was the result of flawed policies of ‘weak’ PM Modi. “The Chinese understand that the man running this country is weak. They understand that the PM has destroyed the economy of India. That is why they are inside our territory,” Rahul said on Sunday at Dharapuram town in Tirupur district of Tamil Nadu. “As we speak today, thousands of Chinese troops are occupying our territory and the man with a 56-inch chest cannot even say the word China. That is the reality of our country,” he said. He spoke on similar lines earlier in the day while addressing weavers in Erode. On day two of his three-day election campaign in Tamil Nadu, Rahul focused on attacking Modi rather than the AIADMK dispensation, which he sought to replace with a government that “cannot be controlled by BJP”. Rahul said BJP’s economic policies had “dealt a severe blow to farmers, weavers, labourers and MSMEs”, who are foundation of the country. “I can tell you without doubt if the Indian economy was strong, China would have never got the guts to step into India,” Rahul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/rahul-gandhi-links-china-intrusion-to-economy/articleshow/80449583.cms||V Mayilvaganan
January 25, 2021||India||Rahul Gandhi links China intrusion to economy||DHARAPURAM: Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said the Chinese gathered guts to intrude into the Indian territory because of a weakening economy which was the result of flawed policies of ‘weak’ PM Modi. “The Chinese understand that the man running this country is weak. They understand that the PM has destroyed the economy of India. That is why they are inside our territory,” Rahul said on Sunday at Dharapuram town in Tirupur district of Tamil Nadu. “As we speak today, thousands of Chinese troops are occupying our territory and the man with a 56-inch chest cannot even say the word China. That is the reality of our country,” he said. He spoke on similar lines earlier in the day while addressing weavers in Erode. On day two of his three-day election campaign in Tamil Nadu, Rahul focused on attacking Modi rather than the AIADMK dispensation, which he sought to replace with a government that “cannot be controlled by BJP”. Rahul said BJP’s economic policies had “dealt a severe blow to farmers, weavers, labourers and MSMEs”, who are foundation of the country. “I can tell you without doubt if the Indian economy was strong, China would have never got the guts to step into India,” Rahul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-gandhi-links-china-intrusion-to-economy/articleshow/80440643.cms||V Mayilvaganan
January 25, 2021||India||Ram chants at Netaji event: TMC questions PM's silence||KOLKATA: Taking exception to PM Modi’s “silence” on Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee being greeted with chants of “Jai Shri Ram” at Saturday’s official Netaji birth anniversary event in Kolkata, Trinamool Congress on Sunday termed the conduct of a section of the audience “misogynistic” and an affront to what Subhas Chandra Bose stood for. “PM Modi did not utter a single word to condemn the behaviour of a section of the audience...This shows BJP has no respect for Netaji and has no idea of what he stood for,” minister Bratya Basu said. He accused BJP of trying to promote “a certain concept of Lord Ram” in Bengal. “Bengal’s concept of Ram, which we have grown up with, entails respect for women. Those who used Sri Ram’s name in their slogans at Victoria (Memorial) neither respect Ram nor women.” Trinamool MP Abhishek Banerjee said, “Mamata Banerjee is a CM elected by 2.5 crore people in Bengal. By not allowing her to speak, she was insulted.” Mamata had been invited to speak at the event in Victoria Memorial ahead of the PM, but she returned to her seat the moment some in the crowd uttered “Jai Shri Ram”. Trinamool spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said, “This wasn’t a political programme. This was a government programme. Their understanding of what should be said where, is slightly less.” Many among the bevy of celebrities who attended the event, including some who have been critical of TMC, said they loved everything about the event other than the row over “Jai Shri Ram”. Responding to the outrage, BJP demanded to know if Mamata’s refusal to speak at the event amid chants of “Jai Shri Ram” was a political stance or not. Netaji’s grandnephew Chandra Kumar Bose, who had contested the South Kolkata Lok Sabha seat on a BJP ticket, criticised the CM over her reaction to the chant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ram-chants-at-netaji-event-tmc-questions-pms-silence/articleshow/80440656.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Business||Depositors seek end to ATM ‘decline fee’||MUMBAI: The All India Bank Depositors’ Association of India in their pre-policy meeting with RBI governor Shaktikanta Das have asked for the withdrawal of an “unjust” ‘transaction decline charge’ on debit cards. Each time a person without adequate balance in his/her account tries to withdraw cash from an ATM or uses debit cards to make a payment, the bank penalises him/her Rs 25 plus GST as ‘transaction decline’ charge. This can be termed as the digital version of a charge for bouncing a cheque. “Such exorbitant penalty for digitally paying consumers ‘disincentivises’ them, thereby many are moving away from digital payments. This applies more to the marginalised class of depositors who may not always have adequate funds in their accounts,” the association said in its written representation. The body said that these charges are not only unjust but also against the principle of ‘transaction decline’ as this is not like issuing a cheque to a third-party but like a depositor walking into a branch and trying to draw cash. Also, there is no cost to the card-issuing bank in such transactions. “The NPCI does not consider it as a transaction and hence no interchange is paid by the card-issuing bank,” the letter said. “Though, we can still understand that as a deterrent, banks charge for cheque bounce, where cheque/ECS returns involve third parties and create distrust in the payment mode. However, declined POS/ATM transactions due to insufficient balances is nowhere on a par with cheque/ECS returns. It does not involve any intent of systemic inconvenience or distrust to a third party,” the bank said. In its representation to the RBI, the association said that prior to January 2020, SBI was charging Rs 17.7 per non-cash digital transaction for over 12 crore basic savings bank deposit accounts. “SBI has agreed to refund the exorbitant charges only for the period starting January 2020, but not prior to that. As disclosed by SBI, during FY20, SBI collected over Rs 150 crore towards service charges from such accounts,” the association said. Another wrongful charge highlighted by the association was the one imposed by payment aggregators on consumers for making digital payments on e-commerce websites. While the merchants and the banks claimed that they were not the ones pocketing the charge, they did facilitate these charges. which were against the government mandate. The association also urged the RBI governor not to cut interest rates as inflation has been high and oil prices were firming up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/depositors-seek-end-to-atm-decline-fee/articleshow/80438739.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 25, 2021||Business||Yes Bank won’t dilute equity soon||MUMBAI: Yes Bank will not be raising capital via equity soon and the recent board approval is only part of an enabling provision to reduce its time-to-market in future, the bank’s MD & CEO Prashant Kumar, said. He added that the bank’s deposits will cover its loan book by end-March despite growth in advances. “We expect the credit-deposit ratio to be 100% by the end of March from 116% at the end of December,” Kumar said. He said that the bank’s strategy is to use its digital capability to grow retail deposits and loans. According to its December quarter results, the bank’s capital adequacy ratio is 19.6%, while common equity tier I capital is 13.1%, “We are well-capitalised but we decided to go through the process, which will also require a shareholder approval, so that we are in readiness,” said Kumar. The private bank, which was revived by an RBI-initiated resolution process, had seen a third of its deposits being withdrawn by wary customers before the central bank placed a moratorium on withdrawals. Since then, deposits have bounced back growing 36% in the first nine months of the fiscal. The bank on Friday reported a profit of Rs 151 crore in the third quarter as against a loss of Rs 18,560 crore in the year-ago period. The bank also said that it has received more information on accounts linked to whistleblower allegations. “All the loans are fully provided for and there will not be any financial implication even if any more loans are declared as fraud,” said Kumar. He said that Cox & Kings, which has been in the news for action by authorities, has already been declared a fraud. The bank had earlier sought approval from the RBI for a ‘bad bank’ that will take over troubled loans and is awaiting a response from the regulator. While the bank has a Rs 1,000-crore exposure to DHFL, it does not expect any major recovery this year. “I do not expect the resolution will be implemented before March 31. Besides, we are unsecured lenders and don’t know how much we will get,” he said. “Our focus is on retail and MSME. We have disbursed almost Rs 12,000 crore in the third quarter and this path would continue,” said Kumar. He said the bank was rationalising expenditure with operating expenses reduced by 13% and more branch mergers in the offing. The bank has already converted some of its rural branches into business correspondent centres. To augment fee-income, the bank has tied up with HDFC Life and SBI Life for distribution on the life insurance side and ICICI Lombard and SBI General on the non-life insurance side.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/yes-bank-wont-dilute-equity-soon/articleshow/80438776.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 25, 2021||Patna||Valuables worth Rs 8 lakh stolen from retired DSP’s house in Patna||PATNA: Unidentified thieves decamped with cash and valuables worth more than of Rs8 lakh from the residence of a retired DSP on road number 2 at East Indira Nagar Colony under Kankarbagh police station area in Patna. The theft came to light after Kamal Nayan Prasad Singh along with his wife Manorama Devi returned from Bhubaneswar on Sunday morning. Singh had gone there for his treatment. Singh had retired as DSP from the special branch of state police in December 2013. His elder son is a colonel in Army. He said the thieves had broken the locks of three doors, including the main entrance of the house. “The stolen items include gold jewellery of my wife worth at least Rs5.5 lakh. Besides, thieves had also stolen several silver ornaments and utensils, Rs40000, branded cloths, saris and other items,” he said, adding the overall value of the stolen items is estimated to be around Rs8 lakh. “They forcibly opened the two iron almirahs. Another almirah was a heavy so they laid it over a thick blanket on the ground and cut its metal sheet from behind to gain access to the valuables,” he said. Singh said his dentist son-in-law from Bhubaneswar and younger son working at Gandhi Nagar in Gujarat had reached Patna to take him to Bhubaneswar for treatment on January 18. “On return on Sunday, we found the entire house ransacked,” he said. Singh said an FIR has been lodged with Kankarbagh police station. Kankarbagh police station SHO Ravishankar Kumar said none of the neighbours heard any noise or spotted any suspicious movement. “It seems thieves spent several hours inside the house,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/valuables-worth-rs-8l-stolen-from-retired-dsps-house/articleshow/80437985.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Patna||Bihar: No recruitment of staff in universities for several years||PATNA: The quality of higher education in the state is anyone’s guess when all its 13 conventional universities and 260 constituent colleges have been managing their academic and administrative activities with less than 50 per cent teaching and non-teaching staff for the last several years. There are altogether 16,000 sanctioned class III and IV posts in the institutions of higher education, but more than 8000 posts are lying vacant. There has been no regular appointment on vacant posts by competent authorities since long. While, class IV staff are being outsourced by the universities from time to time, no appointment is being made on vacant posts of class III posts. Consequently, the posts of librarians and lab technicians along with those of office assistants are lying vacant in most colleges and universities, hampering their smooth functioning. In fact, there is no well-defined process of appointing class III staff against vacant sanctioned posts. Neither there is a state-level panel to appoint the non-teaching staff in universities, nor are the vice-chancellors are authorized to make direct appointment of staff. Even in a premier institution like Patna Science College, only 25 non-teaching staff are working against the sanctioned strength of 102. Similarly, there are only 82 teachers against 209 sanctioned posts, said college principal S R Padmadeo. J D Women’s College principal Shyama Ray also pointed out that the college is having only 33 non-teaching staff against 63 sanctioned posts. Furthermore, there are about 12,000 sanctioned posts of teachers in different universities of the state, but hardly 6000 are working at present. The Bihar State University Service Commission has, however, advertised a little more than 4000 posts of assistant professors recently and the process of appointment in different universities is yet to begin. The most surprising fact is the absence of regularly appointed principals in colleges. Out of a total of 260 constituent colleges, only a few are being governed by regularly appointed full-time principals. Usually, the senior most teacher of the college is appointed its ‘professor-in-charge’ on an ad hoc basis. Earlier, the Bihar Public Service Commission or the State University Service Commission used to appoint principals against vacant posts, but this practice was done away with for reasons best known to the authorities alone. Most interestingly, the Bihar State University Service Commission Act, 2017 does not provide for appointment of principals. It is meant only for appointment of different categories of teachers, namely, assistant professors, associate professors and professors. State director of higher education Rekha Kumari told this newspaper that some new clause for the appointment of principals would have to be inserted in the existing university service panel Act to facilitate appointment on regular basis. The government is also seized with the problem of appointment of class III staff and a decision on the mode of their appointment would be taken soon, she said. The director further pointed out that the education department would hold university wise discussions with the vice-chancellor and other officials on the problems faced by them. The discussions would start on Monday with the Patna University officials, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-recruitment-of-staff-in-universities-for-several-years/articleshow/80437929.cms||B K Mishra
January 25, 2021||Kolkata||Pick a hue: Colour-coded routes to make travelling in trams easy||KOLKATA: The trams of Kolkata will soon have colour-coded routes in line with the global practice which will help commuters and tourists identify the areas through which the trams will pass. The exterior of the trams will have a dash of the route colour they are on. “This will make way for a technological solution that will be easy and helpful. Commuters will get high-quality tram maps in the trams itself. Those buying the tram pass will get them free,” said Rajanvir Singh Kapur, managing director of West Bengal Transport Corporation that runs India’s only operational tramway. The six routes have been assigned colours — blue, green, yellow, red, violet and pink. The map, the graphic design for which was made by Swattik Sarkar, a student from Durgapur, will indicate the places of historical importance on each route. Route 36, from Esplanade to Kidderpore — crossing Maidan, Victoria and Race Course — has been allotted blue. “Trams will start plying this route soon,” said an official. “It is a nice initiative to colour code the routes, but we request the transport department to revive the old routes. Trams are eco-friendly and can ferry a lot of people which decreases congestion on roads,” said Udit Ranjan Gupta, a tram enthusiast and member of the Calcutta Tram Users’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pick-a-hue-colour-coded-routes-to-make-travelling-in-trams-easy/articleshow/80437578.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Allahabad||US banker, Ireland restaurateur among pros immersed in service at Magh Mela||Prayagraj: It’s 4am. There’s not even a faint light on the horizon signaling the crack of the dawn, and its chilling cold out there on the Magh Mela ground, with not much activity visible even in the tents of most kalpwasis, who are probably still in deep slumber, but the camp of Aum Waheguru Rishi Ashram in Sector 2 is bustling with activity and its volunteers are getting ready to serve. These volunteers, from different states and countries, come from diverse backgrounds, with some holding key positions in different government and non-government sectors across the globe. Among them are US-based bankers, Ireland-based restaurant owners and New Zealand-based FM channel partners, all have voluntarily taken out time to serve seers and saints, devotees and the poor at the annual spiritual congregation Magh Mela. Interestingly, these volunteers do their routine, allotted tasks silently and are not ready to get their names and designation printed in the newspaper. They say they have come to the Aum Waheguru Rishi Ashram on Mela campus only to serve. The volunteers are allotted duties shift-wise at the Ashram camp and help manage and run the community kitchen. They start serving tea and light breakfast from 7am, then serve lunch from 12 noon and dinner before sunset, and start working much before day break and till late night to do all the preparations in a fixed chart of routine activities. The smell of different flavours wafts through the air in the camp as meals are being cooked and make the stomach grumble. A senior volunteer associated with camp management said, “Sant Shri Harbansh Sahib Jee of Aum Waheguru Rishi Ashram and his followers have been camping in every Magh Mela for more than 30 years. The food is served to seers, saints, and devotees in the camp daily.” “All the seers, devotees and people coming to the camp for community feast are also given money upto Rs 30 on normal days and Rs 100 on the main Snan days.” There are 350 volunteers, including six from aboard, serving at the camp this year, a dip in numbers due to corona pandemic. Otherwise, there used to be not less than 500 volunteers at our camp every year, he added. Interestingly, around 90% volunteers are professionals and the rest house wives. There is not much difference in allocation of work, but male volunteers manage crowd and serving. From chopping vegetables to kneading flour, cleaning lentils and rice, cooking meals, cleaning utensils and sweeping floors, all activities are done by the volunteers with enthusiasm. They are allotted work in shifts to ensure round-the-clock operations. The bhandara started from Makar Sankranti and will continue till Maghi Purnima.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/us-banker-ireland-restaurateur-among-pros-immersed-in-service-at-magh-mela/articleshow/80437846.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Business||‘Investors need to have clear financial goals’||Sidhartha@timesgroup.com An industry veteran with 25 years of experience in the BFSI sector, UTI AMC CEO Imtaiyazur Rahman talks about how India’s oldest fund house adapted to remote work without disrupting critical functions… The economy and markets seem to be moving in separate directions. How do you explain that? The Indian capital markets have shown impressive recovery and performance after March 2020. The Indian economy has been performing better than many others due to factors like surplus liquidity, the adequacy of forex reserves, improvement in demand, appropriate food procurement policies and other timely initiatives taken by the government. How are SIPs doing, given that income levels have dropped and many have lost jobs? This industry grew at 18% CAGR between 2015 and 2020. It was also a difficult period for global economies. However, there is a strong potential for the mutual fund industry for sustained growth. The latest folio count for the MF industry stands at 9.4 crore — 107% growth from 4.5 crore in November 2015. AUM (assets under management) is at Rs 30 lakh crore — 132% growth from Rs 13 lakh crore in November 2015. What is your advice to retail investors? Investors must have clear financial goals. They could range from child’s education to retirement planning. They should take decisions based on their goals, stick to objectives, and consult financial advisers, if needed. How has your company responded to Covid? This is a very challenging time for humanity and businesses alike. The MF business quickly adapted and learnt to conduct business remotely, adopting new technologies and systems. In UTI, we have very robust infrastructure and technology in place. This enabled us to carry on all critical functions related to fund management and investor services without any disruption. We are also using this opportunity to control costs appropriately. Are more steps required for your business? We are strengthening our association with our partners to effectively utilise their potential for enhancing distribution reach and business growth. Since data, technology and service are integral to our business, we remain committed to innovation and newer technologies for creating customer delight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/investors-need-to-have-clear-financial-goals/articleshow/80433044.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Lucknow||Cold winds to gather pace, chill to return||Lucknow: Cold northwesterly winds are expected to pick pace from Monday afternoon, leading to revival of chill in the air. The chilly conditions, thereafter, are likely to prevail till Thursday. Sunday witnessed moderate fog that enveloped the city in the wee hours and continued in the morning hours. The minimum temperature recorded before sunrise was 10.1 degrees Celsius, 2.3 units above normal. However, since the chill from the wind was missing, the afternoon was sunny and warm. The maximum temperature was 20.5 degrees Celsius, 2.2 notches below normal. Met officials said the temperatures were comparatively high over the past two days because the western disturbance (WD) over hill areas cut off the flow of cold winds towards the plains. However, the WD is expected to move northeastwards from Jammu and Kashmir and the cold winds from snowfed mountains are likely to revive from Monday. Mercury levels would gradually drop under the influence of these cold winds. In Lucknow, the impact would be felt from Monday night.  The decline in minimum temperatures would continue, and by Thursday, they are expected to drop to six degrees Celsius. Moderate to dense fog is expected during morning hours. The ‘chill factor’ will prevail in the air all through the day despite sunshine. On Monday, maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to be around 20 and nine degrees Celsius, respectively, with possibility of moderate to dense fog in the morning hours, followed by clear sky in the afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cold-winds-to-gather-pace-chill-to-return/articleshow/80440056.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 25, 2021||Patna||Bihar’s Covid tally nears 2.6 lakh||PATNA: With 131 more people testing positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the state’s virus tally rose to 2,59,897 on Sunday. Three more Covid causalities, on the other hand, took the state’s toll 1,479. Two more people succumbed to Covid in Muzaffarpur on Sunday, taking the district’s toll to 48. One fresh death in Munger, on the other hand, took the district’s toll to 53. At 267, the number of recovered cases surpassed the fresh cases on Sunday. There are were 2,410 active cases in the state on Sunday. As per health department’s data, 2,56,008 people have so far recovered from the virus, taking the state’s recovery rate to 98.5%. The number of sample tests in the state declined to 82,907 on Sunday from 83,262 on Saturday. So far, 2,04,91,088 samples have been tested in the state since the outbreak of the virus in March last year. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) reported two deaths on Sunday and the victims were a 48-year-old woman from Baha Chowki in Munger district and a 62-year-old man from Gudri Bazaar in Saran district. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid Dr Sanjeev Kumar said four patients were admitted to the hospital and six discharged on Sunday. The number of Covid patients at AIIMS-P stood at 90 on Sunday. Of the 131 new Covid cases reported in the last 24 hours, Patna accounted for 51. The district’s Covid tally has now increased to 51,971. However, with 50,686 recoveries and 408 deaths, there were 877 active cases in the district on Sunday. Among other districts, Nawada recorded 12 fresh Covid cases on Sunday, Sitamarhi and Darbhanga six each, Muzaffarpur and Saran five each and Begusarai, Kaimur, Munger and Samastipur four each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihars-covid-tally-nears-2-6l/articleshow/80437916.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Business||Own a slice of Berkshire, Google for $1||MUMBAI: You may have been dreaming of owning prized stocks like Berkshire Hathaway, Amazon and Alphabet (Google), but a steep price has been a deterrent. Right? For instance, one share of Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway, which is trading at $350,620 apiece, will cost you nearly Rs 2.6 crore at an exchange rate of Rs 73 to a dollar. You will need to invest about Rs 2.4 lakh to become Jeff Bezos’s co-shareholder in retail giant Amazon, trading at $3,292 per share. And to buy a single stock of Google’s parent Alphabet ($1,893), you’ll need almost Rs 1.4 lakh. Now, you can have fractional ownership — having less than one full share — of these high-price companies for just a dollar. The concept of fractional ownership has been prevalent in other high-value assets like racing horses, yachts and aircraft. Some US brokerages have recently started offering such ownership for shares due to tech-enabled innovation.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Globalise, a London-based investment advisory-cum-broking firm, is offering Indians the option to buy fractions of US stocks — as little as one-millionth of a scrip or whatever they could own by investing $1. For example, one could invest $1 in Berkshire and own 1/350,620 portion (given its last closing price) of the stock. “There are no fixed fractions one must buy. You simply decide the amount of money you want to invest in a particular stock and place an order for that ‘value’,” said Vikas Nanda, co-founder, Globalise. “The order will be executed accordingly to buy fractional shares for that amount of investment. This gives a lot of flexibility, not only to be able to buy into large-value stock but also to construct portfolios since you can think in terms of ‘value of investment’ rather than ‘a number of shares’.” Indian investors can use the liberalised remittance scheme (LRS) under RBI’s rules to invest up to $250,000 per person in a year. From opening an account after completing KYC compliance to starting to invest in the US market could take just a few hours, Nanda said. The brokerage is also allowing investors to invest in ETFs and American Depository Receipts (ADRs) listed on US exchanges. And the brokerage could be as little as $0.025 or nearly Rs 2 per share, fractional or a full unit. Globalise, set up by Indian-origin financial services, has an India office and is targeting at least $2-billion worth of investments from India through its platform by 2024. There are other domestic brokers too that are helping Indians invest in the US market. Indian mutual funds are also allowed to invest in stocks listed abroad, either directly or through the fund-of-funds route. Another option is to open a direct account with a US broker and use the LRS route to invest there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/own-a-slice-of-berkshire-google-for-1/articleshow/80438725.cms||Partha Sinha
January 25, 2021||Patna||Republic Day: Tableaux to highlight Bihar govt’s efforts to fight Covid||PATNA: This year’s Republic Day parade at Gandhi Maidan will be quite different as several departments of the state government will showcase tableaux, promoting Covid vaccination and their efforts to keep the virus at bay. The tableaux will highlight how the government departments adopted new normal to counter the pandemic. Though common people will not be allowed to witness the parade in view of Covid pandemic this time, those attending the event will have to maintain social distancing norms just like last year’s Independence Day celebrations. Nodal officer for tableaux-cum-Patna deputy development commissioner Richie Pandey said most departments would showcase the ‘new normal’ adopted by them after the outbreak of Covid-19 in March last year. “Through its tableau, the health department will appeal to people to continue sanitising hands, wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. The department will also motivate people to get inoculated without fear,” Pandey said. He added a special area would be earmarked at the venue for Covid-19 frontline workers, who have been invited to attend the event as guests. “The frontline workers will be felicitated for the services they have been rendering to the society amid pandemic. More than 80 Covid warriors, including health and sanitation workers, will attend the event,” he said. The nodal officer said all those entering the ground will have to undergo thermal screening and sanitization. “Those with Covid symptoms will not be allowed to enter the venue. The screening will be conducted by a medical headed by civil surgeon,” he said. Pandey said the district administration has already distributed masks, sanitiser and other items among the people involved in construction of tableaux.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/r-day-tableaux-to-highlight-govts-efforts-to-fight-covid/articleshow/80437316.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 25, 2021||Business||Pandemic has brought about an era of compressed transformation||NEW DELHI: Accenture chairperson and senior MD Rekha Menon, a leading industry voice on advanced technology-led innovation and socio-economic progress, said the consulting giant’s advanced digital capabilities helped empower its people to adapt to a new way of working... How have you supported your people during the pandemic?Throughout the crisis, our advanced digital capabilities helped us keep our people safe while ensuring business continuity. We are using technology to empower our people, helping them adapt to a new way of working, and cope with the pressure. We have focused on building a culture of trust, compassion and collaboration, and continue to make significant investments in our people to help them realise their aspirations through learning and development, and meaningful rewards and recognitions. What are the biggest changes catalysed by the Covid crisis?The pandemic has brought about an era of compressed transformation, accelerating the adoption of digital technologies dramatically. It has also precipitated the shift to sustainable growth, emphasising the need to build responsible businesses by design, and move beyond shareholder value to creating value for all stakeholders including clients, people, shareholders, partners, communities, and the world at large. What role will technology play in the post-pandemic world?Technology will play a crucial role in reimagining businesses, economies and societies, making them resilient to large-scale disruptions, and allowing them to create and realise brand new opportunities. It will drive inclusive, sustainable growth by democratising access to work opportunities, healthcare and education, and help us deliver on our obligations to combat climate change. What impact has Covid had on diversity in the workplace and equal opportunities?WFH models are opening up opportunities for people in smaller cities, and for those who need flexibility. Yet there is also a need to create enabling structures to overcome the accompanying strain — for example, the lack of reliable collaboration infrastructure, or the pressure on women to balance work and home. Industry, government and civil society need to come together for this. What are your key learnings from the pandemic?The importance of having a North Star while navigating uncertainty. The pandemic has required us to make decisions with speed and agility amid rapidly changing contexts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wfh-opens-jobs-for-non-metro-talent/articleshow/80432973.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
January 25, 2021||Patna||Traffic restrictions in Patna on all roads leading to Gandhi Maidan||PATNA: The district administration has restricted vehicular traffic around Gandhi Maidan in the state capital on the Republic Day on January 26. Patna traffic SP D Amarkesh told this newspaper that no vehicle will be allowed around Gandhi Maidan and from Ashok Rajpath, Bari Path, Bakarganj, Bank Road, near Children’s Park, Exhibition Road and Fraser Road from 7am on January 26 till the main function is over. “Only the invitees with vehicle passes will be allowed to move in the restricted areas. They will enter Gandhi Maidan from gate number 10 to attend the R-Day function. Gate number 1 of Gandhi Maidan will be reserved for the movement of governor, chief minister and other VVIPs,” Amarkesh said. According to the traffic plan released by the district administration, no vehicles will be allowed on the western flank of Fraser Road and SP Verma Road from Dak Bungalow roundabout and New Dak Bungalow Road respectively. The vehicle movement will be restricted from Kotwali police station T-point towards the Lodipur police lines. As an alternate route, the vehicles will be allowed from Voltas Mor to Vidyapati Marg and Budh Marg up to the police lines. There will be no vehicular traffic from Deshratna Marg to Dak Bungalow roundabout and from Dak Bungalow roundabout to JP roundabout. Any vehicle found parked on these two routes will be towed away to the nearest police station. Vehicles and autorickshaws moving towards Patna Junction will be diverted to Bhattacharya Road-CDA building-Goriatoli. City buses plying from NIT-Patna Mor will be diverted to Macchuatoli from Gandhi Chauraha to Dariyapur, Nala Road, Pirmuhani, CDA building roundabout and Goria Toli. Movement of heavy or commercial vehicles will not be allowed towards Budh Marg from Mithapur ROB, Goria Toli from Chiraiyantand Durga temple, from R-Block to Income Tax roundabout and from Dumra Chowki to Bhattacharya Road Chowk. Commercial vehicles coming from Patna City side will turn to Musallahpur Haat, Bari Path, Khazanchi Road and Ashok Rajpath and finally return to Gaighat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/r-day-traffic-restrictions-on-all-roads-leading-to-gandhi-maidan/articleshow/80437318.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 25, 2021||Vadodara||Rlys shift NRTI building on campus||Vadodara: After facing the flak for proposing a multi-storeyed building right opposite the Pratap Vilas Palace, the railways have decided to shift the project site to another spot in the same premises, this time on the left side of the palace. The Heritage Trust, however, said that even the new site isn’t environmentally feasible. In an affidavit filed by Neeraj Dhamija, assistant general manager in Vadodara division, in the Gujarat high court on January 16, the railways have said that it now plans to shifting the new building for National Rail and Transportation Institute (NRTI) by 265 feet. “The new proposed site of construction is 321 feet away from the palace which will not ruin the aesthetics of the palace,” the affidavit that was filed in response to a PIL by the Heritage Trust in December last year, said. “But even the new site isn’t feasible for the new building,” said Sameer Khera, vice-president, Heritage Trust. “If the railways construct a multi-storeyed building there, at least 200 trees, many of which are more than 50 years old. It will damage the ecology in the campus,” Khera responded. “The response filed by the railways is a cynical abuse of well-documented heritage and environment conservation practices and without conducting any impact studies to assess potential damage to both the built and natural heritage. Next week, we will file our reply to their affidavit in the high court and oppose the new site,” Khera told TOI. “There should always be a better alternative instead of cutting so many trees for any new building. Modern architecture does focus on designs that minimize environmental damage,” said Padma Shri M H Mehta, an environmentalist. The railways had last year decided to construct a four-storey building for NRTI and other offices in the 106-year-old Pratap Vilas Palace premises spread over 55 acres. The building was proposed in Rajabaug, which is right opposite the palace. The royal Gaekwad family and some prominent citizens had opposed the project site as it would have ruined the façade and landscape of the palace. An online petition was initiated to oppose the project site and letters were also written to the union railway minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rlys-shift-nrti-building-on-campus/articleshow/80437295.cms||Tushar Tere
January 25, 2021||Patna||Bihar to raise number of Covid vaccination centres||PATNA: The state health department has decided to increase the number of centres to vaccinate all healthcare workers registered in the first round by February end so that the second round for frontline workers could be started in March. So far, 75,978 beneficiaries against the targeted 4.7 lakh have taken the shots at around 300 selected centres in Bihar since the nationwide drive began on January 16. The state health department, thus, has decided to utilize the rest or break days like Sundays, Wednesdays and Fridays for preparation to to get the beneficiaries vaccinated at the selected vaccinated sites without any hassle. Special secretary-cum-executive director of State Health Society, Manoj Kumar, said the department would distribute 38 districts into two units and the number of sessions sites would be increased in each district from the coming week. “It is not decided how many vaccine sites will be added, but we are working on a plan and it will be implemented this week. The step has been taken to expedite the process so that the second round for frontline workers could begin soon,” he said. Manoj told this newspaper that they have set the target to complete the first round by February. “From mid-February, the vaccinators will start giving the second dose to the beneficiaries on completion of 28 days of the first dose. So, we need more session sites to complete the inoculation drive on time,” he said. “On break days, the centres will make requisite preparations like informing the beneficiaries in advance and data collation on CoWIN portal,” said Dr Sanjeev Kumar, the nodal officer for Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna. Dr Sanjeev said they personally informed the beneficiaries through their own system about the vaccine drive. “To complete our target of vaccinating 100 persons per day, we also put it in the WhatsApp groups of doctors, paramedic staff, ANMs, nurses and sanitation workers among others to take vaccine between 9am and 5pm,” he said. PMCH principal Dr Vidyapati Choudhary said, “We make all efforts to inform the registered beneficiaries about their turn for vaccine.” NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh said healthcare workers often complained that they did not receive the message for the vaccines, so the hospital informed them individually. “Other preparations like connectivity and deployment of vaccinators are also being done to carry out the drive smoothly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-to-raise-number-of-vaccination-centres/articleshow/80437884.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 25, 2021||Vadodara||Rlys shift NRTI building on campus||Vadodara: After facing the flak for proposing a multi-storeyed building right opposite the Pratap Vilas Palace, the railways have decided to shift the project site to another spot in the same premises, this time on the left side of the palace. The Heritage Trust, however, said that even the new site isn’t environmentally feasible. In an affidavit filed by Neeraj Dhamija, assistant general manager in Vadodara division, in the Gujarat high court on January 16, the railways have said that it now plans to shifting the new building for National Rail and Transportation Institute (NRTI) by 265 feet. “The new proposed site of construction is 321 feet away from the palace which will not ruin the aesthetics of the palace,” the affidavit that was filed in response to a PIL by the Heritage Trust in December last year, said. “But even the new site isn’t feasible for the new building,” said Sameer Khera, vice-president, Heritage Trust. “If the railways construct a multi-storeyed building there, at least 200 trees, many of which are more than 50 years old. It will damage the ecology in the campus,” Khera responded. “The response filed by the railways is a cynical abuse of well-documented heritage and environment conservation practices and without conducting any impact studies to assess potential damage to both the built and natural heritage. Next week, we will file our reply to their affidavit in the high court and oppose the new site,” Khera told TOI. “There should always be a better alternative instead of cutting so many trees for any new building. Modern architecture does focus on designs that minimize environmental damage,” said Padma Shri M H Mehta, an environmentalist. The railways had last year decided to construct a four-storey building for NRTI and other offices in the 106-year-old Pratap Vilas Palace premises spread over 55 acres. The building was proposed in Rajabaug, which is right opposite the palace. The royal Gaekwad family and some prominent citizens had opposed the project site as it would have ruined the façade and landscape of the palace. An online petition was initiated to oppose the project site and letters were also written to the union railway minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rlys-shift-nrti-building-on-campus/articleshow/80437739.cms||Tushar Tere
January 25, 2021||Kolkata||Profs hold weekend meetings, extra classes to finish syllabus||n Partha Pratim Ray, a professor of physics in Jadavpur University, has been taking online classes every day to complete the syllabus on time. Most days, he has to schedule classes at 8pm, when some students are too tired to attend.  n Mriganka Biswas, an accountancy professor in Goenka College of Commerce and Business Administration, is holding meetings on weekends for first-semester students every week to clear doubts.  n Professors of Presidency University are making PDFs and powerpoint presentations, and uploading them on the university’s website and WhatsApp groups, for students to access. University and college professors are going out of their way to not only complete the syllabus on time for first-semester examinations in mid-March, but are also ensuring that no student willing to attend classes is left out and doubts are cleared. First-semester classes for undergraduate students started on December 16, giving students and professors less than 12 weeks to complete the syllabus before the examinations are held in mid-March according to the directive of the University Grants Commission (UGC). “Earlier, our faculty would work between 10am and 6pm on campus. But now they are working at all hours of the day, attending to students who could not attend class. They are making and uploading digital study material and calling students. The university has also taken help of the district magistrates for students without access to digital devices to connect them to classes they missed,” said Anuradha Lohia, vice-chancellor of Presidency University. Since the students pursuing science subjects do not have access to labs, professors are even sharing the experiment data with them. “We are teaching theory online and sharing the data, which students are analysing and submitting for evaluation,” said Ray. Many professors are scheduling separate online sessions for students who have queries pertaining to previous classes or those who might have missed out due to some technical glitch. “Our professors are conducting classes throughout the week, including weekends, to complete the syllabus on time. Professors are also scheduling extra classes to clear doubts so that scheduled classes are not wasted answering queries,” said Indrila Guha, principal of Basanti Devi College. “There are so many holidays during this period. On several occasions, students have been unable to connect to the digital classes. Professors may have also be ill disposed and may not have had time to hold a class before,” said the principal of a north Kolkata college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/profs-hold-weekend-meetings-extra-classes-to-finish-syllabus/articleshow/80437563.cms||Zeeshan Javed
January 25, 2021||Patna||IRCTC to restart e-catering services||PATNA: The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) is likely to restart e-catering services from the first week of February this year following a nod from the ministry of railways. IRCTC senior public relations officer (PRO) A K Jha said the corporation would start e-catering services at 57 stations, including Patna Junction. Jha said in addition to pantry car services, the IRCTC had started e-catering facilities in 2014 to provide quality food and regional delicacies to the passengers. The e-catering services, however, were suspended from March 22 last year due to Covid-19 pandemic. Instead, the IRCTC had started supplying ready-to-eat food packets to passengers in selected special passenger trains. “The need to restart e-catering services was felt as more than hundred pairs of special passenger trains are now either originating from or passing through different places of the East Central Railway,” Jha said, adding the e-catering services will start from 30 stations, including Patna Junction, in the first phase and it will be extended to the remaining stations later on. Jha said passengers can avail e-catering services by placing orders on www.ecatering irctc.com or dialling 1323.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/irctc-to-restart-e-catering-services/articleshow/80437972.cms||Kumod Verma
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||PV Narasimha Rao grandson slams Mamata Banarjee||HYDERABAD: BJP senior leader and grandson of former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao, PV Subhash on Sunday lashed out at West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banarjee for not speaking on the occasion of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary celebrations. In a statement, he said it only shows her adamant attitude. “This is highly deplorable. One should not politicise the events related to great leaders like Bose and Tagore. She is frustrated with the recent political developments in her state,” Subhash said. “She should not have skipped her speech on Netaji’s birth anniversary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pv-grandson-slams-mamata/articleshow/80439030.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Schools offer TC option to parents||KOLKATA: Most city schools have formed committees that are meeting parents who have applied for waivers higher than what has been permitted by the High Court. While allowing such waivers after an assessment of individual situations, schools are advising them to consider the option of shifting their wards to schools that would be less expensive. Schools said they cannot continue to give such waivers beyond the ongoing fourth quarter. There are over 15%-20% parents who have met school committees to seek higher waivers showing proof of distress. And schools have given them anything between 30%-100% waivers after evaluation on the understanding that they would start paying from the fourth quarter. However, many of them are now requesting schools to continue with it. Schools have now started asking these parents to take a call by the time the present academic session ends in three months. “Free lunches cannot continue forever. You cannot have lunch at a five-star hotel and pay for dhaba food, can you? We have given even 100% waivers wherever we thought the distress was genuine. There are many who took more than 30% off. But can this go on forever?” asked brigadier V N Chaturvedi, spokesperson of Birla High School and Sushila Birla Girls’ School. Defaulting parents are being called in groups to La Martiniere Schools for a last meeting over non-payment. “Many have taken higher waivers and many have not even bothered to communicate with us. We will ask their intent and suggest they shift their wards,” said Supriyo Dhar, secretary of the two schools. A list of parents who have not paid from day one has been drawn up and several other defaulting class-wise lists have been made. The Class X situation is being assessed first because they have to take re-admission in Class XI. “We will ask defaulting parents to take transfer certificates if they cannot afford our school. We have given higher waivers wherever necessary, but this cannot go on forever. This is true of the other classes as well,” said Bratati Bhattacharya, spokesperson of Shri Shikshayatan School. Schools like New Town School and Indus Valley World School will review the situation after March. They have decided to continue giving the higher waiver to whoever is coming back for help for the fourth quarter. “The situation will become clearer in March and then we will take a call,” said Shatabdi Bhattacharya, principal of New Town School. Amita Prasad, director of Indus Valley World School, said it will be easier to assess the situation after students get back on campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-offer-tc-option-to-parents/articleshow/80437569.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 25, 2021||Patna||Bihar govt makes efforts to allay fears about Covid vaccines||PATNA: At a time when healthcare workers are hesitant about taking the Covid-19 vaccines, the state government has been circulating messages on different platforms to allay the fears and rumours going around, special secretary-cum-executive director of State Health Society (SHS) Manoj Kumar said on Sunday. The health department sources said concern over the safety and efficacy of the vaccines has led to low turnout of the registered beneficiaries to take the shots. Manoj said to counter the rumours and provide correct information about the two vaccines -- Covishield and Covaxin — the department has been circulating the messages on different platforms, including jingles on radio. “Many senior SHS officials have taken the vaccine jab to build confidence among the healthcare workers,” he said. “We are reaching out to healthcare workers, including ASHA and Anganwadi workers among others, to take vaccine,” he said. The health experts say the vaccines are prepared after proper research, following protocols, going through a number of tests and clinical trials that proved their efficacy and safety. The vaccines have also been approved by the Drugs Controller General of India. Former Indian Medical Association (IMA)-Bihar president Dr Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said, “European dominance is still there in India, due to which people think that the countrymade vaccines are not as good as foreign ones. Secondly, political parties have created unnecessary negativity bout the vaccines. Lastly, the scientific intelligentsia of the country did not come out in defence of the vaccines. These are the main reasons why people are reluctant to take vaccines,” he said. He also stressed that after taking the vaccine, the beneficiaries have to maintain Covid-19 safety protocols because the antibody against the virus gets time to develop in human body. So, unless the antibody cycle develops scientifically, people are susceptible to infection, he said. AIIMS-Patna nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said people need to follow safety protocols like regularly washing hands, using face mask, hand sanitiser and maintaining social distance, because the vaccine will take time to develop antibody in human system after taking the doses. He also said the vaccines are safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-makes-efforts-to-allay-fears-about-covid-vaccines/articleshow/80437893.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 25, 2021||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar wishes Lalu Prasad speedy recovery||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Sunday wished speedy recovery to his friend-turned-arch political rival Lalu Prasad. Prasad, who was undergoing treatment at RIMS (Ranchi) under judicial custody after his sentencing in fodder scam cases, was rushed to AIIMS, New Delhi, by an air ambulance on Saturday following deterioration in his health condition. “We wish that he gets well soon,” Nitish told reporters when asked about Lalu undergoing treatment at AIIMS, Delhi. Nitish has shared a love-hate relationship with the RJD boss for more than four decades. The CM, however, rued that he would not be making phone calls to enquire about the health of Lalu Prasad because his previous telephonic enquiries about the latter’s health had triggered controversy in 2017-18. “You people are aware that even when we were in different political camps, I used to enquire about his health through telephone calls. When I had been enquiring about his health in the past (in 2017-18), what was not said about me by the man who had been attending to him at that time. Since then I decided not to make telephone calls to enquire about his health. I will continue to gather information about his health through reports published in different newspapers,” Nitish told reporters after an event organized to commemorate former CM Jannayak Karpoori Thakur on his birth anniversary. To a question, Nitish also said his government would focus on implementing the schemes proposed under ‘Saat Nishchay-2’ programme in the new financial year (2021-22). “All necessary preparations are on for the annual budget. The date for the budget session has already been decided by the state cabinet,” he said. “A supplementary budget will also be presented for FY 2020-21. Our attempt is to complete all the pending works of the ‘Saat Nishchay’ Part-1 programme. Some schemes under the ‘Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal’ are yet to be completed,” he said, adding the annual budget would focus on the development works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-wishes-lalu-speedy-recovery/articleshow/80437356.cms||Madan Kumar
January 25, 2021||Patna||‘Bihar govt to be blamed for delay in tender’||PATNA: In a fresh salvo against the Nitish Kumar government, LJP national president Chirag Paswan alleged that the tender for Jamui medical college and hospital is pending for long due to the apathetic attitude of the state authorities. In a letter to the managing director of the Bihar Medical Services Infrastructure Corporation Ltd (BMSICL) on Saturday, Chirag said that the tender of the medical college to be set up near Khaira in Jamui district at an estimated cost of Rs 403 crore was pending for the last two years and so. Chirag alleged that while the construction work has already started on sites of the other medical colleges, which were approved simultaneously, the tender of Jamui medical college and hospital to be set up with the financial assistance of the central government was being delayed due to the reasons best known to the authorities concerned. He said that around 27 acres of land near the camp office of the SSB at Khaira has already been earmarked for the proposed medical college. “But the tender is yet to be floated,” he pointed out. Chirag urged the managing director of the BMSICL to expedite the process of tender so that the people of the region could avail health facilities at the earliest. According to the LJP leader, altogether six medical colleges were approved by the union health ministry in 2019. Besides Jamui, five other medical colleges were to be set up at Asurari in Begusarai, Dumraon in Buxar, Murarpur in Sitamarhi, Jhanjharpur in Madhubani and Mahua in Vaishali district, respectively. Authoritative sources in the BMSCIL, however, claimed that the tender for the medical college in Jamui district was floated along with other medical colleges in June 2019. However, the process couldn't be completed due to some technical reasons there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-govt-to-be-blamed-for-delay-in-tender/articleshow/80437379.cms||Ramashankar
January 25, 2021||Lucknow||Great honour: Lucknow girl to be part of NCC contingent in Republic Day parade||LUCKNOW: For Lucknow’s Khushi Srivastava, it will be a dream come true and a pround moment when she will participate in the Republic Day parade at Rajpath in Delhi on January 26. Khushi is the only cadet from Lucknow to be selected for the 200-strong National Cadet Corps (NCC) contingent drawn from various parts of the country for the Republic Day parade. Total 13 cadets – nine girls and four boys – have been selected from Uttar Pradesh. A BSc final year student of Isabella Thoburn (IT) College, Khushi is an Under Officer (UO) in the senior wing (girls) NCC Cadet of 19 UP Girls Battalion. “My dream is finally about to become a reality. It will be a great honour for me to represent Lucknow at the national level,” said Kushi, while talking to TOI over the phone. “Consistent training and practice helped me pass the four stages of tough competition in the selection process,” she added. Khushi said she had trying for it for the last few years and was selected for the R-Day parade in her final year. She aspires to serve the country by joining the armed forces as an officer. A resident of Thakurganj, Khushi completed her schooling from Chowk branch of the City Montessori School. “NCC is considered a tough choice for a girl. The thought that it is difficult makes it more interesting. I participated in Thal Sainik Camp last year which gave me exposure to the salient aspects of army training, generated a competitive spirit, and fostered a sense of discipline and leadership. I decided to apply for Republic Day Camp as it’s the most prestigious camp in NCC,” she said. Giving the credit of success to her parents, Khushi said, “It was the consistent support from my parents which helped me pursue my goal and serve the country. They helped me to stay focused and achieve the accomplishment.” UP Girls’ Contingent Officer Lt Reeta Nigam, who is an associate professor of law at Agra College and Company Commander of the girl battalion at the institute, said: “Girls include three from Agra, two from Bareilly and one each from Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Aligarh and Prayagraj.” UP Directorate Contingent Commander, Col SK Mishra, said, “Four boy cadets who have been selected for the RD parade include three from Agra and one from Gorakhpur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/great-honour-city-girl-to-be-partof-ncc-contingent-in-r-day-parade/articleshow/80440149.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Agra||Ex-Armyman who fought in Kargil now 'commander' of Republic Day tractor parade||AGRA: At Chilla border, former Armyman Ramnath Singh Sikarwar, who had fought in the Kargil war, is gearing up for another "battle". Retired and now a social activist, he is focused on farmers' rights and busy training youngsters for the Republic Day tractor parade in Delhi. Sikarwar, 53, a former radar technician with the Army, is one of the parade commanders and has constituted six quick response teams (QRT) of six men each to combat tear gas shells and water cannons, if any, on January 26. In true military style, each QRT team has been assigned "code words". And the QRT will act on “secret signals” of the parade commander. Bhanu Pratap Singh, national president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu), told TOI, “We have directed all the workers from across UP and other states to report at Chilla border by Monday evening. The parade responsibility at Chilla border has been assigned to ex-Armyman Ramnath Singh Sikarwar. He is training the farmers now." The Centre has failed to understand the discontent among farmers, Sikarwar said. "We will hold a historic parade in Delhi. Farmers are being trained to maintain discipline and run a smooth show. Thousands will march on one side of the road and tractors will move in long queues on the other. Specific tasks have been assigned to a team of 25 young farmers. I will lead the parade with other senior members on tractors. We'll give specific instructions from loudspeakers." "Leaving nothing to chance, we have constituted six QRTs as well. In case of tear gas shells by police on us, they will shield them with wet sacks. If water cannons are used, QRTs will cordon the police vehicles from all sides and protect the farmers. The aim is to ensure that the elderly and women do not suffer any difficulties," he said. "All the QRT teams and young agitators have been strictly told to maintain patience during the journey. A special team has been constituted to look out for any troublemakers," he added. A resident of Kathumari village under Jagner block of Agra district, Sikarwar was involved in radar operations during the Kargil war and served along the LoC. After retirement in 2004, he started working as a social activist. Son of the state's oldest District Council member Jal Devi at 95, Sikarwar runs a social body called 'Laxman Sena - fight against corruption', and has embedded himself at the Chilla protest site for the past 15 days. And Sikarwar is not alone. “At least 100 ex-Armymen have expressed their willingness to participate in the parade from Chilla border on Republic Day - a day of pride for all of us. More than 500 others will join at Singhu and Ghazipur borders," the former Armyman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ex-armyman-who-fought-in-kargil-now-commander-of-r-day-tractor-parade/articleshow/80437340.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 25, 2021||Delhi||DDA looks to revive wetlands along floodplain by September||NEW DELHI: Work to revive water bodies and plant native species along the Yamuna floodplain at 10 project sites across a total area of around 1,175 hectares is likely to be completed by September 2021, Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has informed the National Green Tribunal (NGT)-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee (YMC). In addition to reviving and rejuvenating the floodplain, demarcation work by installing bollards and removal of encroachments at these 10 sites will also be completed, it said.  The sites where work is ongoing include a stretch from the old railway bridge to ITO east (90 hectares), NH-24 to DND flyway (100 hectares), Old railway bridge to ITO west (200 hectares), DND to Kalindi Kunj bypass (115 hectares), Wazirabad barrage to ISBT bridge (236.5 hectares), ITO to NH-24 (90 hectares), NH-24 to DND flyway part-1 (235 hectares), NH-24 to DND Flyway part-2 (15 hectares), Wazirabad to Old railway bridge (66 hectares) and the Geeta Colony bridge stretch until ITO (30 hectares). The report stated that civil and construction work at certain sites had already been completed. These include signage, bollards and other facilities, which may be required for recreational activities. A YMC member said protecting the floodplain had several components. “This DDA project focuses primarily on reviving wetlands and old waterbodies that have dried up due to dumping of malba over time.” “The first aspect was to demarcate the floodplain. For this, bollards needed to be installed. The second aspect was surveillance and for that, CCTV cameras and guards needed to be put into place to monitor if fresh encroachments or dumping of waste were taking place. The third component is to revive old water bodies and to plant native species and these 10 sites have been identified for that purpose,” said the member. The two-member YMC consists of retired NGT expert member BS Sajwan and former Delhi chief secretary Shailaja Chandra. The panel says the idea, in long term, is to not only preserve the floodplain but also to rejuvenate it in such a manner that public visits increase. “Once revived, there will be more birds and people can come here for birding. Schoolchildren can also be brought here to teach them more about the Yamuna ecosystem,” said the member. In a meeting held with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal in 2019, DDA was asked to carry out ‘holistic’ development in the floodplain and to take help of experts for landscaping, greening and plantation to restore the riverine wetlands. “Basic issues of civic amenities like public access to the river, waiting sheds, pathways, sitting benches and other public convenience should also be addressed in the plan,” the LG had said, asking the project to be completed by 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dda-looks-to-revive-wetlands-along-floodplain-by-september/articleshow/80438078.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||‘No targets for revenue workers’||Hyderabad: Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy on Sunday said that the state government should not set targets for revenue employees. Releasing the diary of employees, he said tahsildars are overburdened with registration, causing delay for students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-targets-for-revenue-workers/articleshow/80440152.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Fisherman drowns in Shamirpet lake||Hyderabad: A 50-year-old man who had gone for fishing drowned in Shamirpet lake. Since he went deep into the lake, where the water levels are deep, the fisherman drowned. Police said his body was recovered. A case was registered under Section 174 (suspicious death) of CrPc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fisherman-drowns-in-shamirpet-lake/articleshow/80440161.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Thief attempts suicide in police custody||NAGPUR: Dreaded burglar Naresh Mahilange tried to end his life while in the custody of Lakadganj police on Saturday by gulping down a screw from the bathroom door. Mahilange had earlier escaped from the Covid ward of Mayo hospital but was later arrested by crime branch. Apart from Mahilange, his two accomplices Arun Khobragade and Amrapal Patil were made co-accused in the case. Mahilange and his accomplices were arrested by Lakadganj police for their role in the theft of Rs5 lakh cash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/thief-attempts-suicide-in-police-custody/articleshow/80439032.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Dehradun||Cricket Association of Uttarakhand starts first recognised women’s cricket tournament in Dehradun||Dehradun: In a bid to develop women’s cricket in the state, the Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) has started a T-20 women’s tournament. The tournament has been named after the first female martyr of the Uttarakhand agitation movement, Hansa Dhanai, who lost her life in the infamous police firing incident in Mussoorie in 1994. The tournament has been organised along the lines of the BCCI Challenger Cup and features five teams. Each side consists of select players from various categories — including junior, Under-19, and seniors. The games are being held at the GSR Cricket Academy Ground and the Tanush Cricket Academy Ground in Dehradun. “We are committed to improving the standards of not only men’s but women’s cricket as well in Uttarakhand. These tournaments will help in giving the right kind of exposure to our female cricketers and in improving their skill-sets,” said Mahim Verma, secretary of CAU. Notably, the Women Challenger Cup is the first-of-its-kind CAU-organised tournament being held for women cricketers from the state. On Sunday, the tournament saw a low-scoring thriller between CAU Purple and CAU Green. The Purple side clinched the game by a margin of mere 2 runs. Spinner Dimple Kandari, from the Purple squad, was adjudged as the ‘Woman of the Match’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cricket-association-of-uttarakhand-starts-first-recognised-womens-cricket-tournament-in-dehradun/articleshow/80437323.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 25, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records under 3,000 Covid cases 4th day in row||MUMBAI: The state recorded below 3,000 (2,752) new Covid-19 positive cases for the fourth day in a row and saw a marginal drop in deaths, while the city registered below 500 (479) new cases on the third consecutive day and a slight drop in deaths. Active cases in the state saw a marginal rise while the city's active cases reduced. With the addition, the state’s total caseload reached 20,09,106. With 45 deaths on Sunday, the toll reached 50,785. The city’s total case tally reached 3,06,050, while seven deaths pushed the toll to 11,304. Active cases in the state rose to 44,831 from 43,870 in the last 24 hours. Mumbai’s, active cases, on the other hand dropped to 6,328 from 6,362. Of the 2,752 new detections, about one-third (920) cases were registered in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region while 622 in the Pune region and 425 in Nagpur circle. The lowest cases were registered in Kolhapur region (51) that saw one death followed by Aurangabad that recorded 71 cases and 7 deaths, respectively. All other regions recorded new cases in three-digits. Rajesh Tope, minister for public health, said the patients’ recovery rate of the state is now 95.18%. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a member of the state’s technical committee, said that as more sectors return to normalcy, the lion’s share of taming the pandemic will lie on the health department. “Testing and tracing strategies have to evolve. Focus has to be on teachers, schools, and large gatherings at weddings,” he said. Of the 61 major cities in the state, 40 cities have not recorded a single death in the last 24 hours. Of the total 45 deaths, 25 occurred in the last 48 hours and two in the last week. The remaining 18 deaths are older than a week. Out of the 18 deaths, six occurred in Ahmednagar, five in Aurangabad, four in Nagpur, and one each in Amravati, Beed and Washim. Within MMR, there were 62 positive cases from NMMC on Sunday, taking its Covid count to 52,608. Thane city saw 117 cases on Sunday, taking its tally to 58,426; two deaths took the toll to 1,296.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-records-under-3000-covid-cases-4th-day-in-row/articleshow/80439042.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 25, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra records under 3,000 Covid cases 4th day in row||MUMBAI: The state recorded below 3,000 (2,752) new Covid-19 positive cases for the fourth day in a row and saw a marginal drop in deaths, while the city registered below 500 (479) new cases on the third consecutive day and a slight drop in deaths. Active cases in the state saw a marginal rise while the city's active cases reduced. With the addition, the state’s total caseload reached 20,09,106. With 45 deaths on Sunday, the toll reached 50,785. The city’s total case tally reached 3,06,050, while seven deaths pushed the toll to 11,304. Active cases in the state rose to 44,831 from 43,870 in the last 24 hours. Mumbai’s, active cases, on the other hand dropped to 6,328 from 6,362. Of the 2,752 new detections, about one-third (920) cases were registered in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region while 622 in the Pune region and 425 in Nagpur circle. The lowest cases were registered in Kolhapur region (51) that saw one death followed by Aurangabad that recorded 71 cases and 7 deaths, respectively. All other regions recorded new cases in three-digits. Rajesh Tope, minister for public health, said the patients’ recovery rate of the state is now 95.18%. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a member of the state’s technical committee, said that as more sectors return to normalcy, the lion’s share of taming the pandemic will lie on the health department. “Testing and tracing strategies have to evolve. Focus has to be on teachers, schools, and large gatherings at weddings,” he said. Of the 61 major cities in the state, 40 cities have not recorded a single death in the last 24 hours. Of the total 45 deaths, 25 occurred in the last 48 hours and two in the last week. The remaining 18 deaths are older than a week. Out of the 18 deaths, six occurred in Ahmednagar, five in Aurangabad, four in Nagpur, and one each in Amravati, Beed and Washim. Within MMR, there were 62 positive cases from NMMC on Sunday, taking its Covid count to 52,608. Thane city saw 117 cases on Sunday, taking its tally to 58,426; two deaths took the toll to 1,296.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/state-records-under-3000-covid-cases-4th-day-in-row/articleshow/80441416.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 25, 2021||Thane||Maharashtra records under 3,000 Covid cases 4th day in row||MUMBAI: The state recorded below 3,000 (2,752) new Covid-19 positive cases for the fourth day in a row and saw a marginal drop in deaths, while the city registered below 500 (479) new cases on the third consecutive day and a slight drop in deaths. Active cases in the state saw a marginal rise while the city's active cases reduced. With the addition, the state’s total caseload reached 20,09,106. With 45 deaths on Sunday, the toll reached 50,785. The city’s total case tally reached 3,06,050, while seven deaths pushed the toll to 11,304. Active cases in the state rose to 44,831 from 43,870 in the last 24 hours. Mumbai’s, active cases, on the other hand dropped to 6,328 from 6,362. Of the 2,752 new detections, about one-third (920) cases were registered in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region while 622 in the Pune region and 425 in Nagpur circle. The lowest cases were registered in Kolhapur region (51) that saw one death followed by Aurangabad that recorded 71 cases and 7 deaths, respectively. All other regions recorded new cases in three-digits. Rajesh Tope, minister for public health, said the patients’ recovery rate of the state is now 95.18%. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a member of the state’s technical committee, said that as more sectors return to normalcy, the lion’s share of taming the pandemic will lie on the health department. “Testing and tracing strategies have to evolve. Focus has to be on teachers, schools, and large gatherings at weddings,” he said. Of the 61 major cities in the state, 40 cities have not recorded a single death in the last 24 hours. Of the total 45 deaths, 25 occurred in the last 48 hours and two in the last week. The remaining 18 deaths are older than a week. Out of the 18 deaths, six occurred in Ahmednagar, five in Aurangabad, four in Nagpur, and one each in Amravati, Beed and Washim. Within MMR, there were 62 positive cases from NMMC on Sunday, taking its Covid count to 52,608. Thane city saw 117 cases on Sunday, taking its tally to 58,426; two deaths took the toll to 1,296.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/state-records-under-3000-covid-cases-4th-day-in-row/articleshow/80441415.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Unplugged! LED light at home may soon power your mobile||Ever left stranded without your smartphone or smartwatch charger and desperately wished you could charge them without having to lug those chargers around? What if you could just pluck the energy required for charging these devices out of thin air? Or better still, what if these devices could charge themselves when required without you having to plug them into wall sockets? Sometime in the not-toodistant future you may well be able to do just that, at least for some of your personal smart devices, by using the ambient lighting in your home or office or the radio waves emitted by your WiFi device or even the earth’s electromagnetic waves. Hyderabad-based startup BlueSemi R&D Pvt Ltd has developed an intelligent `Zero Power’ multi-energy harvesting system called EON that consumes miniscule amounts of power and can help devices self-charge by using ambient and radio frequency (RF) energy sources. This wireless system is equipped with an ultra-low power consumption chipset that can harvest ambient and RF-based energy. Explaining the concept of zero power intelligent systems (ZPIS), Sunil Kumar Maddikatla, founder and CEO of BlueSemi, said it’s a system that understands when a device requires to be charged, scouts for and harnesses the ambient energy available in its immediate surroundings, charges the device and then automatically shuts down the charging process when the device is fully charged. So how did the T-HUBincubated startup achieve this breakthrough? “We started working on the concept of ambient energy in May 2017 and in 2019 we designed the first discrete level prototype. Right now, I have on my desk a device that is connected to Bluetooth and LED and is intelligent enough to charge itself when the battery level goes below 20%,” pointed out the IIIT-Hyderabad alumnus. “Typically, the chipset that goes into devices today consumes a lot of energy. But we have designed our own chipset that consumes ultra-low power. If ambient energy can generate X amount of power, my chipset consumes only 0.01% of that energy generated. LEDs don’t even emit 300 LX (lumen per sq mt) and our devices can pick up even 150-200 LX energy,” he explained. “The key to EON is the ultralow power IP (intellectual property) it is equipped with. It has a full system power consumption of just 300 nW (each nW is one thousand millionth of a watt),” Maddikatla added. While iconic Apple’s latest iPhone 12 series is already equipped with low power consumption chips - A14 – which is the world’s first processor that uses 5 nanometer transistors, the shift to zero power is yet to happen. According to Maddikatla, ZPIS is eco-friendly not only because it consumes less power but also cuts dependence on conventional energy and will reduce e-waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unplugged-led-light-at-home-may-soon-power-your-mobile/articleshow/80439345.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 25, 2021||Ludhiana||Factory HR head booked for Rs 36L embezzlement||Ludhiana: The police on Saturday booked the HR head of a hosiery factory on the charge of embezzling Rs 35.79 lakh.  The accused has been identified as Jagveer Singh of Bhamiyan Kalan, Jamalpur. He has been working as the HR head of KG Export, a hosiery factory in Mahindra Enclave, Moti Nagar, for the past four years.Factory owner Manish Dua, a resident of Moti Nagar, said in his police complaint, “Jagveer looked after the payment of salaries and other work. In November 2020, I found discrepancies in the accounts. During checking, it was found that Jagveer was crediting salaries to the accounts of five employees who had left the job in 2017. When the five had quit, Jagveer had taken their debit cards. After that, he kept crediting salaries to their accounts and withdrew the cash from different ATM kiosks with their debit cards. He has, thus, embezzled Rs 35.79 lakh.”After the complaint was lodged, an inquiry was marked. Moti Nagar SHO inspector Surinder Singh said a case has been registered under sections 420 (cheating) and 408 (criminal breach of trust by clerk or servant) of the IPC. “We have the footage of CCTVs at ATM kiosks from where the accused withdrew cash. He will be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/factory-hr-head-booked-for-rs-36l-embezzlement/articleshow/80437357.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Private health staff in wait & watch mode as vaccination begins today||HYDERABAD: While Covid vaccination for private healthcare workers is slotted to begin on Monday, nearly half the staff in most places are likely to adopt the wait and watch policy, reveal insiders.  Vaccination sessions can be planned at private hospitals or health facilities with more than 50 beneficiaries. They can be conducted on all days except Wednesdays and Saturdays. District medical and health officers (DM&HOs) will be required to deploy the vaccination teams to these sessions. It was mandated for private facilities to conduct sessions only after scheduling them on the CoWin portal.  This however might impact the roll-out of the programme as the portal has been facing technical glitches, impacting vaccination programme for government healthcare workers over the last two days. “No offline or non-Co-Win sessions shall be conducted. Healthcare workers (HCW)s of private hospitals with less than 50 HCWs will be tagged to nearby government healthcare facilities or larger private healthcare facilities for scheduling vaccination. In case of private facilities with large number of HCWs, more than one session can be planned at the same unit in compliance with all the protocols,” read guidelines.  Meanwhile several centres are yet to get the vaccine supply. “We will be getting the vaccine supply on Monday. So we will be able to begin vaccination in the second half of the day,” said an official from one of the corporate hospitals in the city. With this roll-out, nearly 1.55 healthcare workers working in private health facilities are targeted for vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvt-health-staff-in-wait-watch-mode-as-vax-begins-today/articleshow/80440174.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||CPGET registration deadline extended||HYDERABAD: The registrations for online certificate verification and uploading of certificates for Common Post Graduate Entrance Tests (CPGET-2020) has been extended up to January 27. Exercising of the web options will opened from January 31 to February 3. The candidates are advised to complete the process within the given schedule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cpget-registration-deadline-extended/articleshow/80440167.cms||---
January 25, 2021||India||Fuel on fire, Congress blames govt, seeks duty rollback||NEW DELHI: Attacking the Modi government over record jump in fuel prices, Congress on Sunday demanded that the Centre roll back excise duty on petrol and diesel imposed in the last six years. The party said the government should explain how it had spent the Rs 20 lakh crore earned through additional excise on fuel. “Modiji has shown tremendous growth in ‘GDP’ ie gasdiesel-petrol prices. The public is plagued by inflation, Modi government is busy in tax collection,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted. Speaking to reporters, party spokesman Ajay Maken said excise duty on diesel was raised by 820% and on petrol by 258% during the BJP’s term. “When the UPA government was in power, the price of crude oil was $108 per barrel, but petrol and diesel were at Rs 71.5 and Rs 57.3 per litre, which have now increased to Rs 85.7 and Rs 75.8 in Delhi. This, when crude oil is far less than half of the rates during the UPA,” he said. Maken said without excise duty, the price of petrol would be Rs 61.9 per litre and diesel Rs 47.5 per litre, adding that excise duty on petrol was Rs 23.7 per litre and on diesel Rs 28.3. “The government should explain where exactly this money has gone,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fuel-on-fire-congress-blames-govt-seeks-duty-rollback/articleshow/80440661.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Ludhiana||4 armed robbers attack factory worker in Daba||Ludhiana: Even as the police claimed to have increased security and patrolling ahead of the Republic Day, four miscreants attacked and robbed a 35-year-old man in Daba on Saturday night.The victim has been identified as Manoj Kumar, a resident of Jaswinder Colony, near Bapu Market, Daba. Manoj works as a supervisor in a cycle parts manufacturing company near Bhagwan Chowk. Manoj said in his police complaint, “I travel to my workplace and back home by an auto-rickshaw. On Saturday night, I got late finishing work. Around 11pm, I alighted from an auto near Lohara main road and started walking towards my house.” When he was crossing Bapu Market, four men on two bikes were standing there. “The market was closed as it was late night. The four intercepted my way and asked me to hand over whatever I had. Before I could do anything, one of them attacked me with a sharp-edged weapon. They then hit me on legs. As I fell on the road, they snatched my wallet and cellphone. The wallet contained my advance salary of Rs 5,000 I had taken on the day. While fleeing, they threatened me against approaching the police. After they sped away, I reached home and was afraid to lodge a complaint,” he added. On Sunday, he gave a written complaint to Daba police. Daba SHO inspector Mehma Singh said, “We are scanning the footage of CCTVs installed in the market to trace the accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/4-armed-robbers-attack-factory-worker-in-daba/articleshow/80437376.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||SC urged to set up bench in south in aid of justice||HYDERABAD: State Bar Councils from the states of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala in a first such move on Sunday came together and demanded that a Supreme Court bench be set up in South India. They said it has been largely initiated for people who want to move the apex court but end up relinquishing the idea of accessing justice due to their inability to afford costs of reaching a faraway Supreme Court. The chiefs of these state bar councils spoke at a webinar organised by the Telangana state bar council and elected Telangana bar council chairman A Narasimha Reddy as the convenor for the committee that was formed to achieve this goal. While the demand for a bench has been there for a while, it is for the first time that top legal experts from the region have joined hands and unanimously vowed to fight for it. Narasimha Reddy said that it was incomprehensible as to why the SC was not setting up its appellate benches in four corners of the country. “The Supreme Court at Delhi can exclusively concentrate on constitutional issues while its appellate benches in the four corners could decide the appeals emanating from the high courts,” he said. The meet, presided over by Telangana bar council member B Konda Reddy, unanimously resolved to seek an appointment and meet President Ram Nath Kovind, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, law minister, the Chief Justice of India and all the judges of the Supreme Court in the coming days. The delegation will brief them about the problems being faced by the people in south whose cases are ending at the high courts because reaching Supreme Court with appeals was considered impractical in terms of affordability, delegates said. The meet also decried the exorbitant fees charged by the senior advocates of the Supreme Court that are making the top court affordable only to the rich and corporates and not for the ordinary people of this country. It also resolved to request the legislative assemblies and legislative councils in these southern states to pass resolutions and send them to the central government, seeking setting up of Supreme Court bench in South India. Tamil Nadu and Pondichery Bar Council Chairman P S Amal Raj reminded everyone about the existence of Article 130 in the Constitution that spoke about the seat of the Supreme Court. “It says that the Supreme Court shall sit in Delhi or in such other place or places, as the Chief Justice of India may, with the approval of the President, from time to time, appoint,” Amal Raj said. He cited scores of law commission recommendations that said the Supreme Court must divide its role into constitutional court and appellate court. While the former can be retained at Delhi in its principal seat, the appellate part of its duty can be set up in four parts of the country, he added. KP Jayachandran, chairman, Bar Council of Kerala, said that an analysis of the appeals at the Supreme Court had revealed that most came from cases that emanated from the high courts of Uttaranchal and Punjab & Haryana. “Others are simply dropping the idea of testing their cases at SC because it is too far and too expensive,” he said. The Law Commission headed by Justice A R Lakshmanan had recommended that the southern bench of the SC can be set up either at Chennai or in Hyderabad. AP Bar Council Chairman Ghanta Rama Rao and Karnataka bar council chairman Srinivas Babu too extended their support to the cause of a south bench of the apex court but could not log into the webinar due to a technical snag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sc-urged-to-set-up-bench-in-south-in-aid-of-justice/articleshow/80440176.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
January 25, 2021||Delhi||Why you can’t wash your hands of froth in Yamuna||NEW DELHI: A study conducted by Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) on the formation of froth in the Yamuna has stated that the toxic foam was created mainly by the presence of phosphates and surfactants in the river. The National Green Tribunal-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee, which had asked DPCC and Central Pollution Control Borad (CPCB) to submit a report on the issue, stated in its fifth report to NGT that the primary reason was high phosphate content in detergents finding their way into the river through various drains. According to DPCC, the phosphate and surfactant concentrations were found to be higher than the standard norm in the Yamuna. While surfactants come mainly from households, industrial laundering and other cleansing operations, phosphates are used extensively in the treatment of boilers. The samples were collected in August from nine locations, including the drains at Najafgarh and Barapullah and the supplementary drains, and treated water from sewage treatment plants (STPs), to identify the pollutants in the river. The DPCC study revealed that the phosphate level ranged from 6.9mg/l to 13.42mg/l while the surfactant level varied from 0.27 mg/l to 1.28. The maximum phosphate and surfactant concentrations were observed at Khajoori Paltoon Pool—downstream of Najafgarh drain—with 13.42 and 1.28mg/l, respectively. The prescribed standard for dissolved phosphate is maximum 5.0mg/l and for surfactant, 0.2mg/l. According to the study, at the outfall of Najafgarh drain before it falls into the Yamuna, the phosphate level was 74.8 mg/l. “The study indicates that phosphate contribution is from the upper stretches of Najafgarh drain. It may be due to stagnation of water, eutrophication, or degradation of organic matter within the drain and deposition of water hyacinth at the long stretch of Najafgarh drain. At upstream of Okhla Barrage, such kind of deposition of water hyacinth was found due to the presence of high amount of nutrients.” Meanwhile, the surfactant level at upstream of Najafgarh and outfall of Najafgarh drain before its confluence with the Yamuna was 1.18mg/l and 2.17, respectively. The 62km-long Najafgarh drain receives waste water through several sub-drains and most of it is from industrial units located along its basin. CPCB said, “Use of detergents and foaming agents has increased substantially due to awareness among public to maintain hygiene as a precautionary measure to protect from Covid-19.” The presence of surfactants and phosphates was observed at three monitored locations between downstream Wazirabad and downstream Okhla, indicating discharge of untreated sewage or partially treated sewage or industrial effluent containing laundry chemical, it stated. CPCB recommended that the entire sewage generated from the stretch of Delhi required proper treatment and all detergent-manufacturing units in the country should be directed to manufacture detergents only as per the Bureau of Indian Standards specifications after obtaining the BIS certification. The monitoring committee said, “The problem arising due to the release of detergents with high phosphatic contents into rivers and waterbodies will remain till the manufacturers comply with the BIS standards for detergents.” DPCC, which is running a drive against industries in this matter, said its teams had inspected 192 units, of which 102 were polluting the Yamuna. Of these, 18 units didn’t have effluent treatment plants (ETPs) while 15 ETPs were non-functional. DPCC has issued showcause notice to 17 units and closure notice to another 39.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-you-cant-wash-your-hands-of-froth-in-yamuna-high-phosphate-content-in-detergents-one-of-biggest-causes/articleshow/80438147.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
January 25, 2021||Chandigarh||Mohali ex-mayor alleges attack on poll office, aides||MOHALI: Ex-mayor Kulwant Singh has alleged that his  office in Mohali’s Sector 78 was attacked by 40-50 men armed with sticks and swords in the afternoon. Two-three workers attached with the politician were also injured, alleged the former mayor, who called a press conference after the incident on Sunday. He said the attack was out of political vendetta. The Punjab town is set to go to polls on February 14. Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said they were in the process of registering an FIR into the attack. Later in the night, police booked three men — Sukhjinder Singh Chinda, Jagtar Singh Jinda and Baljinder Singh Golu — and others who couldn’t be identified under various sections on a complaint by Kulwant’s aide, Parvinder Singh Sohana Kulwant, flanked by aides Sohana and Sukhdev Singh Patwari, alleged that a small group first came to gherao his office by claiming to be supporters of farmers. He said they were accompanied by the armed men, who came out of their vehicles and attempted to vandalise the office, and attacked workers when they faced resistance. Sohana, who was present during the alleged attack, said, “I tried to pacify the attackers, but they refused to listen. I repeatedly asked the attackers to talk things out to understand their motive of attack, but they manhandled me and attacked me with swords.” Kulwant said the entire episode had been recorded in CCTV cameras and the footage had also been handed over to police in which the faces were visible. “It is political vendetta against me and my group by the opposition. They attempted to vandalise my office and we have given the complaint to the police wiith names,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-ex-mayor-alleges-attack-on-poll-office-aides/articleshow/80440582.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Ludhiana||Tractors make track for Delhi, city takes out solidarity rally||Ludhiana: To join forces with farmers’ rally in Delhi on Republic Day, a large number of tractors from Ludhiana district and surrounding areas continued their journey towards the Capital. While in the city, civil society and farmers held a tractor rally in support of the agitation on Sunday. Rajinder Benipal, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Punjab, who started his journey from Khanna to Delhi with a cavalcade, said 2,000 tractors from Khanna and about 900 from Amloh in Fatehgarh Sahib left from GT Road near Khanna towards Delhi on Sunday morning to participate in the rally. “Till now, 1.5 lakh tractors from Punjab have left for Delhi. Such a peaceful agitation is unprecedented in the history of the country and we will bring down this government for its farming laws. We want the government to repeal the three laws,” he said. Tractors from many villages of Jagraon also left for Delhi. “Around 15 tractors from our village have already left for Delhi and now one bus with villagers will leave in the evening and the second will leave on Monday morning. From our village, more than 300 farmers have left for the Capital,” said Chamkaur Singh from Chakar village. He added that the government would have to repeal anti-farming laws. The farm leaders said a large number of tractors from Majha and Doaba regions of the state were crossing Machhiwara, Samrala and Khanna areas. “Around 1,000 tractors from Samrala have left and some will leave on Monday. Apart from that, a big number of tractors from Majha and Doaba regions are also crossing Samrala. We expect that the number of tractors participating in the Republic Day rally will cross the two-lakh mark. It will be perhaps a world record for any agitation,” said Sanjok Singh, Samrala president of Lok Chetna Lehar, a social organisation that was part of farmers’ mobilization programme for the Republic Day rally. Meanwhile, civil society and farmers held a rally in Ludhiana in support of the agitation. Besides tractors and jeeps, the rally also saw participation of Harley-Davidson club members. It covered a distance of more than 20km. It started from South City and after crossing Ladowal bypass returned to the starting point.Davinder Singh Nagi, one of the organizers, said more than 50 tractors and 200 vehicles, including high-end cars and motorcycles, were part of the rally and participants included the family of Harjinder Singh of Jangpur who had died during the agitation. “There were five to six tractors driven by women and one had a painting depicting the farmers’ agitation. Another tractor had a music system fitted. Highway workers had set up water, juice and cold drinks’ stalls for them. Punjab police supported us and managed traffic. We had chosen a stretch that avoided harassment to commuters,” he said.March for ‘martyrs’Members of civil society and farmers also took out a “Kisan Shaheed March” in memory of those who have lost their lives during the agitation. The march was held from Flower Enclave to Phullawan Chowk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/tractors-make-track-for-delhi-city-takes-out-solidarity-rally/articleshow/80437389.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 25, 2021||Varanasi||Varanasi: Cricketer Shikhar Dhawan posts pictures of feeding birds, boatman to face action||VARANASI: The photographs posted by Indian team cricketer and left-handed opener Shikhar Dhawan of feeding birds during a boat ride in the Ganga during his recent visit to Varanasi almost landed him in trouble since the district administration had imposed a strict ban on feeding birds due to bird flu scare. The administration, however, gave a reprieve to Dhawan and decided to spare him, but has initiated action against the boatman, who did not stop the cricketer and did not inform him about the ban. The boatman is being identified and traced and will face action. Almost a week after the administration had banned feeding migratory birds in view of the bird flu scare, Dhawan had visited Kashi and fed migratory birds during a boat ride. The flouting of ban came to light when he himself uploaded pictures of his Kashi visit on his Instagram account on Friday, also including the one of feeding birds with a caption ‘Happiness is feeding birds’ which got over four lakh likes. When TOI contacted district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma on Sunday to know the action being initiated in this episode, he said, “Tourists are generally not aware about local issues, directives and guidelines like the ban on feeding migratory birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cricketer-shikhar-dhawan-posts-pictures-of-feeding-birds-boatman-to-face-action/articleshow/80438665.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
January 25, 2021||Agra||Russian woman jumps to death in Vrindavan; pal says ‘wanted to meet Krishna’||AGRA: A 41-year-old Russian woman allegedly committed suicide by jumping from the top floor of a six-storey apartment building, where she was residing, in Vrindavan, on Saturday night. The deceased, Tatyana Hmelovskaya, had been staying at Vrindavan Dham apartment, commonly known as Russian Building, since February last year, said police. SP (city) MP Singh told TOI, “The deceased woman had been staying alone in a flat on a six-floor building. She was on a tourist visa and hailed from Rostov city.” Singh added, “One of her friends, who also lives in the same apartment building, told police that she had been saying that she wanted to meet Lord Krishna.” The SP said that her body was sent for post-mortem and the Russian embassy was also informed about the incident. He added that the investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/russian-woman-41-jumps-to-death-in-vrindavan-friend-says-she-wanted-to-meet-lord-krishna/articleshow/80437386.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Lucknow||CM unveils ‘Udyam Sarathi’ app||Lucknow: The ‘Udyam Sarathi’ app was launched by the state government on Sunday to promote entrepreneurship among youth and help them explore new opportunities for self-employment. The application will provide detailed information on industry jobs at the click of a mouse. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath unveiled the app on ‘UP Diwas’. Prepared under ODOP scheme, it will help youth find a varied range of business opportunities in different departments and sectors, including state and central government jobs. The app will also assist youth with expert opinions along with procedure to avail loans for starting an enterprise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-unveils-udyam-sarathi-app/articleshow/80440175.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Lucknow||Sunrise outshine Techtro to win Football Cup||Lucknow: Sunrise A Football Club overpowered Techtro Football Club 2-1 in a close encounter to lift the 1st Omaxe City Football Cup at La Martiniere Polo Ground here on Sunday. Vinod and Rahul scored one goal each to help Sunrise sail through the keenly contested match. Himanshu was the lone scorer for Techtro. While Bhojraaj of Excellia FC was adjudged the man of the tournament, Vinod (Sunrise FC) emerged as the best striker and highest scorer of the tournament. Rohan and Vikas from Techtro were named as best defender and best midfielder, respectively. Brayen XI's Verdhan was adjudged the best goalkeeper while Yogya from CWA Football Club was named the most promising player. Kingsman FC was adjudged the most disciplined team. Earlier in the day, Techtro FC defeated Brayen XI 2-1 while Sunrise A FC trounced Excellia FC 3-1 to set up the title clash. In the first semi-final, Rohan and Parsi hit the net once each for Techtro while Brayen's Abhishek scored one goal. In the second match, Vinod (2 goals) and Vineet (1) of Sunrise ensured their team's victory over Excellia which could score only one goal, hit by Sumeet. Chef Pankaj Bhadouria was the chief guest on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sunrise-outshine-techtro-to-win-football-cup/articleshow/80440164.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Ludhiana||Case count 25,529 as 26 more test positive||Ludhiana: No death of a Ludhiana resident due to Covid-19 was reported on Sunday. However, 26 residents and nine patients from outside the district tested positive.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said the district toll tally stood at 992 and that of outsiders at 472.To date, 5,87,112 persons have been tested.Of the 26 new cases, 10 were from flu corner, two positive cases’ contacts, eight from OPD, four through tracing process and two healthcare workers. The local health department officials said the district case count was 25,529 and that of outsiders 3,871.So far, 24,274 patients have recovered, which constitutes 95% of the total cases.There are 260 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 783.On Sunday, 38 persons were quarantined and 2,184 samples collected.There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four of the government at CMCH. No patient is on ventilator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/case-count-25529-as-26-more-test-positive/articleshow/80437383.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Agra||Over 100 farmer leaders under ‘house arrest’ in Agra region||AGRA: To prevent farmers from travelling to Delhi for the Republic Day tractor parade, more than 100 farmer leaders have been allegedly put under "house arrest" in Agra region on Sunday. Strict checks of vehicles at district borders are being conducted by police and tractors are being stopped from proceeding towards Delhi. Farmers alleged that fuel stations have been "instructed not to give diesel to tractors". After being stopped by police at several places on Sunday, farmers briefly blocked the Agra-Bareilly highway in Etah district. In Mathura, farmers blocked the Yamuna expressway for around 30 minutes resulting in long queues of vehicles. At Chilla border, Yogesh Pratap Singh, state president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu), said, “Thousands of our workers were scheduled to reach Chilla border by Sunday evening from Agra region. On orders of the state government, our senior workers have been put under house arrest. Those who had managed to leave their houses with their tractors were stopped. We will not tolerate this kind of behaviour of the UP government." Singh added, "If our workers are not allowed to move to Delhi, we will stage protest and block roads during the CM Yogi Adiyanath’s visit to Noida on Monday." District president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait), Rajveer Lawaniya, who had planned to leave for Ghazipur border with 20 tractors and 200 farmers on Sunday morning, was allegedly stopped by the police outside his residence. “Police will not be able to stop hundreds of farmers from Agra to reach Delhi border. In case police don't allow us to take tractors, we will go by private vehicles or board buses. Farmers from Agra will mark their strong presence in Delhi on January 26. The Centre will have to withdraw the three farm laws and give us guarantee on MSP," Lawaniya said. Shyam Singh Chahar, one of the detained farm leaders, said, “I have been put under house arrest. I'm not being allowed to step out and meet farmers. Police will not be able to stop this mass movement of farmers from the Agra region." Inspector general of police A Satish Ganesh told TOI, “We do not want any law and order situation here. We are appealing to farmers to abstain from moving towards Delhi. Preventive measures are being taken to ensure peace and public convenience." Meanwhile, farmers in large numbers have been travelling from Bijnor carrying essential supplies and the National Flag. Many women also left Bijnor for Delhi. Villagers have collected grains for farmers camping at Gazipur border. In fact, peasants from Nangal Jat, Haldaur, Kambhaur, Salmabad, Padarathpur and Shahwazpur, under the banner of BKU and Rashtriya Kisan Majdoor Sangathan, proceeded towards Delhi on Sunday. Ramveer Singh, a farmer from Padarathpur village, said, "We have collected foodgrains for our brothers who are camping at Gazipur border. We are using village roads for our journey as police are stopping us on the highways. We will reach Ghazipur border at any cost." Nigam Chaudhary, another agitating farmer, said, "We along with our children have reached the Ghazipur border on Sunday. We are with the farming fraternity. Time has come for the people of our country to witness history." (with inputs from Harveer Singh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/over-100-farmer-leaders-under-house-arrest/articleshow/80437380.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 25, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Two Ghazipur SOs slam brakes on tractors||VARANASI: Officials at two police stations in Ghazipur district left their seniors red-faced by asking petrol pumps to stop giving oil to tractors in view of the proposed tractor rally as part of farmers’ agitation. Cops at Suhwal police station issued an order telling fuel pumps not to give oil to tractors or in drums and canes. Going a step ahead of Suhwal cops, the Saidpur police imposed a complete ban on movement of tractors on the highway till January 26. SP Ghazipur Om Prakash Singh was shocked when he was informed about the orders issued by the SOs of the Suhwal and Saidpur police stations and asked ASP (rural) to probe the matter. He also made it clear that no such restrictions have been imposed in the district. The SP said he had issued directions to ensure movement of fully fit tractors on roads, especially highways, to prevent accidents in view of the ongoing Road Safety Month, but this order was misinterpreted by cops of the two police stations. SO Suhwal issued an order to petrol pumps through notice. This order stated, “In view of January 26, high alert has been sounded in state and prohibitory orders under Section 144 CrPC are effective. In view of the possibility of farmers taking out tractor rallies a ban is imposed on movement of tractors. You are directed to stop giving oil to tractors, in drums or containers from January 22 till 26 in order to maintain peace.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2-ghazipur-sos-slam-brakes-on-tractors/articleshow/80440177.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Bareilly||Bareilly: Man tied to tree with barb wire, set on fire||BAREILLY: A 45-year-old man was tied to a tree with barbed wires and set on fire in Sheeshgarh area of Bareilly allegedly by his neighbours over an old enmity. Dharampal’s daughter told police that he was scared for the last few days and often used to say that he might be killed. His charred body was found on Saturday evening. Station house officer (SHO) of Sheeshgarh, Rajkumar Bhardwaj, told TOI, “Our forensic team has collected samples and we have also started investigation. The circumstantial evidence suggests that the man was forcefully tied to the tree and set on fire.” An FIR against two persons was filed on late Sunday evening. Post-mortem examination was conducted on Sunday which confirmed the cause of death as shock due to ante-mortem burn injuries, which suggested that Dharampal was alive when he was set on fire. The condition of the body suggested that he would have died a painful death, sources said. Dharampal had gone to sleep on Friday night after dinner and went missing a few hours later. His charred body was recovered about 800 metres from the house. He was not wearing slippers. His brother, Bishanlal, suspected that Dharampal was abducted and murdered. His brother-in-law, Mangal Dev, said, “The body was tightly tied to the tree. He was brutally killed .” Dharampal, who completed MSc in agriculture in 2000, was jobless. Police said that he was upset since 2003, after the partition of property. SSP Bareilly Rohit Singh Sajwan told TOI, “Dharampal’s death is still a mystery and the family members are yet to lodge a complaint. We have asked the family to give us a written complaint. The note left by Dharampal is also unclear. Two suspects, who are neighbours and named in the note, are under detention and they are being questioned as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-45-tied-to-tree-with-barbed-wires-burnt-alive-in-bareilly-2-neighbours-arrested/articleshow/80437405.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 25, 2021||Chandigarh||Biggest mother & child hospital in Chandigarh: Plans afoot||CHANDIGARH: The Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16 will have Chandigarh’s biggest mother and child health (MCH) centre with 400 beds, latest facilities and related requirements, according to plans of the UT administration. The project will come up on a 1.42-lakh-square-foot area on hospital premises and the urban planning department of the UT administration is going to hold a meeting with the hospital administration on Wednesday to discuss and finalise the detailed scope plan of the project. The centre will be a seven-storeyed building and will come up at the same location where the present gynaecological department is situated. The present OPD, emergency and other related facilities will be shifted from the department till the project is completed. The project will have multiple facilities for both gynaecology and paediatric departments, so the planning department has to take the view of the hospital administration regarding the facilities in the buildings and their areas. “Since this project is already approved in the Chandigarh Master Plan, the planning department will discuss the requirements of both of these said departments, including the requirement of beds, operation theatres, delivery rooms, normal rooms, research centre, administrative office and other related wings, if required. Once they get the requirement, the plan will be prepared. Though the department prepared the drawings and designs a few months back, it needs a wider aspect. All such issues will be discussed in the meeting on Wednesday,” sources in the UT revealed. Sources in the health department of the UT revealed that though the project would take minimum six-eight months to start, they had ample time to think about where they needed to shift the gynaecology department and its emergency. “The final decision in this regard will be taken once the project is about to start, but since it is the most busy and crowded department of the hospital, it may either be shifted to the hospital in Sector 22 or some other area where patients can come easily and department can work smoothly as per required infrastructure,” sources said. At present, the gynaecology department of GMSH-16 is one of the busiest departments of the hospital, where not only patients from Chandigarh, but hundreds of patients come from Punjab and Haryana too. The matter has also been taken up by the Chandigarh administration with neighbouring states multiple times, but people still come from these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/biggest-mother-child-hosp-in-ut-plans-afoot/articleshow/80440596.cms||Deepak Yadav
January 25, 2021||Lucknow||ODOP scheme moulding UP at the grassroots: Min||Lucknow: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday launched a report on ‘Uttar Pradesh Transforming at the Grassroots: One District One Product Scheme’ by Invest India on the occasion of UP foundation day. According to MSME, khadi, village industries, sericulture and textile minister, Sidharthnath Singh, the report focuses on the ODOP scheme, a unique initiative first launched and implemented by the UP government to revive and promote the state’s cultural heritage from the district level. Since its launch in 2018, the scheme has not just rejuvenated the endangered local crafts in Uttar Pradesh right from the district level, but also in securing livelihood of millions of rural people engaged in these activities, Singh said. The report has messages from Singh, state minister, MSME, Udaybhan Singh, additional chief secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal and managing director and CEO, Invest India, Deepak Bagla. Written by Mishika Nayyar from Strategic Investment Research Unit (SIRU) at Invest India, the report highlights how the scheme’s implementation in Uttar Pradesh has enhanced its export capacity by over 30 per cent since its launch in 2018. As ODOP scheme completes three years in India’s largest state, its success has been making waves, so much so that several other Indian states are inspired to adopt similar initiatives for district-level revival of local crafts and products and promotion of entrepreneurship across the country,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/odop-scheme-moulding-up-at-the-grassroots-min/articleshow/80440169.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 25, 2021||Mumbai||Not sexual assault if no skin-to-skin contact: Bombay HC||MUMBAI: When there is “no direct physical contact—skin to skin with sexual intent, without penetration”, it would not amount to ‘sexual assault’ under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, Bombay high court held while acquitting a 39-year-old man who had been sentenced to three years’ imprisonment under section 8 of the Act by a trial court for pressing the breasts of a minor. Justice Pushpa Ganediwala of Nagpur bench of the HC said “stricter proof and serious allegations are required’’ given the stringent punishment of three to five years’ imprisonment that ‘sexual assault’ under the Pocso Act entails. “Evidently, it is not the prosecution’s case that the appellant removed her top and pressed her breast,” said Justice Ganediwala adding, “The act of pressing of breast of the child aged 12 years, in the absence of any specific detail as to whether the top was removed or whether he inserted his hand inside the top and pressed her breast, would not fall in the definition of ‘sexual assault’”. But it would attract punishment for molestation under section 354 of the IPC, she said, and sentenced him to one year in jail for the “minor offence”. The HC said the issue before it was whether ‘pressing of breast’ and ‘attempt to remove salwar’ would fall within the definition of ‘sexual assault’ as defined under Section 7 and punishable under Section 8 of the Pocso Act. While public prosecutor M J Khan argued the offence fell within the definition of ‘sexual assault’, the HC held it was “not possible to accept’’ the prosecutor’s submission. The court said the “basic principle of criminal jurisprudence is that punishment shall be proportional to seriousness of crime”. The trial court in Nagpur had last February sentenced the man under section 8 of the Pocso Act and under section 354 IPC (assault or criminal force with intent to outrage a woman’s modesty). The man had appealed his conviction. The girl had testified that she was lured on a false pretext by the accused to his house. She said he had tried to remove her salwar and had pressed her breast. She tried to shout, but he covered her mouth and left the room after bolting the door from outside. Her mother went to his house while looking for her. She had seen the accused leave, and on reaching the first floor found the door bolted from outside and her daughter crying inside. She then went to the police station along with her daughter to lodge an FIR, noted the HC. The man was on bail. The HC issued a non-bailable warrant against him and said all his other sentences shall run concurrently and he would be entitled for a set-off of term undergone in custody. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/not-sexual-assault-if-no-skin-to-skin-contact-hc/articleshow/80440179.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Doctors operate on 65-year-old struck by myasthenia gravis post-Covid||MUMBAI: State-run JJ Hospital surgeons last week operated on a 65-year-old patient who developed a debilitating neurological disease called myasthenia gravis after Covid-19 infection. They removed his thymus gland, an organ located in the front of the heart that boosts the immune system. “After going through medical literature, we realised this might be the first reported case in the world where a patient developed myasthenia gravis after Covid and also had thymoma (thymus tumour),” said Dr Ajay Bhandarwar, head of general surgery in JJ Hospital. The operation took place on January 20. Myasthenia gravis is caused by a breakdown of communication between nerves and muscles; patients develop weakness in their limbs and find it difficult to talk and chew. In August 2020, Italian doctors wrote in the Annals of Internal Medicine, a peer-reviewed medical journal, about myasthenia gravis in three Covid-19 patients. The JJ patient, Ashok Acharya, is a retired government employee from Aurangabad who suffered from Covid-19 in September 2020. He was hospitalised for 15 days. On October 29, he developed breathlessness. Fearing it was Covid again, his son Vishal rushed him to the same hospital where he was treated. “A CT scan revealed an enlarged thymus. On comparing it with a CT scan done during his Covid-19 infection, doctors realised that while his thymus was larger even in September, it had got further enlarged,” he said. He was diagnosed with myasthenia gravis after tests, but could now barely swallow. “It took 15 days for the myasthenia symptoms to subside,” said Vishal. Acharya was advised removal of the thymus within three to four months to prevent a second attack. “As the family didn’t want an open surgery, they were referred to us for a laproscopic option,” said Dr Amol Wagh, who was a part of the JJ team that operated on Acharya. Only three small ports were made to remove the thymus. “The patient is doing well at present, and recovering well,” added Dr Wagh. KEM Hospital’s neurology chief Dr Sangeeta Ravat said Covid-19 doesn’t cause neurological problems, but accelerates underlying diseases. “Any infection, be it Covid or some other viral fever, hastens the progress of diseases such as myasthenia gravis and Guillain Barre Syndrome,” she said. JJ Hospital doctors said one should suspect myasthenia gravis in post-Covid patients with breathing problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/docs-operate-on-65-yr-old-struck-by-myasthenia-gravis-post-covid/articleshow/80439090.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 25, 2021||Noida||Two Chinese nationals held from Noida for money laundering||LUCKNOW: Two Chinese nationals were arrested by Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terror Squad (UP ATS) from Gautam Budh Nagar on Saturday. The duo, Xu Xunfu aka July and Li Teng Li aka Alice, was arrested by Special Task Force (STF) from a friend’s car following a red corner notice by the Interpol. Prashant Kumar, ADG, law and order, said the two bought SIM cards using forged documents and carried out bank transactions using those SIMs. This is the first time that STF has arrested Chinese nationals, Kumar added. “We traced the duo after interrogation of 14 people arrested last week from Delhi and different parts of UP for a similar fraud,” said Kumar. According to STF sources, Rs 5 crore has been transacted through unfair means by the duo. G K Goswami, IG, ATS, said Xunfu’s business visa expired in July 2020, while Li’s tourist visa expired in September 2020. “Xunfu, who belongs to Hunan province, visited India in 2017 to start a business at Panipat. We know what business he was carrying out here, but we are yet to interrogate him. Li, from Henan province, came to India in 2019 for tourism. He also has not been interrogated yet,” said Goswami. Goswami added the duo started indulging in financial frauds in 2020. Explaining their modus operandi, he said that the duo used to obtain preactivated SIM cards from those arrested in the past. Later, the accused used to give these SIMs to a hotel owner run by a Chinese couple in Gurgaon. On the instructions of a group of Chinese, the couple used to share with these two OTP of 150 Indians required to register on WhatsApp through another app. “We are trying to find out who these 150 Indians are,” said the officer. ATS will seek the police custody of the foreigners on January 27. Till then, the duo has been sent to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/up-ats-arrests-two-chinese-nationals-for-money-laundering/articleshow/80440881.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
January 25, 2021||Lucknow||UP to buy agri waste to hike farmer income, cut pollution||LUCKNOW: In keeping with its promise to double income of farmers, the state government has decided to buy agricultural waste and wean away farmers from stubble burning, which accelerates air pollution. To provide a tech fillip, the state government set up a bio-coal production unit in Risia in Bahraich district, where the trial-run of manufacturing fuel briquette pellet from agro-waste was successfully completed recently. Paddy straw, corn stalks, sugarcane leaves are being bought at Rs 1500-2000 per quintal from farmers of the region and ploughed into the Bahraich plant. And around 10,000 quintals have also been bought from farmers so far, a state government spokesperson said. This is the first plant in the state, which is making fuel briquettes from agricultural residue. The unit has received an order for pellet supply of 1000 tonnes per day by Unchahar unit of National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC). State provided exemption of 2.5% on GST for 10 yearsThe unit has also provided direct and indirect employment to over 100 persons while boosting income of farmers from agriculture waste. Agriculture produce commissioner, Alok Sinha, said, this will help eradicate the problem of stubble burning and management of agriculture residue. “We are motivating others to set up such units in the state for manufacturing pellets,” said Sinha. Government officials said, the cost of setting up the plant is around Rs 3.10 crore. The trial has also been completed by sending 106 quintal fuel briquette pellets to NTPC for producing electricity. The state government has also provided an exemption of 2.5% on GST for 10 years and a 25% grant on capital cost will also be provided. The officials said, two proposals from Shahjahanpur and one each from Pilibhit, Faizabad, Basti and Gorakhpur have been received to set up similar plants and training is being imparted on ways to manufacture pellets from agricultural residue by mixing with coal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-buy-agri-waste-to-hike-farmer-income-cut-pollution/articleshow/80440292.cms||Pankaj Shah
January 25, 2021||Chandigarh||Power lines go underground in Sector 8||Chandigarh: The Chandigarh administration has started an overhaul of power infrastructure in Sector 8 by laying power lines underground. Once the cables are laid, the existing overhead lines will be removed. Last year, the UT administration shortlisted a Jaipur-based company for the project and it has now been allocatted the work. A senior UT official said they have obtained permission from different wings of UT administration and municipal corporation for carrying out digging and laying cables. The work is going on at full speed and it will be completed soon, he added. The UT electrical division had floated a tender in which four companies had come forward. Among these four companies, the UT had selected the Jaipur company, which had the lowest bid of Rs 17.54 crore for the project. The project had been in a limbo for over three years. Its planning started in January 2017 and the administration had planned to carry out the project after Chandigarh was selected as one of the fast-track cities under the Smart City Mission of the Union ministry of urban development. The administration had finalised a project of converting existing overhead lines to the underground system and replacement of power infrastructure in Sector 8. The Joint Electricity Regularity Commission (JERC) has already accorded approval to a capital expenditure of Rs 17.89 crore for the project on pilot basis. The department had picked Sector 8, as its infrastructure is over five decades old and its faces frequent breaksdowns, especially during peak summer season. The project was part of UT electricity department’s 20-year roadmap for improving power infrastructure in city. As per the official record, there are five 33 KV sub-stations and thirteen 66 KV sub-stations located in different parts of the city. As per laid down norms, a sub-station has a life span of 25 years. Around six 66 KV sub-stations have crossed their life span and the number of such sub-stations will continue to grow. To address the problem, the department has prepared a detailed project report (DPR) for the upgrade of infrastructure, which the department plans to execute in a phased manner in 20 years, at a cost of Rs 2,773 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/power-lines-go-underground-in-sector-8/articleshow/80440597.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Lucknow||‘Underworld clout, testimony in court forced murder plot’||Lucknow: Slain history-sheeter Ajit Singh’s rise in stature and his bagging railway contracts in east UP and Bihar had started troubling his rivals who then hatched a plan to eliminate him. A police official privy to the probe said it all started in 2013 monsoon with the killing of Samajwadi Party MLA Sipu Singh in July. Ajit worked as a shooter along with Girdhari, Kuntu and Akhand, but they split after Sipu Singh murder. Ajit was also scheduled to depose in the MLA Sipu Singh murder case in court against Kuntu Singh. “Ajit a shooter got close to Mukhtar Ansari, while his friend-turned-foes remained with the east UP don-turned-politician,” the cop said. Thereafter, Ajit started eyeing local contracts in government departments which were earlier sole monopoly of his former gang. This further increased their animosity. Ajit soon started calling the shots as a don. He started interfering in land deals, ran illegal liquor stores and started smuggling. The killing of Munna Bajrangi in Baghpat prison in 2018 created a space and Ajit started working directly for Mukhtar. “By the end of 2018, Ajit had 18 cases against him and moved in a bullet-proof SUV and that too with a convoy of seven other SUVs,” said police. The trial of Sipu murder case was on track and Sipu’s brother Santosh and Ajit were witnesses. Ajit was likely to name Kuntu and Girdhari in court. Since Kuntu is already in jail, Girdhari’s arrest would have further weakened the east UP don in Azamgarh, Mau, Jaunpur and Varanasi, and would have given Ajit a monopoly and free run. Lucknow police on Sunday interrogated Kuntu Singh and Akhand in Azamgarh jail and decided to take their remand in police custody to unravel the details of the planning of Ajit’s murder and filling in the gaps to build a strong case for prosecution. To recall, Ajit Singh (35) alias Ajit Langda of Mau, a history-sheeter who had been externed from his native district and was living in trans-Gomti area of the city, was shot dead at Kathauta crossing in posh Gomtinagar area in the evening on January 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/underworld-clout-testimony-in-court-forced-murder-plot/articleshow/80440132.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 25, 2021||Lucknow||Two Chinese nationals held from Noida for money laundering||LUCKNOW: Two Chinese nationals were arrested by Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terror Squad (UP ATS) from Gautam Budh Nagar on Saturday. The duo, Xu Xunfu aka July and Li Teng Li aka Alice, was arrested by Special Task Force (STF) from a friend’s car following a red corner notice by the Interpol. Prashant Kumar, ADG, law and order, said the two bought SIM cards using forged documents and carried out bank transactions using those SIMs. This is the first time that STF has arrested Chinese nationals, Kumar added. “We traced the duo after interrogation of 14 people arrested last week from Delhi and different parts of UP for a similar fraud,” said Kumar. According to STF sources, Rs 5 crore has been transacted through unfair means by the duo. G K Goswami, IG, ATS, said Xunfu’s business visa expired in July 2020, while Li’s tourist visa expired in September 2020. “Xunfu, who belongs to Hunan province, visited India in 2017 to start a business at Panipat. We know what business he was carrying out here, but we are yet to interrogate him. Li, from Henan province, came to India in 2019 for tourism. He also has not been interrogated yet,” said Goswami. Goswami added the duo started indulging in financial frauds in 2020. Explaining their modus operandi, he said that the duo used to obtain preactivated SIM cards from those arrested in the past. Later, the accused used to give these SIMs to a hotel owner run by a Chinese couple in Gurgaon. On the instructions of a group of Chinese, the couple used to share with these two OTP of 150 Indians required to register on WhatsApp through another app. “We are trying to find out who these 150 Indians are,” said the officer. ATS will seek the police custody of the foreigners on January 27. Till then, the duo has been sent to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-ats-arrests-two-chinese-nationals-for-money-laundering/articleshow/80440323.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
January 25, 2021||Ludhiana||Women from upper crust of city also join rally||Ludhiana: Convoys of tractors, jeeps and cars started rolling down the streets of city’s main roads at 11am on Sunday. Elite women of the district stood out in the cavalcades; while few were driving tractors, others were sitting in trolleys or driving jeeps and cars in the over 20km rally that started from a petrol pump in South City. Women hailing from South City, Barewal Road, Sarabha Nagar, BRS Nagar, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Agar Nagar, Kitchu Nagar and Model Town steered ahead with aplomb. “Around 150 women in cars, jeep and tractors showed solidarity with farmers. Women driving tractors had little experience on the tarmac, but they showed a lot of grit,” said Dr Aman Mauj, a veterinarian and immigration lawyer who has come from Canada for the agitation and is living in Sarabha Nagar. Mauj said, “What we are seeing right now is a revolution. This is the biggest protest in the history and I believe farmers should not return before laws are repealed. What the government is doing is bullying. It is the murder of democracy.” Kakul Gill, a resident of Barewal Road who belongs to an agriculturist family and was part of the rally, brandished a placard, saying, “Mai Kisan Di Beti Kisanan De Naal Haan.” She said the ancestral land was every farmer’s pride and love. “We can never tolerate anyone stepping into our land, where ashes of our ancestors are scattered,” she said in a resolute tone.Ramniq Sandhu, an actress from Sarabha Nagar, said, “This rally is dedicated to the farmers who have lost their lives. Our peaceful fight is for our annadata.”Jass Dosanjh, who travelled from Jalandhar for the protest, said, “I am a farmer’s wife and daughter. We have to support our protesting farmers financially too. Those coming for the rally should make contributions too.”Sukhjinder Grewal, a 35-year-old woman who drove a tractor along with Rubal Khangura from Sarabha Nagar, said, “The whole world will watch our parade. Thousands of farmers have been camping at three Delhi borders for almost two months and we are here to support them.” Hardeep Kaur, a 62-year-old woman from Sarabha Nagar who has farms in Nurpur Bet, drove a tractor. She said, “We fear that the new laws will end MSP and though they claim to liberate farmers from the tranny of middlemen, the main beneficiaries will be corporations with money power.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/women-from-upper-crust-of-city-also-join-rally/articleshow/80437398.cms||Mehak Jain
January 25, 2021||Ludhiana||On rise again: Weekly Covid case count crosses 200-mark||Ludhiana: After a fortnight, the number of weekly Covid-19 cases crossed the 200-mark between January 17 and 23. This despite the fact that the average number of tests done daily in the past week was less as compared with the preceding weeks. According to the latest health department data, 239 cases were recorded in Ludhiana from January 17 to 23. As many as 198 cases were registered between January 3 and 9 and 196 from January 10 to 16. The cases had been on the decline since November-end after the festival season.An analysis of weekly data since July 6, 2020, shows that after reaching the highest value of 2,802 cases between September 13 and 19, the figure fell to 523 from October 11 to 17 and to 325 between October 25 and 31. After that, the number increased to 439 between November 1 and 7, 610 from November 8 to 14 before reaching 696 between November 22 and 28. The figure dropped to around 248 from December 27, 2020, to January 2. The local health department’s data on tests shows that the average number of tests done in a day was 2,158 between January 3 and 9; 2,003 from January 10 to 16; and 1,980 between January 17 to 23.With 239 new cases in the previous week, Ludhiana was at number two spot in the state. While SAS Nagar was at number one spot with 288 cases, Jalandhar was third (138 cases). Mansa recorded the lowest weekly count of eight.The health department authorities said there was an improvement in the district.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said, “Earlier, the number of cases in a day was in hundreds. But now, the figure was between 30 and 40. Residents should follow the rules to check the virus spread.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/on-rise-again-weekly-covid-case-count-crosses-200-mark/articleshow/80437406.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Give MSP for turmeric: Bhatti Vikramarka||HYDERABAD: Congress legislative party leader Bhatti Vikramarka demanded that the Central and state governments buy turmeric at a minimum support price from farmers, and take immediate action to set up a board for the crop. In a statement on Sunday, he said that the two governments should immediately focus on the plight of the farmers and give them support price . “Farmers are worried because the price of a quintal, which was Rs 15,000 eight years ago, is now not even Rs4,000 or Rs-5,000,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/give-msp-for-turmeric-bhatti/articleshow/80439060.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Ludhiana||Bittu attacked, manhandled at Singhu protest site||Ludhiana: In a shocking incidents, Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu and two other Congress legislators were on Sunday manhandled at Singhu border, where they had gone to attend a ‘Jan Sansad’ at the farmers’ protest venue. Although MLA Kulbir Singh Zira and MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla were accompanying him, only Bittu was attacked with sticks, while Zira was manhandled. Their turbans were also thrown on the ground during the scuffle. Surprisingly, they had gone there without any police security, though Bittu is a ‘Z’ category protectee. After the attack, as they were being rushed to their vehicles by some persons, another attack took place, this time on their vehicles and the windscreens were damaged. Soon after the incident, several videos of the attack went viral on the social media, in which an unruly crowd is seen manhandling and abusing the Congress leaders. Terming the incident a well-planned conspiracy to kill them, Bittu claimed that the farmers had nothing to do with this attack and that there were some anti-social elements behind it. Speaking to TOI, Bittu said, “By the grace of god, me and my friends are safe, though the attackers tried their best to inflict deadly injuries on me. They were carrying ‘barsha’ (a sharp-edged weapon), ‘kirpan’ (a short sword) and other weapons. I was hit on head also, but luckily I escaped without any injuries, as MLA Kulbir Zira came to my rescue.” The Ludhiana MP further said the attackers were hiding somewhere and waiting for them to arrive there. Minutes after they reached there, the crowd attacked them. “There is no doubt that this was a pre-planned attack, as politicians from other parties including Pappu Yadav, Sukhpal Khaira and others were also present at the Jan Sansad and addressed the people too, but not even a finger was raised at them. Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) or other elements may be behind this, as SFJ has already announced huge cash rewards for indulging in such misadventures,” Bittu said. He, however, refused to lodge any police complaint over the incident. Zira also claimed that Khalisatni elements were behind this attack. Speaking to TOI, he said, “There was not even a single person with flags of farmer unions, though some carried Khalistani flags. I feel very hurt, as for generations, my family has been of devout Sikhs, yet ‘kafirs’ attacked me and tossed my turban in full public view when I came to the defence of MP Bittu.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bittu-attacked-manhandled-at-singhu-protest-site/articleshow/80439061.cms||Mohit Behl
January 25, 2021||Lucknow||Arrested on kidnapping charge, teen now booked under UP’s new ‘love jihad’ law||VARANASI: Ghazipur police has booked a 17-year-old boy under new anti-conversion law after arresting him for allegedly kidnapping a 15-year-old girl from another community. The statement of the girl before magistrate will be recorded in this connection on Monday. Circle Officer, Jamania, Hitendra Krishna, said that on January 21, a girl’s family of a village in Gahmar police station area had lodged a named FIR against a boy of another community alleging that he had kidnapped their minor daughter. After lodging a case of kidnapping under Section 363 of IPC, police started searching the girl, he said. "On January 22, the boy was caught and the girl rescued," he added. Inspector, Gahmar, Dilip Kumar Singh, said that after the girl was recovered, her family gave lodged another complaint alleging that the girl was kidnapped for forced conversion of religion. On the basis of their complaint, Singh said, another FIR under section 363, 366, 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC and 3, 5(1) of UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion Ordinance 2020 was lodged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/conversion-law-slapped-on-teenager/articleshow/80440180.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Amritsar||Dhanaula residents ask candidates not to canvas for votes in their locality||Bathinda: Irked over announcement of the elections to civic bodies amid farmers’ protest against farm laws, many of the residents of small town Dhanaula in district Barnala have decided to boycott the elections. The residents have put up posters outside their homes asking those contesting elections not to visit their homes seeking votes. The residents of Dhillon Patti in Dhanaula said their priority is protest against farm laws and they will not cast votes. Dhanaula resident Jagtar Singh and Amrit Singh said, “We have restrained contesting candidates from visiting our homes for seeking votes till the protest is continuing. We have put up posters outside our homes about this. Many of the residents are out at Delhi borders and under such times our priority is winning the struggle. Let the politicians wait or support us.” The elections to urban local bodies are to be held on February 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/dhanaula-residents-ask-candidates-not-to-canvas-for-votes-in-their-locality/articleshow/80439078.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Bareilly||Captured PTR stray tiger set free in Dudhwa||Pilibhit: A three-year-old stray tiger of Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR) that was tranquilized on Saturday evening was released deep into the core forest of South Sonaripur forest range of Dudhwa tiger reserve at about 8.30 am on Sunday. After the tiger was tranquilized at Kakraua village, under Madhotanda police station, it was taken to Garha forest guest house in PTR’s Mala forest range for medical examination before releasing it. The tiger had strayed out of PTR’s Barahi forest range on November 29 and moved from village to village in Puranpur and Kalinagar tehsil areas. Villagers heaved a sigh of relief on learning about its capture. The forest department officials here believe that the tiger had strayed out of the wild due to the scarcity of space it could mark out as its own territory. Cubs leave their mother at the age of three. Wildlife experts said the total core forest area of PTR is 60279.80 hectares and has the capacity of accommodating a maximum of 25 - 26 tigers. However, as per the estimation report of the National Tiger Conservation Authority for 2018, tiger population has gone up to 65 in the reserve “As the tiger had been found to be absolutely healthy during the medical examination, we ensured its release at the earliest so that it did feel any irritation due to confinement in the cage. Consequently, it was released early on Sunday morning,” said Lalit Verma, chief conservator of forest. The tiger was escorted to DTR by additional principal chief conservator of forest (project tiger) Kamlesh Kumar, officiating field director of PTR Javed Akhtar, divisional forest officer Sanjeev Kumar and veterinary officer of PTR, Dr Daksh Gangwar. The moment the gate of the cage was lifted, the tiger jumped out and disappeared amid the dense vegetation of the forest, said DFO Sanjeev Kumar. Sanjay Kumar Pathak, field director of DTR, said as the tiger has a tendency of straying out of the wild, it was released at a spot that had core forest in a radius of at least 10 km with low density of big cats. “This will almost wipe out the possibility of its straying and also infighting for territorial dominance. The field forest staff has been directed to keep a close watch on the tiger’s movement,” added Pathak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/captured-ptr-stray-tiger-set-free-in-dudhwa/articleshow/80437417.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 25, 2021||Chandigarh||Thousands of tractors from Hry khaps leave for Delhi||Jind: Thousands of tractors from several khaps of Jind district on Sunday left for Tikri border in Delhi to take part in the proposed rally on the Republic Day. Members of Kandela khap, which had led a similar protest against the then INLD government in 2002 for around two months, Chahal khap, Sarv Jatiya Daran khap, Majra khap and Binain khap were among those leaving for the national capital. A massive number of tractors could be seen moving towards Delhi through the Jind-Patiala national highway all through the day. Besides, farmers from Haryana and Punjab were also seen leaving for the border on bikes, cars and other vehicles in large numbers. Local farmers on the way welcomed these protesters by offering them hot milk and food on the highway and wished them success in their crusade against the Centre’s three agriculture laws. The farmers are carrying all necessary items with them, like flour, water tanks, firewood, cow dung cakes, hukkah and bedding, among more. Thousands of tractors from various districts of Haryana, including Kaithal, Hisar, Fatehabad, Bhiwani and Yamunanagar, also moved toward Delhi borders during the day. Talking to TOI, Tek Ram Kandela, president of Kandela khap, who joined the march, said, “Around 2,000 tractors left from our khap and thousands more from other khaps of the district. We are seeking repeal of these three farm laws enacted by the Centre putting farmers under distress.” Jitender Chattar, a protester, said, “A nation’s head must not be so adamant. Farmers are camping braving cold at the borders and several have died, but PM is silent. This time the farmers will teach the government a lesson and win this fight.” Raj Singh Redhu, another Delhi-bound farmer, said, “We left the village to fight with the Centre, which is seeking to destroy the farmer community that feeds the nation. Farmers are keen to take part in the protest, as they have understood the implications of the agri laws. It will be better for the BJP government if it repeals these laws.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/thousands-of-tractors-from-hry-khaps-leave-for-delhi/articleshow/80439063.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Chandigarh||CM says documents shared by AAP nail its lies on farm laws||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said on Sunday ‘doctored video’ and other evidences shared by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders to support their ‘baseless allegations’ against him had exposed the extent of their desperation and the levels of deceit to which they had stooped in the pursuit of their politically motivated agenda. Taking a dig at AAP over the RTI response copy shared by their spokesperson Raghav Chadha, the chief minister said the documents, in fact, proved that the farm laws were introduced and implemented by the Centre without the high-powered committee’s report even being placed before the governing council of the Niti Aayog. “I am surprised that the AAP spokesperson did not even read the documents he himself showed to the media as purported proof of his allegations,” said Amarinder. The chief minister further added that by sharing a selectively edited video of his (Amarinder’s) statements and a list of final committee members, the AAP spokesperson had made yet another desperate attempt to sell his party’s pack of lies to the people of Punjab. He said these actions showed that Arvind Kejriwal’s AAP had hit rock bottom in its desperation to promote its political agenda in Punjab, where they had been rejected by voters in 2017 assembly polls and in every election thereafter. The fact that they needed to resort to such cheap tactics to find a footing in Punjab goes to show that they have no concrete agenda for the state, he added. The chief minister questioned Chadha on what he was seeking to prove by sharing a copy of the final list of the high-powered committee members dated August 7, 2019, when the original committee (minus Punjab) was actually set up on June 15, 2019. Amarinder pointed out that these dates were clearly mentioned in the documents shared by Chadha himself.  “Don’t you understand the difference between Punjab not originally being included in the committee and being named a member after I personally wrote to the Centre on the issue? How does flaunting the final list, in which Punjab was included after my intervention prove me wrong?,” asked Amarinder. The chief minister also said he had never once claimed that Punjab was not in the re-constituted committee. “Had AAP bothered to share the complete videos of my statements, the truth of what I have been saying would have been endorsed, which is obviously why they have carefully doctored my recorded statements,” said Amarinder. He added that when the first meeting of the committee was held, Punjab was not part of it. After Punjab’s inclusion at Amarinder’s behest, one meeting had discussed financial issues with finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal in attendance, while the last had only agriculture secretary as the invited participant, said the chief minister. Amarinder also said even the agenda of the committee, which AAP was repeatedly referring to in a bid to support their ‘lies’, never mentioned any farm laws or new legislations. He further added that the finance minister had already released the minutes of the committee meeting attended by him and the Punjab government’s note to the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cm-says-documents-shared-by-aap-nail-its-lies-on-farm-laws/articleshow/80439087.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Lucknow||Aarogya Vatika drive a boonfor health & culture: Mayor||Lucknow: Arogya Vatika initiative of ‘The Navbharat Times’ is not only a boon for our health but it also takes us closer to our tradition and culture. Addressing an event to set up Arogya Vatika at Green Park in Rajendranagar on Sunday, Lucknow mayor Sanyukta Bhatia said the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) would extend its full support to take the initiative ahead. The new garden brought smiles on the faces of residents who said the NBT’s campaign to plant herbs and trees having medicinal value would help fight coronavirus pandemic and create a healthy society. Senior scientist from CIMAP Saudan Singh spoke about various medicinal plants and their health benefits. He said CIMAP would extend support to the drive. “This is a wonderful initiative which has made me realize that the cure of mild cough and fever is available in our garden itself,” said Vineeta Rai, a resident. Another resident of the locality, Amish Trivedi, said ‘ashwagandha’, ‘giloi’ and aloe vera were available in every household but not all were aware of its benefits. NBT is setting up Arogya Vatika in different parts of the city. Those interested in getting the garden in their locality may mail to nbtlucknow@timesgroup.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aarogya-vatika-drive-a-boonfor-health-culture-mayor/articleshow/80440159.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Dehradun||20-year-old ‘takes over’ as Uttarakhand CM for a day||DEHRADUN: Haridwar’s Shristi Goswami, a 20-year-old student pursuing B.Sc Agriculture, became Uttarakhand’s chief minister on Sunday and during her one-day stint, reviewed the status of several state departments and issued directions to make the state safer for women. By appointing Goswami the CM on the occasion of ‘National Girl Child Day’, Uttarakhand became the first state to give ‘Children's Assembly’ an opportunity to witness workings of the government first hand. In Sunday’s Cabinet session, Goswami interacted with members of ‘Children’s Assembly’ and ‘Children’s Opposition’. Donning a Banarasi sari, she also visited a government girls’ shelter, as part of a pre-decided schedule. While reviewing the Women and Child Development and Disaster Management Departments, Goswami said, “Every person stranded after a natural disaster is at risk vulnerable but women are also vulnerable to sexual abuse and even trafficking. Also, the safety kit distributed during floods or earthquakes need to include sanitary napkins, which no one thinks about. We must prepare our disaster management task force in a way that they can handle women more delicately during such situations,” she said. Goswami also directed the police department to enforce the SC’s prohibition order on sale of intoxicants near schools and colleges. “We see shops near schools and colleges selling intoxicants, which leads to children developing addiction. These shops must be removed,” she said. She also pointed out that complaints raised by women must be heard timely by police and solved. “Girls find it tough to reach college and schools due to eve teasing or issues with local conveyance. We must collectively work to address these,” she said. Daughter of a local businessman and a housewife, Praveen and Sudha Goswami, Shristi was elected the CM by the ‘Bal Vidhan Sabha’ in 2018. With the Children’s Assembly having a three-year tenure, her “chief ministership” will end later this year. Usha Negi, chairperson of State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR), compared Goswami being the CM on Saturday to the Bollywood film ‘Nayak’, in which Anil Kapoor’s character gets to be the CM for a day. “We have a Nayika,” she said. Negi said that suggestions made by Goswami will be shared with CM Trivendra Rawat and his Cabinet. "The SCPCR will request them to take necessary action on these," she said. Negi thanked the CM and chief secretary Om Prakash for giving the ‘Children’s Assembly’ a chance to act as the “real assembly”. “This will boost the confidence of girls and ignite an interest for politics among children,” Negi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/national-girl-child-day-20-year-old-b-sc-student-from-haridwar-becomes-uttarakhands-cm-for-a-day/articleshow/80437388.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 25, 2021||Chandigarh||No filthy language: Boards to warn Chandigarh policemen||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh SSP has directed all police stations and wings like crime branch, and operation and cyber cells to install a notice or warning display board on their premises, asking personnel not to use “abusive and filthy language, banter jokes and double-meaning words” in front of woman collaeagues. The SSP passed the order last week in pursuance of a standing order issued in 2016 on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act and Guidelines for Pregnant and Breastfeeding Police Mothers at Workplace. The order also asks SHOs and incharges to ensure washrooms were properly maintained. The SSP has also ordered that names and contact numbers of members of the internal complaint committee for sexual harassment, along with the addresses, be displayed at police stations and at all wings of UT police, so an aggrieved policewoman knows where to go with her complaint. The SSP has also asked police station heads to provide necessary assistance to pregnant women cops. The order states that “non compliance will be viewed seriously”. In February 2019, a head constable of UT police had filed PIL in Punjab and Haryana hight court and also sent a letter to the DGP and requested him to direct police stations and other units to display the names of the members of sexual harassment committee on their notice boards, so that women staff can approach them in case of facing any harassment at workplaces by thier male colleagues. Later, some police stations had pasted the names and contact numbers of the members of sexual harassment committee, but not all. At present, UT police have four members in the internal complaints committee, comprising a woman IPS officer as chairman and three inspectors as members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-filthy-language-boards-to-warn-ut-policemen/articleshow/80440600.cms||Pawan Tiwari
January 25, 2021||Lucknow||Precautions must continue even after vaccination for safety of all: Experts||LUCKNOW: Getting the Covid-19 vaccine does not mean that one is completely immune to getting novel coronavirus infection. Masks, physical distancing and hand hygiene are must even after inoculation because the vaccine takes a few weeks to create enough antibodies required for immunisation, hence a beneficiary can catch infection during this period, warned experts. Further, the antibodies, after developing in required numbers, fight and destroy the virus if a recipient acquires the infection. The battle goes on for a few days inside the body before the defence mechanism developed by the vaccine succeeds in annihilating the virus. While the fight is underway, the recipient does not fall sick, but carries the virus and can silently transmit it to others, they cautioned. It is similar to an asymptomatic patient who develops antibodies naturally and gets cured without even knowing that she/he has been infected. If such a person does not follow safety protocols, he/she can easily pass the virus to others. Explaining how the vaccine works, director of Institute of Medical Sciences, BHU, Prof Anil Kumar Gulati said, “After getting the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, cells produce spike protein as found in novel coronavirus. The immune system identifies this protein and develops three sets of antibodies known as IgM, IgG and IgA. The second dose given after 28 days acts as a booster.” “IgM develops in blood cells around 14 days after the first dose and lasts for next 15-20 days. It fights the initial stage of infection,” he said. “In between, the body also starts generating IgG and IgA. While IgG develops fully in 30-35 days after first dose, IgA gains full strength in 40-45 days”, he added. “IgG antibodies also develop in blood cells and provide longer immunity—four months to more than a year. Their prime task is to protect organs,” he said. “IgA antibodies are generated in mucosa present in the nose, lungs and stomach. They last for about a year or more and destroy the virus as soon as it reaches the nose or any other secretary gland. This makes IgA’s role crucial because killing the virus at the initial stage reduces possibilities of transmission,” he explained. Dr Gulati also said, “The time taken for development of antibodies can differ from person to person depending on her/his immune response. Further, the efficacy of vaccines developed so far is between 70% and 90%, which leaves scope for infection to grow and cause illness, besides transmission. Therefore, safety protocols even after vaccination are very important.” Emphasising on the same, head of pulmonary medicine at KGMU Prof Surya Kant said, “The vaccine will protect a recipient from getting seriously ill upon acquiring infection, but she/he can still pass on the virus to others while sneezing and breathing, hence safety protocols are a must even after vaccination for a year or till 70% of the population gets vaccinated.” “Full-fledged antibodies develop in 15 days to 21 days after vaccination. It prevents serious illness, but it is still unclear if these antibodies prevent the vaccinated person from getting infected and transmitting the virus to others,” said Dr D Himanshu, medical superintendent at KGMU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/precautions-must-continue-even-after-vaccination-for-safety-of-all-experts/articleshow/80440102.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
January 25, 2021||Bareilly||Captured PTR stray tiger set free in Dudhwa||Pilibhit: A three-year-old stray tiger of Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR) that was tranquilized on Saturday evening was released deep into the core forest of South Sonaripur forest range of Dudhwa tiger reserve at about 8.30 am on Sunday. After the tiger was tranquilized at Kakraua village, under Madhotanda police station, it was taken to Garha forest guest house in PTR’s Mala forest range for medical examination before releasing it. The tiger had strayed out of PTR’s Barahi forest range on November 29 and moved from village to village in Puranpur and Kalinagar tehsil areas. Villagers heaved a sigh of relief on learning about its capture. The forest department officials here believe that the tiger had strayed out of the wild due to the scarcity of space it could mark out as its own territory. Cubs leave their mother at the age of three. Wildlife experts said the total core forest area of PTR is 60279.80 hectares and has the capacity of accommodating a maximum of 25 - 26 tigers. However, as per the estimation report of the National Tiger Conservation Authority for 2018, tiger population has gone up to 65 in the reserve “As the tiger had been found to be absolutely healthy during the medical examination, we ensured its release at the earliest so that it did feel any irritation due to confinement in the cage. Consequently, it was released early on Sunday morning,” said Lalit Verma, chief conservator of forest. The tiger was escorted to DTR by additional principal chief conservator of forest (project tiger) Kamlesh Kumar, officiating field director of PTR Javed Akhtar, divisional forest officer Sanjeev Kumar and veterinary officer of PTR, Dr Daksh Gangwar. The moment the gate of the cage was lifted, the tiger jumped out and disappeared amid the dense vegetation of the forest, said DFO Sanjeev Kumar. Sanjay Kumar Pathak, field director of DTR, said as the tiger has a tendency of straying out of the wild, it was released at a spot that had core forest in a radius of at least 10 km with low density of big cats. “This will almost wipe out the possibility of its straying and also infighting for territorial dominance. The field forest staff has been directed to keep a close watch on the tiger’s movement,” added Pathak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/captured-ptr-stray-tiger-set-free-in-dudhwa/articleshow/80437422.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 25, 2021||Varanasi||Ghazipur cops ban tractors on roads, oil supply; to face probe||Varanasi: Officials at two police stations in Ghazipur district left their seniors red faced by asking petrol pumps to stop giving oil to tractors in view of the proposed tractor rally as part of farmers’ agitation. Cops at Suhwal police station issued an order telling fuel pumps not to give oil to tractors or in drums and canes. Going a step ahead of Suhwal cops, the Saidpur police imposed complete ban on movement of tractors on the highway till January 26. SP Ghazipur Om Prakash Singh was shocked when he was informed about the orders issued by the in-charges of the Suhwal and Saidpur police stations and asked ASP (rural) to probe the matter. He also made it clear that no such restrictions have been imposed in the district. The SP said he had issued directions to ensure movement of fully fit tractors on roads, especially highways, to prevent accidents in view of the ongoing Road Safety Month, but this order was misinterpreted by cops of the two police stations. SO Suhwal issued had an order to petrol pumps through notice. This order stated, “In view of January 26, high alert has been sounded in state and prohibitory orders under Section 144 CrPC are effective. In view of the possibility of farmers taking out tractor rallies a ban is imposed on movement of tractors. You are directed to stop giving oil to tractors, in drums or containers from January 22 till 26 in order to maintain peace.” The petrol pump at Kalupur pasted this order of Suhwal police on the machines with additional notices that oil will not be given to tractors and in bottles. Saidpur inspector started issuing notices to tractor owners mentioning that in view of national festival, flag marches and movement of school children on roads, movement of tractors will not be allowed. If any tractor is found on road during checking as part of road safety week, legal action would be initiated against them. “As most tractor owners do not focus on fitness of vehicles and backlights are not functional in most vehicles, chances of accidents increase, especially when the tractors move on highways. In view of the same facts, all police stations had been asked to ensure tractors have functional backlights and are fit. These directives were issued for the Road Safety Month,” the SP added. ASP (rural) has been asked to investigate how this order was misinterpreted by the cops of Suhwal and Saidpur police stations, Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ghazipur-cops-ban-tractors-on-roads-oil-supply-to-face-probe/articleshow/80438639.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Lucknow||Rly hospital off Covid duty as fresh cases dip||Lucknow: As Covid-19 situation eased in the city, the health department has taken out the northern railway hospital from Covid-19 health facility category and restored its status of non-Covid hospital as it was before pandemic. The 240-bed hospital is the first in the state capital to have been reverted to its original status. “The hospital was level 1 status where moderate cases were admitted. At present, no patient is admitted here,” said Sanjay Tripathi, divisional railway manager, NR. Sources in the health department said that 10 more Covid facilities are expected to be turned into non-Covid in the first week of February. Chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar said, "The Covid-19 cases have not only declined, but are consistently low for the past several days, hence it has been decided to restore the northern railway hospital’s status to its original one.” As many 31 hospitals and institutes, both in the private and public sector, with altogether over 3,900 beds were converted into Covid facilities of level 1 2 and 3 for moderate, serious and critical cases respectively when the cases rose in July last year and peaked in August-September. However, there has been a gradual decline since October and now the transmission rate in the city has dropped to the levels of June. At present, the occupancy of these 31 hospitals is around 800. “Among those admitted in hospitals, around 300 patients are in ICU or HDU beds in level 2 and 3 hospitals. The pressure has eased from the level 1 hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rly-hospital-off-covid-duty-as-fresh-cases-dip/articleshow/80440080.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 25, 2021||Mumbai||25 more booths in Mumbai for target 9,500 Covishield vaccinations today||MUMBAI: A higher number of immunisation booths will be functional on Monday across the city’s nine of ten vaccination centres. Civic officials said 65 booths have been activated to vaccinate between 7,200-9,500 healthcare workers on Monday. In the first week of vaccination, 40 booths were operationalised while the daily target was around 4,000. The target of beneficiaries too has been doubled for Monday’s drive. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the centres have been prepared to carry out upto 9,500 immunisations on Monday. “We are intensifying the drive from today. All four medical colleges, KEM, Nair, Sion and Cooper, will have ten booths instead of five, while BKC jumbo will have 15 booths,” he said. He added that booths will be vaccinating more than 100 each, which was the target initially. While CoWin could send messages to inform beneficiaries on Sunday, executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said calls were also made from ward-level war rooms to ensure attendance. “Looking at the experience of the past two days, we expect more walk-ins, hence we are planning for both,” said Dr Gomare. The city saw 92% and 90% turnout in centres on day 4 and 5 of vaccination respectively. Although, numbers were largely made up by people who walked in and did not have their names in the planned lists. The civic body also allowed health workers to get vaccinated in any of the nine centres of their choice. JJ Hospital, Byculla, which is the only centre administering the Bharat Biotech vaccine Covaxin will continue to have only one booth. Nodal officer Dr Lalit Sankhe said they have not seen a rush for the vaccine being given under a ‘clinical trial mode’. The highest footfall JJ saw thus far was on the first day, when 39 people turned up. It may be noted that hospitals such as KEM, Nair, and Cooper, where Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine Covishield is given, crossed a daily footfall of 500. Following the lukewarm start to the vaccination drive, all states were asked to escalate by the Centre on Friday. Maharashtra decided to activate all 511 centres, which was the plan initially, but was altered on the Centre’s insistence that fewer centres should administer the vaccine in the beginning. Till Friday, less than 300 centres were giving the vaccine in the state. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a state advisor, criticised the Centre’s approach of drumming up the campaign in the media but asking state officials to take it slow on the ground. “This back and forth hit the take-off and gave out mixed signals. More importantly, everyone saw the vaccine hesitancy coming. So why was no campaign designed to inform and educate healthcare workers a month before the drive took off,” he said. He also questioned why more private centres have not been roped in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/25-more-booths-for-target-9500-covishield-vaccinations-today/articleshow/80439209.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 25, 2021||Ludhiana||Captain knew farm laws are coming since 2019: AAP||Jalandhar: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has mounted a fresh attack on Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on the issue of farm laws, saying he was aware since August 7, 2019 that the three farm bills will be passed, but he chose to remain silent. The party’s claim is based on information procured under the RTI Act, they said. At a press conference here on Sunday, AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said the Punjab CM was aware of the agenda of the High Powered Committee on Agriculture when the controversial bills were being discussed, yet he remained tight-lipped. “What can be bigger proof than this RTI?” he said. “We ask the CM why he didn’t place his dissent before the high powered committee on the farm laws. Why didn’t you insist on the induction of farm unions and farm leaders, who would be directly aggrieved and impacted by these laws?” he said. Chadha also challenged the Punjab CM to produce any evidence to prove that he registered his dissent over the three laws, or dissented against the agenda or the terms of reference of the High-Powered Committee on Agriculture. “We have heard how Captain said that only financial issues were discussed at these meetings. Let us, for the sake of argument, accept that this is what happened. But, even then each of these financial issues pertained to the three black laws, as that is the committee’s terms of reference. Why did Captain lie to everyone?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/captain-knew-farm-laws-are-coming-since-2019-aap/articleshow/80439098.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Truck overturns on ORR after hitting median, two dead||HYDERABAD: A driver and a cleaner died when their truck overturned on the Outer Ring Road (ORR) after hitting the median near Rajendranagar on Sunday. The victims were identified as Munna, 21, driver of the truck, and Sharath, 21, cleaner, from Bidar in Karnataka. The accident occurred on Sunday morning when the victims were travelling in the truck from Bidar to Hyderabad with a load of Bengal gram and soya bean. When police searched the vehicle after the accident, they also found some gutkha packets. At 7.30am, when the truck reached exit 17 of the ORR at Rajendranagar, the driver suddenly turned the vehicle left to take the exit. Due to the sudden turn, the vehicle lost balance, hit the median and turned turtle.  Both Munna and Sharath suffered severe injuries and they died on the spot. “We suspect the driver might have spotted the exit late due to fog,” Rajendranagar sub-inspector (SI) Samaram Reddy said. Immediately after the accident, a police team reached the spot and shifted the bodies to Osmania General Hospital for post-mortem examination. The truck was removed from the road and the victims’ family members were informed about the accident. Police registered a case under Sections 304-A (causing death due to rash or negligent act) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/truck-overturns-on-orr-after-hitting-median-two-dead/articleshow/80440195.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||‘Act against officials for NU’s NAAC debacle’||Nagpur: Statutory body members of Nagpur University on Friday slammed the administration after TOI highlighted how the varsity was running without mandatory National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) certification. Those responsible for the lapse, from the previous and current administration, should be held accountable for this blunder and must be punished, the members demanded. “I’ve been highlighting lack of big research activities and also lack of bridge courses in the last couple of years in Senate and Management Council (MC) meetings. Except false assurances, nothing moved and as a result, we’re without the NAAC grading now. It’s shocking that one of the oldest institutions in India is operating without certification that has been made mandatory by University Grants Commission,” said a dejected MC member Vishnu Changde. An Academic Council member said when he had pointed out to former vice-chancellor SP Kane about the delay in sending self-study report (SSR), the VC had assured that varsity would be completing the formalities shortly and hence it has received one-year extension. “We had requested both Kane and the present VC Subhash Chaudhari for initiating some action against those who had delayed the SSR. Else, such apathy would continue forever. How can officials take such important task very lightly and don’t even get punished,” he asked. Agreeing with them, Senate member Mohan Bajpayee wondered why no action was taken till date against any official even after a month of NAAC certification’s expiry. “It’s very shocking that the university is operating without NAAC certification when most students choose university on that basis. NU administration is turning out to be a big failure across all spheres. There’s still time to make amends. Now NU should act on a war footing and do everything to get the top NAAC grade. The VC should lead by example, instead of declaring that the university is not going to get an ‘A’ grade,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/act-against-officials-for-nus-naac-debacle/articleshow/80450825.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 25, 2021||Kanpur||Five, wanted by Odisha cops for fraud, arrested||Kanpur: Five Hamirpur locals, wanted in a case of online cheating by Odisha police, were arrested on Saturday. The accused have been identified as Abhilash Singh, Waheed Khan, Shahrukh Khan, Parvez Ahmad and Junaid Khan, all residents of Hamirpur district. “All five were arrested in a case of online cheating lodged recently by Odisha police,” said additional superintendent of police, Hamirpur, Anoop Kumar. The accused used to lure people on the pretext of a lottery and then told them to download a particular mobile app on their phones. “On the pretext of releasing the lottery money, the accused used to take money in the name of security deposit from the victims by transferring into their fake accounts through the app,” said the police. Their crime came to light after a police team from Odisha met senior police officials and apprised them about the case registered under Sections 419/420 of Indian Penal Code and Sections 66 (c) and 66 (d) of the IT Act at Bhawani Patna Town police station in Kalahandi district and handed them a copy of the same, the official said. “The police have recovered seven mobile phones and Rs 52,388 in cash from the accused. They will be sent to Odisha after procuring permission for transit remand from court,” ASP Hamirpur Anoop Kumar further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/five-wanted-by-odisha-cops-for-fraud-arrested/articleshow/80438675.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Chandigarh||14k birds culled in Derabassi||Mohali: Amid a bird flu scare, Mohali district administration on Sunday culled 14,000 more birds. The forensics report of a suspected bird flu case is expected by Monday. Meanwhile, the H5N1 virus has been detected in samples taken from four poultry farms in Barwala, Panchkula. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said they had culled around 40,000 birds in the past three days. “It will continue on Monday,” he said. Animal husbandry officials have been directed for disposal of carcass, said DC. The suspected sample was collected from Evergreen Ppoultry Farm in Derabassi. The Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, has forwarded it to National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, for confirmation. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/14k-birds-culled-in-derabassi/articleshow/80440601.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Mentally-ill mom kills 2 daughters with dumbbell||TIRUPATI: A mentally disturbed woman allegedly killed her two daughters with a dumbbell at Madanapalli in Chittoor district on Sunday. The incident sent shock waves across the district. Police said the woman killed her two daughters, Alekya (27) and Sai Divya (22), using a dumbbell. The motive behind the murder is not clear. The woman was identified as Padmaja working as the correspondent in a private college at Madanapalli. Her husband, Purushotham Naidu, is the principal in another college. Padmaja appeared to be mentally disturbed for quite some time, police said. Madanapalli police visited the spot and shifted the bodies to the government general hospital for post-mortem. Police registered a case and took Padmaja into custody. Police are investigating the reasons which led to the gruesome double murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/mentally-ill-mom-kills-2-daughters-with-dumbbell/articleshow/80440199.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||197 Covid-19 cases, one death in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Sunday recorded 197 new cases and one death, raising the caseload to 2,92,253, while the death toll touched 1,589. So far, a total of 2,88,265 patients have recovered from the virus. The state currently has 3,389 active cases of Covid-19, of which 1,842 are in hospitals. The case fatality rate (CFR) is currently stable at 0.54%, bettering the country average of 1.4%. The recovery rate in the state is 98% currently and has been on a constant rise. This is also better than the country average recovery rate of above 96%. A total of 29,560 samples were tested on Sunday, completing testing of 76.6 lakh samples and reaching 2,05,871 sample testing per million population. GHMC recorded 32 new cases on Sunday, while Karimnagar recorded 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/197-covid-19-cases-one-death-in-t/articleshow/80440191.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Allahabad||HC junks Jauhar univ plea against penalty and cess||Prayagraj: The Allahabad High Court has dismissed a writ petition challenging penalty of Rs 2.72 crore and cess amounting to Rs 1.36 crore imposed on constructions at Mohammad Ali Jauhar University in Rampur. Dismissing the writ petition filed by Maulana Mohammad Ali Jauhar Trust through its chairman Azam Khan, Justice J J Munir said the petitioner has an alternate remedy of filing an appeal against the order imposing cess under The Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Cess Act, 1996. Earlier, appearing for the trust, senior advocate S G Hasnain had argued that the order against the University was passed in violation of the principles of natural justice as no opportunity was granted to the petitioner to present his case. It would be a case of consideration of adverse material behind the assessee’s back and a violation of the first principle of natural justice. Additional advocate general Manish Goyal, representing the state government, argued the petitioner can file an appeal against the cess imposed. Hence, there is an equally efficacious alternative remedy being there, that ought to dissuade this court in entertaining the present writ petition. The court after hearing concerned parties observed, “There is a complete remedy under the Cess Act available to the petitioner, which is a special and a fiscal statute. That remedy, in the opinion of this court, ought to be availed by the University, which, it cannot be permitted to bypass, by invoking this court’s jurisdiction, under Article 226 of the Constitution.” “It is made clear that anything said in this judgment shall not be construed as an expression on the merits of the case, which shall remain ever so open to be determined by the Statutory Appellate Authority, if the University chooses to appeal, under the provisions of the Cess Act,” the court clarified in its decision on January 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-junks-jauhar-univ-plea-against-penalty-and-cess/articleshow/80437877.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Lucknow||Street plays, songs mark Girl Child Day||Lucknow: A team of young people from weaker sections of the society came together to perform on a song of a famous Indian band highlighting the divide between rich and poor on the occasion of National Girl Child Day on Sunday. An awareness event on health, hygiene, education and security of the girl child was held at shaheed smarak. These volunteers also took part in street plays, face paintings and discussions organised in different parts of the city on Saturday and Sunday. The theme of all the activities was equal opportunities and resources for equality in society. The celebrations were part of a campaign for equality organised by the Samta Network that started on Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's birth anniversary on Saturday and would continue till Mahatma Gandhi's martyrdom day on January 30. It is also part of the Global Action Week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/street-plays-songs-mark-girl-child-day/articleshow/80440145.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Amritsar||Farmer drives tractor in reverse gear from Barnala to Delhi||Bathinda: Gurcharan Singh drove a tractor in reverse gear all the way from Barnala in Punjab to Singhu border in Delhi to push the central government to repeal the farm laws, covering 350km in five days in a ride that strained his finances and tested his physical and mental strength. “I had to be cautious about other motorists, spend more on diesel and take extra care of the vehicle’s clutch plate and brakes. My neck and legs ached for days. But it did not bother me. I just wanted to send a message to the government to put the laws in back gear,” said the farmer from Rasoolpur Phawahi village near Barnala who had started the journey on December 28 and reached on January 1. The 50-year-old is now back on the road, giving another message --- that of brotherhood and unity among people of different faiths. With a flag bearing religious symbols of Hindus, Sikhs, Muslims and Christians hoisted on his 1996 model Maruti 800 car, he headed for the Delhi border with his friend Harbans Singh in his third trip to the ground zero of the farmers’ protest on Saturday. “I had made the first visit to Singhu in my car in mid-December. After spending a few days, I went back and decided to return in a tractor. This trip is because of a section of people calling us anti-nationals and Khalistan supporters. I will show that people from different religions support us and farmers too respect all faiths. And, a slur against us is against all religions,” he said, adding that he will be participating in the Republic Day tractor parade on January 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farmer-drives-tractor-in-reverse-gear-from-barnala-to-delhi/articleshow/80439122.cms||Neel Kamal
January 25, 2021||Allahabad||Ensure 100% wearing of mask: Allahabad HC tells DGP||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad High Court has directed the Director General of Police (DGP), Uttar Pradesh, to personally ensure that hundred per cent wearing of masks is fully enforced in the state. Hearing a PIL relating to Covid-19, a division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar observed, “The public vaccination for Covid-19 is a long drawn public health scheme and it will take time to develop herd immunity through vaccination. Thus, the police have to assure hundred per cent face masking by the people, at least until the next three months when the state goes through different stages of vaccination.” The court also directed the senior superintendent of police (SSP), Prayagraj, and district magistrate to ensure that everyone, who enters the Megh Mela area wears a mask besides going through the tests which are required. The court fixed February 5, 2021 as the next date of hearing of this PIL. The court has also directed the counsel appearing for the Central Government to file a better affidavit and bring on record the exact vaccination programme vis-à-vis different phases. “In these days of pandemic, we have to put an end to the spread of Covid-19 virus and the government should come up with a definite programme as to when exactly phase-1 would end and phase-2 would commence,” it said. The court also directed the state government to make sure that proper police protection is provided to the officials of Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), who go to remove encroachments. The court also directed police authorities to see that encroachments outside various police stations in the city are cleared. “The abandoned cars dumped outside police stations should also be removed,” the court further directed. Besides, the court also directed the Nagar Nigam, Prayagraj and authorities concerned that wherever vending zones or night markets are intended to be opened, it may be kept in mind that they should not come up in front of residential areas or educational institutions. The court also directed the Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) to look into the submissions made by the Additional Advocate General, Manish Goyal, who apprised the court regarding the commercial activities taking place on Nyay Marg in the shape of various marriage halls and should be checked. The court passed these directives on January 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ensure-100-wearing-of-mask-hc-tells-dgp/articleshow/80437852.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
January 25, 2021||Lucknow||Move over Kota, now UP offers free coaching||LUCKNOW: Now, JEE aspirants from UP needn’t go to Kota. The state government would launch free coaching on professional courses for students (Abhyuday scheme) from Basant Panchami which falls on February 16 this year. Making this announcement on the occasion of 71st foundation day of UP on Sunday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath also declared that the state government would confer UP Gaurav Samman on those who bring laurels to the state while working in different fields. The announcement comes months after the state government sent buses to Kota (Rajasthan) to bring back UP students stuck there during the lockdown. “I had then said that the students would not be required to go back to other states to take coaching for various examinations and would get the facilities in UP only,” the chief minister said. 300 students from each division to get stipend for five monthsThe scheme, which would be rolled out in all 18 divisions of the state, would help the students to avail coaching through offline as well as online mediums. Yogi said that besides experts, officers of the state government would also help the students. Yogi also announced that the state government would set up a panel of experts from universities and college teachers who would also teach the selected students for coaching. “We would soon be starting the selection of students from every district,” he said. The government would select 300 students from each division. These students would be given a stipend of Rs 2,000 per month for the five months. The coaching institutes would help students preparing for NEET, JEE (for entrance to IITs), NDA, CDS (for defence services) and civil services examination. According to an estimate, around 4-5 lakh students, many of them from economically poor background, appear in these competitive examinations. In case of civil services examinations, the government said, students who clear the preliminary stage, would be imparted coaching at UP administration and management (UPAM) institute in Lucknow. The state government is also preparing an elearning content platform under the supervision of Lucknow divisional commissioner. The officers would upload videos and share their experiences while preparing for civil services with the students. The government said that it would collect study material from the reputed institutes under the guidance of a task force chaired by the Lucknow divisional commissioner. Yogi said the state government has decided to set up a committee under the chairmanship of chief secretary which would identify youth with expertise in various fields, including science and technology, art and culture. “We would be honouring three to five such youth every year with UP Gaurav Samman. We would launch the scheme from this year,” he said, stressing that the state was having a large number of talented youth which had the potential of representing UP on the national fora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/move-over-kota-now-up-offers-free-coaching/articleshow/80440214.cms||Pankaj Shah
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Two die in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh; no vax link, say officials||HYDERABAD: Two health workers died on Sunday in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh days after they were administered the Covishield vaccine.While one death was reported from Warangal in Telangana, the other was from Guntur in AP, taking the toll to three since the vaccination drive started earlier this month in both states. But authorities in both states clarified that the deaths were not related to the vaccine and it was purely coincidental. Both had received the jab on January 19. The Warangal case involved a 45-year-old woman healthcare worker from Shayampet. “The Warangal Urban District Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) committee is examining the matter and will submit its report to the state AEFI committee and, in turn, they will report it to the central AEFI committee,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director of public health, Telangana, in a statement. “Her post-mortem examination has been completed but we could not establish anything. Samples are being sent for further investigation to central forensic laboratory,” Dr Rao said, adding that she not have any known co-morbidities, except psychological issues. While in Guntur, it was a 42-year-old accredited social health activist (Asha) worker, B Vijaya Lakshmi, who died of brain stroke in the early hours of Sunday, four days after she received the vaccine. Officials in Andhra Pradesh denied that the mortality was due to vaccination. In both cases, family members have blamed the vaccine for the severe adverse reaction leading to the death of health workers. Earlier, a 42-year-old ambulance driver from Telangana, who was vaccinated on January 19, died after he complained of chest pain the next day. While officials said the death seemed to be unrelated to vaccination, a post-mortem examination revealed heart failure as the reason. The samples have been sent for further evaluation to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. In the Guntur incident, the family of the victim protested outside the Government General Hospital (GGH). Health workers too joined the agitation. They alleged that the adverse reaction from the vaccine had caused the death. Vijaya Lakshmi was working in Penumaka village in Tadepalli mandal and took the vaccine at Tadepalli PHC. “My mother developed dizziness on Thursday (January 21) evening, and later high fever and seizure-like symptoms by midnight. She was admitted to the GGH Guntur on Friday. After battling for life for two days, she passed away in the early hours of Sunday,” said the victim’s son. GGH Guntur superintendent Dr G Prabhavati said that the patient had suffered a brain stem stroke and died of the same on Sunday. “About 11,000 health care workers received the vaccine in the district. But none had any adverse reaction other than this single case,” Guntur collector Samuel Anand Kumar said. But protestors demanded Rs 50 lakh compensation to the family, a house site and a job to a family member. The collector said that he would send the proposals to the state government. “We would take measures to provide compensation and employment for the family,” he added. Seven health care workers also developed mild illness after the Covid-19 vaccination and were admitted to the GGH, Guntur. GGH Guntur superintendent Dr G Prabhavati said that these seven people were admitted on Saturday and were fine. “They have very mild symptoms,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-die-in-t-ap-no-vax-link-say-officials/articleshow/80440207.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Asaduddin Owaisi slams Prakash Javadekar over temple||HYDERABAD: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday criticised Union information and broadcasting (I&B) minister, Prakash Javadekar and called minister’s statement pertaining to Ram Temple in Ayodhya as shameful. The Hyderabad MP once again questioned why didn’t BJP leaders confess their statements in court with pride. “SC said there was no evidence that temple was demolished. It also said that demolition of Masjid was an egregious violation of rule of law. CBI court says no evidence of conspiracy to demolish #BabriMasjid. Why didn’t you confess to this in court with just as much pride? Shameful,” tweeted Owaisi. Javadekar on Sunday said that on December 6, 1992, a historical mistake was ended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asad-slams-javadekar-over-temple/articleshow/80440200.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Meerut||Army jawan posted in J&K killed in line of duty||Meerut: Nishant Sharma, an Army personnel with 61 RR of the Jat Regiment, posted in Rajouri sector of Jammu and Kashmir, was killed in the line of duty after he was fatally injured during ceasefire violation on January 18. A native of UP’s Saharanpur district, Sharma was wounded during a ceasefire violation and was rushed to Udhampur’s Command Hospital where he breathed his last on Sunday morning. "The incident happened three to four days back when we learnt Sharma was critically injured in a grenade attack. Multiple surgeries were conducted and we were informed that his condition is stable. His younger brother, who also serves in the Army, was with him at the hospital," a friend of Sharma told TOI. After learning about the incident, senior administrative officials, including Saharanpur district magistrate, scores of locals, family members and acquaintances reached the residence of the deceased soldier to offer condolences to the aggrieved family. "This is a painful incident. We have our heartfelt sympathies with the family and pray to the almighty that his soul rests in peace," Saharanpur DM said. The slain soldier’s body will be flown to its native place in Saharanpur’s New Sharda Nagar where the funeral will be organised with full state honours. Sharma is survived by his wife Sonam Sharma. According to sources, his Sonam hurt herself upon learning the news of her husband's demise and was rushed to a local hospital. "It was nothing serious. Sonam was taken to hospital where she was quickly discharged after primary aid," the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/army-jawan-posted-in-jk-killed-in-line-of-duty/articleshow/80437432.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Lecturers slam drive to absorb guest faculty||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu higher education department has begun the process to absorb guest lecturers in government arts and science colleges by verifying their certificates despite court orders against such a move. A verification exercise held on Saturday, as per a collegiate of education directive, has drawn flak from lecturers who say such appointments, based on recommendation rather than through open recruitment, will affect the reservation process. There are currently 4,000 guest lecturers in 109 government arts and science colleges in the state, with around 700 having more than five years experience. “We have issued integrated certificates for guest lecturers with more than five years of experience,” a principal from a government college said. Each certificate states that the candidate has been recruited following due procedure prescribed by the government/directorate of collegiate education. P M Selvakumar, a private college lecturer from Tirunelveli, said the guest lecturers were not appointed based on open advertisement. “Most of the appointments are based on recommendations. Reservation is also not followed. So, regularising these temporary guest lecturers is against the rules,” he said. The government did not take any steps to speed up the recruitment process to fill 2,300 vacancies notified by the Teachers Recruitment Board, he added. “The recruitment is pending for more than a year.” Other lecturers said circulars from regional joint directorate offices mentioned GO 56 that not yet to be released in open. “The government order based on which the recruitment process is being initiated is not yet released. The secretive nature of the verification is worrying. Recruitment for government colleges should be transparent,” one lecturer said. Representatives of teacher associations said several judgements of high courts and the Supreme Court were against regularising temporary guest lecturers. V Thangaraj, state president of Tamil Nadu All Government Colleges UGC Qualified Guest Lecturers Association, said the association had been demanding regularisation for last several years. “We have been working in government colleges for more than 10 years for a minimum salary without any job security,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lecturers-slam-drive-to-absorb-guest-faculty/articleshow/80438252.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Lucknow||Couture meets Khadi at UP Diwas, audience spell-bound||LUCKNOW: On ‘Uttar Pradesh Diwas’, a unique fashion extravaganza left the audience spellbound with innovative use of khadi as the textile of trend. The theme of ‘Atmanirbhar Uttar Pradesh’ was women, farmers and youth steering development and this was aptly portrayed at the event, which was a joint venture of Khadi Gram Udyog and Avadh Shilpgram. Celebrity designers, including Ritu Beri, Asma Husain, Runa Banerjee, Rina Dhaka and Manish Tripathi came together to present an amazing spectacle of garments woven with khadi in potent attempt to portray traditional, handwoven fabric in contemporary style with youth appeal. “We accomplished the dual purpose of empowering local manufacturers while presenting khadi in a way never seen before,” said a designer. The state’s diverse folk art held centrestage with girls from every district participating in the manufacture of hand-spun fabric, which were curated by a team of fashion designers for the show. ‘Mission Shakti’ highlighted the scope for women empowerment in the project. “Khadi will play a decisive role in the state government ambitious plans to create a one-trillion economy and ‘Atmnirbhar Uttar Pradesh’. This message was loud and clear in the UP Diwas event. Self-help groups and local start-ups are also crucial in the scheme of things,” said, Mukesh Meshram, principal secretary. Khadi’s elegance, variety and saleability has proved that governments and corporates must return to the grassroots, said a designer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/couture-meets-khadi-at-up-diwas-audience-spell-bound/articleshow/80440188.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Bengaluru||BS Yediyurappa orders crackdown on illegal Mandya mining operations||BENGALURU/SHIVAMOGGA: Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Sunday ordered crackdown on illegal mining in Mandya district’s Baby Betta area very close to the century-old KRS reservoir. Also, the state government said it will soon issue guidelines for stone quarrying, crushers and usage of explosives in the wake of Shivamogga blast that claimed six lives recently. Following political slugfest over the Baby Betta controversy, the CM said he had instructed district officers to stop the illegal mining in and around the sensitive area. “I’ve asked the deputy commissioners in the state to conduct a survey and initiate action. If unauthorized miners apply for regularisation, then officials should conduct spot inspections and grant permit only if there is no ill-impact,” he said. Home and law minister Basavaraj Bommai said a meeting on Monday will deliberate on the issue before coming out with guidelines. Facing flak from the Congress, Yediyurappa clarified he was not in favour of regularising unauthorized quarrying in the state. Illegal mining should stop: CMThe CM said supply of crushed stones is essential for the development of infrastructure. “There is no objection to supplying the crushed stones legally. When there was a shortage of the crushed stones earlier, we would bring them from Bengaluru and Mangaluru. If the problem recurs, then there will be a burden on the exchequer, delaying development works. Hence, crushed stones are required. But illegal mining should stop,” he said. He said Bhovi community makes crushed stones manually and are dependent on quarries for their living. The government is considering their interest too, he added. “...But crushers should be set up under guidelines and within the legal framework.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bsy-orders-crackdown-on-illegal-mandya-mining-ops/articleshow/80440759.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Bengaluru||KPSC paper leak: Cops probe insider angle as clerk among nine detained||BENGALURU: A day after the leak of a question paper pertaining to the first-division assistant recruitment drive by the Karnataka Public Service Commission, Central Crime Branch police on Sunday detained a second-division assistant from Bagalkot. The CCB police arrested eight persons, mostly FDA aspirants, besides detaining Ramesh alias Ramappa from Bagalkot, on Sunday. The insider involvement has given leads for investigators, who are now focusing on the possible role of government officials in the question paper leak case. Sandeep Patil, joint commissioner of police (crime), said they were questioning Ramesh. Sources said Ramesh was to appear for FDA exams on Sunday. “The main accused, Chandra and Rachappa, were arrested from a flat in Ullal, Bengaluru, on Saturday. Based on their information, CCB officials arrested 12 more since Saturday. Our team seized Rs 35 lakh in cash and four vehicles used by the accused for the offence,” Patil said. Some of them had made payments of up to Rs 10 lakh to get a copy of the question paper. KPSC postponed the Sunday examination after CCB police unearthed the gang. The KPSC confirmed the leak of the question paper. Many aspirants visited fraudsters’ flatPolice said Rachappa was supposed to appear for FDA exams on Sunday. Many aspirants had visited the flat and all of them were told not to carry their mobile phones. The aspirants were from Ramanagara, Doddaballapura, Chikkaballapura, Tumakuru, Bengaluru, Mandya and Mysuru. Most aspirants were to take the FDA exam from Bengaluru city. Police said they received information about the gang on Saturday afternoon. They began tailing Chandra. Around 4pm, he went out of his flat in Upkar Layout, near Ullal. Police suspected that Chandra might have received the question paper from Ramesh on Mysore Road. He returned the flat later. As police entered the flat, Chandra’s mother opened the door. Plainclothesman said Chandra had committed a road accident. While his mother tried to convince them that she would pay for the loss her son may have been responsible for, cops barged into the flat and found Rachappa, Mahesh and others inside. The accused were preparing answerscripts as well. Sources said the accused had taken SIM cards by providing forged documents. They created fake accounts on social media to communicate with each other. Based on CCB police inspector Bharath MM’s complaint, Jnanabharathi police registered a case under Information Technology Act and the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kpsc-paper-leak-cops-probe-insider-angle-as-clerk-among-9-detained/articleshow/80440760.cms||Kiran Parashar
January 25, 2021||Salem||TNSTC’s revenue up as footfall rises||COIMBATORE: Five months after the state government relaxed the lockdown norms and allowed the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) to resume bus service, the number of passengers has gone up in the district. On an average, 5.5 lakh people used TNSTC buses per day this month and the corporation earned Rs 70 lakh per day, which is 70% of the pre-lockdown footfall and revenue. While town buses resumed operations from September 1, inter-district buses were operated from September 7 in the state. The government allowed the buses to operate with 100% occupancy from December 7. “In September, people were scared of Covid-19 infection and were reluctant to use public transportation. Footfall of government buses was just 40,000 per day and the revenue was just Rs 25 lakh. But as the number of Covid-19 cases dropped and the government relaxed the lockdown norms, the footfall and the revenue increased, even though pre-lockdown target is not achieved,” a TNSTC official said.  “On an average, 5.5 lakh people use TNSTC buses a day and the revenue is Rs 70 lakh a day, whereas the average passenger count and revenue during the pre-lockdown period was nine lakh and Rs 1.10 crore per day,” he added. TNSTC is now operating 850 buses, including 570 town buses in the district, and mofussil buses to districts like Salem, Madurai and Trichy. It operated 190 special vehicles for 13 days from January 8 during the Pongal season, which conducted 1,182 trips and earned the corporation Rs 1.62 crore. The number of vehicles operated is 19% lesser than the previous year and the revenue has dropped by 30%, the official said. “The pandemic is not the only reason for the drop in the footfall. Due to the ongoing flyover works on Mettupalayam Road, Avinashi Road, Trichy Road and Ukkadam Road, the time taken to reach the destination has gone up. On Mettupalayam Road, TNSTC has suspended service for four stoppings, which has hit the footfall. We hope the footfall will increase once educational institutions open and flyover works are completed,” he added. There is good passenger turnout during peak hours, said M Velankanni Raj, a bus driver and the general secretary of the Coimbatore unit of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions. “During the lockdown period, many passengers changed their mode of transportation and some companies started plying own vehicles for employees. Those people would account for 20% of our footfall,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tnstcs-revenue-up-as-footfall-rises/articleshow/80449710.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 25, 2021||Meerut||Bijnor police seize huge cache of illicit liquor, arrest three||BIJNOR: Police on Sunday made a big breakthrough in their drive against illicit liquor when they arrested three men and seized a huge cache of illicit liquor from them. A probe has been set up in the matter. Police are interrogating those arrested for more leads. According to superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh, with panchayat polls due soon, his department had recently launched a crackdown against the local liquor mafia. On Sunday, following a tip-off, they raided a dilapidated building close to a shrine in Darbada village under Chandpur police station, where they seized 1,190 quarter bottles of country liquor, 25 quarter bottles of adulterated liquor, 5 litres of half-made adulterated liquor, 2 kg urea, alcohol meter and other raw materials used in making liquor, along with a bike, from the spot.” Three members of the gang — Arvind Kumar of Nauganva Sadat, Satveer of Dhanaura Mandi and Samarpar of Bachhrau in Amroha — were arrested. Their job was to paste labels of branded liquor on the bottles of illegal or adulterated liquor, and sell them. The accused told cops they had begun manufacturing illicit liquor following a drastic rise in its demand for the panchayat elections. All three are professional liquor Mafiosi with several cases against them in different police stations,” the SP claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bijnor-police-seize-huge-cache-of-illicit-liquor-arrest-three/articleshow/80437441.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 25, 2021||Kanpur||Vendor thrashed, tonsured & paraded; one accused held||KANPUR: A vegetable vendor was brutally thrashed, his head shaved, his face blackened and then paraded wearing a footwear garland though Randhirpur village in Mangalpur police area of Kanpur Dehat district on Friday allegedly by a local and his four aides. The incident came to light when a video of the shocking incident went viral on social media on Sunday. Arvind Kumar, a resident of Amar Singh Ka Purwa, said he ekes out his living by selling vegetables on a cart in the district. “On Friday, I was selling vegetables in Randhirpur village, when a man, who identified himself as ‘Neta’ and his four aides thrashed me and shaved my head. Then they made me wear a garland of shoes and slippers and paraded me across the village after blackening my face when I refused to give him vegetables free of cost,” said Arvind while narrating his ordeal to reporters. “I went to the police station to lodge a complaint, but the policemen on duty also took the case lightly. After some time, police came into action mode when someone who had made a video of the incident posted it on social media and it went viral,” he said. The main accused Neta has been arrested and booked under relevant sections of IPC, said superintendent of police Kanpur Dehat Keshav Kumar Choudhary. “He and a few others allegedly shaved the head of the man, blackened his face, made him wear garland made of footwear and paraded him in the village, which is extremely shocking. We are investigating the case further,” said SP. “We have launched a search for Neta’s four other aides identified in the video that went viral on social media. We will charge them with assault and causing hurt,” said a police official privy to the investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/vendor-thrashed-tonsured-paraded-one-accused-held/articleshow/80438691.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
January 25, 2021||Bareilly||Newborn girl found dumped in pit, rescued by locals in Rampur||Bareilly: A newborn girl found dumped in a pit in the backyard of a residential area survived miraculously after being rescued by locals in UP’s Rampur late Saturday evening — on the eve of National Girl Child Day. However, according to doctors, the baby is unstable and undergoing treatment. Her medical test reports are awaited. The baby was first spotted in the pit by locals in the backyard of Kashiram Colony near Pahadi Gate under Bannadevi police station in Rampur on Saturday evening, following which a resident entered the pit with the help of a rope and rescued the baby. The video of the rescue operation was widely shared on various social media platforms. Residents said they immediately informed the district hospital authorities and she was admitted to the hospital. Dr Rajeev Agarwal, nodal officer, ICU, district hospital, Rampur, said, “It appears that the baby was dropped in the pit from a height, but she miraculously survived. Her condition, however, continues to be critical. There are swellings in her head, and she suffered multiple fractures. Her medical test reports are awaited.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/newborn-girl-found-dumped-in-pit-rescued-by-locals-in-rampur/articleshow/80437439.cms||Maria Khan
January 25, 2021||Coimbatore||TNSTC’s revenue up as footfall rises||COIMBATORE: Five months after the state government relaxed the lockdown norms and allowed the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) to resume bus service, the number of passengers has gone up in the district. On an average, 5.5 lakh people used TNSTC buses per day this month and the corporation earned Rs 70 lakh per day, which is 70% of the pre-lockdown footfall and revenue. While town buses resumed operations from September 1, inter-district buses were operated from September 7 in the state. The government allowed the buses to operate with 100% occupancy from December 7. “In September, people were scared of Covid-19 infection and were reluctant to use public transportation. Footfall of government buses was just 40,000 per day and the revenue was just Rs 25 lakh. But as the number of Covid-19 cases dropped and the government relaxed the lockdown norms, the footfall and the revenue increased, even though pre-lockdown target is not achieved,” a TNSTC official said.  “On an average, 5.5 lakh people use TNSTC buses a day and the revenue is Rs 70 lakh a day, whereas the average passenger count and revenue during the pre-lockdown period was nine lakh and Rs 1.10 crore per day,” he added. TNSTC is now operating 850 buses, including 570 town buses in the district, and mofussil buses to districts like Salem, Madurai and Trichy. It operated 190 special vehicles for 13 days from January 8 during the Pongal season, which conducted 1,182 trips and earned the corporation Rs 1.62 crore. The number of vehicles operated is 19% lesser than the previous year and the revenue has dropped by 30%, the official said. “The pandemic is not the only reason for the drop in the footfall. Due to the ongoing flyover works on Mettupalayam Road, Avinashi Road, Trichy Road and Ukkadam Road, the time taken to reach the destination has gone up. On Mettupalayam Road, TNSTC has suspended service for four stoppings, which has hit the footfall. We hope the footfall will increase once educational institutions open and flyover works are completed,” he added. There is good passenger turnout during peak hours, said M Velankanni Raj, a bus driver and the general secretary of the Coimbatore unit of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions. “During the lockdown period, many passengers changed their mode of transportation and some companies started plying own vehicles for employees. Those people would account for 20% of our footfall,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tnstcs-revenue-up-as-footfall-rises/articleshow/80439201.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Protest over Sectt mosques catches cops by surprise||HYDERABAD: The sleuths of Law and Order and Intelligence department were taken by surprise on Sunday after the members of joint action committee (JAC) and other Muslim organizations offered prayers on the road near old Secretariat. Though there was surveillance on members of JAC and other organizations, the protestors succeeded in reaching near the old Secretariat and offered afternoon prayers in front of BSNL office, which is a few meters away from the Secretariat. The JAC of various Muslim organizations had given a call for ‘Chalo Secretariat’ to offer prayers at the same place where two mosques existed in the Secretariat till they were demolished by the authorities. In wake of the call, the Hyderabad police were put on alert and on early Sunday morning, some MBT leaders were put under house arrest in the Old City. The JAC members however suddenly arrived near the Secretariat and started offering prayers on the road. Teams of Central zone police reached the spot, picked up the protestors and took them to Saifabad police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/protest-over-sectt-mosques-catches-cops-by-surprise/articleshow/80440206.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Trichy||Trichy gets ODF+ tag for better upkeep of toilets||Trichy:An inspection carried out by the Quality Council of India (QCI), a third-party agency recognised by MoHUA as part of its Swachh Bharat Mission programme, on Trichy’s sanitation infrastructure has promoted the city from open defecation free (ODF) category to ODF+ category. Trichy got the status for its improvement in maintaining public and community toilets and the innovation it has shown in the sanitation infrastructure. A two-member team from QCI inspected the city’s public and community toilets and the urinals in December 2020. Out of the 22 toilets inspected, the assessors have categorised 18 as ‘clean toilets’ and four as ‘aspirational toilets’. The team inspected toilets in slums, commercial and residential areas, and public and transport hubs. But none of them was graded as unusable or usable but dirty categories. As the city has also achieved the target of individual household latrine (IHHL) scheme, the inspection has given ODF+ certification to Trichy city. In the state, there are only 33 towns and cities with ODF+ certification, which will have functional and well-mainatained toilets in public areas within the span of one kilometre. “We have a smart toilet on Allithurai Road and ‘she toilets’ (women-friendly) near Chathiram bus stand. We ensured periodical maintenance at public toilets,” a senior corporation official said. Trichy city has been maintaining public toilets with the help of self-help groups (SHG) for the past 20 years. The women forming a network of SHGs are following cross-subsidisation model to maintain 368 community toilets in slums and commercial areas. Recently, the corporation through CSR fund secured by Gramalaya NGO had overhauled 95 public toilets spending Rs 2.25 crore. “The ODF+ category will improve our ranking in Swachh Survekshan,” the corporation official said. The absence of a comprehensive faecal sludge management (FSM) infrastructure to prevent dumping of faecal waste in drains and waterbodies has cost Trichy city the prospect of moving to ODF++ category. However, the number of urinals is highly disproportionate to the floating population of the city. The 65 wards here have only six dedicated urinal complexes, forcing people to urinate in the open. The central bus stand, Allithurai Road and TVS tollgate locality near SETC depot have become open urination hotspots. Commercial streets such as Big Bazaar Street, NSB Road and Nandhikoil Street that witness heavy crowd during festival days lack adequate number of urinals. The urinals established on VOC Road and Marakkadai remain inaccessible most of the times. “There is a new urinal coming up near Palakkarai flyover. Most of the newly established toilet complexes have urinals too, we will enhance the enforcement,” a corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-gets-odf-tag-for-better-upkeep-of-toilets/articleshow/80439175.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 25, 2021||Coimbatore||Cross Cut Road to get a makeover||Coimbatore: Walking on the Cross Cut Road at Gandhipuram might not be as hectic as it is now in a few years as the city corporation is planning to make the stretch pedestrian-friendly with the help of German development agency Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ).Redesigning works are being carried out on the road to showcase it to the public and get their feedback. The purpose of the project is to make the road a vibrant retail space and make people enjoy the time spend there, a corporation official said.Due to heavy traffic, works are being carried out from 10.30pm to 5am. GIZ has deployed 10 workers to divert vehicles during the working hours. The work is expected to be completed by Monday.“We carried out a survey to assess pedestrian count, number of street vendors, parking and number of vehicles. One lakh pedestrians are using the road a day. Based on the survey, we divided the road into two zones – from Mahaveer Silks to Chennai Silks, which was identified as a high-intense zone and the remaining part of the road was identified as a low-intense zone. We will do mural painting near Mahaveer Silks, corporation’s parking area, PSR Silks and Kirtilals – where the number of people crossing the road is high,” the official said.The width of the road is between 14 metres and 22 metres. It will be redesigned to have two lanes – each 3m – for vehicles, a cycle track of 3m width and a pedestrian path that will be 2.5 to 4.5m wide. “On an average, the width of pedestrian path will be increased by 0.5m,” he said. “We will allow 75% of the vehicles to park on the left side of the road and the rest will be accommodated at the corporation’s parking area. There will be six pick-up and drop points for the public.”Once the works are completed, the stretch will be opened for the public for 15 days. “During the period, we will collect feedback. We plan to place a 3D miniature model of the road near the parking area.”Under the project, the busy Big Bazaar Street was temporarily redesigned two years ago, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cross-cut-road-to-get-a-makeover/articleshow/80439161.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 25, 2021||Coimbatore||Dr Umashankar was murdered, say relatives||Coimbatore: Relatives of Dr Umashankar, chairman of Chennai Hospitals who was run over by a car on Saturday, initially refused to take the body home after postmortem on Sunday.Former employees of the hospital and the relatives staged a demonstration at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), where the postmortem was held, claiming that Umashankar was murdered over a business dispute.But the Thudiyalur police ruled out foul play. “Preliminary inquiry revealed that Richard of Coonoor was behind the wheel of the car that mowed down Umashankar. He was on the way to a cinema hall with his family when the accident happened. He was using a navigation app to reach the place and had lost control over the vehicle. We questioned him but did not find any foul play,” inspector Balamurali Sundaram said. “However, Umashankar’s family has lodged a petition against the chairman of a hospital. We are investigating all angles,” the inspector added.The family received the body after cops pacified them.Umashankar had leased Ellen Hospital at Gandhipuram to launch Chennai Hospitals in 2017. The city crime branch had arrested him last December along with hospital manager Maruthavanan for cheating the owner of Ellen Hospital, Dr P Ramachandran, 72, of Rs 4.5 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dr-umashankar-was-murdered-say-relatives/articleshow/80439170.cms||A Subburaj
January 25, 2021||Coimbatore||Members of Hindu outfits try to block CM’s convoy, arrested||Coimbatore: The Periyanaickenpalayam police arrested as many as 300 members of Hindu outfits who were planning to block the chief minister’s convoy on Mettupalayam Road on Sunday.Members of Hindu Munnani, Vishva Hindu Parishad and BJP had been staging a protest on the Aathiparasakthi temple premises for the last two days demanding the district administration to shift a mosque that was set up near the Om Sakthi Temple last November, police sources said.National highways authorities had demolished Sunnath Jamath and the Velmurugan Mangala Vinayagar Temple that were built on its lands at Press Colony at Periyanaickenpalayam last November, to develop the road. Jamath authorities soon set up another mosque 25 metres away from the Om Sakthi Temple at Press Colony, much to the chagrin of Hindu outfits, who launched a protest. North revenue divisional officer Suresh had instructed the Jamath authorities to shift the temporary mosque from the place before January 21, 2021. However, they refused to do so.Hindu Munnani, Vishva Hindu Parishad members and BJP cadres had launched a protest near a temple along the Mettupalayam Road two days ago, urging the district administration to shift the temporary mosque. On Sunday, when they got ready to block the CM’s convoy, police arrested them and kept them in a marriage hall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/members-of-hindu-outfits-try-to-block-cms-convoy-arrested/articleshow/80439189.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: No season tickets, counters crowded||CHENNAI: The patronage for suburban trains may be increasing, but Southern Railway is still not issuing season tickets and return tickets to commuters who travel during non-peak hours. This is leading to long queues before ticket counters at stations like Avadi and Perambur on Chennai-Tiruvallur route where there is little space to ensure social distancing. Season tickets are issued only to those with regular jobs based on their identity cards, while return tickets are issued to those allowed to travel during peak hours — mostly women and those in essential sectors. The suburban network currently handles Rs 2.35lakh commuters though there are restrictions for the general public during peak hours. With schools and colleges having reopened partially, trains are crowded during peak hours and moderately packed during non-peak hours. T Sadagopan, a frequent commuter, said people are not able to maintain social distancing at suburban railway stations because they are forced to go to counters to buy tickets. “Issuing season tickets would have taken some crowd off the counters.” Counters at most suburban stations are not designed to handle crowds, he added. Many people are often not aware of the classification of commuters for peak hours and non-peak hours. S Murugaiyyan of Thirunindravur Passengers Association said tickets for the general public are issued only at 9.30am. “People (authorised to travel only during non-peak hours) are missing trains and end up reaching late for work. This is often leading to arguments with the staff. Students too struggle because they do not get season tickets. Railways should start allowing all people to travel throughout the day.” K Baskar of Thiruvallur said few know there is a time restriction for travel though notices have been pasted at stations. “The staff say return ticket are not being issued because there is no guarantee people will return within the non-peak hour time limit.” A railway official said commuters were allowed to use old season tickets following an outcry. “Fresh ones may be issued after services are regularized.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-season-tickets-counters-crowded/articleshow/80438294.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Meerut||Distillery staffers among 7 held for selling illicit liquor of leading brands||MEERUT: Three staffers of a local distillery were booked and one of them was arrested after police busted a gang manufacturing and supplying illicit liquor. Huge consignment of raw material, packaging material and liquor bottles were recovered in the raid, police said. During investigation, it came to fore that the illicit liquor in the name of leading Indian brands was being sold at wine shops and was supplied at hotels as well. The illegal unit was being run from a house in the Defence Enclave area of Meerut. At least seven members of the gang, including a distillery staffer, three salesmen and an owner of a city-based hotel were arrested. Five others are still absconding. According to police, the accused distillery staffers used to supply packaging material including wrappers, bottle caps, QR codes and bottle boxes to the gang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/distillery-staffers-among-7-held-for-selling-illicit-liquor-of-leading-brands/articleshow/80437449.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||E-Summit 2k21 at IIT-Hyderabad concludes||HYDERABAD: The E-Summit 2k21 – a pragmatic advent, an entrepreneurship conclave organised by the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IIT-H) concluded on Sunday. In view of Covid-19 pandemic, the E-Summit 2k21 was organized virtually with more than 1,500 registration and 300 participants for the panel discussions. According to a press release issued by IIT-H, on the first day of the E-Summit, TN Hari, human resources head of BigBasket spoke about the importance of asking questions, being crystal clear in the plan and motive of a company and refrain from taking shortcuts, or ‘jugaad’. On day 2, Omkar Rai, director general of STPI mentioned that people have shown keenness to adopt technology, and have been working to impart education, banking and medicine. Speaking about social entrepreneurship, Kiran DM, CEO of ONGC Foundation stated that social enterprise is a combination of passion and solution, and there is a mind-shift needed to resort to greener means of production and consumption. The three-day long event concluded with a prize distribution ceremony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/e-summit-2k21-at-iit-h-concludes/articleshow/80440209.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Drunk pillion rider abets rash driving, booked||Ahmedabad: In a rare instance, a pillion rider was booked for abetting rash driving as he was drunk and told his friend to drive in speed when he saw police. He and his friend met with an accident and both of them were booked for rash driving and drunk driving. In this case, pillion rider Jitendra Thakor was booked for consuming liquor and his friend Vipul Thakor was booked for drunk driving. The incident took place on January 17 regarding which an FIR was filed with Mandal police of Ahmedabad district. According to two FIRs filed with Mandal police, Vipul, 20, a resident of Navagam in Mandal, was riding his motorcycle near his village. At that time, his pillion rider Jitendra, 30, who is also a resident of Navagam village, was heavily drunk. When Jitendra saw police near Navagam Patia locality, he began telling Vipul to drive in speed. Though Vipul was quite conscious to decide on how he should ride, he followed his drunk friend’s advice and drove in speed and hit a road divider. They fell on the road and suffered injuries after which police took them to hospital and booked them in two separate cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/drunk-pillion-rider-abets-rash-driving-booked/articleshow/80438295.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana farmers lose as traders buy cheap paddy from other states for export||HYDERABAD: Telangana may be the second highest producer of paddy in the country, but when it comes to exports traders from the state prefer to buy paddy at cheaper rates from Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Local traders said that if the MSP is Rs 1,885 per quintal in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, it is around Rs 1,650 in other states. The difference in price gives a huge advantage to exporters as well as consumers abroad. Paddy is exported from India to 170 countries, including many in Africa. If procured in Telangana, price comes to around Rs 39/kg, while from other states it works out to be Rs 29/kg. “UP, Gujarat, Odisha, and Maharashtra offer lesser price, when compared to traditional rice bowls such as Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana,” national Rice Exporters Association president BV Krishna Rao said. “Last year we exported about 14 million tonnes of rice. This is biggest so far beating 8.5 million tonnes achieved a few years ago. In fact, foreign consumers get the rice at a much lesser price because of MSP difference,” he added. In view of this advantage, rice exporters have written to the government asking them to reduce the subsidy component. “The differential price, for example, if we are buying paddy at Rs 1,650, then the government can pay farmers the rest to equal Rs 1,885. It will be a win-win situation for everyone, including government, farmers, exporters and consumers,” Rao said. The letter was written in view of the shortage of paddy export from competitors such Pakistan, Taiwan, Vietnam, and Myanmar. Out of 14 million tonnes exports, about 10 million tonnes of long-grain paddy variety is non-Basmati rice while the rest of the exported stuff is Basmati. Industry insiders say that Food Corporation of India (FCI) has reduced the coverage of MSP for rice in many states, but not in AP and Telangana, where a second crop is available. There are exporters who have buy-back arrangements from farmers right from the sowing level. “This is good for the rice varieties such as diabetic rice where we pay the price of MSP and export to countries such as Kuwait,” Rajesh Saraf, a local rice exporter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-farmers-lose-as-traders-buy-cheap-paddy-from-other-states-for-export/articleshow/80440210.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 25, 2021||Coimbatore||EPS accuses Karunanidhi, Stalin of foisting cases on Jayalalithaa||COIMBATORE: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Sunday accused former DMK president M Karunanidhi and his son M K Stalin of foisting cases on J Jayalalithaa, resulting in her imprisonment and subsequent ill-health and death.  “Cases were foisted on Amma by Karunanidhi and Stalin and even when the Karnataka high court acquitted her, they appealed against the order in the Supreme Court. She was jailed and her health condition deteriorated, leading to her death,” said Palaniswami. Addressing a gathering at Thondamuthur in Coimbatore suburbs, Palaniswami said the commission constituted by his government had been probing the circumstances leading to Jayalalithaa’s death. Only two weeks ago, during a 'makkal grama sabha' (people's village council) meeting in Thondamathur, Stalin warned that his government would probe Jayalalithaa’s death and punish those “responsible for it”. Continuing his campaign in the region, Palaniswami alleged that Karunanidhi was not given “adequate and proper” treatment when he fell ill. “Karunanidhi did not trust his son Stalin and until his death did not promote him to the post of DMK president. How can people trust Stalin when his own father did not?” asked Palaniswami. At Kavundampalayam, Palaniswami said if Stalin’s estranged brother M K Alagiri started a political party ahead of the assembly election, DMK would be finished. At the start of his second-day campaign in Coimbatore district, Palaniswami said a number of welfare schemes would be unveiled soon. He said his government was doing all it could for the welfare of the people, whereas Stalin was making false promises. The state government had no power to scrap NEET, but Stalin had been promising people he would do away with it if his party won the election, EPS said. The AIADMK, he said, would win a third consecutive time. Reaching out to banana farmers in the region, Palaniswami said, “With the help of scientist Mylswamy Annadurai and Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IITM), the state government is going to undertake a project to utilize all parts of the banana crop. After implementing the project, the income of banana farmers will double.” He requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to set up the defence industrial sector in Coimbatore district at the earliest as it would provide job opportunities to thousands of youngsters. “We are providing uninterrupted power supply and maintaining law and order well. So, many industries have been evincing interest to set up their industries in Coimbatore,” said Palaniswami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/eps-accuses-karunanidhi-stalin-of-foisting-cases-on-jayalalithaa/articleshow/80439203.cms||A Subburaj
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad doctor in Euro med association||HYDERABAD: Yashoda Hospital pulmonologist Dr Hari Kishan was appointed as national delegate from India at the European Association for Bronchology and Interventional Pulmonology. The hospital management congratulated the division of interventional pulmonology for also winning a global contest organsied by the World Association for Bronchology and Interventional Pulmonology (WABIP).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-doc-in-euro-med-association/articleshow/80440208.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Road damaged by cyclone Nivar not yet repaired||CHENNAI: A part of VOC Street in Saligramam that caved in following heavy rain during cyclone Nivar remains unattended, putting road users and residents in peril. K Krupa Shankar, a resident, the corporation had dug up the road two years ago after which one part of the stretch that connects VOC Street and VOC Street Extension but caved in early last year. The authorities dumped construction debris over it but it caved in again during heavy rain brought by the cyclone. “I have been living in this area for 12 years but this is the first time we are encountering such a problem,” he said. The cave-in has restricted traffic movement on the road. During rainfall, the corporation pumped stagnated rainwater from an adjoining street and drained it on the stretch. Krupa Shankar said he and a few other residents went to the corporation office to report the issue but they were directed to approach Metrowater. “The officials said the cave-in was because of a leakage in the sewerage line. But when we met Metrowater officials they said it was because of a fault in the stormwater drains where sand was getting sucked in. They both kept blaming each other without offering a solution or taking responsibility,” he said. In December, the residents held a protest outside MLA Virugai V N Ravi’s office demanding immediate action. “He came and visited the spot twice but offered a temporary solution. They covered the part with debris and mud and surrounded it with barricades. But now it has completely collapsed,” said T Ramkumar, an auto driver who resides in the street. Recently, corporation opened the manhole on the caved-in portion to identify the problem. “The manhole needs repair and we have already started work. It should be complete by the end of the week after which we will re-lay the road,” said an official from Zone 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/road-damaged-by-nivar-not-yet-repaired/articleshow/80438297.cms||Aditi R
January 25, 2021||Trichy||Trichy city cops launch WhatsApp helpline to report traffic violations||Trichy: Trichy police on Sunday launched an exclusive WhatsApp helpline for the public to report traffic violations and traffic congestions in the city. Residents can share the photographs or videos of any road safety violations to the helpline 96262-73399 for initiating legal actions against the violators.Trichy police commissioner J Loganathan said that the initiative was envisaged for involving people as one of the stakeholders in ensuring road safety. Once the complaints from residents on traffic offences such as unauthorised parking, carrying passengers on load vehicles or other violations were received on the helpline, the city traffic police would investigate the evidence shared. If the violation committed was found to be true, the commissioner said that cases under the Motor Vehicle Act shall be booked by identifying the violator based on the vehicle registration number shared in the complaint. “The helpline will make people responsible while on roads as they would have the feeling of being monitored round the clock. This is a step towards achieving a cordial relationship between police and people,” J Loganathan said.Apart from violations, even traffic congestions and anything obstructing the free flow of vehicular movement can be shared on the helpline. “This is a much needed move for Trichy which has been reeling under traffic woes. Complainants should be let known of the action taken on the complaints they lodged on the helpline,” T Senthilkumar, a resident of Palakkarai said. Although the initiative was launched in the view of road safety month being held, city police said that the WhatsApp helpline was here to stay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-city-cops-launch-whatsapp-helpline-to-report-traffic-violations/articleshow/80439218.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro's Yellow Line services to be curtailed on January 26||NEW DELHI: Train services on Delhi Metro’s Yellow Line (HUDA City Centre– Samaypur Badli) will be partially regulated on January 26 as part of the security arrangements for the Republic Day celebrations on Tuesday. Metro parking lots, too, will be closed a day earlier. As part of the arrangements, entry and exit at Central Secretariat and Udyog Bhawan Metro Stations will remain closed from the start of revenue services till 12 noon. The Central Secretariat station will only be used for interchange of passengers between Yellow Line and Violet Line (Kashmere Gate-Ballabhgarh). Entry and exit at Patel Chowk and Lok Kalyan Marg Metro stations will also remain closed from 8.45am to 12 noon. A Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) spokesperson said that the arrangements have been made as per Delhi Police instructions. All Metro parking lots will also remain closed from 6am on Monday to 2pm on Tuesday. “This step has also been taken as part of the security arrangements,” the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/metro-yellow-line-services-to-be-curtailed-on-jan-26/articleshow/80438303.cms||---
January 25, 2021||India||Rebels of Congress eye parliamentary board via poll body||NEW DELHI: Innocuous though it may seem, polls for the central election committee of Congress will open the entire decision-making process in the organisation outside the official group, a reason why it has emerged as the latest bone of contention in the party. The Congress constitution is so designed that election to the CEC will force the leadership to set up the parliamentary board, which is a key demand — besides elections to the post of party president and the Congress Working Committee — of the dissident group known as the G-23. This demand was the reason for the spat in the CWC meeting held on Friday, where the group loyal to the Gandhis led by Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot and Ambika Soni and the G-23 led by Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and Mukul Wasnik clashed. Though the CEC is merely a deliberative body which decides party candidates for assembly and parliamentary polls, a nod to its election would mean the party would have to constitute the parliamentary board — the top body on parliamentary issues which was discontinued by then party chief and PM P V Narasimha Rao in 1992. Article 25B of the Congress constitution says, “A CEC shall be set up consisting of members of the parliamentary board and nine other members elected by the AICC for the purpose of....” On the other hand, the parliamentary board, as per the Congress constitution (Article 25A), is set up by the CWC and consists of nine members, including the leader of Congress in Parliament. The Congress chief is its chairperson. While Congress has agreed to hold elections for the party president and the CWC, it has not yet spelt out whether it will set up the parliamentary board. “The push for election to the CEC is designed by dissidents to ensure an across-the-board say in decision-making. Whoever has thought of it has read the party constitution and is being clever. It is not the central election committee but the parliamentary board that they are eyeing,” a Congress insider said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rebels-of-congress-eye-parliamentary-board-via-poll-body/articleshow/80440707.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Two days after girl’s suicide in Telangana, lover in Dubai kills himself||HYDERABAD: Two days after his 21-year-old girlfriend killed herself at Gollapalli in Jagtiyal district, her lover committed suicide in Dubai in the UAE on Saturday after he came to know about the tragic news. Gollapalli police said L Manisha was found hanging from the ceiling on Thursday. On Saturday night, Rakesh, who went to Dubai a year ago in search of a job, sent a selfie video to his friends and family members in Govindpalli village, informing them that he too was ending his life as he could not live without Manisha. Asking his mother to take care of herself, he ended the one minute and 37 second video. Later, he hanged himself. Police said Manisha and Rakesh, residents of neighbouring villages, were in love. Manisha did not tell her family members about her affair. Meanwhile, her family members started looking for marriage alliances for her recently. “Perhaps due to the fear of getting married to someone else instead of Rakesh, Manisha might have taken the extreme step. Manisha left a suicide note, but she did not mention any specific reason for ending her life,’’ Gollapalli sub-inspector Jeevan said. In connection with Rakesh’s suicide, they did not get any complaint from his family members, who have information from Dubai about Rakesh’s suicide, the SI added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-days-after-girls-suicide-lover-in-dubai-kills-himself/articleshow/80440244.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Sun dances with fog, flights stick to tarmac||NEW DELHI: The season’s lowest maximum temperature was recorded in the city at 15 degrees Celsius, six notches below normal, on Sunday. Apart from a cold day, dense fog was recorded in parts of Delhi in the morning and visibility dropped to 100m at Palam weather station. This resulted in around 50 flights getting delayed and low visibility procedures being followed at IGI Airport. Airport officials said flyers were advised to get in touch with the airlines they were travelling with for more details. “A few flights were delayed because of the destination weather. Flights are cancelled if pilots aren’t trained enough to fly under such circumstances,” said an official. Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said the chill was likely to return on Monday and minimum temperature could drop. The prediction was of cold day conditions and dense to very dense fog. Apart from Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, the maximum temperature remained at 15 degrees Celsius at Palam and Lodhi Road. The minimum temperature was 8.8 degrees Celsius, one degree above normal. A layer of “uplifted” fog, which is at a higher than usual elevation, had formed over the Indo-Gangetic plains and screened out sunlight. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “Uplifted fog blocks the sunlight. Due to this, the daytime temperature may not rise, while nights remain cold. Besides, the hills in western Himalayan region received fresh snowfall. After the passage of a western disturbance, the wind direction has changed to northwesterly. Cold winds are now blowing from the snow-capped mountains, which cause a drop in minimum temperature.” The IMD forecast shows that maximum and minimum temperatures would remain at 16 and 5 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Monday. “The minimum temperature is expected to dip further after January 26. Cold wave conditions may take place at isolated places from Tuesday to Thursday. The maximum temperature is predicted to be 18 degrees Celsius from Tuesday. The weather is likely to remain cold for the next four days,” said an official. The city has recorded three cold wave days so far this month. The Met department has predicted more such days from January 26. Two cold days have been recorded so far in January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sun-dances-with-fogflights-stick-to-tarmac/articleshow/80438305.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Amputated leg found in Sola; surgical waste, say cops||Ahmedabad: An amputated leg was found dumped at a deserted place in Sola on Sunday afternoon. Some local residents spotted the leg, which had bandages on it and had been stuffed into a sack of flour. They informed police and a team of cops reached the spot. Sources in Ghatlodia police said that they got a call from the control room about the leg at about 4pm on Sunday. Ghatlodia police inspector Yuvraj Vaghela said that it appeared to be a case of improper disposal of surgical waste. Hospitals usually dispose of such waste by sending it to crematoriums. Police at that stage had not consulted any hospital. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Zone-7 and in charge of Zone-1, Premsukh Delu said that the leg may have been amputated after an accident. “We have called a team of forensic experts and a dog squad for further inquiry,” said Delu. He said that the ground on which the leg was found was searched, but no clue was found. Police have not yet obtained CCTV footage of the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amputated-leg-found-in-sola-surgical-waste-say-cops/articleshow/80438299.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Daily positivity rate in 18 districts higher than Maharashtra's average||MUMBAI: While Maharashtra’s daily Covid-19 positivity rate has consistently stayed under 5% for the last one month, the trend is not uniform across districts and has even reversed in some. At least 18 districts have a higher positivity rate than the state average at present, indicative of continued virus transmission and less testing. Maharashtra and Kerala are the states with the highest positivity, the percentage of people who test positive in the total number tested. Nandurbar with a predominant tribal population has a positivity rate of 14%, nearly three times the state average, and highest in the state. Three weeks ago, the daily positivity rate was even higher at 22%. Close second is Nashik that recorded a 10% positivity last week, and nearly 19% at the end of December. Yavatmal, Buldhana and Akola districts have 9%-10% positivity rate, while Amravati, Parbhani and Nagpur have a positivity rate of 8% and above. More populated districts like Mumbai, Pune and Thane, where the daily testing volumes have remained steady, such fluctuations in the positivity rate are not seen. As of January 21, Mumbai's positivity was 4%, Pune 7% and Thane 5%. Mumbai has been carrying out nearly 15,000 tests daily, Pune district 7,000-8,000, and Thane 9,000-10,000. A comparison of daily positivity rates of districts also showed rise in some places and sharp decline in others. For instance, Amravati saw its positivity rise to 8% from 6% between December 31 and January 21. In Aurangabad, on the other hand, daily positivity fwll six-fold from 18% to 3% on January 21. Similarly, the rate remarkably dipped in Gadchiroli from 8% to below 1% last week, making it the district with the least positivity rate. “Districts like Nandurbar and Nashik have a high positivity rate partly because of their low testing denominator,” said Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a member of the state’s technical committee that recently visited Nandurbar. “Weddings have emerged as one of the biggest reasons for cluster cases in Nandurbar,” he added. Nandurbar civil surgeon Dr R Bhoye admitted that the district has a capacity to test 1,200 samples in a day, but a little over 350 tests are performed. “Cases are predominantly from Nandurbar and Shahada towns, but a few scattered ones are reported from elsewhere too,” he said. An official from Nashik said that daily testing has dropped from 2,000 till December to 1,500 currently, but those with symptoms are promptly evaluated and tested. Maharashtra’s daily testing numbers too have dropped from an average of 70,000-75,000 in December to a little over 60,000 in January. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, had earlier said that districts with higher positivity rate have been asked to ramp up testing. Dr Salunkhe said that despite the arrival of vaccines, testing and tracing would remain the main defence against coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/daily-positivity-rate-in-18-dists-higher-than-state-avg/articleshow/80439356.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 25, 2021||Pune||Covid-19: Daily positivity rate in 18 districts higher than Maharashtra's average||MUMBAI: While Maharashtra’s daily Covid-19 positivity rate has consistently stayed under 5% for the last one month, the trend is not uniform across districts and has even reversed in some. At least 18 districts have a higher positivity rate than the state average at present, indicative of continued virus transmission and less testing. Maharashtra and Kerala are the states with the highest positivity, the percentage of people who test positive in the total number tested. Nandurbar with a predominant tribal population has a positivity rate of 14%, nearly three times the state average, and highest in the state. Three weeks ago, the daily positivity rate was even higher at 22%. Close second is Nashik that recorded a 10% positivity last week, and nearly 19% at the end of December. Yavatmal, Buldhana and Akola districts have 9%-10% positivity rate, while Amravati, Parbhani and Nagpur have a positivity rate of 8% and above. More populated districts like Mumbai, Pune and Thane, where the daily testing volumes have remained steady, such fluctuations in the positivity rate are not seen. As of January 21, Mumbai's positivity was 4%, Pune 7% and Thane 5%. Mumbai has been carrying out nearly 15,000 tests daily, Pune district 7,000-8,000, and Thane 9,000-10,000. A comparison of daily positivity rates of districts also showed rise in some places and sharp decline in others. For instance, Amravati saw its positivity rise to 8% from 6% between December 31 and January 21. In Aurangabad, on the other hand, daily positivity fwll six-fold from 18% to 3% on January 21. Similarly, the rate remarkably dipped in Gadchiroli from 8% to below 1% last week, making it the district with the least positivity rate. “Districts like Nandurbar and Nashik have a high positivity rate partly because of their low testing denominator,” said Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a member of the state’s technical committee that recently visited Nandurbar. “Weddings have emerged as one of the biggest reasons for cluster cases in Nandurbar,” he added. Nandurbar civil surgeon Dr R Bhoye admitted that the district has a capacity to test 1,200 samples in a day, but a little over 350 tests are performed. “Cases are predominantly from Nandurbar and Shahada towns, but a few scattered ones are reported from elsewhere too,” he said. An official from Nashik said that daily testing has dropped from 2,000 till December to 1,500 currently, but those with symptoms are promptly evaluated and tested. Maharashtra’s daily testing numbers too have dropped from an average of 70,000-75,000 in December to a little over 60,000 in January. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, had earlier said that districts with higher positivity rate have been asked to ramp up testing. Dr Salunkhe said that despite the arrival of vaccines, testing and tracing would remain the main defence against coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-positivity-rate-in-18-dists-higher-than-state-avg/articleshow/80440983.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 25, 2021||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Farmer turns 30 bigha land into a rural getaway for tourists||MEERUT: Having faced huge losses in his previous businesses, Ajay Malik, 44, decided to go back to his roots -- farming. “My parents used to do farming and I thought that nothing could give me more happiness than being associated with my farm. I was in Uttarakhand last year on my birthday and saw how a man had rented a land to set up a rural tourism vacation spot. That is when I thought of utilizing my land as a home away from home,” said Malik. The concept of ‘Green Land Agro Tourism’ in Hastinapur as a weekend getaway for tourists was born. Spanning 30 bighas, it aims at providing a rural feel to those coming from cities, especially Delhi and NCR. A small pond with a boat, a small flour mill and houses like those in villages complete the rural picture. Care has been taken on minute details for the authentic touch. It took three months to procure old big switches like those in villages. Developing a pond with fish, creating a hand-operated flour mill and placing cane stools and khaats (woven bed) took time and patience. While Malik thought of the idea on June 24, 2019 on his birthday, actual work started in December 2019. There were a few hiccups in between due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown. The rural set-up was finally opened to public in October 2020. “We have six cottages in the shape of ‘jhopdis’ and two tents set up for those who want to come and stay here. A Rs 50 fee per head has been fixed to keep out anti-social elements here,” said Malik. “A guest staying here gets to savour vegetables grown organically in the premises and hand-picked by us. There is no other place around which offers organic food during the stay,” he said. Now, Malik spends most of his time at Green Land while his wife, Geeta, and kids, Arjun (21) and Anya (11), live in Meerut’s Ganga Nagar and visit him every week. “I don’t like going to the city anymore. I want to live away from the daily hustle of the city and prefer living at the farm,” he said. So far, word of mouth is attracting visitors to this rural getaway but now, steps are being taken to feature it on social media as well, said Malik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/farmer-turns-30-bigha-land-into-a-rural-getaway-for-tourists/articleshow/80437453.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||GHMC to set up urban information centre||HYDERABAD: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is setting up an urban information centre. The digital portal will act as a one stop destination for residents as well as officials in case they need information about civic amenities and infrastructure. As on date, residents can check the nearest playground, parks etc in GHMC website but there is no provision to check dilapidated buildings, list of open plots and status about roads and nalas. Apart from residents, the digital portal will help officials while executing projects as the data of different zones and circles will be available in a single window. “Once the digital door numbering starts, all the data will be uploaded along with geo-coordinates. Once the exercise starts we will also have an idea about un-assessed properties in the city, ” said a GHMC official. GHMC consists of 150 wards divided in 30 circles. Each circle is headed by a GHMC deputy commissioner. As on date there is a single portal for access details of building permissions through TS-bPASS and property tax details but there is no provision to check the details of circle wise civic works taken up. The officials can check the status the status of trade licence, property tax dues, mutations and status of birth/ death certificate but cannot can see the status of roads or drains laid. “If we want to execute any infrastructure work in the city which needs a review of the road restorations works or nala works which are under-way, we need to collect the data from all the 30 circles, compile it and check the feasibility of the project/infrastructure work, the urban information centre will put an end to the traditional method,” said a GHMC official. To set up the information centre, officials from Directorate of Economics and Statistics are being roped in by GHMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-to-set-up-urban-information-centre/articleshow/80440238.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Two straight days of under-200 tally; active cases dip 67% in 3 weeks of January||NEW DELHI: The capital reported 185 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the third day in the week and the second day in a row when the number of new patients remained below the 200-mark. The positivity rate, however, was slightly higher at 0.3% compared with 0.2% on Saturday and nine deaths were recorded. On Saturday, 197 people tested positive for Covid-19, and on January 18, the capital had recorded 161 fresh Covid-19 cases. The daily count, in fact, has been mostly below 400 cases this month and below 300 for the last 10 days. On most days, the figure has been less than the 250-mark. While the number of Covid-19 cases has seen a constant dip this month, the number of patients recovering from the disease has been comparatively higher. As a result, while the number of active cases on January 1 was 5,358, the figure stood at 1,741 on Sunday, which is a 67% drop. The number demonstrates that the third and deadliest wave of Covid-19, which saw an all-time high of 44,456 active cases on November 14, is definitely on the wane now. In fact, there has been a massive dip of 96% in number of cases since then. In the last 24 hours, 62,307 people were tested for Covid-19, including 36,965 RT-PCR tests, with a positivity rate of 0.3%. The total death toll now stands at 10,808. In the past 24 days, 272 people have died due to Covid-19, which is around 3% of total new cases detected during this period and is a cause of concern. The total number of positive cases reached the figure of 6,33,924 on Sunday. With 315 patients recovering in the last 24 hours, the total number of those who have recovered stands at 6,21,375 — a recovery rate of 98%. The number of containment zones in Delhi has come down from 3,874 on January 1 to 1,665 on Sunday, a dip of 57%. Out of the total 1,741 active cases, 787 patients are admitted in hospitals while 748 are recuperating in home isolation, apart from 18 in Covid Care Centres and three in Covid health centres. Out of the 9,054 Covid beds in hospitals, 8,267 are vacant and of the 7,392 beds in Covid Care Centres, 7,246 are available. Delhi government had carried out de-escalation recently and around 2,500 beds in its hospitals and 5,000-6,000 beds in private hospitals are not reserved for Covid-19 patients any more. At the peak of the third wave, the government had made 18,800 hospital beds available and even a week ago, more than 11,000 were reserved but the number has come down to around 9,000 beds now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-straight-days-of-under-200-tally-active-cases-dip-67-in-3-weeks-of-jan/articleshow/80438316.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 25, 2021||Goa||Goa: Pre-arrest bail pleas in Shiroda assault case denied||PONDA: The additional district and sessions court at Ponda on Wednesday rejected the anticipatory bail applications of Shiroda assault accused Mandar Prabhu and Yogesh Naik. Anticipating arrest by the police, the accused had sought anticipatory bail. However, public prosecutor Satyawan Raut Dessai objected and pleaded that the accused cannot be granted bail as they are required for custodial interrogations. Considering the arguments made by Dessai, additional district judge Bela Naik rejected the bail pleas. Mandar, a resident of Torla-Shiroda, and Yogesh, a resident of Vazem-Shiroda in Ponda taluka, had allegedly assaulted Pritesh Naik, 26, a resident of Vazem with beer bottles near Shiroda market on the evening of January 3. According to Ponda police records, there was previous enmity between the victim and the accused. Pritesh was severely injured following the sudden attack, police said. Based on the complaint lodged by the victim, police had booked them under several sections of the Indian Penal Code. After undergoing treatment, by a supplementary application, Pritesh had informed the police that at the time of the incident, while Mandar had pointed a gun to his abdomen, Yogesh was wielding a knife and threatened him with dire consequences. Following the supplementary application, police added more charges under the Indian Arms Act. The accused were not present in court when the order was pronounced, said Dessai. Anticipating arrest, the accused had sought anticipatory bail. However, public prosecutor objected and pleaded that the accused cannot be granted bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pre-arrest-bail-pleas-in-shiroda-assault-case-denied/articleshow/80439381.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Goa||Basilica can collapse ‘at any moment’, must be plastered soon: Rector||Panaji: The historic Basilica of Bom Jesus in Old Goa is in imminent danger of collapsing “at any moment” unless its exposed laterite walls are plastered, its rector Fr Patricio Fernandes said on Sunday, “The walls are completely drenched,” he said of the world heritage site. “There is water coming through the walls, and inside too. It’s a bad situation. I see the damage going to happen. If we don’t stand united, it’s going to fall someday. We shouldn’t let this happen. It’s one of our prized Churches. Architecturally, it’s a beauty.” The Basilica holds a singular place in the history of Goan Catholicism, as it is home to the relics of St Francis Xavier, and draws lakhs of visitors every year. At Mass on Sunday, Fernandes explained to the faithful the history of the Basilica. He said the walls were plastered from 1605, when it was inaugurated, till 1950. “In 1950, the Portuguese government led by Salazar wanted to make their structures look very ancient,” he said. “In Portugal it was ok, since the stone is quite different there, but when they did it in Goa, it damaged the Basilica very much. They were supposed to unplaster all Churches, but after they did this, they stopped.” He said that ten years later, in 1960, they were ordered to replaster it. Then Liberation happened in 1961, and the Portuguese went away. “The Indian government inherited it this way, so they didn’t do anything about it for 60 years. I have never seen these walls becoming wet so badly.” He added that engineers and architects he has consulted have strongly advised getting it plastered. “Initially I wasn’t convinced, because I was born in 1956 and so I didn’t see the Basilica in its plastered form,” he said. “I thought the Church was always like this. Now when I look at it… we have to plaster it.” He urged the faithful to see this for themselves. “I would like you to look around,” he said. “The walls are simply going off. If you touch the walls, you can feel powder from the stone. This year, the situation was so bad. I made a noise when the roof was not done, and the ASI said no water would seep into the walls for the next 25 years. Ten days after the rains came, all the walls were wet,” he said. Fernandes told TOI that the Basilica is in “grave danger”. “I was drawing the attention of the people to what’s happening,” he said. It was the Portuguese restorer Baltazar Castro, commissioned by the Estado da India to co-ordinate restorations to its monuments, who had the lime plaster removed from the exterior facades of the Basilica. This not only altered its image, but exposed the laterite stone to the vagaries of nature. In 2016, architect Joaquim Santos from the University of Lisbon warned that the condition of the Basilica would worsen if it was not plastered and whitewashed. Santos had spoken of a document he had come across, where a Portuguese architect who arrived in Goa in 1961 after Castro left stated that deplastering the monument was a huge mistake, and requested Portuguese authorities to have it replastered. Fr Fernandes said the Basilica could meet the same fate as St Roque Church at Tolecanto, Velim, whose facade came crashing down three months ago due to water seepage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/basilica-can-collapse-at-any-moment-must-be-plastered-soon-rector/articleshow/80439361.cms||Lisa Monteiro
January 25, 2021||Chennai||Man who brought corona monitoring app is now Chennai corporation innovation officer||CHENNAI: No longer will solutions from the general public go unused in the city if found viable. A college student with a low-cost solution pertaining to garbage, flooding or street lights or a group of youngsters coming up with a device/software to help the city corporation optimise operations can now approach the city innovation officer. Azhagu Pandian Raja M P, the 31-year-old Smart Cities Mission Fellow who developed the Madras Waste Exchange and the Greater Chennai Corporation corona monitoring mobile app, will be the civic body’s innovation officer, a first of its kind in the country. Now, Azhagu told TOI, only government officials work on urban challenges and projects or solving problems. “The innovation hub will ensure researchers, college students and even journalists and thinkers can be brought in to brainstorm on solutions. We are planning to even conduct hackathons,” he said. Since the hub would liase with different wings of the corporation, solutions would be incorporated into the governance process. The innovation hub will have space even for small companies to work on IT-enabled solutions. “This can also become an entrepreneurship development cell,” Azhagu said. The medium term plan is to ensure it becomes a solid think tank for Tamil Nadu itself, he added. Azhagu said the Madras Waste Exchange, developed as a pilot project, was now part of the corporation’s governance process and been picked up nationally as well. “The hub will be a space to develop 100s of such ideas,” he said. A senior corporation official said this was part of plan to bring in better ‘process innovation’ as the current systems were outdated. “A data officer has also been appointed, who will meaningfully available data in the command and control centre.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-who-brought-corona-monitoring-app-is-now-corpn-innovation-officer/articleshow/80438319.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
January 25, 2021||Jaipur||Man kills self after shooting cousin in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A 24-year-old man shot his married cousin and later shot himself dead on Sunday at Devkinandanpura village under Shivdaspura police station area of the city. He was allegedly in love with his cousin. The woman's condition is said to be critical and she is on ventilator support after the bullet hit her head. The man died on the spot. According to police, the accused, identified as Ghanshyam Meena, called his married cousin Priyanka Meena, 22, at 7.45pm on Sunday. “As per the statements of eye-witnesses, both were speaking to each other when suddenly Ghanshyam pointed a country pistol and shot her point blank on the head. She fell and he shot himself and died on the spot,” additional DCP (south) Avnish Sharma told TOI. “The condition of the woman is very critical. She is admitted to a private hospital in Pratap Nagar," Sharma said. Priyanka’s maternal house and Ghanshyam's house are close. The villagers informed the police control room about the incident. Senior police officers, including deputy commissioner of police (south) Harendra Mahawar, rushed to the spot with a team of officers from the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL). “Preliminary investigation suggested that the man was in love with his cousin and harassing her by calling her on the mobile. A few days ago, she had come to her parental house,” said a senior police officer. According to police, the parents of both the accused and the victim also knew about the matter. “It was not an affair and Ghanshyam was troubling her. His family members had earlier assured that he would not trouble her and she got married,” said an officer. The condition of the woman girl is critical and she would be operated on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-kills-selfafter-shootingcousin-in-city/articleshow/80439435.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Pune||No word yet on reopening of senior colleges||Pune: The state minister for higher and technical education, Uday Samant, has said that no final decision has been taken yet on the reopening of senior colleges in the state. “As of now, we are continuing with the consultation process,” said Samant in Pune on Sunday. He added that it was unfair to look at the reopening of colleges in the context of resuming classes IX to XII.  “College hostels were being used as quarantine centres. Currently we are in the process of doing a status check of the same, followed by a discussion with the stakeholders, including the disaster management committee. We will be in a better position then to decide on reopening .” There has been a demand from colleges and universities to resume classes across the state considering the inability to teach some subjects through the online mode. Senior colleges have remained closed since the nationwide lockdown from March 25 last year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Colleges in Pune have started preparations for the reopening and hostel facilities on the campuses are being spruced up for students. Samant also said that the work for the upcoming teachers’ academy in Pune for training teaching as well as non-teaching staff of the state colleges will resume soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-word-yet-on-reopening-of-senior-colleges/articleshow/80439513.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Goa||Shut GoaMiles in 14 days: North Goa taxi association to govt||SALIGAO: North Goa Tourist Taxi Association’s general secretary Prakash Purkhe said that if the state government does not shut down the GoaMiles app-based taxi service within 14 days, the government would suffer the consequences in the upcoming assembly elections. Purkhe said that by launching GoaMiles the government is looking after the interests of non-Goan taxi owners. “Currently the tourist taxi business is the only business left in the hands of Goans, but the government is trying to get rid of it by launching the GoaMiles taxi service,” said Purkhe. He said that while the rates for regular tourist taxis are fixed by the transport department, those for GoaMiles are fixed by the tourism department. Purkhe said that this causes a difference in the rates of the two types of taxi operators. “We strongly oppose GoaMiles and the government should shut down the service as soon as possible, otherwise the government will have to face the consequences in the next elections,” the association’s executive member Yogesh Govekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shut-goamiles-in-14-days-north-goa-taxi-association-to-govt/articleshow/80439448.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Meerut||UP: Six criminals held, stolen jewellery & car seized||MUZAFFARNAGAR: The Muzaffarnagar police arrested six criminals and seized three country-made weapons, stolen jewellery and one car from their possession on Sunday. The six accused had robbed a retired official’s house on January 5. Notably, on January 5, six masked men entered a house of an elderly couple, held them captive and looted jewellery worth lakhs in new Mandi Kotwali area of Muzaffarnagar. The miscreants had also beaten the retired engineer Vinay Kumar Aggarwal and his wife. After the incident, Muzaffarnagar's SSP Abhishek Yadav reached the victim’s home with a heavy police force. He pressed several police teams to nab the culprits at the earliest. According to police sources, after an encounter between police and culprits on Sunday, the police arrested the six accused and recovered a car, three illegal cartridges and jewellery worth Rs 6 lakhs from their possession. Yadav told TOI, "The police was working hard to solve the case, and today, we have recovered all the looted jewellery and other valuables. The six criminals have been booked under the Gangster Act.” Nagar Kotwali SHO Yogesh Sharma said, “Among the six accused, two criminals have a large number of criminal cases registered against them. All of them were sent to jail after being produced before the court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/muzaffarnagar-police-arrests-6-criminals-seize-3-country-made-weapons-stolen-jewellery-car-from-their-possession/articleshow/80437484.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 25, 2021||Goa||Govt issues proclamation over Mhadei sanctuary land, withdraws after local opposition||Keri/Valpoi: Four days after the state government issued a proclamation intending to settle land rights issues of villagers inside Mhadei wildlife sanctuary, it was withdrawn citing a “clerical error”. The document, which concerned the ownership of horticultural and agricultural land in the sanctuary, had to be rolled back following the intervention of health minister and local MLA Vishwajit Rane. The proclamation, which concerned at least 16 villages in Sattari. Issued by Sattari deputy collector Rajesh Ajgaonkar, the proclamation also brought in some restrictions on activities inside the sanctuary to protect it. Villagers took objection to a condition that “no fresh cleaning or breaking of land for cultivation or any other purpose shall be conducted”. The proclamation also stated that any person claiming right over land or produce must state the nature of these rights to the deputy collector within two months, as well as particulars of compensation, if claimed. But on Sunday, Rane announced the government’s decision to withdraw the proclamation. “Keeping in mind the plantations and in the interest of the people, I immediately interacted with the party and decided to withdraw the proclamation letter,” he said. This came after many locals took to social media to object to the conditions laid down. “The deputy collector has said that any villager claiming rights over land has to give written notice or appear before the authority within two months. Villagers don’t have any ownership documents, what documents will they produce to claim their rights?” said Rajesh Gaonkar, a local. However, deputy conservator of wildlife, North Goa, Arulraj Jabestin said that “The department wants to help villagers in resolving their rights and claims if any in the sanctuary”. The proclamation touched upon several other aspects too. “No felling or burning of trees or removing of any bark or any other kind of damage shall be caused to the trees except under contracts or otherwise ordered by the government to do so,” it read. “No trespass by any person or cattle will be done. No quarrying of stone, burning of lime or charcoal or collecting subject to any manufacturing process removing any forest produce will be performed. No hunting, shooting or fishing, poisoning of water or setting traps or snares will be done.” All these rules are requirements under the Wildlife Protection Act, to protect forests within sanctuary areas. “I have told the deputy collector to make the public aware of encroachment on revenue land, through the block development officer,” Rane said. He also said that documentation of the people must reach the deputy collector’s office, and only then can resolution of land rights be taken up. “The people must file their claims on land ownership with the deputy collector, as it has many procedures to complete,” Rane said. The government’s move comes at a time of huge environmental degradation in Sattari’s Western Ghats, with large-scale felling of trees inside the forests along the Goa-Karnataka border. In 1999, considering the ecological significance of the region, the state government declared the already-existing reserved forests as a sanctuary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-issues-proclamation-over-mhadei-sanctuary-land-withdraws-after-local-opposition/articleshow/80439416.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
January 25, 2021||Goa||Lokayukta, Mollem projects to heat up winter session||Panaji: Burning issues facing the state, including dilution of the Goa Lokayukta Act, three linear projects at Mollem, non-resumption of mining activities and anti-IIT protest, are expected to rock the floor of the Goa legislative assembly during the four-day winter session beginning on Monday. In all, the state government will answer 751 starred and unstarred questions. Being a short session, the opposition will try to make optimum use of time to raise issues. Congress held a meeting on Sunday to plan for the session. Speaker Rajesh Patnekar said that the session will begin with the governor’s address followed by other business. On the remaining three days, the state government will introduce as many as 10 bills, including the controversial amendment to the Goa Lokayukta Bill that seeks to dilute the powers of the anti-corruption authority. There will also be discussion on motion of thanks to the governor’s address, question hour and calling attention motions, among other business. Leader of the opposition Digambar Kamat said that there are a lot of burning issues in the state, but time is “short” to discuss all the issues. “Congress will work with opposition MLAs to corner the government on the floor of the house,” he said. The state government will have to face issues like diversion of the Mhadei, Covid management, Tamnar transmission line, double tracking of South Western Railway, widening of national highway, coal handling and implementation of the amended M V Act among other issues. Out of 751 questions, 195 are starred and 556 unstarred. During the last session, which was held in July 2020 for one day, the opposition did not get the time to tackle the government. The opposition has moved a private member’s bill seeking for Lokayukta reports to be made binding on the government, that inquiries into cases be initiated, and that a prosecution team be constituted to file cases in the Supreme Court. Congress is expected to object to any move to amend the Act is likely to push for scrutiny and deliberations on the amendment bills by the select committee. The party said stakeholder discussions have to be held before any amendment is introduced in the session. The state government will introduce the Goa Regulation of House Building Advance Bill, Goa Non-biodegradable Garbage Control (Amendment) Bill, Goa Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Bill, Goa Municipalities (Amendment) Bill, Goa Motor Vehicle (Amendment) Bill and Goa Taxation on Passenger and Goods (Amendment) Bill during the session. The legislative assembly has received five private members bills, including GFP president Vijai Sardesai’s on the Goa State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2021. Patnekar said that they have also received five private member resolutions. Patnekar said that looking at the Covid-19 situation and not taking any risk they have decided to close the visitors’ gallery. The Speaker said that on the last day, after the private members’ day, there will be government business. The government is likely to table various reports in the assembly, including the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) report on the finances of the Goa government for the year ending March 31, 2019, financial accounts 2018-19 (volume-I), finance accounts 2018-19 (volume-II) and appropriation accounts 2018-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lokayukta-mollem-projects-to-heat-up-winter-session/articleshow/80439468.cms||Murari Shetye
January 25, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Antibody tests to check vaccine efficacy||NEW DELHI: As Delhi government prepares to scale up the vaccination drive from this week, select centres are likely to see pre- and post-vaccination tests for “antibody titer”, which would help establish the efficacy of the Covid-19 vaccines and tackle vaccine hesitancy. The antibody titer test detects the presence and level of antibodies in the blood and helps gauge a person’s immune response. Though these tests have not been mandated and there is no large-scale plan, vaccination centres at three Delhi government healthcare facilities — Delhi State Cancer Institute, Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital (RGSSH) and Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya — will see these voluntary tests being carried out. “We are doing it at our own level as we just want to see the efficacy of the vaccine. It will help advocate that the vaccine is good to contain the disease,” said Dr BL Sherwal, medical director of RGSSH. He added that by the time the vaccination drive for those above the age of 50 years starts, the hospital would have the evidence. Sherwal said, “We have decided to undertake the procedure in the first week, on the day of the second dose and then after one and a half to two months. If the antibody titer is established at a certain level, we will be able to say that the vaccine is safe.” Samples from select beneficiaries would be taken for the voluntary test. Dr Suneela Garg, director and professor in the department of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College, University of Delhi, and a public health expert who is a part of the vaccination programme, said that antibody tests were carried out as a part of the trial of vaccines. This helped establish their efficacy. “Hospitals can carry out antibody tests even though it is not mandatory. They can take samples and submit them. After seroconversion, we can find out the efficacy,” added Garg. Seroconversion is the period during which a specific antibody develops in the blood. Garg added that all preparations were in place regarding training of personnel to scale up the drive from this week. Delhi government has drawn up a tentative list of 189 vaccination sites at 144 locations as part of the plan and submitted it to the Centre for notification. “The training of all personnel, including those at the 621 cold chain points and vaccinators, is complete. We have not been using the full manpower till now,” said Garg, adding that it was preferable to start small while rolling out such a massive exercise, make it sustainable and then escalate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/prick-before-jab-antibody-tests-to-check-vax-efficacy-delhi-govt-plans-exercise-at-three-hospitals-in-second-phase/articleshow/80438365.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 25, 2021||Chennai||Cricket Washington Sundar named election icon by Greater Chennai Corporation||CHENNAI: Indian cricket all-rounder Washington Sundar was named district election icon by Greater Chennai Corporation on Sunday. Sundar is a resident of Chennai and shot to fame after his all-round performance in India's historic victory over Australia in Brisbane. Corporation deputy commissioner (revenue and finance) and additional district election officer Meghanatha Reddy announced the decision on social media. “All it took was one call to get him on board, despite him just returning from a hectic tour and flooded with congratulatory messages,” Reddy said. The move is aimed at creating more awareness among young voters and ensuring that they vote in the upcoming assembly election. “Washington Sundar is a true inspiration for the youth of Chennai,” Reddy tweeted. Reddy said Sundar’s awareness videos will be used to take forward the message of participatory and ethical voting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sundar-named-election-icon-by-civic-body/articleshow/80438349.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Meerut||UP to acquire 17-acre land which belonged to family of Pak's 1st PM||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A parcel of land in UP’s Muzaffarnagar which once belonged to the family of Liaquat Ali Khan-- one of the founding fathers of Pakistan-- is all set to be acquired by the state government. A court in the district recently asked the government to take possession of the 17-acre land while striking down the right of a family on it, saying they had been illegally occupying it for the last 74 years. The order was passed by Muzaffarnagar’s sub divisional magistrate (SDM) court, which has directed local tehsildar to acquire the piece of land. Before the Partition, the land belonged to Rustam Ali Khan, a wealthy zamindar and the father of Liaquat who went on to become the first prime minister of the neighbouring country. It comes about 10 months after Union minister Sanjeev Kumar Balyan wrote a letter to the administration in Muzaffarnagar alleging that several chunks of land, left by people who shifted to Pakistan after Partition, was illegally occupied by locals. “I had filed a complaint. A large number of enemy properties were grabbed by land mafia through forgery, fraud entries in papers in Muzaffarnagar. They are yet to be freed. This 51-bigha land, which will now be acquired, belonged to Liaquat Ali Khan’s family who used to live here before Partition,” the Muzaffarnagar MP said. The SDM court observed that the land in the district's Bhopa road was obtained through “forgery and fraud” by Lala Raghuraj Swaroop, his heirs and others. The court observed that they “do not have the right on the land”. “The family has no title deed. Even after this, the defendants were given notice and opportunity to reply and give evidence. No answer and evidence were presented,” SDM (Sadar) Deepak Kumar said. SDM Kumar later told TOI, “An investigation was conducted by tehsildar. And it was found that Rustam Ali’s land was illegally acquired by Lala Raghuraj Swaroop. Now tehsildar has been instructed to acquire the 51-bigha land from their possession.” Sources said that Rustam Ali died in India. When contacted, Lala Raghuraj’s grandson, Anil Swaroop, claimed that he wasn’t given a chance to present his case. “We received the notice from the SDM court in June 2020, during the pandemic. Giving reply we had requested the court to give us time to present the land’s papers. But the court passed the order without that.” “We will approach the SDM court for a review,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-to-acquire-17-acre-land-which-belonged-to-family-of-paks-1st-pm/articleshow/80437493.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 25, 2021||Goa||K’taka cattle law ensures beef shortage in Goa again||Panaji: A month after Goa was plagued with beef shortage — supply of which was restored just ahead of the New Year season — traders in the state find themselves grappling with the problem, yet again. Fresh meat, which is currently being sourced from Belagavi, is said to be in short supply in the neighbouring state following the introduction of the Karnataka anti-cattle slaughter law. “The cattle markets in Karnataka are facing a shortage after the rules according to the law mandate that buffaloes below the age of 13 cannot be slaughtered. Since we source all the meat from Belagavi, we are also facing a shortage in Goa,” said president of the Quraishi Meat Traders’ Association of Goa, Manna Bepari. The state’s requirement for beef is about 20 tonne per day and the traders have only been able to source about 10 tonne per day after the anti-cattle slaughter bill was introduced last month. Beef shops in the state are currently operating with whatever little meat left from the supply received on Sunday. The price of the meat currently continues to remain the same despite the shortage. The traders are now looking for an alternative solution to meet the state’s demand for beef. “In some parts of Maharashtra, buffaloes are available. However, it might cost us more to source it from there. As a result, beef prices could likely increase in Goa,” Bepari said. He said that live animals will be brought to the government abattoir — Goa Meat Complex — at Usgao for slaughter. “As per Maharashtra’s law, we cannot slaughter cattle there. It is, however, well within the law for us to source live buffaloes from Maharashtra and slaughter them in Goa. We are therefore going to approach suppliers there to source the animals,” Bepari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktaka-cattle-law-ensures-beef-shortage-in-goa-again/articleshow/80439510.cms||Nida Sayed
January 25, 2021||Delhi||Nip & tuck after 20 years: Delhi's Ranjit Singh flyover revamp may be done in 6 months||NEW DELHI: After a gap of 20 years, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has finally started work to strengthen the busy Ranjit Singh flyover that connects central Delhi with Old Delhi near Ramlila Maidan. The project, which will cost Rs 3 crore, will be completed in six months, said an NDMC official. The last repair was carried out in 2000 and there has been a long-pending demand to renovate it for the safety of commuters, said an NDMC official. Many commuters — the flyover is frequented every day by hundreds of office-goers — have even complained about its uneven surface. The work is on to strength the flyover’s joints and pillars and it will be followed by replacing bearings and levelling of stretch. “The expansion and contraction of new bearings will be less and this will reduce the gaps and bumps on the flyover. We will also check if there is any rusting. The surface road of the flyover will also be laid again,” said the official. Noticing its deteriorating condition, NDMC had carried out temporary work to align the flyover’s expansions two years ago, but these needed to be replaced completely, the official pointed out. During a recent visit, TOI found workers busy with plaster and repair work near the railway track. The flyover was constructed in 1982 during Asian Games. Many contract carriage buses operating for offices at Connaught Place use this flyover and protest marches from Ramlila Maidan to Jantar Mantar pass through this stretch. “Ideally, repair work should be carried after every 15 years. In this case, too, we started the process in 2014 and later appointed Centre for Road Research Institute for a ground report. It was submitted in 2017, but the project planning took some time due to various reasons,” admitted the official. Prior to the inauguration of the BJP headquarters at Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Marg in 2018, the civic agency had repaired and painted railings and installed view-cutters. “But that was not enough to serve the issue of bumpy rides,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nip-tuck-after-20-years-ranjit-singh-flyover-revamp-may-be-done-in-6-mths/articleshow/80438369.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 25, 2021||Dehradun||Mystery behind missing 59-year-old man unravelled; body burnt in Bijnor after murder, three held||DEHRADUN: The mystery behind a 59-year-old man missing for the past 10 days from Rishikesh was finally unravelled on Sunday with the police arresting three persons who allegedly confessed of killing him and burning his body in UP’s Bijnor. The deceased, Rajkumar Gupta, a resident of Mayakund in Rishikesh, was missing since January 15 when he left home on a two-wheeler. His son, Rupesh, filed a missing complaint with the police. "On the basis of the missing complaint, we formed a team, which checked CCTV footage and verified Rajkumar’s call details. The investigation revealed that the deceased was with one Suresh Chaudhary on the day he had gone missing,” said Yogendra Singh Rawat, Dehradun’s senior superintendent of police (SSP). A police team raided Chaudhary’s house in Bapugram and caught two more persons with him. The police brought Chaudhary and two others to the police station on the basis of suspicion. “At the time of questioning, Chaudhary confessed of killing Rajkumar along with other two accomplices and burnt his body in Mandawar area of Bijnor. On the basis of information, police contacted Bijnor police, who confirmed finding an abandoned half-burnt body on January 16 and cremating it on January 19,” said SSP Rawat. Chaudhary told police he took a loan of Rs 6 lakh from Rajkumar two years ago on interest, and claimed he was returning him money on a monthly basis. However, Rajkumar, Chaudhary claimed, was pressuring him to give more money. “He hatched a plan to kill Rajkumar after he saw him at his residence on January 2 when his wife was alone in the house. In order to execute the plan Chaudhary contacted his nephews — Indrapal and Rajkumar — in Bijnor. They took Rajkumar Gupta to Someshwar Nagar and strangled him with a rope," SSP Rawat told TOI. All three — Chaudhary (55), Indrapal (40) and Rajkumar (42) — have been arrested and booked on charges of murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mystery-behind-missing-59-yr-old-man-unravelled-body-burnt-in-bijnor-after-murder-three-held/articleshow/80437469.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC clears tax officer of graft 20 years before his death||MUMBAI: The Bombay HC recently acquitted a sales tax officer, dead for almost two decades, in a 1985 corruption and refunds conspiracy case, 25 years after his conviction. Suresh Kagne’s widow and son had in 2015 stepped into his shoes to continue with the appeal filed in 1996, against the conviction, an 18-month jail and Rs 26,000 fine. In September 1996, a Solapur special trial court had convicted Kagne and two other officials, relying largely on the testimony of an approver—son of a co-accused, an oil mill owner. He had been granted pardon at the end of the trial after 92 of the 94 prosecution witnesses were examined, “obviously to fill up lacunae in the case”, said the HC in its judgment by Justice S K Shinde. Kagne was tried with two other public servants and a registered ‘dealer’ of an oil extraction business and his son. The charges included conspiracy to making and securing a false claim of refund of sales tax, admissible to those engaged in business of extracting oil from oilseeds and ‘tel ghanis’ (mini oil mills). A co-accused had granted registration to the dealer’s son. Kagne had allegedly “without following due process accepted the claims for set-off” of Rs 2.6 lakh, thus causing a loss to the state exchequer. The HC, after analyzing the evidence, did not find the approver’s testimony reliable. In 2013, the HC, in a judgment by then Justice M L Tahaliyani, had acquitted two of Kagne’s co-accused, also sales tax officials, while allowing their separate appeals against their conviction. He had said, “Basically, the approver has to be a reliable witness… It is possible, that the approver may have accepted pardon when he realized some heat may turn on him. It is highly risky to rely on him as a witness…he had filled up a wide gap in the prosecution case,” the 2013 ruling said. “The ultimate aim of trial is quest for truth and the prosecution case has to stand on its legs…The judge has to be circumspect… Had the (trial court) judge used his discretion judiciously, he probably would not have tendered pardon to a person of highly dubious character…and the prosecution would have failed miserably,” said the HC now, quoting from and relying on the 2013 judgment. The departmental enquiry found the officials guilty of ‘dereliction of duty for failing to follow procedure’. The rest of the evidence pointed to “procedural irregularity’’ and “not sufficient” to establish guilt, said justice Shinde, allowing Kagne’s appeal. The fine, if any paid, must be refunded to Kagne’s legal heirs directed the HC. In March 2015, Justice Abhay Thipsay had, on submissions of their advocate Harshad Bhadbhade, permitted the widow and son to continue with his appeal as legal heirs. The HC had observed that since his punishment also included a fine, the appeal would not abate with his death. The law allows near relatives -- lineal descendants -- to apply within 30 days, and get permission from court to continue an appeal if a convict dies pending appeal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-clears-tax-officer-of-graft-20-yrs-after-death/articleshow/80440351.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 25, 2021||Bhopal||Read Ramayana, pro tem Speaker tells Mamata Banerjee, sends her a copy||BHOPAL: Pro tem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma has sent a copy of The Ramayana to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee who had refused to speak at an event in Kolkata on Saturday in the presence of PM Narendra Modi after being greeted by chants of ‘Jai Shri Ram’. Mamata had barely got up to speak when a group of BJP supporters chanted ‘Jai Shri Ram’. “This is not a political event. I am grateful to the PM for organising this in Kolkata. But it does not suit you to invite someone and then insult that person. I refuse to speak as a mark of protest. Jai Hind! Jai Bangla!” Mamata said and returned to her seat. In Bhopal on Sunday, Sharma criticized Mamata for saying she felt insulted. “It’s painful to learn that chants of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ insulted Mamata Banerjee. Lord Ram is not only ‘Maryada Purushottam’ but also has constitutional identity," Sharma said. In a letter sent with the book, Sharma writes, “I request you to go through the holy book so that you can understand the character of Lord Ram. I hope you will gain wisdom. I pray you learn to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’. Stop opposing Lord Ram. You have insulted Lord Ram during an event in Bengal. The people of Bengal will teach you a lesson in the assembly election.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/read-ramayana-pro-tem-speaker-tells-mamata-sends-her-a-copy/articleshow/80438356.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Goa||Commissioning of new water tanks for Calangute delayed||Calangute: The commissioning of a new water storage facility near the Calangute bus stand, work on which has been under way for more than two years now, is going to be further delayed, according to the Calangute panchayat. Work on the facility comprising two tanks, one above the other, had started in late 2018 and was to be completed in six months. However, it had been kept on hold because the existing water supply was not adequate to fill up the two new tanks besides the old one. Minister for ports and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo had said the tanks would be commissioned once a new water pipeline was laid to bring more water from the Assonora plant. But the new pipeline which was to come via Guirim has now been delayed due to opposition from some quarters. Calangute panchayat member Shawn Martins told TOI, there is now a proposal to build a new water filtration plant at the Pilerne Industrial Estate which will then supply the water to Calangute and Candolim. “A pipeline bringing raw water from the Tillari project has reached up to the Calangute police station. From there, it has been proposed to take the water to a filtration plant at the Pilerne Industrial Estate from where it will be supplied to Calangute and Candolim. This will take at least another year. Till then the tanks will not be commissioned,” Martins said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/commissioning-of-new-water-tanks-for-calangute-delayed/articleshow/80439562.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Jaipur||A passion for flying: Rajasthan IAF pilot on history’s runway||JAIPUR: It’s not by accident that IAF Flight Lieutenant Swati Rathore took to flying. Rather, it was a passion that started as a child when she would draw pictures of aircraft. As Rathore gets ready to become the first woman pilot to participate in the fly past on Rajpath in Delhi on Republic Day, her father, Bhawani Singh Rathore, says to TOI, "Swati had always wanted to join IAF. When she was a child, whenever she would make drawings, it would be that of an aircraft. This was the reason why she also signed up for the National Cadet Corps (NCC).”  The 28-year-old IAF officer who hails from Prempura in Nagaur will be flying the Mi-17 V5 with IAF flag in a formation of four choppers. Rathore, who was commissioned in 2014, will be the only woman pilot in this formation of the fly past. Posted as a deputy director in the agriculture department in Ajmer, Bhawani Singh says his daughter was a very focused person while growing up. “She was always clear in her mind and worked hard to get selected to IAF. She also has uncles who have served in the defence forces so was well aware about the work that was required to join the armed forces. All of us in the family are proud of her achievements and pray that she continues to be on the same path,” he says. While in NCC, she won a gold medal in shooting and appeared for the Airforce Common Admission Test in 2013 which she cleared and, finally, after training, got commissioned into IAF, eventually realising her dream of becoming a pilot. She did her studies both in Ajmer and Jaipur. Prior to this, Rathore had participated in a fly past on Air Force Day on October 8 last year. The young officer, who is making history, was part of the rescue operation conducted by IAF during the 2018 Kerala floods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/a-passion-for-flying-raj-iaf-pilot-on-historys-runway/articleshow/80439501.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Bhopal||Pankh to protect & nurture girls: CM at inaugural event||BHOPAL: Speaking at the inaugural of Madhya Pradesh government’s ‘Pankh’ programme, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan reiterated that there should be a debate over increasing girls’ minimum age for marriage from 18 to 21. “Pankh is a programme for protection, awareness, nutrition, knowledge and health of the girls. It will help remove all hurdles that they face when the want to spread their wings and fly. Pankh programme will be undertaken as a mission so that girls can go beyond the skies into space. MP government will crush those people who commit crimes against girls, their property will be destroyed and they will be severely punished — setting an example in the society,” he said. The chief minister also said, girls should not only be trained in self-defence techniques like Judo and Karate but should alos be given arms so that they can defend themselves. He said, he feels the need for reforms in the judicial system so that those who rape a girl are awarded capital punishment. The chief minister also talked about coming up with legal provisions to check display of ‘obscene material’ on OTT platforms, which can adversly impact young minds. During the event, the chief minister greeted a woman from Vidisha, who had filed a complaint against her husband for raping their daughter. The man is now in jail. Chouhan said, the woman was provided financial aid after her husband was sent to jail. More and more women should take brave steps like this when they face injustice, he said. He said, “I have always given top priority to women welfare. After I became an MLA in 1990. I started organising mass marriage ceremony with the help of friends. and when I became the CM, my government initiated schemes like ‘Ladli Laxmi’, ‘Kanyadan’ and ‘Gaon Ki Ladki’ scheme.” He said, efforts have also been made to strengthen women self-help groups. Women empowerment is a mission, which everybody will have to work for, he said, Chouhan said, ‘Pankh’ programme will help revitalise girls to use their capacity to the optimum. Calendar for next two months under the scheme has already been prepared and with the help of different departments concerned, health, education and security of girls will be ensured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pankh-to-protect-nurture-girls-cm-at-inaugural-event/articleshow/80438373.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Jaipur||Liquor traders criticise revision of excise policy||Jaipur: At a time when excise department is planning to draw lottery to allot Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and country liquor shops across the state in financial year 2021- 2022 in the state, the existing owners are criticising proposal of revising of policy in mid-way.Raj Liquor Welfare Society (RLWS) claimed that in the excise department policy 2020- 2021, there was a provision of renewing the licences after one year and awarded shopkeepers could sell the IMFL for two years, till 2022.The memorandum reads, “The traders participated in the lottery in huge numbers as policy was viable. However, traders will incur huge losses if amendments are made after one year.”The society also accused the department for imposing special vend fee (SVF) during the pandemic times when shops were closed for more than one-and-half months.An office-bearer of the society said, “The vendors are provided with targets to sell liquor in bulk litres. Every year, this target is increased by 10%. In case, a vendor fails to achieve the desired target, a penalty of Rs 10 per bulk litre is imposed on beer sales and Rs 20 per bulk litre is imposed on IMFL sales. This year most of the owners have failed to achieve the target because of lockdown and night curfew. The department without being considerate has imposed heavy SVF. We also demand to waive off the fee,” he said.In May 2020, the Rajasthan government had also increased excise duty on liquor by 10% after revenue collection was hit due to lockdown.Traders alleged, “It’s a double whammy for the business as excise duty was increase when sales were dipped,” said an office-bearer.Meanwhile, the as per the state government’s new policy, composite licenses will be issued to the traders. This means, the country liquor, IMFL and beer will be sold in the same shop. The trader will have to deposit the composite ‘guarantee fee’ to participate in the e-auction scheduled, for forthcoming financial year.An official source said, “The department is deciding not to renew the licences and invite e-auction once again this year. The move will assist to boost the revenue. A final decision will be taken in a joint meeting with finance.”The idea to sell country liquor along with beer and IMFL at one shop, however, has also not suited the shopkeepers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/liquor-traders-criticise-revision-of-excise-policy/articleshow/80439425.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Trichy||250 write test to qualify for JEE coaching in NIT||Trichy: Close to 250 students of Class XI from government schools across Trichy district appeared for a qualifying testing on Sunday to be part of the JEE training imparted by students of National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy. A total of 35 students will be selected for the free weekend residential training on NIT Trichy campus. The training programme has been facilitated by an MoU signed between the district administration and the teaching club of NIT Trichy – IGNITTE with the involvement of the district chief education officer (CEO). According to it, the club will train government school students to crack JEE Main for securing admission to centrally funded technical institutions. The test was conducted at E R higher secondary school by the office of the CEO and IGNITTE team. Last year, two students trained by IGNITTE had made it to NIT Trichy to pursue BTech. “Staying on NIT Trichy campus and getting an opportunity to see the facilities at the institution will kindle interest among these students to pursue engineering in such institutions and they will take up JEE seriously,” said R Arivazhagan, Trichy district CEO. While IGNITTE team had planned to select 15 students for the training, it has been decided to induct at least 35 to enable more to benefit from it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/250-write-test-to-qualify-for-jee-coaching-in-nit/articleshow/80439544.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Jaipur||Discounts fail to lure tourists as Palace on Wheels gets ready to restart service on Feb-end||JAIPUR: After cancelling its trips last year, the Palace on Wheels (PoW) is looking to avoid a complete washout in the current season. But bookings have been hard to come by even after ticket prices were reduced by 30%. For the first journey on February 24 this year, tailored for domestic tourists, two bookings have come so far. The train needs at least 28 passengers for the trip. “We knew it would be difficult initially, but we need to go through the process. Enquiries have improved in March and April. Even a big car manufacturer has shown interest. But for February, we are keeping our fingers crossed,” said an official with the Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation (RTDC) which operates the luxury train. He said the last booking date for February 24 trip is January 31 but it can be extended to February 10. The train also needs around 10 days to be spruced up, said the official. “We will not run the train if we don’t get enough tourists to at least break-even operationally. We are talking to general sales agents and other people to cross the 28-mark. In case we fall short of the booking target by January 31, we can extend the date by 10 days,” said the official. With international tourist movement remaining frozen due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Palace on Wheels is wooing domestic tourists by creating new itineraries and offering discounts. For February and March, the per day rates after 30% discount come to Rs 94,248 for a couple in super deluxe cabin, Rs 52,360 and Rs 34,034 per person in single and double occupancy seats, respectively. Since April is considered an off season, rates are lower compared to February and March. The per day rates for April after 30% discount come to Rs 70,686 for a couple in super deluxe cabin, Rs 42,840 and Rs 26,180 per person in single and double occupancy seats, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/discounts-fail-to-lure-tourists-as-powgets-ready-to-restart-service-on-feb-end/articleshow/80439547.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Meerut||UP govt releases Rs 225 lakh for distribution of school uniforms||MEERUT: With the academic session due to end in two months, Uttar Pradesh government released Rs 225 lakh for the procurement and distribution of uniforms of 1.54 crore students at state-run schools. This time too, distribution of uniforms for the 2020-21 academic session has been delayed. “A sum of Rs 225 lakh has been released by the education authorities for the entire state for the students studying in government schools here,” said Vijay Kiran Anand, state project director, Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, in an order TOI had earlier reported that school uniforms, bags and shoes had not reached more than 1.5crore students of UP government schools as the authorities had shifted the deadline again to February 2 to complete the process. With just two months of the academic session left, most districts are yet to procure the material. Sources in the education department blamed Covid-19 pandemic for the delay. However, this is not the first time that uniforms, sweaters and other material of basic needs have not reached the students on time. In 2019, UP’s education minister Anupma Jaiswal had to resign allegedly due to the same reason. Her tenure was marked by delays in distribution of uniforms and sweaters. Even Allahabad high court had slammed the government over it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-govt-releases-rs-225l-for-distribution-of-school-uniforms/articleshow/80437505.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 25, 2021||Chennai||Vaccination count dips further, Sunday count lowest since Jan 16||CHENNAI: Eight days since the launch of vaccination drive on January 16, Sunday recorded the least number of vaccinations in the state. By 7 pm on Sunday, a mere 2494 persons were vaccinated against a target of 16900. This includes 2404 who took Covishield from 163 sessions. A dip in vaccination count was observed on Saturday itself, wherein 7,575 vaccinations were done till 7pm. Sunday’s count, which is less than half of what was recorded on Saturday should be a cause of worry. However, a senior official with health department said that they saw consistent turnout during the weekdays and believe it to be an encouraging sign and the weekend numbers are only an aberration. Earlier in the week, the state managed 8,704 vaccinations on Friday and 9,277 vaccinations on Thursday. The highest number of vaccinations done till date was on Jan 18 (Monday) - 10256. On Sunday, 90 people had taken Covaxin froom the six centers against the targeted 600, which is also the lowest since Jan 16. Tamil Nadu estimates 6 lakh health care workers to take vaccine against covid in the coming days. In the last 9 days, the state health department had targeted to cover 1.53 lakh healthcare workers, of which 40 % has been achieved- 61,720 On Saturday, health minister C Vijayabaskar, who is a doctor, had taken the indigenous Covaxin to motivate healthcare providers. Of the 61720 healthcare providers vaccinated till date- 60,369 have taken Covishield and 1351 have taken Covaxin. While the weekend saw a dip in Vaccination numbers in Tamil Nadu, the number of healthcare workers registering to take the vaccine showed a slow but steady rise on across Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar and Jharkand. A ToI report had stated that the reasons for the rise were varying, from those emboldened by seeing senior doctors subject themselves to the first dose to a positive review in Lancet, a prominent medical journal, to news about recoveries among people who had reported adverse reactions and foreign demand for Indian-manufactured vaccines A Lancet report has said Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR, has proved safe and has produced an immune response in a small group of adults aged 18 to 55.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/vaccination-count-dips-further-sunday-count-lowest-since-jan-16/articleshow/80438367.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Bhopal||Rising fuel prices pile on agony after Covid blow||BHOPAL: The unprecedented levels of petrol, diesel and LPG prices are complicating the family budgets — which are already strained due to the Covid effect. The LPG prices were raised twice in December — with a domestic gas cylinder costing Rs700. The fuel prices are at an all-time high. Petrol is inching close to Rs100 and diesel is following closely behind. The price rise has been attributed to the increasing crude prices in the international market, however, neither the Centre nor the state is prepared to lower taxes of petrol and diesel — which is hiked every time the crude oil in the international market gets cheaper. “Taxes on petrol and diesel are hiked because thery are an easy way to mop up revenue for the governments-- Centre and states. The lower the international price, the higher is the taxes. It is also sai by some to be a way to prevent hoarding of the commodity. Whether you take the receipt or not it doesn't matter. The petroleum companies know the amount of petrol and diesel allotted to a pump and how much of it was sold. Therefore, whenever the government wants to hike its revenue, an increase in taxes on petrol and diesel is the easiest way out,” said president of MP Petrol Pump Owners' Association, Ajay Singh. He added, “Out of the prices that you and I pay for a litre of petrol, 58 % goes as tax to the Centre and the state government. For diesel, it is a little less but still exorbitantly high,” he added. Singh said, the state government should at least fix the tax on petrol and diesel in rupee per litre as the Central government does because tax in percentage leads to people paying additional amount to the state government, too, when excise duty is raised by the Central government. “If the Central government raises the excise duty by Rs1 per litre, the state government starts getting 39 paisa additional because it calculates its tax in percentage. Let them also decide that they would have a particular amount of tax on the sale of every litre of petrol or diesel. They may raise the amount from Rs22 per litre to Rs24 but it will be done once,” he said. People on the other hand, particularly those from the middle class or lower middle class, are hassled over increasing prices of petrol, diesel and LPG but seem to have accepted it as part of the new system, where subsidy on such things is being withdrawn. “Prices of petrol, diesel and LPG are taking a heavy toll on the domestic budget of middle class families but it is not like we have any option. These are essential commodities,” said B R Sharma, a government servant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rising-fuel-prices-pile-on-agony-after-covid-blow/articleshow/80438362.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
January 25, 2021||Pune||‘On-spot shots cut down on wastage of doses in state’||Pune: On-the-spot vaccination of registered but unscheduled beneficiaries has drastically cut down on vaccine wastage in the state, with officials saying that they have been able to use up the day’s vials to the last. Each vial, containing about 10 doses, needs to be used within four hours of being opened. But the three days before the walk-in vaccination policy was implemented, doses from the day’s last vials were going waste because of low beneficiary turnout, said vaccinators. Observers said that 285 session sites had to discard doses after administering the first three to five doses from a vial due to low turnout. An average of 1,000 doses were being wasted every day. But that has reduced considerably since site in-charges are now allowed to utilise remaining doses by calling up those who have registered on CoWIN app, if the day’s turnout is low. State immunization officer Dileep Patil said, “Wastage was at a minimum even during the first three days of the drive. We had instructed every centre to open a vaccine vial only if there were 10 beneficiaries present. But after on-spot-vaccination started, there has been a further drop in wastage.” The state currently accepts a one-dose loss per vial. Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of the state health department, said, “On-the-spot vaccination has reduced wastage of the last-opened vial.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/on-spot-shots-cut-down-on-wastage-of-doses-in-state/articleshow/80439554.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 25, 2021||Pune||No word as yet on reopening of senior colleges in Maharashtra||PUNE: State minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant has put to rest all speculation about the reopening of senior colleges in the state. He said no final decision has been taken as yet. “As of now, we are continuing with the consultation process and a final decision would be taken thereafter,” he said in Pune on Sunday. It was unfair to look at the reopening in the context of schools in the state which have started for standards IX to XII and are due to begin for standards V to VIII, he added. Senior colleges have remained closed ever since the nationwide lockdown came into effect from March 25 last year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Samant was speaking on the sidelines of an event organised by Samvad Pune at Balgandharva Rangmandir on Sunday. Samant said, “College hostels were being used as quarantine centres and we are in process of a status check followed by a discussion with stakeholders, including the disaster management committee. After this, we will be in a better position to decide about colleges reopening.”' The minister has been making several announcements for colleges reopening since the beginning of this month. There has been a demand from colleges and universities to start across the state considering the inability to teach some topics through the online mode. Colleges in Pune city have begun preparations for the reopening and hostel facilities on the campuses are being readied for students with planning on accommodation in each room. Samant also spoke about the teachers’ academy being planned in Pune for training of the faculty members at all the universities in colleges in Maharashtra. He said the academy will be launched in two to three months. “Work for the academy was halted due to Covid restrictions and other issues, but now it has taken off and we will soon be able to open this centre for the training of teaching as well as non-teaching staff.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-word-as-yet-on-date-for-senior-colleges-reopening/articleshow/80438377.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Bhopal||Kept in cage by villagers, cows die in Bundelkhand||BHOPAL: A herd of cows died due to confinement in Bundelkhand region. The cows had been kept behind barbed wires by villagers to protect their crops. Besides being exposed to severe cold, many of them have also died due to hunger and thirst. In a state where parties are engaged in politics over gaushalas, reports of cows dying in shelters are quite frequent. It may be noted that after the previous Kamal Nath government had announced construction of 1000 gaushalas, in November last year chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced a ‘cow cabinet’ and chaired its first meeting at a cow sanctuary set up in Agar Malwa. He had said that the ‘cow cabinet’ would ensure welfare of cows. Even after the CM’s assurance, no step has been taken to curb the menace of stray cattle that pose a big risk to crops, especially in the parched land of Bundelkhand. To add to the farmers’ woes, hordes of Neelgai or blue bulls also damage the crops. In Chhatarpur alone, over 150 villages are facing the problem. Bhawani Prasad Mishra of village Naand had even lodged a complaint at Sarwai police station against the sarpanch and other employees of Naand panchayat in this regard. Talking to TOI, Mishra said, “Stray animals from the gaushala run by the panchayat are often released. The animals damage our crops.” A similar complaint was lodged by Rajabhaiya Prajapti of the same village. Kamta Prasad of Chandla said, “ Many cows have died due to hunger. Now the villagers have started contributing for fodder., but it is not enough.” The CEO of Gaurihar janpad panchayat said, “I will ensure that the cows get fodder and water.” All efforts to contact animal husbandry minister Prem Singh Patel for reaction in this regard failed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/kept-in-cage-by-villagers-cows-die-in-bundelkhand/articleshow/80438381.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Bhopal||Farmer union holds tractor rally in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Extending support to the agitating farmers of Delhi, the farmers associated with Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) took out a rally in Bhopal on Sunday. They said, police did not allow the rally to enter the state capital. The rally was planned from Misrod to Board Office Square but the police did not allow the tractors to enter the city, Suresh Patidar, the district president of the BKU said. He said, the police also did not allow the protesters to include large number of tractor trolleys for the rally, Patidar said adding, the rally proceeded towards Bhopal for about 1km on Hoshangabad Road and was made to return. “We went up to Mandideep and returned to Misrod,” he said. Patidar urged the Centre to withdraw all the three controversial agriculture laws. He said that more than 80% of farmers are against the law but the government is not allowing them to agitate. “BKU has a very good presence in MP but the state government has suppressed the agitation”, he alleged. Meanwhile the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella union of various organizations in Bhopal alleged that police on January 22 midnight cleared protesters from a sit in being held at Karond mandi. “The agitation was started after consent of the administration,” said a spokesperson of the organization, adding, “the act of the police is against democracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/farmer-union-holds-tractor-rally-in-bhopal/articleshow/80438391.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Pune||Pune: Night temperature likely to remain below 13°C this week, says IMD||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday forecast the night temperature of the city to gradually fall and remain below 13°C, this week. In fact, towards the end of the week, the temperature is expected fall to 10°C, Met officials said. “There would be gradual fall in night temperature as northerly wind is likely to start penetrating over Konkan and Madhya Maharashtra in the state. Citizens can enjoy night chill pleasant temperatures because of this. But, at the same time, the day temperature would remain high in the range of 30-32°C. This condition would prevail mainly because of presence of trough line passing via Central Maharashtra and Marathwada regions. In the next 72 hours, the day temperature is expected to remain over 30°C,” Anupam Kashyapi, the head of IMD Pune’s forecast division, said. On Sunday, it was sunny with clear sky conditions. In the evening hours, the cold breeze was present in the atmosphere. “The wind is partially coming from North India. Hence, it was cold, but the intensity of it was low,” a met official said. From January 20 onwards, the night temperature has fallen to less than 14°C. However, it again increased to 15.1°C on Sunday, at the Shivajinagar observatory, which was above normal by four degrees Celsius. Similarly, Lohegaon too observed increase in night temperature on Sunday. It recorded 16.1°C, which was above normal by 3.1 degrees celsius. Meanwhile, officials from the state agriculture department claimed that the fall in night temperature was conducive for all crops, particularly onion. “On few days last week, overcast condition prevailed in the Madhya Maharashtra region. This had adverse effect on the growth of the crops. But, sunny conditions during the day and cold temperatures in the night would certainly make a positive impact on the crops harvest,” the agriculture official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/night-temp-likely-to-remain-below-13c-this-week-imd/articleshow/80438387.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 25, 2021||Delhi||300 Pakistan-based handles trying to incite farmers: Delhi Police||NEW DELHI: Citing an exhaustive cyber-technical analysis, Delhi Police’s intelligence wing has warned that Pak-based elements, through their proxies in India, may disrupt the proposed tractor rally by farmers on January 26 and fuel unrest. The threat perception comes after extensive Open-Source Situation (O-SINT) and Internet Protocol Detail Records analysis carried out by different intelligence units on social media. Details show over 300 Pak-based handles have been trying to incite the protesting farmers to foment unrest. These handles showed the location as Turkey, UAE, etc, but analysis revealed that they were located in Pakistan. Scores of handles were created between January 13-18 and became extremely active with a large online presence. They were tweeting with the hashtag #ISupportKhalistan. Special Commissioner Dependra Pathak on Sunday said that in the first week of January, they had come across a sustained Twitter campaign started by Pak-based elements to create doubts in the minds of the protesting farmers. “We have continuously been getting inputs regarding threats of creating disturbance during the tractor rally. In all, 308 Twitter handles were generated from Pakistan to create confusion,” he added. One of the week-long campaigns handled by Pakistan’s spy agency ran seven hashtags with thousands of tweets, said a source. The accounts are also using the hashtags chosen by the social media teams of the protesting farmers to come across as one of them. Geo-locations of suspicious handles had coordinates like “27.708226, 72.35549850000001”, confirming their Pak origin. Prominent handles, including Radio Pakistan, have been tweeting misleading information and pictures, reads the police analysis. “The threat perception is that Pak-based terrorist outfits can target the tractor rally or mischievous elements may hamper the law and order situation. However, we will make ample deployment on all routes,” said Pathak. Besides, there is a threat of disturbance by banned outfits like Sikhs for Justice (SFJ). On Sunday afternoon, SFJ made a threatening call to CISF’s control room saying the Indian government would be held responsible for the deaths at Singhu border. Last week, SFJ had called for disrupting Delhi’s power supply and also threatened Chief Justice of India SA Bobde asking him not to stop the tractor rally. “You have sided with those who committed genocide of Sikhs. Now you are siding with the Modi government, who is responsible for the econocide of Punjab farmers. This is not 1990s; It’s 2021 and SFJ will hold all justices accountable under the international laws,” a message released by SFJ read. SFJ’s threats, a security official said, are taken seriously given the influence the group has among its online followers. Delhi Police had briefed farmer union leaders about these nefarious plans being hatched by anti-national elements and sought their support in neutralising the threats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/300-pak-based-handles-trying-to-incite-farmers/articleshow/80438403.cms||Raj Shekhar
January 25, 2021||Pune||Temporary solution to parking mess at Pune airport likely by September||PUNE: The multi-storied parking lot, currently under construction at Pune airport, is expected to be complete by mid-2022. However, a section of the parking lot will be ready by September, thus bringing at least a temporary solution for regular flyers. Ravi Suresh Jain, director of Pebbles Infratech Pune that is engaged in the project construction, told TOI that two basement levels will be up and ready by September, following which the Airports Authority of India (AAI) will be asked to conduct an inspection of the space and give a permission to start parking. “Presently, the work is going on in full swing. The entire project will be completed by April next year. However, the two basement floors will be ready by September this year. The area can easily accommodate 500 cars. Once completed, we will ask AAI officials for permission to start parking while other construction work can continue. We will take all due precautions regarding safety protocols and we will only start the lots if AAI gives a go-ahead,” shared Jain. Work on the multi-storied parking lot had started in January last year but the pandemic and lockdowns led to a halt for about two months. With Parking Number-1 blocked due to construction work, parking at the airport has become an extremely difficult affair. Presently, a section of Parking Number-2 at the airport is used to park mainly two-wheelers as well as some cars. However, the same parking lot is also a pickup point for cabs and autorickshaws. An official at the Pune airport said that parking will continue to remain a problem until the new parking facility is ready. “We cannot comment right now on whether parking will be allowed at the two basement levels once they are ready since the inspection needs to happen first,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/temporary-solution-to-parking-mess-at-city-airport-likely-by-september/articleshow/80438394.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 25, 2021||Chennai||Chennai reports zero Covid-19 deaths after 10 months||CHENNAI: The city reported zero Covid-19 deaths on Sunday, after 10 months. As many as 569 people tested positive for the virus in the state in the last 24 hours pushing its Covid tally to 8,34,740. The district had reported its first death on March 25 and has so far recorded 4,085 fatalities, almost 33% of the state's Covid toll of 12,316. The state, however, maintained its fatality rate at 1.5% for over three months, with seven people dying on Sunday. While two among the deceased belonged to Coimbatore, Madurai, Tiruppur and Chennai's three neighbouring districts (Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Thiruvallur) reported one death each. All seven had comorbidities like diabetes or hypertension and were aged above 68. Five persons were detected with the UK variant of the virus. Of them, three returned from the UK and two were close contacts. Totally, nine persons had been detected with the UK variant, and among them, seven have tested negative and been discharged. Two are under observation at different hospitals.  The state's active case ratio hovered around 0.6% mark in the fourth week of January. At present, 4,904 people are undergoing treatment for the virus in the state. This was 50% less compared to what it was on the same day last month. However, Chennai region had majority of the active cases (1,696) followed by Coimbatore (478) in the western Tamil Nadu. Chennai district alone reported 168 new cases on Sunday. Madurai and Trichy reported 10 and 17 new cases respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-reports-zero-covid-19-deaths-after-10-months/articleshow/80438389.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM reviews Kumbh works, says majority of it completed||DEHRADUN: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, accompanied by senior officials of the state government, visited Haridwar on Sunday and reviewed the ongoing preparations for the Kumbh. Talking about the upcoming Kumbh Mela, CM Rawat said that the state government is working tirelessly to ensure that the mega fair will be divine, grand and a safe experience for the pilgrims. After inspection of the Kumbh works, Rawat said, “Out of the total 86 sanctioned works, of which two were later cancelled, majority of the work has been completed and the remaining will be completed on time.” The CM was accompanied by chief secretary Om Prakash, police nodal officer Inspector General (IG) Sanjay Gunjyal, Mela officer Deepak Rawat and other senior officials involved in the Kumbh works. CM Rawat inspected the Sukhi river bridge, Astha Path, Gaurishankar Island, Bairagi camp bridge, Ranipur Jhal bridge and Chaudhary Charan Singh ghat in Khadkhadi. He also asked the officials to apprise him of the problems being faced in various construction works and the expected time of their completion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-reviews-kumbh-works-says-majority-of-it-completed/articleshow/80437512.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 25, 2021||Chennai||Writing on the wall near Putheri: Don’t touch lakes||CHENNAI: A group of 50 youngsters and members of NGOs got together to paint messages of water conservation on the wall adjoining the Putheri lake off Pallavaram-Thoraipakkam radial road on Sunday. Along with 25 students from Adi engineering college, 10 members of NGO Vidhaigal and 20 from Pasumai Peruga Sutham Sei (PPSS) whitewashed the walls and painted messages on water conservation, importance of nature and similar messaging. This assumes significance as on December 30, truckloads of garbage was dumped into the lake and construction debris was found levelled on a portion of the lake which was also claimed as registered land by a few people. “We wanted to send out the message that nobody should touch lakes. Nobody can encroach it while social organisations like us are watching,” said A Rajasekhar, from Vidhaigal. The exercise began around 10am and went on till late afternoon. Since there were examinations in a nearby college, many passersby were able to see the awareness message, Rajasekhar said. The issue of garbage dumping into the lake has been a heated one, with Pallavaram municipality and revenue officials stepping in to remove encroachments and dredge the lake bed after a hue and cry by local residents and activists in the last one month. The lake, which had only recently been restored by local NGOs, was found to have mounds of trash on December 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/writing-on-the-wall-near-putheri-dont-touch-lakes/articleshow/80438419.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Satna double murder solved, 2 accomplices of accused held||BHOPAL: Satna police have arrested two more accomplices of the man who chased a couple and shot them dead on January 17. The main accused had already surrendered before police on January 20. On January 17, a car in which a 32-year old youth and a 26-year-old woman was chased and dashed, both were shot dead after their car overturned at Rajola road under Nayagaon police station of the district at around 4 pm. Deceased were identified as Anuj Dixit, 32 and Priya Singh, 26. Anuj was originally a resident of Hamirpur in Uttar Pradesh but was living in a rented house owned by deceased Priya Singh's kin in Amodha locality under Civil Lines police station of Satna town. Kin of the deceased girl named one accused Pushpraj Singh who runs a school and is also a resident of Amodha locality of the town. Earlier deceased Priya used to work at his school and he was not happy with Priya’s friendship with deceased Anuj. On January 17, Pushpraj Singh surrendered before police. Later on Saturday, police have recovered the bolt of the rifle owned by Pushpraj which was thrown in bushes by an accomplice Vivek who worked as a guard at the school run by accused Pushpraj Singh. Later during investigations police have found that it was Pushpraj Singh’s son Jay Singh who had informed about the whereabouts of Priya and Anuj Dixit on the day of the incident to his father who subsequently shot them, police have arrested both Vivek and Jay and booked them for being accomplices, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/satna-double-muder-solved-2-accomplices-of-accused-held/articleshow/80438410.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||IMA, Magmo & nursing body to oppose FIR against doctors, nurses||NAGPUR: Opposing state government action against Bhandara district general hospital doctors and nurses, local chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra Gazetted Medical Officers Association (Magmo) and Maharashtra State Nursing Association have warned of statewide strike if an FIR is filed against the staffers for death of 10 babies in Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) fire on January 9. The government has already suspended civil surgeon Dr Pramod Khandate, medical officer Dr Archana Meshram and in-charge sister Jyoti Haraskar holding them responsible for the death of the babies. Additional civil surgeon Dr Sunita Badhe has been transferred to a non-functional post. Services of contractual staff, including paediatrician Dr Sushil Ambade, in-charge sisters Smita Ambilduke and Shubhangi Satawane have been terminated. Bhandara district IMA president Dr Nitin Turaskar told TOI that there were indications that government is planning to file an FIR against some doctors. “If this happens, all our members would stop work in protest,” he said, adding that though the fire was caused by mechanical failure in radiant warmers in the SNCU, medical staffers have been made a scapegoat. Opposing the action against medical staffers, associations of doctors and nurses have submitted separate representations to collector Sandip Kadam. “Fire safety measures were lacking at the hospital. Fire audit was not done. When it has come to fore that the equipment was of substandard quality and the facility was ill-planned, how can government hold doctors and nurses responsible. We have made it clear to the government that IMA will hit the streets if police action is taken,” said Dr Turaskar. He added that suspension, transfer and termination orders have been imposed on the doctors and nurses. “We are against these orders,” he said. Dr Turaskar also highlighted that all private hospitals in Bhandara are fire safety compliant, except the government facility. Magmo’s Bhandara president Dr Madhukar Kumbhare said the government itself has stated that sparks in the incubator caused the SNCU fire. “Doctors treat people and it is not our job to see if equipment are working properly. The action against on-duty staff and others for the fault of machine is deplorable. The machines were purchased by the government. Action must be taken against the machine supplier and maintenance in-charge. Also, action against doctors and nurses must be revoked as they are not responsible for the fire leading to deaths,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ima-magmo-nursing-body-to-oppose-fir-against-docs-nurses/articleshow/80438416.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 25, 2021||Pune||Pune police send 13 to beggar homes||PUNE: The social security cell of Pune police on Saturday detained 13 persons from different traffic junctions on the charge of forcibly demanding money from motorists on Saturday. Police registered cases under the provisions of Maharashtra Prevention of Begging Act and the detainees were sent to beggar homes. The action was taken following complaints by the citizens and motorists. Police said the persons were found making vulgar actions and abusing motorists. Police detained three persons each from Shahdawal Baba Chowk in Yerawada, Swargate and Loni Toll in Hadapsar, two from Bund Garden Chowk, and two from Karishma Chowk on Karve Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-send-13-to-beggar-homes/articleshow/80438399.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Trichy||Survey records 149 species of birds, 105 butterflies in Trichy||Trichy: As many as 149 bird species and 105 butterfly species were recorded in Trichy district in a two-day birds and butterflies survey conducted jointly by the Tropical Butterfly Conservatory, Trichy (TBCT), the forest department and Act for Butterflies, an NGO. The survey was conducted to identify the diversity of bird species and their numbers in the district. A team of 70 members including volunteers and forest department employees conducted the survey in all the five forest ranges in Trichy district over the last two days. Spotting Fulvous Whistling Duck was the highlight of the survey. The species was documented for the first time in Trichy district. Around 15 raptors were also spotted during the survey. “A total of 115 bird species were spotted in Trichy range, which has many wet lands such as Killiyur and Vazhavanthan Kottai tank,” said P Mohan Prasath, founder, Act for Butterflies. Some of the unique bird species spotted during the survey are Greater Spotted Eagle, Osprey, Black Winged Kite, Oriental Honey Buzzard, Indian Spotted Eagle, Red Necked Falcon, Booted Eagle, Boneli’s Eagle, White Eyed Buzzard, Eurasian Marsh Harrier, Pallid Harrier, Shikra, Black Kite and Brahminy Kite, Crested Serpent Eagle, Short Toed Snake Eagle, Indian Courser, Mottled Wood Owl, Rock Eagle Owl, and Jungle Owlet. As many as 105 butterfly species were also spotted during the survey. Painted Jezebel and Orange Awlet were recorded for the first time in Trichy district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/survey-records-149-species-of-birds-105-butterflies-in-trichy/articleshow/80439566.cms||Sampath Kumar
January 25, 2021||Chennai||M K Stalin’s ‘vel act’ gets BJP, AIADMK barbs||CHENNAI: A day after DMK president M K Stalin held a ‘vel’ (spear) and posed for shutterbugs at a makkal grama sabha meeting at Tiruttani, his political rivals AIADMK and BJP took him head on, mocking him for his “brave attempt”.  While political circles see it as an attempt by Stalin to erase the “anti-Hindu” image of the rationalist DMK, the Dravidian party leader came in for ridicule by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and BJP state president L Murugan. “Today you all would have seen a person holding a ‘Vel’ in his hand. He is Stalin. He has started acting now, while the story, dialogue and direction is by Prashant Kishor (DMK’s poll strategist for the assembly election). God will bless only those who offer true bhakti and not those who act. If you act, keeping votes in mind, then even God will act in a way so as to defeat you and he will only support the AIADMK,” Palaniswami said, after offering prayers at the Puliyakulam Vinayagar temple in Coimbatore.  Murugan went a step further. “Stalin ridiculed me for undertaking the ‘Vetrivel yatra’ and attacked me for doing politics with religion. In just about a month see the change that Lord Muruga has brought upon Stalin, for whom God never existed. He has got Stalin to hold a ‘Vel’ and that too from the same town (Tiruttani) from where I started the Vetrivel yatra,” Murugan said.  But DMK leaders S Durai Murugan and party Rajya Sabha MP R S Bharathi were quick to try to deflect the barbs. “Stalin has taken the ‘vel’ in his hand only to perform ‘Soorasamharam’ (Lord Muruga destroying Asura Sooran) of AIADMK,” DMK general secretary Durai Murugan said at Vellore. "Arupadai Veedu Murugan will bless DMK. Only BJP's L Murugan will bless AIADMK," Bharathi said. (With input from A Subburaj)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stalins-vel-act-gets-bjp-aiadmk-barbs/articleshow/80438412.cms||D Govardan
January 25, 2021||Trichy||Farmer, 59, found dead on rly track||Nagapattinam: A 59-year-old farmer was found dead on a railway track in Nagapattinam district on Saturday. The victim’s wife has stated in her complaint that her husband, vexed by the crop loss he suffered, had committed suicide by jumping in front of a train. Based on her complaint, the government railway police have begun investigating the death. According to police, the deceased was identified as R Rameshbabu, a native of Sattaiyappar Mela Street in Nagapattinam. He had raised samba paddy crops in a farm at Mohanambalpuram near Thirukkuvalai. Rameshbabu had gone to Mohanambalpuram to visit his farm on Saturday morning but did not return even after evening. Later, his family members were informed that his body was found on a railway track near Avarani. On being alerted, government railway police from Nagapattinam rushed to the spot and retrieved the body and sent it to Nagapattinam government hospital for post-mortem. Meanwhile, the victim’s wife R Amutha lodged a complaint with the police stating that her husband committed suicide by jumping in front of a speeding train. According to the complaint, Rameshbabu had raised paddy in around 10 acres at Mohanambalpuram. Even as the crop was ready for harvest, the recent rains damaged the crops. Due to this he had been depressed for the last few days. Meanwhile, inspector Shanthi told TOI that preliminary inquiries revealed that Rameshbabu was hit by the Ernakulam-Karaikal express train while he was trying to cross the track. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmer-59-found-dead-on-rly-track/articleshow/80439563.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 25, 2021||Pune||One dies in road mishap in Pune||PUNE: A 37-year-old motorcycle rider was killed after his vehicle was hit by a truck at Moshi on Pune-Nashik highway on Saturday afternoon. The incident occurred when the victim, Vakil Shaikh of Kuruli village near Chakan, was driving towards Moshi. The Bhosari MIDC police have registered an offence against the truck driver. Worker killed in accident A 23-year-old worker, Bibhishan Mahakud, was killed after he got stuck in a finishing machine at an auto components manufacturing company in Pimpri Chinchwad on Saturday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-dies-in-road-mishap/articleshow/80438413.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: PMK puts off meet to discuss 20% sub-quota for vanniyars||CHENNAI: The PMK has postponed its crucial executive council, scheduled for January 25 to January 31. The meeting was to discuss the further course of action in securing the 20% sub-quota reservation for vanniyars, a demand laid down by PMK founder S Ramadoss.  The discussion is expected to weigh alliance options in the event of the Edappadi K Palaniswami government not acceding to the PMK’s demand for substantial internal reservation for vanniyars. The PMK was part of the AIADMK-inclusive NDA alliance for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.  While the Monday meeting was postponed due to administrative reasons, sources in the party said it was done since the party has already called for a protest in front of all district collectorates across Tamil Nadu on January 29. “We are in the process of mobilizing people for the Friday protest. Any decision at Monday’s meeting would make the already planned protest irrelevant,” a senior PMK leader said.  On Sunday, in an appeal through social media, Ramadoss urged all vanniyars, including those from other parties to participate in the January 29 protest before the district collectorates.  “While it was the members of the Vanniyar Sangam who sacrificed their lives during the agitation in the late 1980s demanding reservation, vanniyars from other parties too eventually benefitted from the reservation. I am not asking other party leaders or second line leaders to come and participate, vanniyar cadres should come forward and participate in large numbers,” Ramadoss said.  “We are asking for reservations for all. Not just for vanniyars. Let people from other castes too benefit. Undertaking caste-based surveys is not such an Himalayan task. But successive governments have been avoiding it for long,” the senior leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pmk-puts-off-meet-to-discuss-20-sub-quota-for-vanniyars/articleshow/80438417.cms||D Govardan
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||Govt has not shared Bhandara hospital fire inquiry report with police||NAGPUR: The police are conducting a parallel inquiry into the accidental deaths of 10 babies at Bhandara district hospital fire in the early hours of January 9. However, the police department is still in the dark over the high-level inquiry report tabled last week before the government. It’s learnt the contents of the inquiry report were orally relayed to some senior officials, but there was no formal handing over of the report. While Bhandara police have now pleaded with the Bhandara collector for a copy of the report, it’s not clear when they would see their request materialize. Police department had taken a stand in the initial days after the incident that they would take a decision on the registration of offences and other subsequent action after the inquiry report is tabled. In a twist, the report was sent to the health department by the high-level committee headed by divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar last week but police are still unsure about the future of their probe. With the government not seemingly keen to share the inquiry report as of now, a section of the police department was left baffled by the decision. “Police are already conducting a parallel probe. The report would have certainly helped the Bhandara police to get references and facts from statements recorded and points being included in the inquiry,” said an officer on condition of anonymity. Bhandara collector Sandeep Kadam said the committee was supposed to submit the report to the government. “The report is still with the government. Police may have directly sought it from the government,” said Kadam. He said police are yet to approach him for the report. Sources said the police department has already received the forensic science laboratory report but it has now decided to raise queries on certain issues which were not clear to them from the findings. According to a senior officer, police may not require the inquiry committee report for registering FIR into the case as it was more recommendatory in nature to ensure such incidents do not take place in the near future. “Police are more dependent upon the reports and findings from VNIT experts, National fire college and forensic science laboratory,” he said. On Monday, BJP is set to launch a stir in the district against the local police and the administration for delaying the action, especially the non-filing of FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-has-not-shared-bhandara-hospital-fire-inquiry-report-with-police/articleshow/80438426.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 25, 2021||Trichy||BDU VC: Madras, Anna univ profs frontrunners||Trichy: The stage is set for the appointment of yet another engineering faculty or a person from science background as Bharathidasan University vice-chancellor as professors from University of Madras and Anna University are frontrunners for the post. According to sources, not a single candidate from a social science discipline or arts and science colleges has made it to the final list of candidates. The vice-chancellor search committee had released a list of 143 eligible applicants for the post recently. Concluding the scrutiny a few days ago, the committee shortlisted 10-12 candidates to be called for interview on January 31. According to highly placed sources, six-seven candidates are from University of Madras and Anna University. A rough analysis of the present VCs of state-run universities reveals that most of them belong to either engineering or science background. There are a total of 10 arts and science universities in the state of which the VCs of five of them hail from engineering background and four from science.Alagappa University is the only exception where the vice-chancellor belongs to social science discipline. Academicians say that non-inclusion of university candidates from social science background for the VC post is due to the absence of separate yardsticks for assessing science and social science candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-vc-madras-anna-univ-profs-frontrunners/articleshow/80439571.cms||Sampath Kumar
January 25, 2021||Bhopal||Vaccination drive ramped up, 45,000 to get shots today in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: Messages are being sent to 45,000 health workers who are to be vaccinated across 450 vaccination booths across the state on Monday. “Apart from increase in the number of vaccination booths and number of people who are scheduled to be vaccinated, there has been no other changes, the entire process remains the same,” state vaccination officer, Dr Santosh Shukla, told TOI. He added, “Messages are being sent to 45,000 health workers from the respective districts. Those health workers, who could not get vaccinated despite getting messages and were left behind, will be called in during the catch-up round once the vaccination of all the health workers is done.” Vaccination will start at 10.30 am at all the vaccination booths and will continue till 5.30 pm. Overall, 2,250 vaccinators — apart from those involved in transportation of vaccine and other management related works — will be deployed for vaccination all across the state from Monday onwards. In all major towns such as state capital Bhopal, Jabalpur, Gwalior and Indore, there will be more than 20 vaccination booths, said sources. It is expected that after the initial hiatus and apprehension, the vaccination drive will gain momentum this week and if things go as planned, nearly all of 4.17 lakh health workers who had to be vaccinated in the first phase of the vaccination will get their first doses in the next 15 days, said sources. So far, the state has received 10.5 lakh doses and only 8.7 lakh vaccines were required for both the doses of all the health workers, added sources. MP has already started receiving vaccine for the frontline workers too and their vaccination is also likely to start soon, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/vac-drive-ramped-up-45k-to-get-shots-today/articleshow/80438423.cms||Amarjeet Singh
January 25, 2021||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad: Affordable housing draw frozen amid party politics||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Even after two weeks of abrupt cancellation, the Pimpri Chinchwad administration and ruling party BJP has failed to announce the new dates for the affordable housing draw. The scheme, under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), offers 3,664 flats in Charholi, Ravet and Borhadewadi for Rs7 lakh for which the civic body had received over 47,000 applications. Ruling party leader Namdev Dhake told TOI, “We are trying to invite at least one Union minister for the draw and even if they are available online, it would be enough. We are hoping to organize it within the next 10 days.” On the cancellation, he said, “What happened earlier this month was very unfortunate. The administration was pressurised by guardian minister Ajit Pawar to reschedule the programme so that they could get the credit.” Civic commissioner, Shravan Hardikar, who was unavailable for comments despite repeated attempts on Sunday, had told TOI last week that the civic body was going to organize the lottery ‘very soon’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/affordable-housing-draw-frozen-amid-party-politics/articleshow/80438421.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 25, 2021||Dehradun||Negative RT-PCR test report mandatory for Kumbh pilgrims, hoteliers say SOPs may hit business||HARIDWAR: Devotees coming to the Kumbh Mela, likely to start from February 27 and go on till April 30, will have to produce a Covid-19 RT-PCR negative test report (test done 72 hours prior to the date of visit), according to the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare late on Saturday evening. “The devotees may carry such test reports either on their mobile phones or in hard copies,” says the order. The move, according to the notification, aims to contain the spread of Covid-19 infection during the religious fair. The circular also asks pilgrims to strictly follow all Covid-19 regulations, including maintaining social distancing, wearing masks, installing Aarogya Setu App, and not spitting in public, among others. IG Kumbh Sanjay Gunjayal told TOI, “We started our preparations as soon as the SOPs were released on Saturday. As the directive says, we plan to inoculate around 12,000 special police officers (SPOs) and local residents, including business persons, who will be there in Haridwar during Kumbh Mela. Apart from them, around 17,000 security personnel, close to 1,000 health workers as well as around 3,000 officials will receive vaccines on priority. We are also working on developing a portal for the Kumbh to verify health certificates.” Mela officer Deepak Rawat welcomed the SOPs saying, “This clarity was much needed as we were wondering whether a negative Covid-19 test result will be needed or not. We will now focus on sensitisation campaigns to make people aware of the dangers of the pandemic. Volunteers will be roped in to help maintain social distancing during the ‘snans’. We have also asked the railways to take the requisite precautions.” The official added that the local administration has planned to double the capacity of the hospital dedicated for Covid-19 patients in Haridwar. “Earlier, we had planned a 1,000-bed hospital for patients who might contract the virus while visiting the town during the Kumbh. Now, it’s capacity would be increased to 2,000 beds,” he said. Meanwhile, local hoteliers and traders have expressed their disappointment over the SOP. They say that the order will further hurt businesses, already reeling under losses due to Covid-19. “The hotel and tourism industry, already facing a crisis due to Covid-19, had huge expectations from the forthcoming Kumbh Mela. However, the latest guidelines will deter tourists from coming to Haridwar. We have asked the state government to extend some relief so that tourists and devotees can come here without hesitation,” said Vibhas Mishra, president of hoteliers’ association of Haridwar. Akash Sharma, a Haridwar-based tour operator, said, “We are disappointed with the SOPs. Our business has already been hit due to the pandemic. These SOPs have dampened the hopes of revival during Kumbh.” Local traders have also echoed similar sentiments. “We depend greatly on sales during mega festivals. The SOP may lead to a dip in the number of devotees. When people are allowed to take part in election rallies without having to show negative Covid-19 reports, then why can’t the rules be the same for the Kumbh Mela? This is a very unfortunate situation,” said Rajednra Keshwani, local trader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/negative-rt-pcr-test-report-mandatory-for-kumbh-pilgrims-hoteliers-say-sops-may-hit-business/articleshow/80437515.cms||MS Nawaz
January 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Procurement of e-buses put on hold||E vehicle package II Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) had announced to purchase 1,100 electric buses but the city has so far got only 50 electric buses. According to AMC officials, it has been decided not to procure the remaining buses in view of the fund crunch because of the Covid-19 pandemic. In December 2018, AMC had purchased 50-odd electric buses. Since then, there has been no purchases of the buses. The officials defended the AMC move by saying that the buses were to be purchased over the period of five years. “In 2019-20, the civic body had decided to install electric charging points to promote electric vehicles. Tenders were also issued for the same. However, they have not come up at designated spots such as multi-level parking lots in Navrangpura, Maninagar, Relief Road, Prahladnagar and Sabarmati Riverfront,” said another official, adding that the ambitious project is aimed at charging 400 cars and 600 two-wheelers. “Even for buses, the charging facility is currently at depots. The vehicles can’t be charged on their way,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/procurement-of-e-buses-put-on-hold/articleshow/80438424.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 25, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Sarojini traders seek action against hawkers||NEW DELHI: Traders of Sarojini Nagar Market raised the issue of increasing encroachment at the busy market during a meeting with New Delhi Municipal Council and later with Delhi Police on Saturday. The market was shut for a brief period on Saturday after shopkeepers allegedly had an argument with hawkers. Traders claimed that the shops opened on Sunday after police assured action against illegal hawkers. Ashok Randhawa, president of Mini Market Traders Association alleged lack of action by civic bodies. “There are at least 600 hawkers in the market and most of them are illegal. We raised the matter when NDMC officials visited the market on Saturday, but the meeting ended without any conclusion. Later there was some dispute between groups of hawkers and shopkeepers. The shopkeepers downed shutters in protest and finally the police had to intervene. These shops were reopened on Sunday after ACP and SHO of Sarojini Nagar assured action against defaulters,” he said. A senior police officer, however, denied that encroachment is increasing in the market. “Both Delhi Police and NDMC are taking action and even removing body hawkers. Many hawkers have been in the market for the past 10-12 years. On the contrary, many shopkeepers have occupied public land for selling their products despite repeated action,” said the official. An NDMC official also added that had there been no action, the market would have flooded with hawkers and there would have beeen no space for even walking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sarojini-traders-seek-action-against-hawkers/articleshow/80438428.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Electrifying run of EVs in state, 500% rise in registrations||Ahmedabad: As Gujarat makes a strong pitch for the US-based Tesla to set up its manufacturing hub here, it is worth pointing to the state’s own track record with electric vehicles. Registrations of e-vehicles in the state have risen by 500% since 2017. The state had registered 176 vehicles in 2017; the figure jumped to 1,104 in 2020. The registrations of electric vehicles in 2020 in the state were the highest in the past four years. Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Rajkot, and Surat were not the only cities to play a role in the spurt in numbers. About 37% of the total electric vehicles registered were from Tier II cities and even rural Gujarat. RTO officials said that registrations were the highest in 2020 since 2017 not only in the state but also in Ahmedabad. The officials said that the registrations in Ahmedabad city recorded the highest increase. In 2017, the city (GJ-01) registered only 41 vehicles; the figure was 388 in 2020. The officials said that the city has been registering 40% electric cars and 60% electric two-wheelers. According to officials, electric vehicles which have power less than 250W and speed capability lower than 25 kmph are not categorized as motor vehicles and hence do not require registrations. But the remaining need to be registered. The officials said that in the city electric vehicles are getting more and more popular. Electric vehicle manufacturers, however, say that the increase in a subsidy did not really help drive sales. “The state government has extended a subsidy worth Rs 10,000 for electric vehicles with lithium-ion batteries,” said Jaysukh Patel, chairman and managing director, Oreva, which manufactures electric vehicles. Patel added: “However, these batteries are costly and therefore, even after adjusting the subsidy amount, the vehicles cost roughly Rs 40,000 each.” On the other hand, Patel said, electric vehicles with lead-acid batteries do not have any subsidy, yet they cost about Rs 30,000. “Therefore, the demand is higher for these variants and the subsidy has not really helped push up sales,” Patel said. Industry players also said that the subsidy amount must be extended to all types of electric vehicles. Factors other than subsidies come into play. “Charging is easier than it was before and the necessary infrastructure is available at some places,” an official said. “But few prefer electric motorcycles or cars because of the confusion about the battery life, charging time, and financing options.” While conventional car batteries come with a five-year warranty, there is no more than a two-year warranty for EVs after which owners have to spend again on batteries (up to 60% of its cost), he added. Charging time has reduced and travel range (three hours’ charge for 120km travel approximately for bikes) is up, but people fear batteries may drain on the way. Even if public charging-points come up, few will be willing to queue up to recharge their vehicles, said a transport department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/electrifying-run-of-evs-in-state-500-rise-in-registrations/articleshow/80438434.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 25, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Connaught Place shops to be open after 2pm on Republic Day||NEW DELHI: Amid security checks and anti-encroachment drives in Connaught Place ahead of Republic Day, the traders’ association has announced it would keep the entire market open after 2pm and plans to offer special discounts to increase footfall. Some shopkeepers have even planned decorations at individual levels. New Delhi Traders Association (NDTA) also decided to go for an intensive sanitisation and disinfection drive on January 25 and 26. “We were receiving inquiries with apprehension that due to Republic day and the farmers rally, the market might remain closed. But this is the occasion when we can make maximum profit and that’s why a joint decision has been taken to keep the entire market open. We are offering discounts,” said Amit Gupta, executive member of NDTA. “We will also intensify the process for spraying disinfectants, especially if there would be an increase in footfall in the market. Besides, everyone would be urged to maintain social distance and wear a mask,” said Gupta. The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has, meanwhile, intensified action against encroachments and formed teams for implementing the plan. “We have formed two teams and they started working from 6 am to ensure there is no encroachment in the market. They will work dedicatedly till January 30. Besides we have formed teams for ensuring sanitation and cleanliness exercise,” said the NDMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cp-shops-to-be-open-after-2pm-on-r-day/articleshow/80438446.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 25, 2021||Bhopal||High on hope: Active Covid cases at 6-month low in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: For the first in six months, Covid-19 active cases are nearly below 1,000 in the state capital. There were 121 more people who recovered from Covid-19 infection, active cases reported by health department were 1009 for report prepared on Sunday morning. Experts are optimistic that indicative ‘bent curve’ in Bhopal could be headed to turn the deadly infection into sloping hill. With vaccination for the masses around the corner, the silver lining brings hope to many students, households and business. Also perhaps giving economic activities a much needed boost. “Recently, more or less the daily cases load has been in single digit. It has led to drop in hospitalisation level and active cases. There is still no room for complacency. We should maintain Covid-19 preventive measures,” said Bhopal chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Prabhakar Tiwari. Experts including Dr Tiwari who witnessed the surge in infection cases during the pandemic, warn that people under home isolation should not shy away from hospitalisation, if symptoms worsen. Bending the curve does not mean the pandemic is over. It has taken six months and seven days to get to this point. On July 17 when active cases crossed 1000 mark for the first time, total reported cases in Bhopal stood at 3979. In the next 191 calendar days, 38042 people were infected with Covid-19 in Bhopal and 474 of them died. “The key to curb Covid-19 is keeping new cases to a minimum,” said Hamidia hospital superintendent, Dr ID Chaurasia. Moderate or severe cases of the infection would still need to be monitored. The reproduction number (Ro) or Covid R number has to be kept low too. It is the average number of infections produced by a single infectious person in a population with no immunity. “There is certain amount of herd immunity which has been developed,” said Dr Tiwari. If the R value is less than 1, an epidemic eventually dies out because each infected person generates less than one new infection, cited a recent Lancet study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/high-on-hope-active-cases-at-6-month-low/articleshow/80438439.cms||Jamal Ayub
January 25, 2021||Trichy||3 panchayat schools in Trichy bag best school award||Trichy: Three panchayat union middle schools in Trichy district have bagged the state government’s best school awards for 2018-19. K Kallikudi Panchayat Union Middle School in Manikandam block, Kalavaipatti Panchayat Union Middle School, Manachanallur and Anbil Panchayat Elementary School in Lalgudi were selected for the award. Every year, the state government gives awards for three best schools in a district. The schools are assessed on ten broad yardsticks such as basic infrastructure, quality of education and best teaching practices. The school in K Kallikudi is no less than a high-tech school. With a total strength of 181 students, the school has 20 CCTV cameras, smart classrooms, a science laboratory and a computer lab. K Thilagam, headmistress of the school, said that the school could attract CSR funds from private companies to set up equipment worth Rs 8 lakh to enhance the learning process. Similarly, Manachanallur school doesn’t have smart classrooms but the teachers are using a projector to take classes. Spoken English is a specialty at Lalgudi school, where special teachers have been hired to enhance students’ English language skills.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/3-panchayat-schools-in-trichy-bag-best-school-award/articleshow/80439573.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Mumbai||10 tribal students to finance, yet Maharashtra misses target 6 years in row||MUMBAI: The state government has failed to sponsor 10 tribal students each year for foreign scholarships since the scheme was launched in 2005. In the last six years only 20 such students, instead of 60, could get scholarship. Tribal community members blame the state for not reaching out to deprived students about the scheme. Experts say this is in keeping with the general marginalization of tribals and a result of their underrepresentation in the corridors of power. “Though there are many schemes implemented by the state, unfortunately, the benefits of these were not availed of by those for whom the schemes were meant. It is difficult for tribals to even think of sending their children for pursuing higher studies to foreign universities because of the sheer amount of money incurred in the whole process,” said Rajendra Maraskolhe, a Nagpur-based social worker and president of the social outfit Organisation for the Rights of Tribals. Times ViewThis seems like a classic case of a welfare scheme not reaching the intended beneficiaries because there is little awareness about it. The lackadaisical approach of the bureaucracy in executing the scheme makes matters worse. It is an irony that this happens with a scheme meant to provide opportunity to a community that hitherto lacked it.The annual scheme is for courses like medicine, MBA, science, agriculture, engineering, architecture and BTech. Selected students get tuition fees, examination fees, and an allowance for accommodation and meals, though they have to bear the cost of travelling abroad, visa fees, local travel expenses and the cost of stationery. Pointing out lack of awareness, Prabhu Rajgadkar, whose daughter Niyati Rajgadkar is pursuing a post-graduate course in architecture in Melbourne, said that even officials from the department concerned are not trained to provide guidance and support to beneficiaries. “Officials handling the scheme do not know the process of releasing funds or other technical issues, because of which beneficiaries suffer. There have been cases where the university to which fees were paid by the state had to send the amount back as the name of the student was missing. In our case, I had to pay the first few lakhs to retain my daughter's admission,” said Rajgadkar. He also said that the government should increase the income limit of eligible families, which is now Rs 6 lakh per annum. “The state should put in more effort to provide scholarships to 10 students as mentioned in the scheme, and it would be a failure of the government if annually 10 students do not benefit.” Maraskolhe suggested that the state should set up a counselling centre and helpdesk at prime engineering or medical colleges in tribal-dominated areas. The tribal development department said it would follow the suggestions. “We will generate awareness programmes in tribal-dominated districts so that the department offers a chance to 10 students to avail of scholarship,” said department secretary Anup Kumar Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/10-tribal-students-to-finance-yet-state-misses-target-6-yrs-in-row/articleshow/80439577.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 25, 2021||Goa||Khola, Cabo locals want tank cleaned||POINGUINIM: Nearly 800-900 residents residing in Cabo-de-Rama and Curdi-Khola areas fear that they may fall prey to diseases as they are not supplied potable drinking water. Locals said the village of Khola was declared adopted by the former South Goa MP Narendra Sawaikar. However, it lacks necessities and facilities such as potable water, uninterrupted power supply, better roads, primary education and toilets. Local panch Guru Velip said more than 100 people of these villages have already fallen sick by consuming the contaminated water from this tank as it has not been cleaned. Several oral complaints were made to the attendants here, but no measures have been taken to clean it, he said. Christaline Fernandes, an elderly woman from Cabo-de-Rama, said that many picnickers are seen frolicking near this tank and leave behind liquor bottles and trash here. She said, at times, they are seen using the tank water as it has no lid. Assistant engineer Lester D’Souza, however, denied the charges. He said the tank is cleaned periodically. He said as far as the issue of picnickers littering around the tank is concerned, it’s the responsibility of the panchayat to tackle it. The tank is around 10 years old and has a storage capacity of 100 cu mts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/khola-cabo-locals-want-tank-cleaned/articleshow/80428470.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Aurangabad||OBC community members press for caste-based census||AURANGABAD: A first-of-its-kind state-level meet of the OBC, VJNT (vimukta jati nomadic tribes) and SBC (special backward class) categories on Sunday in Jalna garnered attention against the backdrop of the Maratha reservation demand. Especially conspicuous was the presence of Maharashtra relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar. He cautioned against further inclusion of any other community in the quota set aside for the OBCs. “We are standing here as guards to protect the OBC reservation. We will remain vigilant against anyone seeking a share in the quota for the OBCs,” he said. Stating that certain elements were trying to give a different spin to the demand for SEBC quota for the Maratha community, Wadettiwar said the OBCs have no objections to offering a separate quota to the Marathas. OBC leaders cutting across party-lines, including some MLAs from the region and former ministers turned up for the event that was considered a show of strength for the OBC community. The event, which began with a huge march — much like the Maratha Kranti Morcha’s past agitation to press for the quota demand — saw a large turnout of community members, who also sought a caste-based census. They announced district-wise morchas across the state in the days to come. Meanwhile, coinciding with the Jalna event, BJP national executive council member Pankaja Munde, made a few tweets in Hindi in support of the caste-based census for the OBCs. Saying that her late father and senior BJP functionary was vocal about such a census, Pankaja Munde, the OBC face of her party, said the demand for a caste-based census would surely reach the Centre. Notably, Marathwada, in the past, had become the epicentre of the Maratha reservation movement and had witnessed the first Maratha Kranti Morcha in Aurangabad. The leaders attending the OBC meet in Jalna resolved to organise similar rallies across the state to press for a caste-based census and other demands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/obc-community-members-press-for-caste-based-census/articleshow/80436961.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Aurangabad||South Central Railway starts special train to Tirupati||AURANGABAD: The South Central Railway (SCR) has partially restored the rail connectivity to the temple town of Tirupati from Nanded division by resuming one special train. The Tirupati-Adilabad special train (07405) will run daily at 5.50 am from January 27. In the return direction, the train (07406) will leave every day at 9.05 pm from January 28, an official release said. SCR public relations officer (Nanded division) Rajesh Shinde said Umri, Mudkhed, Bhokar, Himayatnagar, Sahastrakund, Bodhadi Bujrug and Kinwat are among the railway stations from Nanded division of Marathwada that fall on the route to Tirupati. “Passengers are requested to note that all the special trains are fully reserved trains and no passenger should come to the railway station without a confirmed ticket. For the convenience of the passengers adequate reservation counters are being operated at all important railway stations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/scr-starts-special-train-to-tirupati/articleshow/80436966.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Dehradun||In a first in six months, Uttarakhand records less than 100 new Covid-19 cases||DEHRADUN: For the first time in the last six months, Uttarakhand recorded less than 100 Covid-19 cases in a day on Sunday. A total of 54 fresh Covid-19 infections were found on the day. The state last recorded less than 100 coronavirus cases in a day on July 14, 2020, when 73 infections had surfaced. The new cases surfaced from among the 10,499 samples that the state tested for Covid-19 on Sunday. The infection rate recorded on the day was 0.5%. Till Sunday, the state had 1,725 active cases. Among the 54 new Covid-19 cases recorded, the maximum of 23 surfaced from Nainital, followed by 15 from Dehradun, 10 from Haridwar, two from Udham Singh Nagar, one each from Chamoli, Champawat, Tehri, and Pithoragarh districts. “No new case was found in Almora, Bageshwar, Pauri, Rudraprayag, and Uttarkashi districts,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Also, two more coronavirus-related fatalities took the toll of the virus to 1,631 on Sunday. Meanwhile, 57 patients recovered from Covid-19 infection on Sunday. With this, the total number of cured cases to 90,967. The recovery rate was recorded at 95.1% in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-a-first-in-six-months-ukhand-records-less-than-100-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/80437547.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Anxiety, reaction fear causing AEFI for many||NAGPUR: With the number of health workers taking the Covid-19 vaccine jabs increasing now, a positive side about both the vaccines is coming to fore. Experiences shared by the beneficiaries clearly show that those who went to take the jab with too much anxiety and anticipating reaction were the ones who actually suffered from Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI). “More efforts are needed from all of us to cut down the vaccine anxiety and hesitancy,” said Dr Ashwini Tayade, infectious disease specialist. She said that doctors and health workers are more aware about such reactions that are common after any immunization. Interestingly, more than 99% of the AEFI sufferers get cured automatically after a certain time period. Doctors who managed AEFI cases in Shalinitai Meghe Hospital told TOI that no specific treatment other than monitoring was given to the patients and they recovered on their own. Only one person who experienced genuine reaction due to his pre-existing allergy was admitted and then discharged after a day. The Government of India guidelines clearly mention that every AEFI must be reported and trained in-charge of the health facility must manage the AEFI. “Reporting of every AEFI is must, irrespective of its severity. As only health workers are being vaccinated in the first phase, we are finding it easier to report the reactions as they are already aware about the symptoms etc,” said a senior doctor from GMCH vaccination centre. Doctors said certain reactions to the new vaccine is, in fact, a good sign. In the next phase, when non-medicos will start getting the jabs, it would be even challenging to avoid the AEFI due to vaccine anxiety. “An AEFI arising from anxiety about the immunization is a well-known fact. Stress response to immunization may manifest just prior to, during, or after immunization. One should avoid stress, or anxiety about vaccine while going for a jab,” said physician Dr Sachin Kadam. On the other hand, some doctors are anticipating that the anxiety related AEFI will go down with time. “The vaccine is new, hence anxiety is obvious. But as soon as it will become common, people will stop having AEFI due to anxiety,” said psychiatrist Dr Anagha Pathak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/anxiety-reaction-fear-causing-aefi-for-many/articleshow/80438471.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 25, 2021||Dehradun||Girl Child Day: Girl students at each KGBV's made warden for a day||Dehradun: On the occasion of the National Girl Child Day on Sunday, the state education department decided to make some select girl students of the Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) wardens for the day. The girl students carried out all the responsibilities of a warden until evening and also took decisions in regards to the daily affairs of the school. The department has convened that some of the decisions, which were found suitable, will be considered for implementation in the future as well by the education department. “Like various programmes being run in the state, we too decided to honour the girls on the occasion of National Girl Child Day. The girl students were given a chance to become the warden of their respective hostels and make decisions for the day,” said Mukul Kumar Sati, additional state project director of Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA). Notably, all 48 KGBVs of the state participated in this initiative. The KGBVs are residential secondary school for girls and are run by the Union ministry of education, Government of India. The KGBVs were established with an aim of providing quality education to girls belonging predominantly to the weaker sections of the society, including Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes and Other Backward Castes, among others, and residing in educationally backward regions of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/girl-child-day-girl-students-at-each-kgbvs-made-warden-for-a-day/articleshow/80437556.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 25, 2021||Kolkata||Swasthya Sathi scheme draws patients to private hosps in city||Kolkata: Some private hospitals in Kolkata have seen a surge in the number of Swasthya Sathi patients over the last fortnight, forcing them to draw up a plan to accommodate them. Most have been flooded with enquiries from those who have just got the new state health scheme card which provides a Rs 5 lakh health insurance cover. At a meeting held at Nabanna recently, the state government made it clear to private hospitals that they can’t refuse Swasthya Sathi patients. “There has been a sudden increase in patients at our hospital and at present, at least five out of every 10 we are attending to are admitted under the Swasthya Sathi scheme,” said a senior employee of the Howrah unit of a superspeciality hospital. The sudden rise in the number of patients has increased the waiting time for admission and led to a scarcity of amenities like wheelchairs at some hospitals. “My father was supposed to undergo a surgery for a kidney ailment and was advised admission a day before the surgery. We brought him to the hospital at the time mentioned but they could finally allot him a bed after more than five hours. The reason cited was shortage of beds in the general ward and that they were waiting for a patient to get released before allotting the bed to my father,” said a young techie who said she was surprised to see the additional rush of patients at the hospital, a tertiary care facility. The rush is not yet significant at all hospitals, though. At Peerless Hospital, for instance, there has been a mere 5-10% rise in Swastha Sathi patients over the last one week. “It’s still too early for a rush but we expect the number to rise over the next 2-3 months. So, we have appealed to the government not to burden tertiary care hospitals with minor cases. This will help us serve all Swasthya Sathi patients and refusals won’t happen,” said Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra. Swasthya Sathi has allowed many to avail private healthcare facilities for the first time in their lives. “I was diagnosed with stomach cancer six months ago and doctors suggested immediate surgery which would cost between Rs 4.5 lakh to 5 lakh. I couldn’t afford it. But the day I got the card on Wednesday, I got admitted at a private hospital. None in my family has ever been treated at a private hospital before,” said Rajarhat resident Mohammed Faruk (35), a mason by profession. The Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI) has proposed a cap on the number of Swasthya Sathi patients at each private hospital. “This will help to make it sustainable for us and distribute Swasthya Sathi patients among all hospitals so that we can serve other patients as well,” said AHEI president Rupak Barua. Launched by chief minister Mamata Banerjee in 2016, the scheme was recently extended to all residents of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/swasthya-sathi-scheme-draws-patients-to-private-hosps-in-city/articleshow/80438459.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 25, 2021||Mumbai||I had raised ‘file ghotala’ issue earlier: BJP leader||MUMBAI: A day after TOI’s report on the tampering of a file bearing Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s signature, the state government maintained a studied silence on the issue. Thackeray’s office did not respond to requests for a comment on the case. Meanwhile, the Opposition BJP has demanded action into the MVA government’s “file ghotala”. The party’s Ashish Shelar demanded an audit of files going to the CMO. “I have raised this issue earlier as well. There is a file ‘ghotala’ in the MVA government. There should be an audit of files in the transition period just before the MVA government took over and also after the government was formed,” said Shelar. He claimed the state government had a lethargic approach to the case. RTI activist Praveen Wategaonkar said the police should examine who would have benefited from the forgery. “It’s clear that the forgery was meant to benefit someone,” he said. “Whether there is action in the case depends totally on the political will of the government.” Marine Drive police station had registered an FIR on the issue in October 2020. TOI had reported that Thackeray had signed a file to endorse a departmental inquiry against a PWD superintending engineer, Nana Pawar. However, a forged remark was later written, entered in red ink above his signature, saying the inquiry against the engineer should be closed. The matter was discovered by PWD minister Ashok Chavan who asked why Thackeray had gone against his recommendation on the matter. Since Thackeray’s office keeps scanned copies of files signed by him, they discovered the remark was forged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/i-had-raised-file-ghotala-issue-earlier-bjp-leader/articleshow/80439614.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
January 25, 2021||Goa||BJP starts pulling strings in prep for Margao council elections||MARGAO: With municipal elections scheduled to be held within the next few months, hectic activities are on in all the major political camps in Margao. BJP, which is determined to wrest the Margao assembly seat from incumbent Digambar Kamat in the 2022 elections, is looking at posting a robust performance in the civic polls. In the October 2015 elections, BJP won just two of the 11 seats in the 25-member Margao municipal council. Kamat had stitched an alliance with Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai for the elections. While Sardesai’s panel ‘Fatorda Forward’ had won 11 of the 12 seats from Fatorda, Kamat’s ‘Model Margao’ had won six of the 11 seats in Margao. Kamat recently told reporters that no decision had yet been taken about an alliance for the polls this time. Nevertheless, hectic politicking is already being seen in some key wards of Margao with several new faces preparing to contest the municipal polls. Kamat’s son Yogiraj is also likely to contest the municipal elections. Though the MLA is tight-lipped about his son’s debut, sources said that Kamat is keen that his son enters politics with the upcoming civic polls. However, with uncertainty over the delimitation of wards and reservation of wards, some of the prospective candidates have started preparations in more than one ward. BJP has formally inducted a few young personalities into the party fold, including Prabhav Naik, son of Pandurang Naik and grandson of former Margao MLA Anant Narcinv Naik, and Parag Raikar, son of former Shiroda MLA Gajanan Raikar. Significantly, Parag was closely associated with the Kamat-camp for over two decades. With BJP determined to win the Margao assembly seat, political observers are keeping a close watch on the activities in the BJP camp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-starts-pulling-strings-in-prep-for-margao-council-elections/articleshow/80439590.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
January 25, 2021||Delhi||Satyendar Jain’s reply sought over plea against poll win||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Friday sought response of Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on a plea by BJP member S C Vats seeking to place additional documents relating to a challenge to the AAP member’s election to the legislative assembly for allegedly indulging in “corrupt practices”. Vats lost to Jain in the 2020 Delhi Assembly elections from Shakur Basti constituency. Justice Mukta Gupta sought Jain’s reply on the fresh application by Vats seeking permission to place additional documents on records on the ground that the BJP member was not having access to all the necessary documents earlier and has now got them. The court then listed the plea for further hearing on February 24. The application said the documents include details of WhatsApp groups and snapshots of Facebook accounts and Twitter web pages, which were relevant for adjudication of the issues involved in the election petition. It was filed in a pending petition challenging Jain’s election in which the court had earlier issued notice and sought responses of the Aam Aadmi Party member, returning officer, chief election officer and three other candidates who had contested for the same constituency. The petition filed in August 2020, had sought that the AAP member’s election be declared as null and void and a re-election be done on the seat. On the plea to preserve records of election, the high court had earlier refused to pass an order. The petition has further sought that during pendency of the matter, Jain be prevented from attending the legislative assembly and drawing emoluments or any other payments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jains-reply-sought-over-plea-against-poll-win/articleshow/80438488.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Surat||22% decrease in road accidents in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: While the months of lockdown recorded dip in the road traffic accident (RTA) cases due to restricted movement of vehicles, the rest of the months regained the normal numbers, revealed the analysis of cases by EMRI 108 emergency services. The statistics for the four major cities of Gujarat revealed that Surat recorded the sharpest drop of 46.7% in the road traffic accident emergency calls - recording reduction from 6,633 in 2019 to 3,538 in 2020. Rajkot recorded 17% drop (from 3,694 to 3,065), followed by 16.6% in Ahmedabad (14,088 to 11,750) and 9.5% in Vadodara (4,205 to 3,806). Cumulatively, the cities accounted for 21% of the RTAs in 2020, which was a slight drop from 21.5% in 2019. Emergency Management and Research Institute (EMRI) officials said that the data can be interpreted in the light of the fact that the majority of the calls were from the state or national highways. “Even after the first phase of lockdown was lifted, the number of vehicles did not increase significantly till August-September. It could be one of the factors for the lower number of emergencies attended,” said a senior official. After pregnancy-related calls and Covid-19 related calls, road accidents accounted for the third-highest number of calls made to EMRI 108 in 2020. Analysis of the fatality by Ahmedabad police’s traffic branch had revealed that 309 persons had lost lives on the city roads in 2020 compared to 351 in 2019. The accident cases on police record got reduced from 1,364 in 2019 to 978 in 2020. “While the Covid-19 pandemic indirectly saved a few lives, the need of the hour is to sustain good practices and improve road infrastructure along with emergency services,” said a city-based road safety expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/22-decrease-in-road-accidents-in-gujarat/articleshow/80447723.cms||Parth Shastri
January 25, 2021||Vadodara||22% decrease in road accidents in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: While the months of lockdown recorded dip in the road traffic accident (RTA) cases due to restricted movement of vehicles, the rest of the months regained the normal numbers, revealed the analysis of cases by EMRI 108 emergency services. The statistics for the four major cities of Gujarat revealed that Surat recorded the sharpest drop of 46.7% in the road traffic accident emergency calls - recording reduction from 6,633 in 2019 to 3,538 in 2020. Rajkot recorded 17% drop (from 3,694 to 3,065), followed by 16.6% in Ahmedabad (14,088 to 11,750) and 9.5% in Vadodara (4,205 to 3,806). Cumulatively, the cities accounted for 21% of the RTAs in 2020, which was a slight drop from 21.5% in 2019. Emergency Management and Research Institute (EMRI) officials said that the data can be interpreted in the light of the fact that the majority of the calls were from the state or national highways. “Even after the first phase of lockdown was lifted, the number of vehicles did not increase significantly till August-September. It could be one of the factors for the lower number of emergencies attended,” said a senior official. After pregnancy-related calls and Covid-19 related calls, road accidents accounted for the third-highest number of calls made to EMRI 108 in 2020. Analysis of the fatality by Ahmedabad police’s traffic branch had revealed that 309 persons had lost lives on the city roads in 2020 compared to 351 in 2019. The accident cases on police record got reduced from 1,364 in 2019 to 978 in 2020. “While the Covid-19 pandemic indirectly saved a few lives, the need of the hour is to sustain good practices and improve road infrastructure along with emergency services,” said a city-based road safety expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/22-decrease-in-road-accidents-in-gujarat/articleshow/80447721.cms||Parth Shastri
January 25, 2021||Kolhapur||Hike petrol price to Rs 100/litre on Republic Day, youth Congress to PM||KOLHAPUR: The city unit of Youth Congress has started an online petition, requesting Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hike the price of petrol to Rs 100 per litre on Republic Day. The satirical petition states that the citizens of India want to see the petrol price touch the Rs 100-mark and not miss the once in a lifetime opportunity. “Fans of Sachin Tendulkar used to disheartened whenever he got out in the 90s and always wanted him to score a century. Same way we want to witness the petrol price reach the Rs 100-mark and the Republic Day is the appropriate occasion to witness the once in a life time opportunity. So, we request PM Modi to hike the duty and taxes a bit more for petrol to touch the Rs 100-mark,” states the petition. Petrol in the city was being sold for Rs 92.58 per litre, the highest ever. Since last month the youth wing of Congress is protesting every other day over petrol prices. The party workers claim that the central government is extracting money from the pockets of the citizens already reeling under financial strain caused by the Covid pandemic. Abhishek Mithari, youth Congress spokesperson, said, “The idea behind such petition is to ridicule the dumbness of the government over the sky-rocketting fuel prices. Several protests were carried out by our party last one month and we have lost hope. Therefore, we launched the satirical petition which is getting a good response. We want to see the petrol price to touch Rs 100 per litre.” Mithari said that price of petrol has become the talk of the town and senior citizens are comparing the prices with their age. “Prices have passed way above than the average age of the senior citizens in the city,” said Mithari. Other than petrol, the price of diesel is also going north. On Sunday, diesel was being sold for Rs 81.63 per litre. Ramesh Shirke, grain merchant, said, “The fuel prices affect the prices of all other commodities. Due to rising fuel costs, the price of the whole grains and pulses which we buy from other parts of the state and country has started increasing. The prices have increases by around 15% to 20% in last two weeks owing to increase in the transportation cost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/hike-petrol-price-to-rs-100/litre-on-r-day-youth-cong-to-pm/articleshow/80438455.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Rajkot||22% decrease in road accidents in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: While the months of lockdown recorded dip in the road traffic accident (RTA) cases due to restricted movement of vehicles, the rest of the months regained the normal numbers, revealed the analysis of cases by EMRI 108 emergency services. The statistics for the four major cities of Gujarat revealed that Surat recorded the sharpest drop of 46.7% in the road traffic accident emergency calls - recording reduction from 6,633 in 2019 to 3,538 in 2020. Rajkot recorded 17% drop (from 3,694 to 3,065), followed by 16.6% in Ahmedabad (14,088 to 11,750) and 9.5% in Vadodara (4,205 to 3,806). Cumulatively, the cities accounted for 21% of the RTAs in 2020, which was a slight drop from 21.5% in 2019. Emergency Management and Research Institute (EMRI) officials said that the data can be interpreted in the light of the fact that the majority of the calls were from the state or national highways. “Even after the first phase of lockdown was lifted, the number of vehicles did not increase significantly till August-September. It could be one of the factors for the lower number of emergencies attended,” said a senior official. After pregnancy-related calls and Covid-19 related calls, road accidents accounted for the third-highest number of calls made to EMRI 108 in 2020. Analysis of the fatality by Ahmedabad police’s traffic branch had revealed that 309 persons had lost lives on the city roads in 2020 compared to 351 in 2019. The accident cases on police record got reduced from 1,364 in 2019 to 978 in 2020. “While the Covid-19 pandemic indirectly saved a few lives, the need of the hour is to sustain good practices and improve road infrastructure along with emergency services,” said a city-based road safety expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/22-decrease-in-road-accidents-in-gujarat/articleshow/80447722.cms||Parth Shastri
January 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||22% decrease in road accidents in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: While the months of lockdown recorded dip in the road traffic accident (RTA) cases due to restricted movement of vehicles, the rest of the months regained the normal numbers, revealed the analysis of cases by EMRI 108 emergency services. The statistics for the four major cities of Gujarat revealed that Surat recorded the sharpest drop of 46.7% in the road traffic accident emergency calls - recording reduction from 6,633 in 2019 to 3,538 in 2020. Rajkot recorded 17% drop (from 3,694 to 3,065), followed by 16.6% in Ahmedabad (14,088 to 11,750) and 9.5% in Vadodara (4,205 to 3,806). Cumulatively, the cities accounted for 21% of the RTAs in 2020, which was a slight drop from 21.5% in 2019. Emergency Management and Research Institute (EMRI) officials said that the data can be interpreted in the light of the fact that the majority of the calls were from the state or national highways. “Even after the first phase of lockdown was lifted, the number of vehicles did not increase significantly till August-September. It could be one of the factors for the lower number of emergencies attended,” said a senior official. After pregnancy-related calls and Covid-19 related calls, road accidents accounted for the third-highest number of calls made to EMRI 108 in 2020. Analysis of the fatality by Ahmedabad police’s traffic branch had revealed that 309 persons had lost lives on the city roads in 2020 compared to 351 in 2019. The accident cases on police record got reduced from 1,364 in 2019 to 978 in 2020. “While the Covid-19 pandemic indirectly saved a few lives, the need of the hour is to sustain good practices and improve road infrastructure along with emergency services,” said a city-based road safety expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/22-decrease-in-road-accidents-in-gujarat/articleshow/80438467.cms||Parth Shastri
January 25, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 15,000 farmers arrive at Azad Maidan for mega protest rally today||MUMBAI: A sea of farmers walked for two-and-a-half hours towards Mumbai and then joined a vehicle march to arrive in the city on Sunday evening. Among them was Digambar Kamble (38) from Sangli who owns a 2.5 acre plot of land. “I am here because the price of maize has collapsed to Rs 8 per kg and I am facing heavy losses. We need the minimum support price,” said Kamble, who has a debt of Rs 90,000. Like him, an estimated 15,000 farmers affiliated to the farmers’ union Kisan Sabha have arrived for a major protest in the city on Monday to support the agitation against farm laws near Delhi. The protesters, mostly from Nashik, walked from Igatpuri to Kasara ghat and took the road to Azad Maidan, the site of a massive rally on Monday, which MVA leaders including Sharad Pawar, Balasaheb Thorat and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray are likely to address. 600 cops and drones to keep watch on farmers at Azad Maidan todayThe protesters plan to meet Maharashtra governor B S Koshyari on Monday afternoon to demand a repeal of the new farm laws. On Republic Day, the protesters will hoist the national flag at Azad Maidan. Elaborate bandobast arrangements have been made for Monday’s protests. “Extra support in the form of 100 officers and 500 constables have been provided, along with nine platoons of SRPF. Drones will keep watch,” said Mumbai police spokesperson Chaitanya S. “The farm laws were passed surreptitiously and they are anti-farmer. They should be repealed and the Centre should assure that the minimum support price will be upheld,” said Kisan Sabha leader Ashok Dhawle. Many of the protesters were landless labourers who survive on daily wages. The lockdown has been very hard on them. Suvarna Sangve from Palghar district earns just about Rs 200 a week working as a farm hand on rice fields. “The farmers were not able to afford labourers, so it was difficult for me to find work. If the farm laws are going to make things worse for farmers, how will we survive?” she asked. Farmers like Vinayak Patil from Palghar say that the new farm laws will weaken large APMC markets and leave the farmers at the mercy of private traders. “Private traders are buying paddy from us at Rs 12-14 per kg. The paddy is processed at a rice mill and then sold back at Rs 50-60 per kg. How do we gain?” asked Patil. In 2018, the Kisan Sabha had organized a long march with farmers walking the distance between Nasik and Mumbai to press for the implementation of the state’s farm loan waiver. (With inputs from Mateen Hafeez)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/15000-farmers-arrive-in-city-for-mega-protest-rally-today/articleshow/80440363.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
January 25, 2021||Kolhapur||Active Covid cases in Kolhapur district drop to 65||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur district registered nine fresh coronavirus cases along with one death on Sunday. The district also witnessed 21 patients getting discharged from various facilities. With this, the number of active patients in the district stands at 65. The total number of Covid cases in the district has reached 49,849, of which, 1,717 have succumbed to the contagion while 48,067 have been cured. Sangli district, on the other hand, reported 14 fresh cases on Sunday. At present, there are 143 active cases in Sangli district. So far, the district has reported 48,017 cases, of which 1,746 have succumbed to the infection while 46,128 have recovered. In addition, Satara district reported 66 fresh cases on Sunday. Currently, the district has 743 active patients and so far, 1,811 patients have succumbed to Covid-19. The district has reported 56,012 cases since the start of the pandemic. Besides Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara, Solapur city, too, identified new cases. The city reported 11 cases and one death while the rural district reported 28 cases along with one casualty. The number of active cases in the city has increased to 316 while that in the rural district has declined to 380. The total number of cases in city has reached 11,643 while that of rural district has swelled to 39,289. Kolhapur Kolhapur district on Sunday reported 9 fresh cases of Covid and one death. The number of active patients in the district has decreased to 65. On Sunday, 21 patients were discharged. The total number of Covid cases in the district has reached to 49,849 out of which 1,717 have succumbed to infection while 48,067 have been cured.  Sangli Sangli district reported 14 fresh cases of Covid. Also, the district reported no death on Sunday. The district has declined further to 143 active patients. So far district has reported 48,017 cases out of which 1,746 have succumbed to infection while 46,128 have been cured. Satara Satara district reported 66 fresh cases of Covid and no deaths on Sunday. Currently the district has 743 active patients and so far 1,811 patients have succumbed to infection. So far district has reported 56,012 cases of Covid since the start of the pandemic. Solapur Solapur city reported 11 cases and one death while rural district reported 28 cases and 1 death. The active cases in the city have increased to 316 while in rural district active cases has declined to 380. The total number of cases in city has reached to 11,643 while in rural district to 39,289. So far 628 patients from city have succumbed to infection and 1,154 from rural district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/active-cases-in-kolhapur-district-drop-to-65/articleshow/80438475.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Honours for 2 GujROSA members||Ahmedabad: City-based road safety expert Amit Khatri and Rajkot-based former RTO officer Jayesh Shah, were conferred ‘Good Samaritan Award’ by the ministry of road transport & highways (MoRTH).Both Khatri and Shah – the only awardees from Gujarat – are part of the recently-constituted Gujarat State Road Safety Authority (GujROSA). The duo got honours from Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari, and Union defence minister Rajnath Singh in New Delhi on January 18 — the first day of Road Safety Month. Talking to TOI, Khatri said that it’s a matter of pride that the work for road safety in the state is getting recognition at the national level. Shah said that the 4Es of road safety – Education, Engineering, Enforcement and Environment – have got improved. “But we also face challenges in the form of rise in vehicular population,” said Shah, who has earlier won laurels to save lives of road accident victims. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/honours-for-2-gujrosa-members/articleshow/80438477.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Jaipur||Former BJP minister’s son hurt in attack by assailants in Behror||Alwar/Jaipur: Former BJP minister’s son Mohit Yadav has been injured in an attack by unidentified assailants at Berapur ka Dhani, Behror on Sunday. Yadav sustained minor injuries in the incident and is recovering in Behror hospital.He is the son of former BJP MLA Jaswant Singh who served as a cabinet minister under the previous Raje government. Yadav had contested the assembly election from Behror in 2018, but lost to the Independent candidate Baljeet Yadav.The incident has outraged the BJP leaders in the city who have been staging a sit-in Behror police station. Yadav along with Alwar MP Baba Balak Nath, Alwar MLA Sanjay Sharma, former minister Hem Singh Bhadana, former MLA Ramhet Yadav, Jai Ram Jatav along with supporters.The battery of BJP leaders has been staging sit-in till the last report came in demanding the arrest of independent MLA Baljeet Yadav. “Baljeet is behind the attack on my son. He enjoys support from the ruling party since he is supporting the government. The police and local administration are acting under his influence and till he and his aides will be arrested we will not move from here,” said Yadav.Police have beefed up around the police station to avert any untoward incident. Police said that Mohit was heading to Bheror from Alwar in his SUV to attend the funeral in some village. The FIR says that a group of 12-14 persons holding bamboo and iron batons overtake Mohit’s car and attacked it incessantly. In the attack, the widow of cars was broken. “They were raisings slogans ‘Baljeet Zindabad’ (Long live Baljeet) and threatened him that you are raising corruption charges against the MLA now you have to suffer followed by indiscriminately hitting batons on car and Mohit. They came loaded in two cars and followed Mohit in a planned attack,” reads the FIR.Behror DSP Deshraj Gujjar says that a massive manhunt operation has been launched to nab the culprits. “The police have formed several teams to arrest the accused,” said Gujjar. Meanwhile, Baljeet Yadav in his defence says that Mohit SUV met with an accident followed by a road rage between the two parties.“BJP is trying to give political colour to road accident incident. They are trying to frame me in the false cases in order to get the political mileage out of it,” said Gujjar.State BJP president Satish poonia said, the attack on Mohit Yadav yet again exposed the poor law and order situation in the state. I have spoken to the senior police officials raising my concern on the alarming situation. A delegation of BJP leaders will leave for Alwar to review the situation. Former CM Vasundhara Raje said the attack on the former cabinet minister Jaswant Yadav’s son Mohit Yadav is unfortunate and sad. It shows that state of affairs in the state that those holding opposite political views are being targeted in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/former-bjp-ministers-son-hurt-in-attack-by-assailants-in-behror/articleshow/80439578.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Aurangabad||2-year industrial training made equivalent to Class XII||AURANGABAD: The two-year course at the Industrial Training Institute ( ITI) in the state would be treated as an equivalent to passing Class XII if the candidates from the identified trades further clear the examination in two language subjects. Also, candidates who may have failed Class X exams, but complete the ITI course, would be considered equivalent to Class X pass out. The Directorate of Vocational Education and Training (DVET) has made a formal resolve to this effect with necessary reforms getting introduced from the academic year 2021-22. “The necessary equivalence will be granted to the ITI pass outs by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) after they clear two language subject exams,” the latest admission prospectus for ITI admissions said, quoting DVET director Deependra Singh Kushwah. Principal of Government ITI (Aurangabad) Abhijit Alte said that the institutes willing to opt for the benefits of the equivalence scheme need to enrol with the MSBSHSE. “We have completed the necessary formalities with the MSBSHSE in order to offer the equivalence scheme to five trades. In the past, students completing the two-year ITI course were struggling to get into mainstream education. Now, they can save two precious years and take admission into degree courses after getting necessary equivalence,” he said. Alte said the reform would also result in increased number of takers for the ITI course in days to come. “The ITI course is already popular among a section of students and parents, and it will attract more admissions in the future by virtue of the equivalence to Classes X and XII,” he said. As per official data, the state has government-run ITIs in 355 taluka places having a combined intake capacity of around 1 lakh seats. In addition, the state has nearly 538 private ITIs that have collective intake capacity of around 50,000 seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-year-industrial-training-made-equivalent-to-cl-xii/articleshow/80436996.cms||---
January 25, 2021||India||‘Seva kendras’ to assist the ‘stateless’ come up in Assam||KOLKATA/GUWAHATI:: As farmers exercise their constitutional right to protest in New Delhi, the locality of Kalgachia in the minoritydominated district of Barpeta in lower Assam will also engage with the Constitution, albeit in a different way. This Republic Day, Kalgachia, 120km from Guwahati, will get Assam’s fourth Samvidhaan Seva Kendra (SSK) or Constitution centre. A year and a half since the NRC exercise and months before the assembly election, a grassroots movement in the state is making the Constitution accessible to those that need it most — the poor and marginalised Muslims of Bengali-origin (Miyas), caught in Assam’s citizenship tangle. Since December 2020, community members, local groups, and lawyers have established SSKs in three districts. The first came up in Barpeta’s TND Bazaar last year; the next two in Sontoli (Kamrup) and Jorhat in January. Working out of unassuming buildings, the SSKs give pride of place to Assamese translations of the Preamble. The name is reminiscent of the Aadhaar seva kendra, but there the similarity ends. The SSKs double up as legal aid centres and community spaces for people marked “doubtful (D)” voters, “suspected foreigners”, or “declared foreigners” in detention centres. “Our job is to facilitate legal aid for people asked to prove their citizenship. We want to familiarise the community with the Constitution and the rights it guarantees,” Aman Wadud, a human rights lawyer who started the initiative, said. Jorhat in upper Assam — the hub of the anti-CAA protests — also has an SSK, inaugurated on January 20. “During my social work, I have seen the most poor get marked ‘D’ voters. If the authorities visit them, they flee as they are unaware of the rights provided by the Constitution. The SSK will act like a hospital emergency ward they can approach,” Toufiqul Hussain, 58, an indigenous Muslim resident of Jorhat, said of the SSK that runs out of a 149-year-old mosque.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/seva-kendras-to-assist-the-stateless-come-up-in-assam/articleshow/80440831.cms||Amava Bhattacharya
January 25, 2021||Kolkata||Housing complexes come forward to rebuild bonding||Kolkata: In an attempt to rebuild bonding among neighbours and friends, which has been hit by the Covid-induced social distancing protocols, a group of housing complexes on southern Bypass had come together to organise a inter-complex sports carnival — the first of its kind in this part of the city. Hoping that 2021 would be able to wipe out the premonitions associated with last year, 14 housing complexes came together to form a social service group — the Spirit of Southern Bypass (SSB) — and organized the carnival with representations from all complexes that culminated on Sunday after a month-long weekend revelry. “The year 2020 has been eventful in many ways. Late 2020, one fine evening, over a cup of tea, the Spirit of Southern Bypass (SSB) was formed primarily with the intention of coming together for common causes and establishing camaraderie. A beginning was made on December 20 with the Inter Complex Sports Carnival 2020-2021. The past one month has seen them compete against each other but their bonding has grown from strength to strength,” said Shirsendu Sengupta, a resident of Sugam Sabuj Complex near Narendrapur and the convenor of SSB. Residents from 14 complexes — Atri Green Enclave, Atri Green Valley, Deeshari Megacity, Nilachal Complex, Pacific Dale, Rajwada Rosewood, Tirupati Paradise, Sherwood Estates, Skyline Lakeview, Southwinds, Sucasa Unique, Sugam Park, Sugam Sabuj and White Meadows — participated in the month long carnival competing against each other over cricket, badminton (open doubles, ladies doubles, mixed doubles and veteran doubles), table tennis (open, ladies and veterans) and carrom (open, ladies and veterans). During the prize distribution ceremony, the group also honoured the efforts of “Mahila Seva Samity” an organization for the Welfare of Women, which has been providing relief and rehabilitation to women and children since 1947. “In the coming days, SSB will be devoting their spare time to philanthropic activities, fighting for their rights and getting services of the authorities to all,” said Sengupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/housing-complexes-come-forward-to-rebuild-bonding/articleshow/80438486.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Aurangabad||Forest department confiscates 300kg zeolite mined from Gautala-Autramghat||AURANGABAD: The forest department on Saturday evening busted a gang involved in smuggling of precious zeolite group of minerals dug from the Gautala-Autramghat wildlife sanctuary. Divisional forest officer Vijay Satpute said around 300 kg of natrolite, apophyllite and chabazite, which fall in the category of zeolite minerals, along with 6.4kg of gum of dhamoda tree and 5.1kg of white musli were confiscated during the crackdown. “The action was carried out after we received information from the locals. The forest riches were recovered during a raid conducted at Garada village in Kannad taluka of Aurangabad district. The zeolite group of minerals are attractive and sold at high price as decorative items in the domestic and international market,” he said. The forest department has registered an offence against Kale Khan Sardar Khan, Sharif Sardar Khan Pathan, Kalu Khan Pathan and Mehboob Khan Pathan , all residents of Garada village, under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 and Indian Forest Act, 1927 among other laws in connection with the smuggling of forest reserves. “The accused managed to flee from the village before we raided their homes. The combing operation was carried out in different parts of the wildlife sanctuary with the help of forest authorities from Jalgaon and Dhule district, but all four of them could not be located till Sunday evening,” Satpute said. Stating that Garada village is hub for smugglers, he said tight vigil would be kept in future in order to keep check on miscreants. “The forest department runs a toll-free helpline number 1926 on which information or complaints about any illegal activities in the forest department can be shared. We appeal to the citizens to use this number for exposing any wrongdoings in the forest areas,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/forest-department-confiscates-300kg-zeolite-mined-from-gautala-autramghat/articleshow/80437008.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Kolhapur||Mother, son commit suicide in Kolhapur's Gadhinglaj||KOLHAPUR: A 44-year-old woman and her 18-year-old son were found dead at their house in Gadhinglaj town of Kolhapur district on Saturday. The incident came to light when the deceased’s neighbours found them hanging to the ceiling fan of different rooms. According to local police, the deceased — Vaishali Kothawale and her son Avadhut — were residing in the Ghali Colony area of the town. Vaishali’s husband Anand works as village secretary and was on duty when the incident happened. Assistant inspector of Gadhinglaj police station Sunil Haragude said, “We suspect it to be a suicide case. According to our investigation, the woman committed suicide on the upper floor first. Her son could not withstand the scene he witnessed after he entered the room on the upper floor and then he hanged himself. We have inferred this logic from the decomposition of the bodies.” As per Anand Kothawale’s version, Vaishali often pressed him to demand his share of property from his brother and often taunted him about it. Police constable Sambhaji Patil said, “A few days ago, Anand registered a complaint against Vaishali for harassing him and their son Avadhut. After their argument on the day of the incident, Anand left for work saying that he will never return home. She (Vaishali) might have gone into depression and took the extreme step. We are now waiting for post mortem reports.” Kolhapur: A 44-year-old woman and her 18-year-old son were found dead at their house in Gadhinglaj town of Kolhapur district on Saturday. The incident came to light when the deceased’s neighbours found them hanging to the ceiling fan of different rooms. According to local police, the deceased — Vaishali Kothawale and her son Avadhut — were residing in the Ghali Colony area of the town. Vaishali’s husband Anand works as village secretary and was on duty when the incident happened. Assistant inspector of Gadhinglaj police station Sunil Haragude said, “We suspect it to be a suicide case. According to our investigation, the woman committed suicide on the upper floor first. Her son could not withstand the scene he witnessed after he entered the room on the upper floor and then he hanged himself. We have inferred this logic from the decomposition of the bodies.” As per Anand Kothawale’s version, Vaishali often pressed him to demand his share of property from his brother and often taunted him about it. Police constable Sambhaji Patil said, “A few days ago, Anand registered a complaint against Vaishali for harassing him and their son Avadhut. After their argument on the day of the incident, Anand left for work saying that he will never return home. She (Vaishali) might have gone into depression and took the extreme step. We are now waiting for post mortem reports.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/mother-son-commit-suicide-in-gadhinglaj/articleshow/80438480.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Kolhapur||Rajarampuri, nearby localities to face water cut today||KOLHAPUR: Some parts of Kolhapur city, including Rajarampuri and nearby localities, will face water cuts on Monday owing to the pipeline repair work undertaken by the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC). As part of repair works, a connection will be drawn from the main pipeline to the new high-rise tank built in the locality. The work was started on Sunday evening and will continue on Monday. Areas including Rajarampuri, Yadavnagar, the Shahu Mill area, Panjarpol, Shivaji Udyamnagar and Shashtrinagar will face water cuts. Usually, these localities receive water at low pressure. Water supply superintendent Narayan Bhosale said that the supply will improve if the pipeline is repaired. Water supply will resume by Monday evening, said Bhosale. Kolhapur: Some parts of Kolhapur city, mainly Rajarampuri and nearby localities are going to face water cuts on Monday. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation is going to undertake the works to repair a main pipeline and to joint a connection to the new high rise tank built in the locality. The works has been undertaken from Sunday evening onwards and during the works no supply of water will take place through the pipeline system. The areas which will face water cuts are- one to five lanes of Rajarampuri, Yadavnagar, Shahu Mill area, Panjarpol, Shivaji Udyamnagar and Shashtrinagar. The water supply to these localities is normally at low pressure. Narayan Bhosale, water supply superintendent said that the supply will improve if the pipeline is repaired and the supply is started from the high rise tank. Water supply will resume by Monday evening said Bhosale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/rajarampuri-nearby-localities-to-face-water-cut-today/articleshow/80438487.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Jaipur||Mercury heads southwards in Raj, fog & mist hit traffic||Jaipur: Mercury took a dip on Sunday as majority of the places across the state witnessed a revival of shivering cold conditions. Also, fog and mist during early morning hours affected road and rail traffic. Bhilwara remained coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of 6°C was recorded. Attributing the dip in mercury to the active northerly winds and upper air cyclonic circulation, Jaipur Met office stated that mercury will further dip in the state in the next couple of days. People in Jaipur woke up to a chilly morning as a minimum temperature of 9.7°C was recorded in the city. It was followed by a lesser warm afternoon amidst chilly winds as the maximum temperature of 22.2°C was recorded. Fog and mist also affected vehicular traffic as vehicles on the highways connecting Jaipur to Agra, Jaipur to Churu and Jaipur to Ajmer were moving at a slower pace due to poor visibility. Likewise, at least five early morning Jaipur-bound trains arrived late due to fog and mist in the neighbouring states including Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. With the revival of cold wave, roads wore an empty look especially during early morning and late evening hours, as people preferred to confine themselves to their homes on Sunday. Heavy fog and mist were especially seen in some districts like Sriganganagar, Sikar, Churu and Hanumangarh. “Till 10am, the area was covered with fog and visibility was as low as 100 metres,” said an officer with the agriculture department in Sriganganagar. Bhilwara was followed by Sriganganagar where a minimum temperature of 6.1°C was recorded, Churu and Bikaner 6.8°C each, Pilani 6.9°C, Sikar 7.0°C, Jaisalmer 8.0°C, Alwar 8.2°C, Jodhpur 8.3°C, Ajmer 9.3°C, Barmer 10.0°C, Udaipur 11.0°C and a minimum temperature of 12.7°C was recorded in Kota. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office stated that fog and mist will prevail in western Rajasthan while cold wave conditions will further aggravate in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mercury-heads-southwards-in-raj-fog-mist-hit-traffic/articleshow/80439584.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Jaipur||‘Form panel to deal with power theft complaints’||Jaipur: Expressing concern over the electrical accidents in Achrol and Jalore, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has instructed chief secretary Niranjan Arya to prepare a plan to ensure safety measures so that such accidents are prevented in future. He also directed to constitute a committee under the chairmanship of energy minister B D Kalla to deal with VCR (Vigilance Checking Report)-related complaints with regard to power theft.He said that this committee must submit its report on issues related to action taken on complaints pertaining to vigilance inquiry and procedure adopted for disposal of vigilance inquiry cases. Gehlot has also instructed the energy department that the consumers who want to submit an objection to the VCR-related recovery amount or get a review done of the recovery amount, a hearing before the committee must be allowed, on the submission of the application, after depositing 25 percent of the amount which is deposited during the hearing at the superintendent engineer’s office at the district level. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/form-panel-to-deal-with-power-theft-complaints/articleshow/80439581.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Multiple swabs negative, wards set up for HRCT positive||NAGPUR: City hospitals authorized to treat Covid patients are facing a new problem. They are receiving many patients who test negative in multiple RT-PCR tests despite showing all Covid-like symptoms. Fearing spread of infection among other patients and staff, the private hospitals have reserved separate wards for such suspected Covid patients, but are treating them as per Covid protocol. As the gold standard RT-PCR is negative — ruling out admission in a DCH — some hospitals are undertaking high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) scans to confirm them as Covid patients. This also has a direct impact on the daily reporting of cases, as Nagpur district’s Covid-19 tally drastically came down on Thursday and Friday. On December 2, the state government had issued a resolution asking hospitals and diagnostic centres to report all such cases where the HRCT scan is positive to civic bodies. Government medical college and hospital (GMCH) medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande said patients testing negative for Covid-19 are kept in the SARI (severe acute respiratory illness) ward and treated as suspected Covid patients. “This is a transition ward. If repeat testing confirms Covid, they move to DCH or stay back,” he said. However, private hospitals don’t have SARI wards and the trend has forced them to start new ones. Orange City Hospital & Research Institute (OCHRI) director Dr Anup Marar said some patients were consistently getting negative reports in more than two RT-PCR tests. “We have set up a separate ward as they can’t be kept with non-Covid patients due to risk of infection; nor can they be shifted to DCHs without a positive report,” he said. Kingsway Hospital’s head of critical care department Dr Ranjan Barokar said they too have an isolated area to treat and monitor such patients for 5-6 days. “We seek consent from the family. If it agrees, we treat them as Covid patients in isolation. Those with negative RT-PCR later develop antibodies. This retrospectively confirms that they were Covid-infected,” he said. Seven Star Hospital’s Covid team in-charge Dr Mohan Nerker said around 30% patients were RT-PCR negative with shadows (patches on the lung that show up on the HR-CT scan). He warned that HR-CT changes can’t be taken as confirmed Covid infection. “It can mimic other virus like H1N1 or any other influenza,” Nerker explained. Dr Hema Dhoble, head of Covid Unit at Suretech Hospital, Jamtha, said the Nagpur Municipal Corporation had asked all private hospitals to keep such patients in separate wards. “We are also reporting how many such patients are there at a given time. Private hospitals admitting Covid patients have separate wards which are not for Covid or non-Covid,” she said. Dr Dhoble said patients having all the symptoms like cold, cough, fever and breathlessness were seen before too. “Now this is happening frequently, where you have CT scan changes but RT-PCR negative. But some are also deliberately not getting RT-PCR test done and staying back at home. People know that loss of taste and smell are indications of Covid, but sometimes it becomes difficult for them to get a confirmed negative report, necessary to resume duties,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/multiple-swabs-ve-wards-set-up-for-hrct-positive/articleshow/80438497.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 25, 2021||Jaipur||Man fails to crack exam, ends life||Jaipur: A 26-year-old man, who went missing from ward no. 15 at Srimadhopur village of Sikar district, was found dead in a well, just 300 metres away from his house, late on Saturday evening. The preliminary investigation suggested that he was upset as he could not crack the exam for school lecturer he had appeared for last year and was short of .43 marks. According to the police, the deceased, identified as Prem Meena, went missing from his home on January 16. “He was upset since quite some days as he could not crack the exam for school lecturer he had appeared for last year. He was missing from his house and a missing person’s report was lodged at the Shrimadhopur police station,” said a senior police officer on Sunday. While the family was visiting their relatives and calling up friends and others known to the missing man, some locals told them about a body being spotted in a well, which is situated 300 metres away from the house where Prem Meena used to live. A team of senior police officers and divers rushed to the spot. “The body was retrieved and he was identified by his father Ramswaroop Meena,” said an officer. Some locals and policemen went inside the well with the help of ropes to retrieve the body on Saturday evening. Family members said that Prem was good at studies. “He had appeared for the grade-one exam for lecturers, which is for class XI to XII. He was depressed since he could not crack the exam and was short of .43 marks when the results were declared some months ago. On January 15, he left home and also left behind his mobile phone. We were not aware that he would take this kind of a step,” said the father of the deceased. Police stated that the body was at least seven days old and was decomposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-fails-to-crack-exam-ends-life/articleshow/80439586.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Jaipur||Pvt hosps to play bigger role in drive, assures govt||Jaipur: Expressing concern over not being informed about their turn for Covid-19 vaccination, private hospitals and nursing homes raised the issue with the health department on Sunday. Health department assured them that more vaccination sites in the city will come up to cover majority of the private hospitals in Jaipur. The Covid vaccination drive was launched on January 16 but majority of the private hospitals are feeling neglected. The government is targeting to complete vaccination of first dose by January 31 but a majority of the private hospitals claimed that they have not received any message about their vaccination. In a meeting held at Jaipur Medical Association (JMA) building at SMS Hospital with health department officials, the private hospitals and nursing homes society said that 90% of the private hospitals and nursing homes in the city have not been included in the ongoing Covid vaccination drive. “We have a lot of queries, apprehensions and concerns over the ongoing Covid vaccination drive. The vaccination drive is continuing at government hospitals and corporate hospitals but private hospitals and nursing homes have not received any information about the drive. The staff of these hospitals are feeling slightly neglected as they did not get any message about Covid vaccination. We informed about it to the health department officials. At the meeting with them, our doubts and apprehensions have been cleared,” said Dr Vijay Kapoor, secretary, PHNHS. National health mission (NHM) MD (state) Naresh Thakral and chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I) Dr Narrottam Sharma were present in the meeting. The health department has assured private hospitals and nursing homes that soon more vaccination sites will come up in the city. “We have already increased the number of sites and currently we have 35 sites in Jaipur and we will add another 30 sites from tomorrow. The sites will be developed in a way that the staff of multiple nearby hospitals will be benefited from a single site,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, CMHO Jaipur-I.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pvt-hosps-to-play-bigger-role-in-drive-assures-govt/articleshow/80439587.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal plans to vaccinate two lakh health workers in four days to meet target||KOLKATA: The state is planning to vaccinate over two lakh health workers over four days this week to reach their target of vaccinating more than three lakh people by the end of January. Bengal targets to vaccinate 5.9 lakh healthcare workers with the first Covishield dose by the second week of February. Putting behind its early week glitches, Bengal has achieved a vaccination turnout of 72.3%. From Monday, the state targets to roll out the vaccination programme in at least 500 sites. The medical colleges in Kolkata are set to double their vaccination sites and two private hospitals, Belle Vue Clinic and AMRI Mukundapur, are joining the list of eight private facilities that have been conducting Covid vaccinations since January 16. In all private hospitals, centres will have a target of 100 shots a day, each will receive a list of 200 names to help them substitute those who don’t turn up. So far, some centres have managed to achieve their targets while others have fallen short repeatedly. Peerless Hospital, Medica Superspecialty, AMRI Dhakuria, RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS), Woodlands Hospital, INK, Tata Medical Centre and AMRI Salt will be conducting vaccinations on Monday. “We had an inspection last week and will be joining the exercise. The target is a stiff one and we have kept our own employees ready to step in if those on the list don’t turn up,” said Belle Vue Clinic CEO P Tondon. Private hospitals had to fall back on their own employees to meet their vaccination target, even though 25%-35% of those on the Co-Win list failed to turn up. Four out of six hospitals that conducted vaccinations had to substitute the absentees with their own health workers. Several hospitals are planning to step up counselling to convince recipients. At AMRI Hospitals that flagged off inoculation at its Salt Lake unit on Friday, 241 recipients received the shot at its two centres. While the Dhakuria unit vaccinated 110 health workers, the Salt Lake centre vaccinated 131 other healthcare workers. The latter had a target of 200 recipients. Both, however, had a 20%-25% deficit that had to be made up by AMRI employees. “Many of the Co-Win list recipients didn’t turn up. We had kept our own list ready and our staff stepped in to maintain the target,” said AMRI CEO, Rupak Barua. IPGMER (SSKM Hospital) will operate four sites — three on its premises and one at the Shambhunath Pandit Hospital. On Friday, the hospital had surpassed its target inoculating 320 HCWs against a target of 300. We have decided to raise the number of sites to four on Monday,” said Raghunath Misra, medical superintendent and vice principal (MSVP) at IPGMER. Medical College Hospital Kolkata (MCHK) MSVP Indranil Biswas said vaccination sites at the hospital will be doubled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-plans-to-vaccinate-2l-health-workers-in-4-days-to-meet-target/articleshow/80438541.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Aurangabad||Cigarette packs sans statutory warning seized in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: City Chowk police have seized a huge stock of cigarettes that did not carry the statutory health warning, made mandatory by the ministry of health and family welfare. A 46-year-old man, Siraj Ahmed Niyaz Ahmed Kazi, a resident of Devdi Bazzar, has been booked by the police for hoarding the stock of cigarettes that have been valued over Rs 2 lakh in the retail market. The police have registered an offence against Kazi under the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act, 200, along with other laws, a press release said. “The cigarettes seized were of different brands and violated the rules and regulations governing the labelling of tobacco products that mandates display of statutory health warning on the packets,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cigarette-packs-sans-statutory-warning-seized/articleshow/80437015.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru sees 21% dip in road deaths in 2020||BENGALURU: The number of people who died in road accidents in the city has reduced by more than 21% in 2020 compared to the previous year. Compared to 2018, the dip is 24%. A quarter of all the dead were pedestrians in 2020, compared to nearly 33% in 2019 and 2018, the latest data released on Sunday shows. Of the 657 people who died in 2020, only 77 were women, while over 150 were aged above 50 (24 above 70 years). Nearly 71% or 465 people who died had sustained head injuries. There were more than 100 graduates, including five doctors and 40 persons who had completed technical education, among the dead. While most of them (413) were Bengaluru residents, one foreigner and 106 people from other states also lost their lives in accidents. There were 116 from other districts of Karnataka. “Increased road-safety awareness, made possible by multiple training sessions and camps held by police, is among the reasons for the dip in accidents,” the traffic police department said. While conceding that the pandemic may also have helped reduce accidents, one officer said: “But there has been a consistent dip over the past few years and we would like to believe that our efforts, including an increased enforcement of traffic rules and effective night patrolling and better road and traffic infrastructure have also contributed.” Other than pedestrians, 332 people were two-wheeler riders and 80 of them were riding pillion. Nineteen deaths involved three-wheelers, nine heavy motor vehicles and 46 light motor vehicles. The number of traffic violations increased 6% to 83.8 lakh compared to 79.2 lakh in 2019. It was 82.7 lakh in 2018. The penalties levied for various violations increased by more than 11.6% in 2020 to touch Rs 100 crore (99.6), compared to Rs 89.1 crore in 2019. It was 81.2 crore in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-sees-26-dip-in-road-deaths-in-2020/articleshow/80438514.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Delhi||Corporation staff unpaid, BJP has hiked councillors’ funds by 600%: AAP||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj on Sunday said that North Delhi Municipal Corporation doesn’t have money to pay salaries, yet BJP has increased councillors’ funds by 600% — Rs 25 lakh to Rs 1.5 crore. Meanwhile, BJP said that increasing the councillors’ funds has been done in a transparent manner and was necessary to help councillors of both political parties get development work done swiftly on the ground. “Earlier I have exposed how the audit report of the BJP-led corporation noted that there are various projects, which happened with the councillors’ funds having questionable execution. Amid all these yesterday (Friday), the north corporation has passed their budget where they have increased the councillors’ funds,” Bharadwaj said. “It is unfortunate that in such a tough time the BJP-led corporation has not paid salaries for the last five months to the doctors, nurses, teachers, safai karamcharis and other officials.” He also said that the north civic body will let private players set up shops and nurseries in parks and BJP councillors will decide who will get permission for the purpose. He called the scheme of allowing shops and nurseries in parks a “scheme of loot”, since the owners will pay rent to the BJP-led corporation. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor, however, alleged that negative propaganda on corporations has become a daily game of AAP and instead of working for development of Delhi, the party’s leaders devote all their time on fudging propaganda against the civic bodies. “It will be politically better that AAP — instead of lying about the corporations — concentrates to improve its councillors’ performance or else it would face worst defeat in ensuing civic elections,” he said. “North corporation’s new schemes are fully transparent and meant for all councillors — be it of ruling party or opposition and there is no chance of corruption in them. Similarly the increase in councillors’ funds was necessary to help councillors get development work done swiftly el on recommendations of local residents and RWAs,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpn-staff-unpaid-bjp-has-hiked-councillors-funds-by-600-aap/articleshow/80438539.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Dehradun||Former MLA Narayan Pal, zila panchayat member booked in extortion case||RUDRAPUR: Local police on Sunday booked Narayan Pal, former MLA from Sitarganj and Congress leader, and Uttam Acharya, zila panchayat member, in an alleged extortion case. The arrest was made after a mining contractor filed a police complaint against the two saying that they demanded Rs 3 lakh from him in return for letting him work in the Nirmal Nagar area of Udham Singh Nagar. According to the complaint, Mohammad Riyaz, owner of MR Enterprises, was awarded a contract for river training and mining along Baigul river in Shaktifarm town on December 18, 2020. Thereafter, he procured the nod from the local administration to transport sand and other mining materials. However on January 20, 2021, Pal and Acharya, along with their henchmen, arrived at the site and forcibly stopped the mining work and asked for Rs 3 lakh in return for letting the work resume, added the complainant. Mohammad Salauddin, SHO of Sitarganj police station, “The complainant has alleged that he is suffering economic losses as his work has come to a halt. He has also alleged that he has been receiving death threats. A case has been registered against Narayan Pal, who has served as an MLA for two terms, and Acharya Tiwari under sections 384 (extortion) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. The investigation is underway.” Meanwhile, Pal has scrapped all allegations against him. “The case is politically motivated. I went to the site after villagers approached me complaining that the contractor is not working according to the conditions rendered by the administration for river training. They had alleged that the contractor is submerging large tracts of costly land and property upstream and not through the enmarked barrage. Riyaz has filed the complaint after being instigated by my opponents,” said Pal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/former-mla-narayan-pal-zila-panchayat-member-booked-in-extortion-case/articleshow/80437590.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Hinterland conundrum for parties||Ahmedabad: The politically charged environment of 2015 local body polls, courtesy the Patidar agitation — the Jail Bharo Andolan in April 2015 followed by the August ‘Kranti Rally’ later that year — is missing in 2021. This factor had dented the BJP’s performance in 2015. It had exposed the rift between the rural and lower-middle-class Patidars who tipped towards the Congress, and the urban middle-class in cities which continued to vote for the BJP in municipal corporations. A recap of 2015 reveals how in villages (district and taluka panchayats), there was a total role reversal — with the Congress winning 21 of the 31 district panchayats compared to the two it held in 2010. The BJP which held 24 seats in 2010 was reduced to a mere eight. The Congress made deep inroads into the Patidar pockets in Saurashtra, North and South Gujarat — including in Morbi, Jamnagar, Amreli, and Mehsana, which are traditionally BJP strongholds. Of the 230 taluka panchayats, the Congress grabbed 151 while the BJP’s tally fell from 162 to 77. Of the total 4,778 rural seats, the Congress won 2,102, while the BJP bagged 1,718. These include the 12% of the 371 local bodies including district panchayats, taluka panchayats and municipalities. Photo finish was recorded in many seats with independents or smaller parties eating away into the victory margins of the two major political parties. Back then it was the Patidar-backed Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Party which had caused a major dent. This time with new entrants like the AAP and the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) in the battle, there may be some damage. “We are completely prepared to contest the municipal corporation and other local body polls in Gujarat,” said Tuli Banerjee, state media convener, the AAP. “Many candidates do not have a political background, which is working in our favour. More than 80% of our candidates are educated and 38% are women. The AAP will contest all the local body polls.” Kishor Makwana, the state BJP spokesperson, said: “In municipalities and panchayats, the BJP will have an impressive showing, as people are happy with the schemes of the state and central government.” BJP sources said that with the AIMIM in the fray, it will be a loss for the Congress as the minority might find an alternative in the AIMIM. Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi said: “The BJP has failed to deliver and hence the people are very committed and will vote for the Congress.” Doshi added: “The presence of the AAP or the AIMIM will not make much impact on the Congress vote share and its seats.” Political analysts said that the 2015 election was organized soon after the Patidar agitation and hence in Patidar-dominated areas the BJP chose not to field its candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hinterland-conundrum-for-parties/articleshow/80438597.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 25, 2021||Jaipur||Ahead of R-Day, 40 held for suspicious activities||Jaipur: Ahead of Republic Day, Jaipur police (south) conducted intensive raids at Keeron Ki Dhani area under Mohana police station and have arrested 40 persons allegedly involved in suspicious activities. Police have also seized 50 vehicles from their possession. Harendra Mahawar, deputy commissioner of police (south) said that ahead of Republic Day, police have been keeping an eye on suspicious activities and people roaming around in the city. “We started raids during midnight and by Sunday morning, we arrested 50 persons who failed to give their proper identity or couldn’t verify their addresses properly. They are being interrogated,” he said. Police have also seized 50 vehicles from their possession. “As night curfew was lifted, we found that these people were roaming around in the area and they had no reply when asked about their proper IDs, addresses. Thus, they were all arrested for suspected activities,” said a senior police officer. All of them are aged between 21 to 36 years. “Out of the 50 vehicles, 35 have been seized for MV Act,” said an officer. Panic prevailed in the area when police started a marathon search and raid operation from Saturday night. “These persons are under interrogation to know their motives,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ahead-of-r-day-40-held-for-suspicious-activities/articleshow/80439585.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Hubballi||‘No qualms about learning Hindi, but Kannada should be given priority’: Prof Doddarange Gowda||For more than 40 years, Prof Doddarange Gowda, who was on Friday named president of the 86th Akhila Bharata Kannada Sahitya Sammelana to be held in Haveri from February 26 through 28, has through the numerous songs he has penned for Kannada films been the source of joy for crores of Kannadigas. Among the most versatile figures of contemporary Kannada literature, Prof Doddarange Gowda, in a freeweheeling chat with TOI, held forth on a broad range of issues from language and culture to the state of the nation. Excerpts: Where do you stand vis-à-vis imposition of Hindi?There is no question about our having to give highest priority to learning and promoting Kannada. It is our responsibility to preserve our mother tongue. But I have no objection to learning Hindi as a language, and we must be more favourable towards Hindi than towards English. In our state, it is English that is given most importance but our national language is not regarded as highly. Let me clarify that I am no spokesperson for Hindi. Do you think banning of books is a healthy development? The government recently dropped ‘Rama Mandira Yeke Beda’ by KS Bhagavan...Indians feel an emotional connect with Shri Rama, whom we call ‘Maryada Purushottama’. People will not easily accept mythical heroes being condemned. Recently, the Public Library Book Selection Committee, which I head, felt that the book ought to be on the shelves of public libraries. Although it is hurtful of people’s sentiments, we must have books that offer readers multiple perspectives. Does Doddarange Gowda lean Right? As a college student, I was a disciple of Marxist thought. Later, I severed ties with that ideology and chose one that appears good to me. If I followed the ideology of the Left, I realised I would never become a good person. I am not concerned about speculation on which way I lean. I am acquainted with both ideologies and have chosen one that is better.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/no-qualms-about-learning-hindi-but-kannada-should-be-given-priority/articleshow/80438517.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
January 25, 2021||Kozhikode||Kerala: Illegal tent tourism rampant on Wayanad’s forest fringes||KOZHIKODE: The incident, where a young woman camper was killed by a wild elephant at an illegal tent camping site in Wayanad, was a disaster waiting to happen given the fast mushrooming of unauthorized camping si tes near forest fringes and mountains without proper safety checks. The absence of proper guidelines and regulatory mechanism to oversee the functioning of such camps helped many unauthorized groups as they tried to cash in on the newfound fad by offering overnight camping at remote, vantage locations by even taking land on lease. According to officials, most camp service providers were functioning without securing permission or licences and promotions were done mostly on social media or online. Tourism authorities said there was a sharp increase in tent camping sites after the pandemic with visitors seeking cheap accommodation. Even when tourism activity was curbed by district authorities in areas like Kurumbalakotta amid the pandemic, unauthorized operators were offering camping in high-altitude destinations. “Many people set up camping operations in Meppadi and nearby areas like Thollayiram Kandi taking private land on lease recently. Inspecting such sites are difficult as they are temporary facilities. Camping is an adventure activity where safety is of paramount importance. Kerala Adventure Tourism Promotion Society (KATPS) had recently drawn up regulations for 30 activities, but tent camping was not in it,” said B Anand, secretary of district tourism promotion council. Environmentalists say camping tents are set up near elephant corridors and highly-vulnerable tribal colonies. They demanded registration of cases against plantation owner and those who offered illegal camping facility at Elimbilery where the woman was killed. “Rampant tent tourism has become a threat to the fragile landscape of Wayanad and poses risk to the very reputation of Wayanad as a destination considering safety pitfalls involved. We can see tent camping sites even in villages inside Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary and areas close to Ponkuzhi Kattunayikka tribal colony,” said president of Wayanad Prakrithi Samrakshana Society N Badusha. He added that camping sites and tree huts are set up illegally after converting plantation land and Section-5 land where tree felling is prohibited. Badusha said there were around 300 illegal homestays and resorts functioning in the foothills of Camel Hump mountain ranges comprising Chembra-Vellarimala and Elimbilery hills. Wayanad Tourism Organization, a group of resort owners and tourism stakeholders, said many individuals who are offering tent camping facilities were new entrants trying to make a quick buck. “Government should issue guidelines to regulate the functioning of camping and other outdoor stays. While many resorts are offering tent accommodations legally by following safety guidelines, tourists fall for the cheap rate offered by unauthorized operators,” said KR Vancheeshwaran, president of WTO. Forest officials said illegal camping in forest boundaries and use of lights, loud music and firecrackers were exacerbating the intense human- wildlife conflict experienced in the district. Meanwhile tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran said that the ‘Rain Forest’ tourism property, where the elephant attack occurred, did not take adequate precautions. He added that government will soon issue guidelines for tent and other outdoor stays and KATPS has been directed to take steps in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/illegal-tent-tourism-rampant-on-wayanads-forest-fringes/articleshow/80438511.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Dehradun||Air taxi service soon to connect Dehradun with Hisar, Chandigarh||DEHRADUN: The first small air taxi service connecting Dehradun's Jolly Grant airport with Hisar in Haryana and Chandigarh will be operational soon. According to senior officials of the Airport Authority of India (AAI), the service will be operated under the Centre’s Udan-RCS scheme. DK Gautam, director of Jolly Grant airport, told TOI, “The air taxi service was scheduled to start in the first fortnight of January, but could not be operational due to bad weather. The service is expected to start soon." Under the scheme, three people will be able to travel in a small aircraft and the fare for the service will be around Rs 2,500. The Centre has also urged the state government to waive VAT on air traffic fuel (ATF) for this service, according to the officials. The launch of the air taxi service under the Udan (Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik) scheme is in line with the government's objective of providing air connectivity between metros and Tier-2, Tier-3 cities across the country. The government is giving per seat subsidy to airliners in order to connect cities with smaller towns. The air taxi service will be operated by AirTaxi India which was granted the scheduled commuter airline permit by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) in December 2020. The airline reportedly has 26 routes in regional connectivity scheme (RCS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/air-taxi-service-soon-to-connect-doon-with-hisar-chandigarh/articleshow/80437597.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Nashik||Nashik: Autorickshaw driver held for murder||NASHIK: Mhasrool police have arrested an autorickshaw driver on Friday for the murder of a 23-year-old woman who was found dead at an open plot in the Pawar Mala area of Mhasrool on Tuesday night. The autorickshaw driver, Adesh alias Sagar Dilip Bhaskar, has been remanded in police custody till January 27. On Sunday, Mhasrool police detained one more person who had helped Bhaskar hide the weapon with which he had stabbed the deceased woman, Puja Akhade. Pandharinath Dhokane, senior inspector at Mhasrool police station, said, “We undertook the investigation as per the guidance of DCP (Zone 1) Vinod Tambe. When we started questioning people around the incident spot, a watchman in the area told us he had seen a woman and a man quarrelling with each other. Later, the rickshaw had sped away from the incident spot.” Taking cue from the same, Mhasrool police enquired from Puja’s family members if she was acquainted with any autorickshaw driver. Puja’s four-year-old son told the police that his mother used to take him in the auto of one Bhaskar and that the hood of the auto had a red border. With the same lead, the police found the owner of the autorickshaw who told them Bhskar used to operate his vehicle. The owner said Bhaskar had called him on his cellphone and told him that he had done something big and that the police would be after him. Bhaskar also told his owner to come to a certain spot to take the rickshaw. The police then tried to find Bhaskar’s location from his cellphone and traced him in Gujarat. Dhokane said while a team left for Gujarat, Bhaskar had returned to Nashik city on realizing that running away would do no good. He was arrested after police received a tip-off that he was in the city. During interrogation, Bhaskar confessed he stabbed Puja to death as she was continuously badgering him for Rs 80,000 he had borrowed from her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/autorickshaw-driver-held-for-murder/articleshow/80438533.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 25, 2021||Kolhapur||Study stamps rich bio-diversity of Shivaji University campus||KOLHAPUR: A biodiversity study carried out for over a year has cited the presence of 123 species of vertebrates, including 90 species of birds, 13 species of reptiles, 11 species of amphibians and nine species of mammals in the lush-green 850-acre campus of Shivaji University, Kolhapur (SUK). The study, which was approved under ‘Research Strengthening Scheme’ for university researchers, has stamped the biodiversity present in the university campus and revealed the types of species for the first time. The dense vegetation with several number of the water bodies and minimal human interference has let the animals thrive in the campus. The research also cites some rare species of animals such as the common trinket snake. It is a non-venomous slender snake found in dense vegetation. It feeds on rodents and has smooth and glossy scales, making it attractive. In addition, the campus has ten different sub-species of frogs which are rarely present in a single habitat in large numbers. Among them is a rare Indian balloon frog which forms a baggy shape if threatened. This species of frogs remain in underground pits near water bodies most time of the year. Lead researcher of the study and professor of Zoology department S M Gaikwad said, “Various types of habitations are present in the SUK campus — from dense vegetation to water bodies. It provides proper element of the food-chain of these species and therefore they thrive in such large numbers. We are continuing with the study for some more months and are hopeful that more species are sited in the 850 acre campus.” Around eight species of birds of prey have been found which mainly have crested serpentine eagle and boneless eagle. Also, five species of migratory birds have been spotted mainly-Northern Shoveller, Shelducks, Paradise Flycatcher etc. “The university has taken up task to plant local species of the plants in large numbers in the campus. It will help conserve as well as increase the bio-diversity of the campus,” said Gaikwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/study-stamps-rich-bio-diversity-of-shivaji-university-campus/articleshow/80438493.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||No Covid death in Ahmedabad for 1st time in 285 days||AHMEDABAD: The last time Ahmedabad had not reported a single death of a Covid-19 patient — according to the state health & family welfare department — it was April 14. That day, the total positive cases were 650 and the deaths were 28. In the 285 days that followed, Ahmedabad not only reported the highest mortality among the districts, but also became one of the national hotspots of the pandemic. Thus, it was a big relief for healthcare workers on Sunday when the only death of a Covid-19 patient recorded in 24 hours was from Mahisagar. To put the fact in perspective, Gujarat in 2021 has recorded 70 deaths due to the pandemic, of which 38, or 54%, were recorded from Ahmedabad city alone. Ahmedabad district has so far recorded 2,287 deaths, which account for 52% of the state’s total Covid-19 mortality. At 3.8 deaths per 100 positive cases, the district also has more than double the mortality rate compared to Gujarat’s 1.7%. The pandemic statistics on Sunday also revealed the trend of ever-rising share of the eight municipal corporations in the daily tally. On Sunday, the share was 69.3%; the figure was 56% on December 24. “It means that the concentration of the positive cases is in the eight centres — specifically the four major cities of Gujarat,” said a city-based epidemiologist. “On Sunday, six districts did not record any case, whereas Kutch (10) was the only district except Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot to record 10 or more cases.” Gujarat also achieved another landmark on Sunday with the discharge of 2.5 lakh positive patients. As of Sunday, 96.5% of the total patients have been discharged, 1.7% have succumbed to the infection, whereas only 1.8% of the cases are active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-covid-death-in-abad-for-1st-time-in-285-days/articleshow/80438590.cms||Parth Shastri
January 25, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Gang gave away answers, charged Rs 10 lakh per candidate||BENGALURU: The kingpins of the First Division Assistant (FDA) question paper leak racket seem to be having their network in all the districts though CCB police are still clueless about from where exactly the paper was sourced. Police said prime accused Chandra and Rachappa might have purchased it from the main kingpins and later sold it to candidates. They approached several applicants, convinced them that they would arrange a question paper for them and make sure that they will be selected for government jobs. They charged Rs 10 lakh per candidate. According to sources, the key operatives at district level or in cities would purchase the paper for the kingpins by paying up to Rs 1 crore per set. They would locally sell them to the applicants. Some local agents used to sell 50% of the questions for Rs 10 lakh and aspirants had to shell out more money to get more number of questions. The gang members preferred to share answers than questions to the applicants. “The gang gave away 100 answers, including 50 to 75 answers for questions that would appear in the genuine question paper. The applicants were told to learn them by heart and write the required ones in the exam. The racketeers used this method to avoid being caught by the law. Police may face difficulty in proving their guilt if they don’t seize question paper or 100% of the answersheets,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/gang-gave-away-answers-charged-10l-per-candidate/articleshow/80438545.cms||Kiran Parashar
January 25, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Accused in 1993 blasts, Gulshan Kumar murder held in Rs 70 crore ecstasy bust case||MUMBAI: The crime branch of Indore police has made three arrests in Mumbai in the record 70kg ecstasy seizure case of January 5. Acting on a tipoff, the police nabbed Wasim alias Babuji alias Aslam Khan, 50, Ayyub Qureshi, 55, and an Indore resident identified only as Gaurav. Khan and Qureshi are Bandra residents. While Khan was accused of involvement in the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts and Qureshi is said to be an Abu Salem gang member, who had been arrested for the murder of music baron Gulshan Kumar. Earlier this month, Indore police had seized Rs 70 crore worth of MDMA or ecstasy while it was being smuggled to South Africa. A pharma factory owner from Hyderabad was among five persons nabbed. It is the largest haul of the party drug in the country. Police set out to unravel the network and have since arrested 16 suspects, the last three from Mumbai. Indore IG Harinarayanachari Mishra said Khan was arrested in the Gulshan Kumar murder case in 1998 and was released in 2001 after which he went to Nashik where he lived with Qureshi for five years. There, they met alleged drug dealer Raees Khan and got into the drugs trade. Ashfaq, one of the suspects earlier arrested by Indore police, told interrogators that he was in contact with Qureshi. Investigators began gathering information on Qureshi and found that he had been arrested in the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts case. Police had seized firearms and explosives from him after which he was locked up in Arthur Road jail for 32 months until he got bail in 1995. He went back to crime, was rearrested and ended up in Aurangabad jail. He was released in 2008, said the police. Police said Qureshi owns a mutton shop in Bandra and came in contact with many drug smugglers who frequented his shop to purchase meat. According to police, Qureshi has admitted that he bought drugs from Ashfaq along with Dinesh Agarwal, who was among those arrested earlier. Gaurav has also admitted to being in contact with Ashfaq and selling the drug, said the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/accused-in-1993-blasts-gulshan-kumar-murder-held-in-rs-70cr-ecstasy-bust-case/articleshow/80439683.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Dehradun||Demand for Gangotri water skyrocketed during lockdown||DEHRADUN: Since the distribution of bottled Ganga water started pan India under project ‘Gangajal’ in 2016, it has been in high demand, with recipients saying they are grateful for the service as the holy water can now be accessed at a minimal price without having to travel all the way to Uttarakhand. Priced at Rs 30 per bottle (including transportation), Ganga water, sourced from the river’s origin at the Gangotri glacier, is transported to 3,000 post offices under 22 postal circles in India. These are transported to a plant at the main post office in Uttarkashi, where it is treatedAuthorities say most takers are from Haryana and Jharkhand and the demand is the highest during August-September (when Kanwar Yatra takes place). It skyrocketed last year, as the yatra was cancelled on account of Covid restrictions. “During August and September last year, we sold 1.15 lakh bottles across Bihar, Jharkhand, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh as well as other states. That is approximately four times what we distributed during the same time the previous year. Due to the lockdown, Kanwar Yatra had been cancelled and transportation was unavailable but we still managed to deliver,” Sunil Kumar Rai, director of Uttarakhand Postal Circle told TOI. The transportation is done through commercial vehicles, which were unavailable during the lockdown. The postal department used its own vehicles to carry Gangajal from Uttarkashi to Dehradun and then to Delhi via Saharanpur. Ganga water is collected from May to June and October to mid-November. “Procurement is done effectively in only about three months. It isn’t done for the rest of the year because of unfavourable weather conditions. Gangotri Dham is closed from November to April and from July to September due to heavy rains. However, it is supplied throughout the year,” Rai explained. Four to five labourers trek to Gangotri on a daily basis during these months and bring back 40-litre jerry cans full of Ganga water. These are transported to a plant at the main post office in Uttarkashi, where it is treated. The water is first poured into tanks and boiled for 24 hours and then left to undergo sedimentation for another 24 hours. After this, the bottling starts. “20-25 hired labourers work for 7-8 hours a day to bottle the water. They wear sufficient sanitary gear, including head covers, aprons and gloves during the process. Even footwear isn’t allowed inside the plant,” Rai added. Ganga water was initially available in recyclable transparent bottles of two sizes, 200ml and 500ml, and from two sources, Gangotri (Ganga’s origin) and downstream Rishikesh. At Rishikesh, the holy water would be collected from Shivanand Ashram and Muni-ki-Reti and bottling would be carried out at the Shivanand Nagar post office. However, seeing devotees preferred water from the river’s source because of its “higher spiritual value”, Ganga water was made available solely from Gangotri from 2019 and made available only in 250ml bottles. Till date, nearly 14 lakh (1,383,808) bottles of Ganga water reached households across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bottled-ganga-water-sourced-from-gangotri-in-high-demand-14l-units-distributed-so-far/articleshow/80437604.cms||Sukanta Mukherjee
January 25, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Two new treatment plants to handle rise in biomed waste||NEW DELHI: With the number of hospital beds and biomedical waste generation expected to increase considerably by 2031, Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has started the process of setting up two more common biomedical waste treatment plants in the city. It has invited an expression of interest from companies for the treatment and disposal of such waste. Currently, Delhi has two such plants, one in west Delhi’s Nilothi with an installed capacity of 28.8 tonnes per day, and another in an industrial area near GT Karnal Road with a treatment capacity of 34 tonnes per day. “The lease of the plant at Nilothi expired in 2020, but an extension has been granted to it. However, when the two new plants will become functional, it will be shut down,” said a senior DPCC official. A gap analysis on biomedical waste conducted by National Productivity Council revealed that the maximum quantity being generated currently was 34,584 kg per day, but by 2031 it would increase to around 80,000 kg daily (40,000 kg being incinerable waste). After a plea was filed in National Green Tribunal for enhancement of biomedical waste treatment facilities to bridge the gap between generation and disposal, DPCC informed NGT that it had proposed two treatment plants in Delhi. Disposing of the petition this month, the NGT bench directed that the two new facilities proposed in DPCC’s report ought to be set up expeditiously in a time-bound manner. The project would be overseen by the Delhi chief secretary. “The proposed period of two years may be shortened by the intervention of the chief secretary, preferably to one year,” added the bench. A DPCC official said, “We have sought expression of interest for setting up and operating the treatment plants on built, own and operate (BOO) basis for collection, transportation, reception, storage, treatment and disposal of biomedical waste. While one plant will cover East, Northeast and Shahdara districts, the other will treat waste from West, Southwest and Central districts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-new-treatment-plants-to-handle-rise-in-biomed-waste/articleshow/80438575.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
January 25, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports record vaccination turnout on Day 6||JAIPUR: Scaling up the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state, the health department arranged for 408 vaccination sites on Sunday targeting to vaccinate 38,202 healthcare workers. By the end of the day, the health department managed to achieve 67% by administering Covid jab to 26,255 healthcare workers. Jaipur reported the lowest (41%) achievement of target of vaccinating healthcare workers, while Sikar reported 100.5% achievement of target, the highest in the state. The number of sites for Covaxin, an indigenous vaccine manufactured by Bharat Biotech, has also been increased from six to 11, and all sites are in Jaipur. The achievement of target for Covaxin was 39% by vaccinating 434 healthcare workers against the target of 1,116. While the achievement of target for Covishield from Serum Institute of India, was 68% as 25,821 healthcare workers across the state received the Covishield jab, against the target of 38,202. After getting administered Covishield, 12 healthcare workers complained of adverse events following immunization, while no such adverse event was reported post Covaxin immunization. While the health department is targeting to administer first dose of Covid vaccine to all 4.5 lakh registered healthcare workers by January 31, the number of vaccination sites has been increased across the state. “We are increasing the number of vaccination sites daily to administer vaccine to 4.5 lakh healthcare workers as soon as possible following the vaccination guidelines issued by the Centre,” said a senior health department official. For the first four days, the vaccination sites remained same at 167; while on the fifth day of vaccination, 339 sites were created, and on the sixth day (January 24), the vaccination sites in the state were 408. In the first six days of the vaccination drive, as many as 93,525 healthcare workers have received the jab, which is around 21% of the target of vaccinating 4.5 lakh healthcare workers. Though Jaipur has reported highest number of Covid infections till date in the state, the percentage of cumulative target achievement (from January 16 to January 24) remained 51%. Bundi is at the top of the list of the districts reporting highest percentage of cumulative (from January 16 to January 24) target achievement, with 95% coverage. Ajmer with 94% is at second and Jodhpur (91%) and Sikar (86%) are at the third and fourth places respectively in the list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-reports-record-vaccination-turnout-on-day-6/articleshow/80439588.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnakata: Board to improve quality of SSLC answerscripts||BENGALURU: The Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) has decided to improve the quality of answerscripts for those taking SSLC exam this year. The answerscripts will be of 70GSM, instead of the usual 60GSM. With this, the ink from the gel pen will not appear on the other side of the paper. The size will be increased to A4, which means students will have additional three lines on each side to answer. The number of pages in the booklets will not be reduced. Each booklet will have 24 pages and maths answer booklets will have 36 pages each. In case a student asks for an additional sheet, a new 24-page booklet will be given. Only 2% use additional answersheet, said the department. The booklets will also have a QR code that will help evaluators find out the rest of the answerscript if it goes missing. “Most complaints are usually regarding losing additional answersheets. This problem can be addressed with the QR codes on them. The changes are being made without increasing the exam fee,” said V Anbukkumar, commissioner of public instruction. It was also decided that 75% attendance is not mandatory to appear for SSLC this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/board-to-improve-quality-of-sslc-answerscripts/articleshow/80438546.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||End practice of recommending poll candidates: AICC to group leaders||Thiruvananthapuram: All India Congress Committee (AICC) has urged all group managers not to recommend names for candidature in the assembly elections. AICC observers, who attended the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) executive meeting, and who held discussions with senior leaders, made it clear that in the upcoming elections, recommendation will not be the criteria. It has been an usual practice for AICC to issue such diktats during elections, but ultimately group managers become the decision makers. It is learnt the AICC wants to put an end to this practice in the state. Senior party leader A K Antony will be closely monitoring the screening of candidates and will ensure that the AICC decision is implemented. Antony, who himself was a group leader and still has a group in his name within the party, has been given the daunting task of ending this. AICC general secretary K C Venugopal urged the leaders in the KPCC executive committee that no one should recommend names of those loyal to them. The leaders should end this practice if we have to win the elections, he said. Venugopal accepted that he himself was part of group politics earlier, but assured that he would not recommend any name for candidature this time. Venugopal also cautioned against another practice that needs to be ended. He said that leaders take it for granted that a particular seat is allocated to a group, and they have a preconceived notion that the seat is the monopoly of that group. All such practices should end this time if we want to return to power, he told the leaders in the meeting. AICC observers urged the leaders and the MLAs who attended the meeting to refrain from making public announcements on their own before the final decision from the party high command. They reiterated that no seats are certain for anyone and hence the final decision will come from the high command. The only two criteria for candidate selection will be winnability and acceptability among the masses. For this, AICC has already collected a report from each district committee and it is under the perusal of the party high command, the observers informed the state leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/end-practice-of-recommending-poll-candidates-aicc-to-group-leaders/articleshow/80438569.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Kolkata||Pvt hosps’ panel to propose health scheme rates on Wed||Kolkata: A six-member committee comprising private hospital chiefs will prepare and submit a draft proposal for Swasthya Sathi rates to the state government on Wednesday. A government committee will vet the proposed rates and decide on the final rates for the scheme that brings all Bengal residents under a health insurance scheme of Rs 5 lakh. This was decided at a meeting between private hospital representatives and government officials, including the chief secretary, health secretary, director of health services and other senior health officials on Saturday. Members of the committee include the heads of Apollo Gleneagles Hospital, Medica Superspecialty Hospital, Fortis Hospital, RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS), AMRI and Belle Vue Clinic. While the committee has started working on the proposed rate revision, it will be finalized and sent to the government on Wednesday. “We have proposed certain revisions and changes that will help to make the scheme sustainable for us. We will be fine-tuning them further before sending the final proposal,” said Belle Vue CEO P Tondon, a member of the committee. Another private hospital chief said he was expecting a 5%-10% rise in rates which are almost one-third of the regular charges. “We have sought a segregation of bed charges, investigation charges and doctors’ fees for both ward and ICU patients. Under the existing Swasthya Sathi scheme, they are all clubbed together. Separating them will allow us to arrive at a reasonable rate for each which will still, of course, be much lower than what we normally charge,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-hosps-panel-to-propose-health-scheme-rates-on-wed/articleshow/80438574.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
January 25, 2021||Goa||Court rejects bail to two involved in drugs cases||Panaji: A North Goa court has rejected the bail applications of two accused, Chhatra Singh alias Shiva, 36, a native of Uttarakhand and Raju Lama, 35, a native of Manali who were allegedly found in possession of commercial quantity of narcotics. The court found that Singh was arrested on November 29, 2020, after observing all the Supreme Court guidelines and also giving intimation of his arrest to his wife, a Russian national. Singh was found in illegal possession of 2.1kg of charas worth Rs 10.5 lakh. The public prosecutor submitted that he is a native of Uttarakhand and there are chances of him fleeing. In another similar case, Lama, a native of Himachal Pradesh was caught with 2.5kg of charas worth Rs 12.5 lakh near an Italian restaurant in Arambol. The anti-narcotic cell (ANC) submitted to the court that he is a native of Manali, Himachal Pradesh with a relative in Nepal, and if he is released on bail, he will flee to Nepal and will not be available for trial. In a third case, the court granted permission to the directorate of enforcement to record the statement of an accused at the Colvale jail who was allegedly caught for possession of LSD papers weighing 25g worth Rs 75 lakh. An investigation under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act has been initiated against the accused. The court granted permission on the condition that the advocate for the accused was given a prior notice of the request before proceeding to record the statement. The court directed the directorate of enforcement, the advocate for the accused, jail authorities and the accused to follow all precautionary measures so as to prevent the spread of Covid-19 at the time of meeting the accused for recording his statement. The superintendent of central jail has been directed to present the accused Mathias Waack, who is in judicial custody before the ED for recording the statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/court-rejects-bail-to-two-involved-in-drugs-cases/articleshow/80439731.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Jaipur||Over 23,000 PM-Kisan payouts failed during lockdown time in Rajasthan: RTI||JAIPUR: In all, 23,177 cases of ‘failure to transfer’ PM-Kisan (PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi) scheme funds to the bank accounts of beneficiaries have been reported in Rajasthan during the lockdown period (between March 23 and July 31, 2020), taking the state to the seventh position in the country, revealed an RTI reply obtained from Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers’ Welfare, Government of India. Meanwhile, Rajasthan stood at the fifth position in terms of successful cases of reprocessing after failed transactions, accounting for 0.18% (1,202 cases) of the total cases (6.33 lakh) in the country. In all, 11.29 lakh instances of failure to transfer PM-Kisan funds to the bank accounts of beneficiaries were reported across the country during Covid-19 lockdown period, the RTI response stated. "A total of 6.33 lakh instances of failed transactions were successfully reprocessed. This is a little more than 56% of the total failed transactions as on July 31, 2020," it added. The Union agriculture ministry, in its response to an RTI application filed by Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative's (CHRI) Venkatesh Nayak, further stated that among all states and union territories, Madhya Pradesh accounted for the largest number of failed transactions (7.29 lakh) at 64.55% followed by Maharashtra with more than 85,000 transfer failures (7.54%). Karnataka with more than 55,000 failures stood at third position (4.94%). Bihar was at fourth position with more than 51,000 failures (4.52%) and Uttar Pradesh with almost 48,000 failed transactions (4.24%) stood at fifth position. Together these top five states accounted for almost 86% of the total figure of transfer failures during the lockdown period. PM-KISAN scheme was launched by the Centre in 2019 and it guaranteed an income support of Rs 6,000 per year (paid in three instalments) to all landholding farmers’ families in the country having cultivable land. "Madhya Pradesh accounted for the bulk of successful cases of reprocessing at more than 96% (6.12 lakh cases) followed by Maharashtra reporting 2.02% (12,810 cases). Uttar Pradesh was at third position accounting for 0.31% (1,986 cases) followed by Gujarat with 0.20% (1,328 cases). Together these five states accounted for more than 99% successful transfers after reprocessing," it further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-23k-pm-kisan-payouts-failed-during-lockdown-time-in-raj-rti/articleshow/80439604.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Gang goes on looting spree to raise money for kingpin’s bail||NAGPUR: Tehsil police team busted a gang last week, which was behind a string of robberies across the city, allegedly to raise money for their ganglord’s bail. Though the ganglord’s bail could not be stopped, Tehsil police team has detected 18 offences and recovered stolen materials worth Rs11.43 lakh. Senior inspector Jayesh Bhandarkar’s team, lead by head constable Laxman Shende, intercepted Shaikh Sohail alias Bhanja while he was fleeing in a car last week after spotting the police team. Sohail is the nephew of sharpshooter Raja Ghouse, who is in jail. It’s learnt Sohail and his gang had started committing robberies and thefts to earn fast cash to pay the legal expenses of murder accused Satish Gaur, who is considered their mentor. Gaur, whose bail was procured by the gang with the money they got from committing the crimes, was behind the murder at Maskasath around two years ago. Following Sohail’s interrogation, police team comprising head constables Shende, Pramod Shaniware, Shailesh Dabole and others also rounded up three minors, who too were part of the gang. Police said the minors were earlier booked under heinous crimes like murder and rape. During interrogation, police had also arrested a woman, identified as Varkha Hole, who too was part of the gang. Police said Hole’s two brothers too were behind bars after being arrested for thefts. She too trying to arrange money for her brother’s bail too. Head constable Shende, who was the main architect of this detection, has been among the top performers in the police department last year despite been twice affected with corona. Police have recovered a car from Sohail which he had been using in the crimes. Four mobile phones were also seized from the gang apart from two cameras and other valuables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gang-goes-on-looting-spree-to-raise-money-for-kingpins-bail/articleshow/80438619.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 25, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur will be the first city in state to get smart water meters||Jaipur: Residents of Jaipur will be the first ones in the state to get smart water meters in their houses. Public health and engineering department (PHED) will soon install smart meters in the households that will give automatic reading to the consumers and will help in water wastage.According to the pilot project of the department a report of which has been sent to the higher authorities, at first 6,000 meters will be installed in Jawahar Nagar area. Only after the success of this, it will scale it up to other parts of the city.Satish Jain, superintendent engineer of PHED, said, “It will be very convenient for the people because there will be no hassle of a meter reading as that will be sent to the mobile or email of the consumer immediately. This will help the department to keep a track of the amount of water spent by the consumer daily and if there will be any access use, then we can track that person.”There has been lot of complaints filed in department that people have started selling water illegally. Many people have done illegal boring in their houses and have been selling water. PHED officials expect that with this project they will be able to nab such people. Maximum use of water for one person is 135 litre per day and above then that can be questioned.The total cost of the project for 6,000 households at Jawahar Nagar will be Rs 499 lakh, but nothing has to be paid by the consumer. The proposal has been sent to the government and after the final approval, tender will be invited. It is expected that the project at Jawahar Nagar will start in July.The company installing the metre will be for seven years including the warranty of the metres. There will be no additional expense on the PHED for any maintenance of metres once the work is done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-will-be-the-first-city-in-state-to-get-smart-water-meters/articleshow/80439630.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||CM will have to answer to people, says Chandy||Thiruvananthapuram: Congress leader Oommen Chandy said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan owes an explanation to the people for why the police under him haven’t arrested the accused in solar sex scandal despite registering an FIR with non-bailable charges in October 2018. Vijayan will also have to answer for why the government hasn’t appealed the high court order removing the controversial letter written by scam accused from the judicial commission report on the matter, the former CM told reporters here. “We are ready to face any probe in the case. None of us is afraid of CBI,” he said. According to Chandy, the decision to hand over the cases to CBI as it approaches the end of its term would only expose the government. “For three years while in opposition, the case provided them fodder for their protests. Then they had five years in office. Why couldn’t they do anything in the case? Why are they referring the case now to CBI? People of Kerala are watching this and they will draw their conclusions,” he said. “When we were in office, the solar scam accused was in front of the law. Now, there are complaints from youngsters about job fraud committed by the same set of people. They are roaming around scot free and there is no probe,” he said. Mere gimmick, says Cong Congress leaders has termed the state government’s decision as a political gimmick. They said the LDF government, which was sitting on the case for the last five years, has suddenly woken up with assembly elections round the corner. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said, “It is a cruel political gimmick by a government that is sensing imminent defeat.” He said senior IPS officers who probed the case had reported that there is no substance in the allegations. “The CM is playing political games ahead of the election. We are not at all worried.” Ramachandran ridiculed what he termed as Vijayan’s newfound love for central agencies. “He has been going around saying that these same agencies are actively involved in undermining his government. He even decided to clip CBI’s wings in the state,’’ Ramachandran said. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said the people of Kerala can very well understand the politics behind the decision, as it comes ahead of assembly polls. UDF convener M M Hassan said the government has tried its best to nail Congress leaders in this case. “But they could not succeed as all the investigators held that there is no substance in the case,” Hassan said. Just eyewash: BJP BJP state president K Surendran termed the government decision as mere eyewash. If LDF was sincere about the case then why did it not take any action in the last five years, he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-will-have-to-answer-to-people-says-chandy/articleshow/80438581.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 25, 2021||Jaipur||Faulty streetlights a big concern for Ward 85 residents||Jaipur: Faulty of street lights has become a major concern for Ward 85 people in Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) Greater. Around four years back, streetlights were stolen from the pole and since then most of the corners of the ward are in dark.Many complaints have been filed in JMC, Greater regarding it but nothing has been done yet. The areas in the ward where there are sufficient streetlights, they are not functioning properly.President of Nagrik Vikas Society, Sector 118, Sanjay Sharma said, “I have been running from pillar to post for the last four years, but no solution to this problem. Most people just choose to ignore the difficulty we are facing every day. Women and children are afraid to cross certain areas in the ward and feeling insecured. A complaint has been filed in the police station about the theft as well.”Another resident M P Gaur said that around 50% lights in the park are not functioning. He said that for the last 15 days, bulbs in many lanes are not functioning and despite repeated calls to JMC, officials have a lackadaisical attitude towards it.Officials at JMC said that there are discussions going on to resolve the issues as many parts of the city faulty light complaints are being received. However, it will take some time to replace the lights and if they are stolen the procedure is even longer.Councillor of the area Hari Om, said that he has met the officials many times since urban body elections, but no one is ready to take up this issue seriously. “We want quick solution to this problem but officials are not ready to take it up. No seriousness regarding the issue due to which many areas are in dark where women feel especially unsafe,” said Hari Om.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/faulty-streetlights-a-big-concern-for-ward-85-residents/articleshow/80439651.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Pune||‘We’re working to rid lending market of rogue elements’||PUNE: The Fintech Association for Consumer Empowerment (FACE), which describes itself as a self-regulatory body for the online lending and financial tech industry, has welcomed multiple new players to be part of its framework, while working with regulators to remove unauthorized players. “We have had a good audience with the regulator, in this case, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to put together the regulatory framework for the fintech and online lending industry. We had submitted a list of unregulated and unauthorized players in the industry to the regulator and we have also worked with platforms like Google to remove those unauthorized players from its app store. The regulatory framework is still at an early stage, but there are multiple models, such as in countries like Indonesia, to look up to,” said Akshay Mehrotra, founding member of FACE, who also heads the online lender EarlySalary. The RBI, in multiple circulars, has warned of the dangers of subscribing to fly-by-night online lenders, who are often known to charge usurious interest rates, and have been reported to police in multiple states for fraud and questionable collection practices. Amit Tewary, COO of LoanTap, said, “The regulator has taken a very good step to separate the regulated and unregulated entities,”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/were-working-to-rid-lending-market-of-rogue-elements/articleshow/80438582.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
January 25, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Reformed’ killer goes back to crime, held||NEW DELHI: A notorious contract killer of Bihar had reformed after being counselled by a senior officer there and opened a grocery shop. However, meagre income and peer pressure forced him to take to crime again. This time, he didn’t take to murders but burglaries. His gang would come to Delhi for a week or two every two months, commit back-to-back crimes and return. The gang was busted and three accused held from Kashmere Gate while fleeing with stolen goods. The main accused has been identified as 32-year-old Mohammad Imtiyaz Alam from Araria in Bihar, who was involved in more than 20 cases of murders, attempts to murder and robberies. His associates were identified as Mohammad Durbesh (34) and Mohammad Naeem (32). Two laptops, 11 branded watches, around Rs 1,000 in cash and a three-wheeler used in the crime were seized from the trio. According to police, information was received on Friday that three burglars would come towards ISBT Kashmere Gate from Shastri Park in a three-wheeler to dispose off stolen property. A police team laid a trap near Kashmere Gate and around 8.25pm, the vehicle was intercepted. “Seeing cops, the three men sitting on the three-wheeler tried to speed away, but were caught following a brief chase,” said deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse. The DCP said that during search of the three wheeler 11 branded watches, two laptops, two iron cutters and two big screw driver and a pouch of coins were recovered. “During verification the valuables were found stolen and a case of theft was registered against the trio,” the officer said. “Alam said that he worked as a contract killer but had quit crime after he was counselled by a police officer in Bihar. To earn his living he had then started a shop but was not earning good money. In order to earn a better living, he roped in his two associates and started visiting Delhi to commit burglaries. He had also bought an Innova car back home with the stolen money,” the DCP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/reformed-killer-goes-back-to-crime-held/articleshow/80438586.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Jaipur||Manufactured sand policy to be launched in Raj today||Jaipur: The state government will launch the manufactured sand (M-sand) policy on Monday. The production of manufactured sand increased in Rajasthan in wake of the Supreme Court ban on sand river. As the trade of the sand continued for lack of any guidelines from state government, chief minister Ashok Gehlot issued instructions to mines officials to give a legal framework on M-sand production by drafting a policy, following which the policy has been framed.An official source said, "Chief minister Ashok Gehlot will launch the policy and give industry status to manufactured sand (M-sand) and mandate its use. The new policy will curb excessive sand mining on riverbeds that causes damage to environment". As per the department records, 243 units in Rajasthan are manufacturing M-sand, most of them are in Sikar, Jhunjhunu, Jaipur and Bharatpur districts. About 2,00,000 tonnes M-sand is produced in the state per day, while the demand is for 6,00,000 tonnes. The M-sand produced after crushing hard granite stone, rocks, extracted from quarries is the nearest substitute of river sand. The policy would assist to promote the systematic demand of M-sand. "It has been suggested that 25% of the requirement will be fulfilled by M-sand in government projects," said a source.The Rajasthan M-sand policy was formulated after examining other states' policies including Karnataka and Andra Pradesh. To promote M-sand after providing industrial status, the government has decided to provide incentives to the manufactures. "Once launched, manufactures will be provided with incentives including stamp duty, VAT/GST, and subsidy on loans. Moreover, facilities and packages will be provided under Rajasthan Investment Promotion Scheme (RIPS)," said offical On November 16, 2017, the Supreme Court had restrained 82 large lease holders from mining sand in the state. The court banned the mining of sand and bajri until agencies completed a scientific replenishment study and MoEF granted clearance after considering the matter fully and dispassionately. "Despite the unavailability of river sand, people did not completely shift to M-sand as it failed to win confidence. The new policy will develop trust and its sales in the state," added the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/manufactured-sand-policy-to-be-launched-in-raj-today/articleshow/80439622.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Post-death ritual items of all faiths sold under one roof||AHMEDABAD: The shop of Mohammedmiya Masaniya in Ahmedabad’s Dariapur area does not have a shutter or door and remains open 24x7 and throughout the year. That’s not the only peculiar thing about the shop. For four generations, the Masaniyas have been selling items needed for post-death rituals of all faiths. The shop, which is called 'Saaj Khaapan ni Dukan’ sells every item required for rituals after the death of a person – irrespective of which religion he belongs to. “Muslims and Christians generally come and ask for `kafan’ (a cloth draped over the dead body) and coffin, but there are between 20 and 30 items that are required when last rites of Hindus are performed. We keep everything that is required,” said Saqib Masaniya, who along with his brother Rizwan, has been manning the shop at Delhi Chakla. Whether there is curfew or more recently during the lockdown, the shop of the Masaniyas has never shut down. “Our shop has no shutter. It remains open round the clock and throughout the year. That is because death can happen anytime in peoples’ families,” explained Rizwan. Saqib added that during the lockdown, the police themselves escorted them to Motera area, got shops opened and facilitated them to purchase things required for the last rites. “Years ago, when curfew used to be clamped in our area because of riots, our shop remained open round the clock,” said Saqib. Commenting on the pandemic, Saqib Masaniya said that when the Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak, the order for `nanami’ (the bamboo framework on which a dead body is kept before cremation) grew significantly. Crematoriums of Naroda and Dudheshwar asked for many more `nanami’ that they usually ask for,” Saqib Masaniya said. Asked how did they know that the increased demand for `nanami’ was because of Covid-19 deaths, the brothers said that the entire set of about 20 items are sought by families if the death is because of other reasons. “In case of Covid-19 deaths, other rituals were not possible, as the bodies were sealed in polythene bags,” Rizwan said. The shop has been operational for more than 130 years. “Old timers tell us that it was started by great grandfather Akrambhai. His son Usmanbhai then manned the shop, after which our father Mohammedmiya manned the shop. We are the fourth generation to run the shop now,” said Saqib.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/post-death-ritual-items-of-all-faiths-sold-under-one-roof/articleshow/80438589.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||IIM-Ahmedabad paper highlights how Gujarat managed pandemic||AHMEDABAD: The abbreviation HOPES-T became a backbone of medical response to the Covid-19 in Gujarat, claimed a report by experts from IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) and State Health System Resource Centre. The abbreviation stands for Heparin, Oxygen, Prone position, Eliminating exertion, Steroids and Tocilizumab. The paper highlighted that resource mobilization, addressing mental health issues and managing other diseases were also the major challenges for the administration during the pandemic. The report, ‘Gujarat’s Public Health Response to Covid-19: Documenting the Process, March to October 2020’ authored by Prof Vijaya Sherry Chand from IIM-A along with Gautam Patel, Aadarsh Pillai, A M Kadri and Harsh Bakshi, was launched by CM Vijay Rupani in presence of World Health Organization (WHO) officials on Friday. The report also documented city-specific responses. In Ahmedabad, door-to-door surveillance was initiated for quick tracing, whereas private hospitals were roped in to admit Covid-19 patients. In Surat, TTT IQ (Track, Test, Treat, Isolate and Quarantine) strategy was adopted along with formation of community Covid isolation centres. Another report, assessing the state’s response to the pandemic in context of 10 pillars specified by WHO, was prepared by experts from IIM-A and IIPH Gandhinagar (IIPH-G). It was also launched at the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/iim-a-paper-highlights-how-gujarat-managed-pandemic/articleshow/80438593.cms||Parth Shastri
January 25, 2021||India||16 lakh vaccinated against Covid, Karnataka tops list with 1.9 lakh||NEW DELHI: The number of people vaccinated against Covid-19 crossed 16 lakh on Sunday, with Karnataka inoculating the highest number of healthcare workers so far at over 1.9 lakh, followed by Odisha (1.5 lakh) and Andhra Pradesh.(1.4 lakh). On Sunday, only five states — Haryana, Karnataka, Punjab, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu — conducted vaccination sessions. Provisional data compiled by the health ministry showed that 31,466 people were vaccinated in 693 sessions in these states till 6.30 pm on the ninth day. Only 10 adverse events after immunisation were reported on Sunday. So far, 16,13,667 beneficiaries have been inoculated against Covid-19 since the vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with two vaccines — Oxford University and AstraZeneca developed Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin — both of which are being manufactured locally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/16-lakh-vaccinated-against-covid-karnataka-tops-list-with-1-9-lakh/articleshow/80440835.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Rajkot||Two arrested in Morbi highway robbery mayhem||Rajkot: Acting on a tip off, Morbi local crime branch (LCB) and Morbi Taluka police station officials arrested two accused involved in a sensational highway robbery case near Morbi town on Friday night. Accused had created an illegal barricade on Morbi-Kandla bypass road in the outskirts of Morbi town and robbed over a dozen people at knife point on Friday night. The robbers openly snatched cash, mobile phones and valuables by intercepting bikes and cars on the public road. They also broke window panes of few cars. Valuables worth Rs 4.21 lakh including cash were looted. “We have arrested Asif Rahim Sumra (20), a resident of Sunrise Park in Sumra society in Morbi town and Afatali alias Ajgar Bhati (19), a resident of Visipara in Morbi town. We have received specific information about the location of two accused. After keeping a close watch on them, we finally nabbed them from Raviraj Chowkdi on Sunday,” police said. Police also seized two bikes and six mobile phones from the duo. Police said that there were four persons involved in the highway robbery. The third accused was identified as Nawab alias Badiyo Meman while the fourth accused is yet to be identified, police added. In the highway robbery, two persons were also injured in the attack by the assailants while one Rohit Patel got knife injury, Navneet Loriya received injuries on his head injuries. Both were rushed to hospital for treatment. The robbers had attacked somewhere between Amreli Patiya and Navlakhi crossing road. A complaint was lodged by Pankaj Bavarva, who runs a food canteen in a paper mill, with Morbi taluka police station stating that he had Rs 4 lakh in his bag when he left for home with his nephew on Friday night. Both of them were on separate bikes. Bavarva said that robbers had created an illegal barricade on the road with tyres which they had forcefully accumulated from a local puncture shop. When Bavara reached the spot at around 9:45pm, a man in black clothes intercepted him and put a knife on his neck and snatched the bag containing the cash. “I ran nearly half kilometre to reach to a farm to save my life before I called police from my mobile,” he said. When he came on the main road again, he found many more victims including his nephew whose phone and cash were looted. He also saw glasses of some cars broken by the robbers. However, police had reached the spot quickly after Bavarva’s call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-arrested-in-morbi-highway-robbery-mayhem/articleshow/80437242.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam cops warn of action against firms without CCTV cameras||VISAKHAPATNAM: City police have begun the exercise to find out the number of private establishments, including residential apartments, commercial establishments, and few others that have not installed CCTV cameras. Police are now serving notices to such establishments and have decided to register cases for not installing CCTV cameras. Cops have been asking the managements of commercial establishments, educational institutes, residential complexes and few others in the city to install CCTV cameras for better safety measures. However, some people are unhappy that they might have to incur additional costs. Ever since CCTV cameras have been set up at various locations in the city, investigation patterns for various crimes have changed with CCTV footage now becoming an important tool in solving major crimes. At any crime scene, police first check if the area is covered by surveillance cameras and then will go for the next level of investigation process to collect the evidence and identify the accused persons. “We have come to know that some private establishments in the city are yet to come under the blanket of surveillance cameras,” said a senior police officer. D Sravan Kumar, ACP (CCS), told TOI that in Vizag city there are around 24,000 CCTVs, including those set up by private individuals, commercial establishments, apartment welfare associations, GVMC and a few other government organisations. However, over 20,000 establishments are yet to be equipped with CCTV cameras. This, as more residential apartments and commercial establishments have been coming at the city’s outskirts and other places, he added. As per the Andhra Pradesh Public Safety (Measures) Enforcement Act, 2013, wherever the footfall is 100 to 500, establishments will have to take up certain measures. Some of these measures include setting up metal detectors, CCTV surveillance, baggage scanners, and a few others for safety. However, some people are avoiding installation of safety equipment citing high costs, the police official said. Vizag city police commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha said that they have decided to serve the notices to the management of the private establishments for not taking up safety measures as per the Act. “If they failed to install CCTV cameras and others, we will register cases against them under relevant sections. CCTV cameras have not only been aiding law enforcement agencies in surveillance but are also important tools in preventing and solving crimes,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cops-warn-of-action-against-firms-without-cctv-cameras/articleshow/80439011.cms||Nalla.Babu
January 25, 2021||Vijayawada||Delay polls by 60 days in Andhra Pradesh: Employees’ body chief||VIJAYAWADA: As the tussle over local body polls wears on, chairman of Andhra Pradesh government employees federation Venkatram Reddy on Sunday hit out at state election commissioner (SEC) Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar and accsued him of ‘not caring about the lives of employees’. Speaking to reporters, Venkatram Reddy said, “The SEC addressed a press conference which was attended by not more than 10–15 people. Despite there being a distance of at least 15 feet between press personnel and him, he chose to be surrounded by a glass shield to protect himself. On the other hand, he has decided to call for local body polls, without paying heed to what the government is saying, thereby putting the lives of thousands of employees in danger.” “If the SEC was so committed to empowering local bodies, why didn’t he call for polls as soon as the tenure expired,” Reddy asked, while adding, “Even now, all we are asking is for him to delay the polls by 60 days so that all employees are vaccinated before they are asked to interact with thousands of citizens as part of election duties.” Meanwhile, the Andhra Pradesh panchayati raj ministerial employees association (APPRMEA) has urged the SEC to withdraw the election notification as employees are not prepared with necessary logistics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/delay-polls-by-60-days-employees-body-chief/articleshow/80439044.cms||Venu Lanka
January 25, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: GVMC to set up park with scrap art display||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a bid to promote the concept of 3Rs— reduce, reuse and recycling of waste — the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is planning to set up a park with sculptures and other art works made out of scrap material. According to the initial estimates, the park would cost about Rs 1.3 crore. The GVMC is scouting for a suitable place to establish the park, either in an existing park or a new place, as it may need about one acre land to install the art pieces. The civic body is already in the process of setting up a few selfie points by converting the iron waste and other scrap material into sculptures. The GVMC has tied up with AU’s fine arts department for this initiative. The GVMC wants to take this recycling initiative to a bigger stage through the park. According to officials, the civic body is promoting decentralised composting options among the residents as well as bulk waste generators by implementing on-site processing of waste. Recycling of waste into value-added products will encourage sustainable consumption, besides offering employment and entrepreneurship opportunities. “The 3R concept will reduce burden on the collection services as well as reduced the quantum of waste going into landfills,” said a GVMC official. The civic body recently entered into an agreement with a private agency to collect hazardous waste from the households of the city. On the other hand, the GVMC is also planning to launch dry waste processing initiative in two zones of the city on a pilot basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gvmc-to-set-up-park-with-scrap-art-display/articleshow/80439037.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
January 25, 2021||Pune||Pune second in leasing manufacturing space: JLL||PUNE: Property consultancy firm JLL, in a report about new manufacturing spaces leased in 2020, said 20% of all new leases were in the Pune metropolitan area. Chennai, with a 36% share, is leading the pack. JLL stated in its report that manufacturers — despite the headwinds caused by the pandemic — leased 66 lakh square feet of space in 2020, with the electronics, white goods, mobile phone manufacturing, and packaging industries absorbing much of the space. The report added that the leases were largely in industrial hubs in areas such as Ahmednagar Road, Ranjangaon, Bhosari, Chakan, and Talegaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-2nd-in-leasing-mfg-space-jll/articleshow/80438588.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Jaipur||Slash fuel prices or face agitation: Transporters to govt||JAIPUR: The transporters in Rajasthan have written to the state government to reduce the price of petrol and diesel which has been on the rise and claimed that in neighbouring states, the price is far less due to reduced tax. They also stated that if the prices are not reduced by February 1, then they would agitate in a similar a manner as the farmers. Gopal Singh Rathore, state president of Jaipur Truck Transport Operator Chamber, said, “The VAT on fuel prices in Rajasthan is amongst the highest in the country with 38% tax being charged. In neighbouring states and Union territories like Delhi, Punjab etc the governments have reduced the VAT due to which there has been a relief of around Rs 10 in the fuel prices. We have written to chief minister Ashok Gehlot requesting him to take similar measures as the transporters are sustaining heavy losses due to the frequent increase in the fuel prices.” According to the transporters, they are left with no option but to go on a protest if the fuel prices are not brought down. “We are charged with road tax, toll tax and so much money is going to the government. If the authorities do not listen to us then we will also follow the farmer’s way of protest after February 1. The government needs to realise that if transporters increase the cost of plying goods then it will be reflected on all products. In place like Sriganganagar the cost of petrol is touching Rs 100 despite the fact that Barmer has a refinery,” added Rathore. The letter written by him also said that around 65% of the farmers are also transporters who take their crop to the markets for selling them. Also, that nearly 70% of the commercial vehicles use diesel and the high price is cutting into the income of the transporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/slash-fuel-prices-or-face-agitation-transporters-to-govt/articleshow/80439656.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Jaipur||Over 9,000 didn’t build houses under PM scheme||Jaipur: Over 9,421 beneficiaries under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Grameen), who had received money from the department for the construction of houses from 2016-17 to 2018-19, have not built houses under the scheme, according to data provided by rural development and panchayati raj department.While most of them were defaulters, many have expired after receiving the first installment and some of them returned the money to the department and shifted to other states, said an official. The department is trying to identify the defaulters and lodge FIRs against them. “Of the total, nearly 3,000 have expired,” the official said. So far, construction of 10 lakh houses has been completed in the state. The sanction of amount for the year 2019-20, for about 3 lakh houses, got delayed due to Covid pandemic. The amount (about 90 per cent) was released to the beneficiaries after the amount was sanctioned in November, last year (2020), according to official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-9000-didnt-build-houses-under-pm-scheme/articleshow/80439672.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 25, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Opposition parties support SEC poll notification||VIJAYAWADA: While the ruling party has spoken out against the state election commission’s issuance of notification for local body polls, a majority of opposition parties have expressed their support for holding elections. Responding to the issuance of notification, senior YSRC leader and panchayati raj minister Pedireddy Ramachandra Reddy said, “We cannot risk the lives of employees by conducting polls now. We will act per orders of the Supreme Court.” Meanwhile, TDP has come out strongly in favour of conducting the elections now. K Atchennaidu, president of state TDP, said, “While other states are conducting local body elections, YSRC is denying to conduct elections in fear of defeat.” Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan said the government should put an end to this controversy by conducting elections quickly. AP Congress working president N Tulasi Reddy accused the ruling party of double standards and said, “YSRC is making arrangements for Tirupati bypolls on one hand and working against conduct of local body polls on the other.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/oppn-parties-support-sec-poll-notification/articleshow/80439058.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Ball in apex court to break deuce over panchayat polls||VIJAYAWADA: With the state government and state election commission (SEC) at loggerheads over conduction panchayat elections, all eyes are now on Supreme Court. The apex court is likely to hear on Monday two petitions moved by the state government and the Andhra Pradesh Government Employees’ Federation (APEGF). A division bench of the Andhra Pradesh high court, headed by Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami had earlier allowed the appeal of the SEC challenging the single judge order suspending the election notification and directed the state government and SEC to conduct elections to pnchayats along with the ongoing vaccination program smoothly and successfully. State election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar issued the election notification following the high court’s order and the state government along with APEGF, which is also against holding elections without completion of vaccination, moved the Supreme Court. Anticipating that the government will move the apex court, the SEC has also filed a caveat petition. Though the petition was moved for urgent hearing on Friday, the registry sent it back after finding defects in affidavit. The government moved a house motion after corrections in petition but the apex court rejected the request and said the matter will be taken up on Monday. The matter was first listed before a bench comprising Justice Lavu Nageswara Rao, Justice S Abdul Nazeer and Justice Indu Malhotra but in a last minute change, the petitions are now listed before Justice Sanjay Kishan Koul and Justice Hrishikesh Roy. On the other hand, another petition was moved before high court challenging the election notification to panchayats. A 20-year-old student, Dhulipalla Akhila, moved AP high court arguing that the election commission’s notification was in violation of her fundamental right to vote as she along with three lakh others are being denied their right to vote by conducting elections according to 2019 electoral rolls instead of 2021 rolls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ball-in-apex-court-to-break-deuce-over-panchayat-polls/articleshow/80439025.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 25, 2021||Vadodara||Man held under land grabbing Act||Vadodara: A day after four persons were detained by Vadodara rural police for occupying a farmer’s land illegally, another case under the land grabbing law was registered at Padra police station. The complainant Paresh Patel, who owns one-bigha agricultural land in Padra, lodged a complaint against Sameer Patel as the latter tried taking possession of the land without paying the entire amount for the land and signing a sale deed. Paresh said that in December 2018, he had finalized a deal to sell the land to Sameer for Rs 10 lakh. A bill of sale was registered between the duo as Sameer paid Rs 5.5 lakh. After the payment of remaining amount, a final sale deed was to be registered. For almost a year, Sameer did not make the payment and as Paresh was in need of money, he rented out the land to another farmer for three years. In December last year, Sameer started fencing work around the land. When Paresh confronted him, Sameer said that he had taken over the land and will not pay the remaining amount. Instead, he asked Paresh to pay Rs 30 lakh to cancel the bill of sale which they had registered. He also threatened Paresh to not return to the land following which Paresh had approached police. On Sunday, Sameer was arrested after the offence was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-held-under-land-grabbing-act/articleshow/80437773.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Mumbai||Timings for nine special trains from Mumbai revised||MUMBAI: The timings of 9 special trains from Mumbai Central and Bandra Terminus to destinations such as Jaipur, Udaipur, Lucknow, among others, have been revised, announced Western Railway (WR) chief spokesperson Sumit Thakur on Sunday. Bandra Terminus-Barauni Avadh will depart at 10pm every Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday and reach Barauni at 11.10pm on the third day from January 28. Among the nine are Mumbai Central-Ahmedabad Karnavati will depart at 2.05pm daily and reach at 9.05pm the same day from January 27. Mumbai Central-Jaipur will depart at 7.05pm daily and reach at 11.50am next day from January 27. Mumbai Central-Indore Avantika Superfast Special Express will depart at 8.55pm daily and reach at 9.55am next day from January 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/timings-for-nine-spl-trains-from-mumbai-revised/articleshow/80439755.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Pune||GM workers’ union firm on wanting jobs at Talegaon plant||PUNE: The General Motors Employees Union (GMEU), which represents the workers at GM’s shuttered Talegaon plant, said they were not willing to accept a severance package offered by the auto giant, and instead want employment at the plant, which is awaiting sale. GM ceased production of parts at the plant in early 2020 due to mounting losses. The American auto giant reportedly offered 75 days of salary per year to its Talegaon employees as severance. GMEU argued that, due to the plant’s impending sale with working assets and machinery, formal closure was not a requirement. GM has agreed to sell the plant to China’s Great Wall Motors (GWM), currently pending FDI approval by the Union government. “We want jobs. What GM was planning was definitely not a closure — it were planning to sell the plant to GWM with all assets,” said GMEU treasurer Dhanaraj Hare. GM issued a statement on Friday denying rumours and “misinformation” about the firm resuming production at the plant, and criticized the state, which the firm claimed had denied it a chance to formally close the plant. The statement calling it a “betrayal of Maharashtra’s investor-friendly image”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gm-workers-union-firm-on-wanting-jobs-at-talegaon-plant/articleshow/80438585.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||Now, heart surgeries sans 2-3 weeks’ wait post attack||NAGPUR: A 75-year-old woman from a well-known business family in the city had a massive heart attack last week. The wall between the right and left chambers of the woman’s heart (medically known as ‘septum’) was badly ruptured. This complication is called ventricular septal rupture, and the survival rate of elderly patients is less than 10%. The woman not only survived, but also recovered quickly and is close to getting discharge from a city hospital, thanks to the latest technique of heart surgery used by the team of cardiac surgeons. Cardiac surgeon Dr Nikunj Pawar, cardiologist Dr Aziz Khan and their team performed an unconventional heart surgery on this 75-year-old woman with the help of latest technology. Generally, doctors wait for 14-21 days after such massive attack cases. More than 90 patients out of 100 die during this phase due to multi-organ failure. Doctors rarely take risk of operating on ruptured heart walls, as they are too delicate to stitch. But, Dr Pawar said, it’s the best option in such scenarios to go for surgery as the risk of surgical mortality is up to 50%. “After counselling the family members, we decided to go for a surgery. Stitching in the heart is like stitching a wet news paper. The tissues are extremely friable and new hole can be created while stitching, causing further problems,” said Dr Pawar. He said the team chose to perform coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG) on the beating heart to bypass blockages in the coronary arteries. This means the heart continued to provide blood to the rest of the body during the surgery. As a heart-lung machine was not used during bypass, this ultimately gave adequate chance to the patient to make it through the complex operation. “Earlier, doctors would hardly go for such surgeries. But, the new technique of ‘PTFE patch’ and the one called ‘Cleveland Clinic’ technique have enabled skilled surgeons to perform such complicated operations with better survival rate,” said Dr Aziz Khan. Dr Pawar said that he had done several such surgeries in Nagpur, and two in the past week alone. “Another similar surgery was performed on an 80-year-old man from Buldhana. That patient also recovered. The woman patient is also doing well and will be discharged tomorrow,” he said. Dr Vinay Kulkarni and Dr Kashif Sayed were a part of the team. They said that surgeries must be performed before the process of organ failure starts. Technology can give new lease of life to elderly patients, they added. New technique, more confidenceIn elderly patients, heart attack generally results in rupture of heart wall called ‘septum’ As a standard practice, doctors wait for 14 to 21 days before performing rupture repair surgery This period is so crucial and dangerous that mortality used to be about 90% in this phase Now, early treatment before organ failure is possible with help of ‘Cleveland Clinic’ technique Doctors in city have performed 2 such complicated surgeries and ensured survival of 2 elderly people this week||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-heart-surgeries-sans-2-3-weeks-wait-post-attack/articleshow/80438595.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 25, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Two families briefly questioned by cops for screaming ‘Pak Zindabad’||NEW DELHI: Two families who had come for a late-night outing at India Gate were briefly questioned by the police after a passerby made a PCR call on hearing them allegedly scream “Pakistan Zindabad”. It later turned out that the families were racing on Yulu bikes, while addressing each other by a country’s name. When the one named Pakistan raced ahead, they started sloganeering jokingly. “A PCR call was received around 1am in PS Tughlaq Road that a few people were heard sloganeering for Pakistan near Khan Market Metro Station. The enquiry officer reached the spot and found that two men, three women and a teenager were present on the spot on blue Yulu bikes,” a senior official said. After a brief questioning, police found that the families along with a child had come for sightseeing around India gate and had rented the bikes. “They started racing and had kept each team’s name based on countries, which included Pakistan. The people present were questioned and an enquiry is underway,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-families-briefly-questioned-by-cops-for-screaming-pak-zindabad/articleshow/80438599.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||We’ve made the greatest sacrifice: Godhra victims’ kin||AHMEDABAD: Even as the Vishwa Hindu Parishad has embarked on a nationwide drive to collect funds for construction of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya, kin of those who lost their lives in the Sabarmati Express blaze, say their families have already made the greatest sacrifice possible for the cause of the temple. None of the families of those who died in the Sabarmati Express blaze at Godhra, while returning after a 'kar seva’ at Ayodhya close to two decades ago, have yet been approached by the VHP for funds. Fifty-nine persons had died in the train blaze on February 27, 2002. While kin of most of the Sabarmati Express blaze victims say they will donate money for the temple, survivor Gayatri Panchal – who lost her parents and two sisters in the train fire says she won’t donate money. Panchal, who lost four family members — parents Nita and Harshad and sisters Pratiksha and Chhaya in the Godhra incident, said, “I have lost my parents, my family members. Funds cannot be greater than the sacrifice that my family has made. I will not donate money for the Ram Temple.” Bipin Thakkar, whose father-in-law Mansukh Soni and brother-in-law Jesal Soni were among the Godhra victims, said, “We have made the biggest sacrifice possible. But I will surely donate for the temple construction, if I am approached by the VHP.” Vinod Dabhi, who lost his mother Premben in the train blaze, said he will contribute for construction of the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/weve-made-the-greatest-sacrifice-godhra-victims-kin/articleshow/80438694.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
January 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||GST applies to flat buyer’s maintenance deposit: Gujarat bench of Authority for Advance Rulings||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat bench of the Authority for Advance Rulings (AAR) recently held that goods and services tax (GST) will be applicable to one-time maintenance deposits collected by builders from buyers as it is “non-returnable” in nature and is “for supply of services”. The AAR bench, though, added that the amount will be subject to GST at the time of actual supply of service — when maintenance services or repairs of common areas and facilities are carried out by use of these deposits. Deposits collected from buyers are typically pooled into a common maintenance deposit fund. In other words, according to this ruling, the buyer’s GST burden is deferred. Builders usually charges a one-time maintenance deposit, which is computed at a certain per square foot rate for the property purchased. The applicability of GST on this deposit amount and time of such levy has been a contentious issue. The AAR rejected the arguments of Ahmedabad-based Capital Commercial Coop Service Society, which had sought the advance ruling. This society said maintenance deposits collected are refunded to members as and when they cease to be members. Under GST laws, there needs to be a supply of goods or services for a consideration. As the deposit is refunded, it is not a consideration and does not qualify as a “supply”. Hence, no GST can be levied, the society had submitted. The AAR in its order, though, observed that maintenance deposit in the name of the member who was leaving the society was transferred to a new member coming in, in his place. In other words, the deposit was not refunded but transferred by passing an accounting entry. Thus, it was non-refundable and taxable under GST. “Going by this ruling, the builder will collect maintenance deposits and transfer the gross amount to the cooperative housing society (CHS), when the society is set up,” says Yusuf Hakim, indirect tax partner at CNK & Associates. “Under service tax law, there have been favourable rulings holding that the builder is not liable for service tax on such maintenance deposits. In practice, though, most builders prefer a conservative approach and collect and pay GST at 18% upfront at the time of receipt of maintenance deposit. What is therefore handed over to the CHS is the net amount after discharge of GST,” says Sunil Gabhawalla, a CA and indirect tax specialist. Hakim concurs and says, “In case no GST has been collected by builders from flat owners, then when the CHS utilises the maintenance deposits for repairs or maintenance, it would need to raise a tax invoice. The CHS can either proportionately collect the 18% GST component from individual members or can use the proceeds of the maintenance deposit fund itself to clear the GST liability.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gst-applies-to-flat-buyers-maintenance-deposit/articleshow/80438673.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Kolkata||AJC Bose Road under cop scanner||Kolkata: Traffic cops have put AJC Bose Road — one of the key roads that connects the south with central Kolkata — under scanner after four fatal accidents in the past one-and-a-half months. Cops are planning to put up more speed cameras and special checks on jaywalking. Before that, they want to identify the black spots on the road and step up surveillance in those areas. Three of these accidents took place between January 5 and January 18 near Turf View, Park Circus 7-point crossing and Minto Park. Of these, two were fatal accidents. However, the worst accident took place on AJC Bose Road flyover, killing four persons when a mini-truck had overturned while coming back after a cremation. “While CGR Road has always been an accident-prone zone along with APC Road, EM Bypass and DH Road among the major thoroughfares of the city, AJC Road had seen a massive dip in accidents last year after making it to the black spot list in 2019. In January this year, the number of accidents on this road may not be so high so far, but we want to take it as a wake up call,” said a police officer. “The AJC Bose Road flyover, Minto Park crossing and Naseeruddin Road-AJC Bose Road crossing were seen as difficult stretches. With Majerhat bridge being opened for traffic, the Turf View area is posing a challenge to us. On AJC Bose Road, there are multiple crossovers. We will use more non-fixed speedometers to find those motorists speeding up on this stretch,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ajc-bose-road-under-cop-scanner/articleshow/80438606.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 25, 2021||Jaipur||BJP plans to corner Cong in assembly session on Feb 10||JAIPUR: The BJP core committee has agreed to ‘Gherao’ the ruling Congress in the forthcoming assembly session (February 10) on the poll promises they failed to fulfil, mishandling of Covid 19 and deteriorating law and order situation in the state in its maiden meeting held at the BJP headquarters behind the closed doors on Sunday. A 16-member core committee members unanimously agreed that people, in general, are angry on issues like non-waiver of farmers loan, unemployment allowance and rising crimes against women. “These issues are going to create trouble for the government in the assembly,” said Poonia. The budget session of the assembly will start from February 10. He shared the feedback of his visit to the three poll-bound assembly segments—Sujangarh, Rajsamand and Sahara in the meeting. “In all three segments, I have learnt that people are very angry with the government on several fronts. The party has a clear upper edge in the rural areas and I am confident of victory,” said Poonia. The members also discussed the poll strategy and probable candidates in poll bound segments. The election date has yet to be announced but BJP has already completed its initial round of campaigning to read the pulse of the voters. The newly vacant seat Vallabhnagar with the death of Congress MLA Gajendra Singh Shaktawat was also discussed by the members. While talking to the media persons, Poonia clarified on a question that why he alone had travelled at the poll-bound assembly segments. He said, “Being the head of the party, it was expected from me to take a lead and to oversee the party functioning in the seats. All our leaders will be travelling to support our candidates,” said Poonia. Off 16 members, three members missed the first meeting— former CM Vasundhara Raje who cited a personal reason, Rajya Sabha MP Bhupendra Yadav and leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria informed to have busy in West Bengal and local body polls respectively. Watch Rajasthan: BJP plans to corner Congress in assembly session on Feb 10||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-plans-to-corner-cong-in-assembly-session-on-feb-10/articleshow/80439681.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: After 17 months in jail, man gets bail as DNA proves teen’s baby not his||MUMBAI: A restaurant worker, who spent 17 months in jail after being accused of raping and impregnating his 19-year-old deaf and mute neighbour, was recently granted bail after the DNA evidence showed that he had not fathered the child. The sessions court said that the DNA report negated the prosecution’s case that the accused, aged 25, had impregnated the woman. “The accused had been arrested on August 1, 2019. The chargesheet has been filed. It will take time to decide the matter on merits. Looking into the copy of the DNA report produced on record, the prayer made by the applicant (accused) for release on bail needs to be allowed,” the sessions court said in a recent order. The pregnancy came to light after the deaf-mute woman, studying in class 7 of a city school, complained to her teacher of stomach pain on July 23, 2019. The teacher called the woman’s father and apprised him. The following day, the woman was taken to the doctor who suggested a sonography. Two days later, tests showed that she was six months pregnant. When the family enquired with the woman, she told them in sign language that about five to six months back when she was on her way to the public toilet, the accused forcibly took her to his house and sexually assaulted her and took her photographs. The family then approached the police and an FIR was registered. The woman’s statement was recorded by the police with the help of a special teacher and he was arrested. The accused’s earlier attempts to seek bail, in the absence of the DNA report, were rejected by the court.  Advocates for the accused, Prakkash Rohira and Yash Vyas, recently sought bail once again. They said that was a severe delay in production of the DNA report and they even approached the Bombay high court. The defence told the court that the man was falsely implicated. They said that the DNA report excluded the accused as the biological father of the boy born to the woman. The prosecution opposed the bail plea alleging that the accused had taken advantage of the woman’s vulnerabilities. It further said that if the accused is granted bail, he could tamper with the evidence or threaten the woman and prosecution witnesses. Granting him bail on a surety of Rs 30,000, the court directed the accused not to contact the woman or visit her. “The accused (is) to attend the matter on each and every date without fail. The applicant shall submit the proof of his residential address, phone number, Aadhaar card and election card, if any,” the court added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-17-mths-in-jail-man-gets-bail-as-dna-proves-teens-baby-not-his/articleshow/80438663.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra to implement Rs 900-crore cyber security project: Anil Deshmukh||NAGPUR: State home minister Anil Deshmukh, during the inauguration of the office of the director general of police (DGP) and police quarters at Pachpaoli and Indora on Sunday, said Maharashtra government was keen to implement the ambitious Rs900-crore cyber security project. Deshmukh also said home ministry was contemplating erecting one lakh residential units for the police department in the coming days. The state home minister, who also announced the revival of the former home minister late RR Patil’s ‘tanta-mukti yojana’ for peaceful settlement of disputes in rural areas, said five new cyber police stations would be inaugurated in Mumbai on Republic Day. “We will strengthen the cyber security systems in the state through latest techniques like techno-assistance investigation and data security, and a centre for excellence for professional training,” he said. The home minister also said the massive power breakdown in Mumbai had a cyber security connection too. Energy minister Nitin Raut, also the guardian minister of the city, was also present at the function to inaugurate the police buildings. Deshmukh, Raut, DGP Hemant Nagrale, CP Amitesh Kumar and SP Rakesh Ola also handed over the keys of the police quarters at Pachpaoli and Indora. Deshmukh, who received rounds of applause for attributing the project of the DGP office and the upcoming CP and SP office at Civil Lines to his predecessor and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, said his department had prepared a three-pronged policy regarding police housing. “The builders who would come forward to construct police buildings on his land shall get FSI 4. The places which have been earmarked as reserved plots for police housing in the development plan shall be utilized. Police department’s own plots too would be used for their housing and office complexes,” said the home minister. Deshmukh also said the work of the ‘project 112’ distress grievance redressal systems for police, fire, medical and other emergencies was underway on war footing across the state. “We need to procure 2,000 four-wheelers and 2,000 two-wheelers for implementing the system. We will make Mumbai its base and Nagpur its sub-station,” he said. DGP Nagrale requested the home minister to ensure the police quarters were erected on priority basis in urban centres where the constabulary struggles to meet the expenses of rented apartments. Minister Raut assured the police department that he would ensure the Pachpaoli quarters were made available for cops. “I will ensure the Pachpaoli quarters are no longer used for quarantine centre but for the time being, the RT-PCR testing facility of this place shall remain,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-to-implement-rs900-crore-cyber-security-project-hm-deshmukh/articleshow/80438631.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 25, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Land encroached upon near Karnala bird sanctuary||NAVI MUMBAI: Two forest lands at Kalhe village, near Karnala bird sanctuary, have been encroached upon by the land mafia. The two plots are located barely 100 m away from Kalhe forest chowki. Despite this, illegal constructions have cropped up here and the Panvel forest officials have not taken any action against the offenders yet. “The two lands, one measuring around 3,000 sq ft and the other 5,000 sq ft, have been encroached upon by the mafia in Kalhe village. Compound walls have been built on the plots. Surprisingly, all illegal activities are taking place here even though the forest check post is just a few meters away,” said Rashtriya Seva Dal (Raigad district) coordinator Santosh Thakur. “I had shared some photographs and had complained to the Raigad deputy conservator of forests and Panvel range forest officer (territorial), but in vain. It seems like the forest officials are hand-in-glove with the land mafia,” Thakur added. Meanwhile, forest officials said that stern action will be taken against the accused. “It has been brought to my notice that illegal constructions are taking place in the area. I have asked my staff to check on this. Action will be taken against the offenders,” said Raigad deputy conservator of forests Ashish Thakare. However, Panvel range forest officer (territorial) Dnyaneshwar Sonawane said that a case has been registered against the accused.  “Illegal constructions are being carried out by a family on the acquired forest land at Kalhe village. A notice was slapped on them, however, they did not adhere to it. A complaint has been registered and the encroachments will be removed soon,” added Sonawane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/land-encroached-upon-near-karnala-bird-sanctuary/articleshow/80439810.cms||Umesh K Parida
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||Desi cow, buffalo have ‘goat’ competition from Alpine breed||NAGPUR: The state’s animal husbandry and dairy development minister Sunil Kedar is bullish on Saanen — an alpine breed of goat. The ministry has drawn plans which, it claims, will be a game-changer in the dairy industry. Livestock of goats would be imported from European countries and Canada where the breed is found. It will be multiplied here, ensuring that the pure bloodline is maintained. Kedar said a Saanen doe produces as much as 12 litres of milk, which is more than many of the local breeds of cows. At the same time, it is cheaper to maintain a goat as against a cow or buffalo. Farmers can earn more at less cost, he said. The minister was talking to TOI on the sidelines of a function to create awareness on bird flu, organized by Maharashtra Animal and Fishery Science University (Mafsu). As chicken was served to allay fears of bird flu, even goat cheese was there. The idea was to promote alternate milk products. There is some stock of Saanen goats at Pune. However, Kedar said, the bloodline has mixed and he would be bringing the pure Saanen breed under his project. “If not 12 litres and even if the goat produces eight litres of milk in Indian conditions, it would still remain profitable business proposition, said the minister. By March, the first lot of around 100 goats will arrive in India and will be kept at Mafsu’s campus in Nagpur and Pune. The idea is not to simply distribute animals but to breed the pure line of goats and then make it available to farmers. Not only the milk, but there also is a market for by-products, especially cheese, which can fetch a good price. Kedar said, “Once the project succeeds, it will not only change the face of the rural economy by stopping migration to cities, but also lead to a revolution in the dairy industry. According to a presentation, the goat milk would fetch a rate Rs175 per litre. Once the goat arrives, it may take at least three years to be finally made available to farmers on a larger scale. It is expected that goats may be finally available to farmers before the current government’s tenure ends. Studies will continue for at least two years to ascertain the management practices for the goat rearing in local conditions. A year after that, it may be made available to the farmers in general, said a source, who is part of the development. A technical expert said 12 litres is the peak production and it is around eight litres on an average abroad. However, even on a very conservative estimate the goats may still produce four litres of milk in a day. This can be a profitable as compared to cow. A cross-breed cow gives as much as 8 to 9 litres in a day for a lactation period of 300 days. To produce nine litre milk, a cow needs as much as 40kg fodder. Even a Saanen goat has a 300-day lactation period and it needs around 10kg fodder, making even four litres profitable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/desi-cow-buffalo-have-goat-competition-from-alpine-breed/articleshow/80438682.cms||Shishir Arya
January 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Asiatic lions are pride of Gujarat, but poster contains photos of African lions||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat is the sole abode of the endangered Asiatic lions, but the state tourism department’s publicity pictures swallow the indigenous pride and use African lions as wildlife icons. To draw in tourists, the department had conceived a poster promoting several sites and activities including Kutch, Saputara, seaplane trips, and the Statue of Unity. The poster also contains two pictures of lions. Read AlsoPM Modi credits community participation for increase in Asiatic lion population in Gujarat's GirPrime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter to share the news of increase in the population of Asiatic lions in Gujarat on Wednesday, crediting community participation for it."Two very good news: Population of the majestic Asiatic Lion, living in Gujarat's Gir Forest, is up by almost 29 per cent,"H S Singh, a member of the National Board for Wildlife, said: “The lion in the front picture is African and it was probably printed without any verification.” The picture of the other lion is hazy. Two very good news:Population of the majestic Asiatic Lion, living in Gujarat’s Gir Forest, is up by almost 29%.… https://t.co/HdZDqL0z4i— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1591790558000An officer said that the tourism department outsources the process of creating publicity material, which is often released without vetting. The officer said that in the majority of cases the pictures are lifted from the internet and used without checks. A senior officer said that the tourism department rectifies mistakes but does not take any action to prevent them in the future. “Gujarat has pitched the Asiatic lion as the pride of the state and this was also the main argument against translocating some lions to Madhya Pradesh,” the officer said. “However, lions are seldom given due importance. Toran was being used as the main image by the tourism department. It was later replaced with the picture of a lion after a campaign by wildlife experts.” Bhushan Pandya, a member of the State Board for Wildlife, said: “A close examination suggests that both the lions in the tourism department’s poster are African.” The tourism department does not coordinate with the forest department and hence these goof-ups occur, Pandya said. He added: “The tourism department has made such errors in the past.” In 2018, video clips of African lions at a zoo in Chicago and in Kruger Park in South Africa were lifted to create a promotional video for the Gir Monsoon Festival. Another fumble did not involve lions. During the 2016 Nalsarovar Bird Safari, the wrong map was put up at the kiosk of the tourism department. It was corrected later. Mamta Verma, a principal secretary who has the tourism portfolio, said: “We are not aware of the fact. We will inquire and immediately rectify if necessary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/for-tourism-dept-emblem-of-gujs-pride-is-african/articleshow/80438666.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 25, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Sabarimala revenue down to Rs 21 crore||T’PURAM: The pandemic has affected the revenue of Travancore Devaswom Board during Makaravilakku festival season. Sabarimala temple recorded a revenue of Rs 21 crore this season compared to Rs 269 crore last year. TDB president N Vasu said though there was severe financial crisis, the Mandala-Makaravilakku festival was organized without hitches. He added that revenue from Sabarimala had stopped since March as the temple was closed due to Covid protocols. Though government had provided financial support (Rs 20 crore) to TDB for the smooth conduct of festival, it was not sufficient. Hence, TDB has asked the government for more financial assistance, he said. TDB had sought government support as it was facing difficulty in even providing salaries and pensions of devaswom employees. Earlier, Rs 30 crore was given to the board before the festival season. Vasu said 1,250 temples under the board are totally depended on the revenue from Sabarimala. Hence, the functioning of all these temples have been hit due to the financial crisis. As per Covid protocols, there were restrictions on devotees entering the hill shrine during Mandala-Makaravilakku festival. At first, only 1,000 people were allowed to enter the temple on weekdays and 2,000 on weekends. During festival days, 5,000 devotees were allowed to enter the temple. However, under pressure from TDB this was later made 2,000 people on weekdays and 3,000 on weekends. Later, under the directive from high court 5,000 devotees were allowed on all days. But still TDB didn’t receive the benefit in terms of revenue as only 40% of the people who had booked through virtual queue reached the temple each day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sabarimala-revenue-down-to-rs-21-crore/articleshow/80438679.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Patna||I may be removed midway like Karpoori Thakur, says Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Sunday indirectly hinted that he might get removed midway like Karpoori Thakur because, like the veteran socialist leader, he has been working for the welfare and progress of all sections of the society. “Karpoori Thakur ji, as the CM, worked for the welfare of all sections of the society. But he was removed from the post within two years. We too are working in the interest of all sections of society. Sometimes, some people get annoyed because of working in the interest of all sections of the society,” Nitish said at the Jannayak Karpoori Thakur birth anniversary function organised at JD(U) headquarters. Thakur had taken oath as Bihar CM on December 22, 1970 but quit within six months on June 2, 1971. He became the CM again on June 24, 1977, but was compelled to resign on April 21, 1979 before completing even two years in the office. Nitish was referring to Thakur’s second term as the CM. Nitish also said he and his party had been trying their best to follow the ideals of great leaders like Mahatma Gandhi, Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar, Ram Manohar Lohia, Loknayak Jayaprakash Narayan and Karpoori Thakur. “We did work for the development of all regions of the state and people of all strata of the society by following the principle of ‘Development with Justice.’ Whatever policies we framed, they benefited all sections of the society,” Nitish said. “Since the first day of my coming to power in November 2005, several schemes have been implemented to ensure the progress of the people belonging to the SC, ST, minorities, extremely backward classes and women. Some special initiatives were taken to bring the people living on the margins into the mainstream of the society. Women were provided 50% reservation in the panchayati raj institutions at the grassroots level,” Nitish said. Reminding the people about the bad governance during Lalu-Rabri regime, Nitish said every senior person in the state knew as to what was the situation during the previous regime. “What was the situation earlier? People did not use to come out of their home after sunset. What was the condition of roads in those days?” Nitish quipped and asked the party men to inform the new generation about the dark days of the previous governments in Bihar. On this occasion, JD(U) also decided to name its all district and block level offices after Karpoori Thakur. “Henceforth, all JD(U) offices at the district and block level will be known as ‘Karpoori Bhawan’,” the party’s state general secretary Navin Kumar Arya said. JD(U) national president RCP Singh and many other senior party leaders also addressed the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/i-may-be-removed-midway-like-karpoori-says-nitish/articleshow/80437674.cms||Madan Kumar
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||Mafsu asks for permission to stop Covid testing lab||NAGPUR: Maharashtra Animal and Fisheries Sciences University (Mafsu) wants to be relieved of the responsibility of testing human samples for Covid-19. The institute for veterinary sciences was roped in for testing Covid in the form of RT-PCR tests since April. The laboratory at Mafsu was allotted Covid testing because it required the same equipment and methodology. The institute’s experience in zoonosis was also used in doing the RT-PCR tests, as coronavirus too has originated from animals, said officials here With over 23,000 tests done so far, the university has written to the department of health a fortnight ago that it should now be taken out of Covid duty. This is because the colleges are expected to open soon after government takes a decision, after which the laboratory would be needed for the studies and cannot be blocked for Covid tests The samples being kept at the same would also pose biological threat to students. So far the lab is being manned by experienced staff. Once it is open for students too, the risk increases. Mafsu had to be roped in initially because there were not many facilities at that time. Now with enough testing centres the facility at Mafsu can be easily withdrawn, said a source. The university is also coming up with what is termed as ‘one health’ project. This will be a major endeavour working on diseases that affect animal and humans. As many infections originate from animals and affect humans, preventive methods and practices will be devised under this project, said vice-chancellor Dr Ashish Paturkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mafsu-asks-for-permission-to-stop-covid-testing-lab/articleshow/80438700.cms||Shishir Arya
January 25, 2021||Kolkata||Min Arup Roy undergoes angioplasty||Kolkata: State cooperative minister Arup Roy underwent coronary angioplasty at Woodlands Hospitals on Sunday. The 60-year-old Trinamool Congress leader was rushed to the hospital after he complained of uneasiness and chest pain early on Sunday. Hospital sources stated the minister’s condition to be stable. “We found 100% blockage in his right coronary artery, for which an angioplasty was done. His condition is stable but he will continue to be under close observation for the next couple of days,” said cardiologist Saroj Mondal of SSKM Hospital, who had conducted the procedure on him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/min-arup-roy-undergoes-angioplasty/articleshow/80438697.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Mumbai||Pune builder who failed to repay buyers of 2 flats arrested, produced before Bombay HC||MUMBAI: A Pune builder who defied court orders to repay two flat buyers from Mumbai, and evaded personal appearance was arrested and produced in Bombay high court. Sameer Khan, a partner in Pacific Orient Genesis Associates, was brought from Pune before Justice Nitin Sambre on Friday. The Bomba high court had in February 2020 issued a non-bailable warrant for his arrest and was told he could not be traced. Two contempt petitions were filed by lawyer Rajesh Singh and his brother Deepak who had in December 2006 booked two 1,075 sqft flats in ‘D’ wing of Engracia, a proposed project in a suburb of Pune. With possession delayed, they learnt that there was no sanction from the Pune Municipal Corporation for the ‘D’ wing. Cheques that had been issued by Khan bounced and he was convicted by a magistrate. Khan offered to settle but did not honour his undertakings to the sessions court and high court. On Friday, he submitted four demand drafts worth Rs 99 lakh. Justice Sambre cancelled the non-bailable warrant, subject to his paying Rs 10,000 costs in each contempt petition to the Police Welfare Fund in the Pune city police chief’s office and encashment of the demand drafts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pune-bldr-who-failed-to-repay-buyers-of-two-flats-arrested/articleshow/80438729.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||Only Nagpur and Akola districts report Covid deaths in a day||NAGPUR: Vidarbha region reported seven deaths due to Covid-19 on January 24. This day’s toll is lowest in the last six months. Less than seven deaths in a day were reported on July 16 when five patients had died in Vidarbha due to Covid-19. Sunday’s seven deaths were from two districts only. Six of them were reported from Nagpur, while one from Akola. Out of Nagpur’s six deaths, only one was from Nagpur city, and two were from Nagpur district (rural). Three deaths were of the patients who came from other states/divisions for critical care in Nagpur’s medical colleges. All other districts, including worst-hit Bhandara and Chandrapur did not report Covid casualty on Sunday. Vidarbha’s toll reached 6,906 on Sunday, and case fatality rate reduced by a decimal point to reach 2.56%. It’s still more than state and national average, though. The region reported almost equal number of new cases and recoveries on Sunday. Against 637 new cases, 639 patients recovered in the day. New cases came from Nagpur 322, Amravati 74, Yavatmal 58, Akola 53, Wardha 29, Buldhana 29, Chandrapur 23, Gondia 21, Bhandara 13, Washim 12, Gadchiroli 3. On the other hand, recoveries came from Nagpur 317, Amravati 51, Yavatmal 49, Bhandara 45, Buldhana 39, Chandrapur 30, Gondia 28, Washim 28, Wardha 20, Akola 18, Gadchiroli 14. Now, out of total 2.69 lakh cases, 2.56 lakh have already recovered and the recovery rate of the region has surpassed 95%-mark. Still, Vidarbha’s recovery rate is less than state and national average. Wardha: Out of the 1,015 tests, 29 tested positive on Sunday, taking the total to 9,885. With 20 getting discharged, recoveries reached 9,262. The active positive patients in the district are 322. Chandrapur: Covid figures rose by 23. In all, 30 were discharged on Sunday. With no deaths, the toll remained 385. The cumulative total has scaled to 22,956 with recoveries 22,410. There are 164 active cases in the district. Yavatmal: In all, 1,304 tests were conducted of which 58 were found positive. Currently, there are 395 active positive patients undergoing treatment in various Covid Care Centres across the district. Amravati: Seventy-four new cases took the district’s caseload to 21,203 on Sunday even as 51 recoveries took the total count to 20,425. This left 365 active cases under treatment. Akola: The district was the only one in Vidarbha part from Nagpur to report Covid-19 death on Sunday. A 65-year-old male patient from Ladpur Kanjra in Murtizapur tehsil died in a private hospital taking the Covid toll of the district to 332. More than 1,250 reports of Covid-19 tests were received on Sunday. Out of these, 53 were positive. This took total Covid-19 cases in Akola to 11,391. With 18 patients recovered in a day, total 10,402 have recovered. Now, 657 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: Total 952 reports were received in the district on Sunday. Out of them, 29 were positive. On the other hand, 39 patients recovered in the day. Now, the district has total 13,590 cases of Covid-19, including 13,111 recoveries and 164 deaths. Total 315 patients are under treatment. Washim: With 12 new patients and 28 recoveries, the district’s total Covid-19 case count reached 7,012 and recoveries to 6,707. No Covid death was reported on Sunday, so the toll remained at 152. The district has 152 patients under treatment at present. Gadchiroli: The district reported increase in new patients in single-digit for the seventh day in a row on January 24. Only three new patients were reported in the district. On the other hand, 14 patients recovered. This took total number of cases to 9,315 and recoveries to 9,148. No death was reported for 11th consecutive day on Sunday. With Covid toll of 105, total 62 patients are under treatment in Gadchiroli, which is lowest in Vidarbha. Gondia: The district reported 21 new cases and 28 recoveries on Sunday. This took the total number of cases 14,116 and recoveries to 13,801. Recovery rate of Gondia is 96.88%. The Covid toll is 181. Now, 134 patients are under treatment. Out of them, 62 are in home isolation. Bhandara: The district reported 13 new cases taking the total Covid-19 caseload to 13,113. On the other hand, 45 patients recovered taking the recovery count to 12,592. Recovery rate of Bhandara is 96%. The Covid toll stands at 320, while 201 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/only-nagpur-and-akola-dists-report-covid-deaths-in-a-day/articleshow/80438711.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 25, 2021||Kolkata||UK funds stop, Church of North India steps in to aid 142-year-old home||KOLKATA: For 142 years, a tiny clerical wing, established inside the Oxford University in UK, used to fund a mission that would benefit orphans and seniors, who had none to look after them, in the heart of Behala. The mission is winding up in UK and will no longer be in a position to fund the massive project here, known popularly as Oxford Mission. The Kolkata Diocese of the Church of North India, to which the administration had been bequeathed, has taken up the responsibility of raising funds to ensure that the mission continues. At present, the mission looks after around 140 orphans, 115 extremely poor children from the neighbourhood and 100 senior citizens, who stay there, and 100 others in the area, who are supported by them. But funds crunch has hit the mission. In the recent times funds varied between Rs 54 lakhs and Rs 30 lakhs but the expenses have mounted to Rs 1.4 crore annually. “The scale of the mission is so huge that this will cause serious crisis. However, we cannot leave the beautiful project in the lurch and will try to raise funds to keep the project alive,” said Bishop Paritosh Canning, head of the Kolkata diocese. In 1879, the bishop of Calcutta, Edward Ralph Johnson, wrote to the Oxford University for help by sending educated clerics who can help spread English education and work among the poor. Ten clerics gathered at the Canon (later Bishop) King’s room at Christ Church inside the university to form the Brotherhood of Epiphany and the Oxford Mission came into being. Right from building a school to developing the greens into professional sports arena, several projects have been planned to bring in funds for the cash-strapped mission. “Unfortunately, the greens are under the threat of encroachment too and we have sought help from people,” said Bishop Canning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/uk-funds-stop-cni-steps-in-to-aid-142-yr-old-home/articleshow/80438710.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 25, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Poll mode: CPM state panel meetings to start on Feb 2||T’puram/Thrissur: After the LDF state committee meeting scheduled on Wednesday, where the broad guideline for assembly election preparations and seat sharing will be discussed, CPM state secretariat and state committee will meet here from Feb 2-4 to formulate party’s strategies for the assembly poll. CPM politburo and central committee (CC) will meet from Jan 28 to 31 and these meetings will also discuss election preparations in Kerala and West Bengal. The state panel meetings have been scheduled soon after the CC meeting so that guidelines prepared by CC will act as leading documents for finalizing guidelines for candidate selection and campaign strategies. As a general principle, CPM has been introducing new faces in constituencies where legislators had completed two consecutive terms. However, senior leaders and candidates who are indispensable are given exemption. The practice will continue this time too. CPM’s experiment of fielding young candidates and more women during local body polls yielded good results for the party. The experiment will partly continue in assembly election too. There is a proposal to field new faces in at least 40% of the seats. With the Pinarayi Vijayan government seeking re-election, most of the incumbent ministers will get another term to contest. Though a few ministers, including MM Mani and TP Ramakrishnan prefer a break owing to health reasons, state committee will take a decision considering the victory quotient in their constituencies concerned. A few senior leaders like P Rajeeve and KN Balagopal may be fielded. CPM acting state secretary Vijayaraghavan on Sunday said in Thrissur that his party will not follow UDF’s practice of repeatedly fielding the same candidate for elections. “This is a dangerous practice being followed by UDF. A person withdraws from electoral battlefield either after his death or complete rout in polls. They field the same candidate for 25 or 50 years. The recent tendency is to field daughters and sons to ensure dynastic continuity. CPM will not adopt this practice,’’ Vijayaraghavan told reporters during a house-visit programme in Thrissur. The CPM leader said his party was trying to elicit the views of the public on various points, to be included in the election manifesto, as part of the programme. The sentiments of the people gathered by CPM leaders during the weeklong house visit campaign across the state will also be compiled as a report and discussed in the state secretariat and state committee meetings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/poll-mode-cpm-state-panel-meetings-to-start-on-feb-2/articleshow/80438709.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Complaint against judicial magistrate||Ahmeadabad: A 35-year-old woman has lodged a complaint against her husband — a judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) — for allegedly forcing her for unnatural sex. The woman — mother of a twin boy and girl — also alleged mental and physical torture by her husband and in-laws, all residents of Bopal. The complaint was lodged with the Women police (east) on Friday. The woman was married to the accused in May 2009. “The woman alleged that when she became pregnant, the doctor had advised the couple against any sexual relationship but her husband would insist on that and used to beat her up,” said a senior police official. The woman has levelled serious charges of domestic violence against her husband. According to the FIR, the accused also used to beat their son. The complainant said that her husband has filed a case of divorce against her in a family court. Woman police officials are verifying the details mentioned in the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/complaint-against-judicial-magistrate/articleshow/80438747.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Mumbai||‘Act against Abu Azmi for Moin Mian comment’||MUMBAI: A group of followers of spiritual leader Syed Moin Ashraf Quadri, or Moin Mian, filed a police complaint and demanded action against Samajwadi Party leader and MLA Abu Asim Azmi, who they accused of offending and hurting sentiments of the followers by linking Moin Mian to a drug syndicate. In a complaint to police commissioner Param Bir Singh, All India Sunni Jamiautul Ulema’s general secretary Maulana Maqsood Ali said that Azmi offended a number of Moin Mian’s followers when he talked about the spiritual leader’s “possible links” with the drug syndicate. Recently, one of Moin Mian’s followers, Asif Sardar, was arrested in a drug peddling case. — Mohammed Wajihuddin||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/act-against-abu-azmi-for-moin-mian-comment/articleshow/80439863.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
January 25, 2021||Kochi||Soon, hospital-like facilities & care at home for sick, elderly in Kochi||KOCHI: City private hospitals are in the process of launching home care packages for the sick and elderly. In post-Covid times, not just medical workers, but oxygen cylinders and even intravenous equipment will be provided at patients’ homes. “This is the need of the hour and Covid only accelerated it,” said Aster Medcity, Kochi, COO Ambili Vijayaraghavan. “Taking hospital services home ensures continuity of treatment and convenience for the patients and relatives.” The focus mainly would be on pain management. Even private old-age homes in Kochi are following the hospitals, by asking their nursing staff and doctors to provide basic healthcare facilities at homes. Joseph Alex, Managing Trustee, Signature Foundation says, “Many things can be handled at home and we can avoid unwanted hospitalization. Of course, certain procedures and treatments require hospital admission. But with skilled medical professionals and nursing facilities reaching home, one can reduce unnecessary hospitalizations for their sick relatives.” The Foundation that runs an old-age home here has started a ‘Doctor on Wheels’ service. A palliative physician along with the nursing team would visit homes of the elderly or terminally ill patients in the city and prescribe medicines or would attend nursing interventions like suction, catheter care, enema administration, bedsore dressing, colostomy and tracheostomy care, and ECG. The hospital-at-home concept was implemented in the district during the peak of Covid-19. It was intended to ensure pharma service, blood tests and vital check-ups for those in quarantine. “Initially there were apprehensions whether it was a workable model. But now post-Covid there is a huge demand for such services and we have decided to cater to the same by providing follow-up treatment at home for those discharged from hospital after treatment,” said Dr Sunny P Orathel, medical superintendent, Rajagiri Hospital. For the relatives of chronic and old patients, it is considered to be a win-win situation. They say that not only does it save time and money on transportation, but also reduces stress. “Ensuring personal care and support at home helps delay unwanted hospitalisation. A doctor and nurse reaching out to you at home for medical help is a big help in post-Covid times,” said Ajitha Sunil from Manjumel, whose father is bedridden and has lifestyle diseases. She has sought the services of ‘Doctor on Wheels’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/soon-hospital-like-facilities-care-at-home-for-sick-elderly/articleshow/80437707.cms||Preetu Nair
January 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: DNA analysis may re-unite cubs with their mother||AHMEDABAD: After a lot of dilly-dally, the state forest department has gone for a DNA analysis in a bid to reunite two lioness cubs with their mother. The samples of the cubs and the lioness, suspected to be their mother, were taken recently and sent to Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad for DNA analysis, said a senior forest official in the know of the matter. The results of the DNA analysis are awaited, he added. The development comes more than three months after the forest department rescued three cubs near Virpur village from Visavadar forest range. Earlier, some forest officials at Gir had tried to conclude that the cubs were ‘abandoned’ and that there was no trace of their mother.  This is something unheard of, according to wildlife experts as Asiatic lioness are not known for deserting as many as three cubs altogether. The suspected mother, whose sample is taken for matching purpose, was captured by the forest department for attacking a child. The incident took place, a fortnight before the cubs were found. The lioness was released in the last week of October after the forest department’s investigation showed that the attack was an accident and she was not a man-eater. What happened next made field staff of the forest department believe more strongly that the captured lioness could indeed be the mother. For she, upon her release in Rajpara area of Visavadar forest range, ran all the way to Virpur village, about 35 kilometers away. The lioness, who has been radio collared for tracking purpose, made roaring calls as if she was looking for her cubs. “But there were no attempts by the forest officials to try and bring the cubs in close vicinity of the lioness in a well-guarded manner,” said a wildlife expert close to the matter. The cubs were put in Sakkarbaug zoo where one of them died. Soon a senior forest department official ordered an inquiry into the matter. As a result, the DNA testing of the cubs and the suspected lioness was done in the presence of chief conservator of forests (CCF) of Junagadh Circle. The results will now show if the cubs can be united with their mother or is this a rarest of the rare case where three lion cubs were abandoned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dna-analysis-may-re-unite-cubs-with-their-mother/articleshow/80438734.cms||Maulik Pathak
January 25, 2021||Goa||Forest dept’s turtle conservation efforts bearing results on Canacona beaches||Poinguinim: As many as 911 Olive Ridley turtle eggs have been protected at the seven hatcheries in Galgibaga, and a total of 664 eggs have been collected from five nests at Agonda since the start of the turtle nesting this season, forest officials said. While turtle nesting is being affected by a number of human-connected, environmental and climatic factors, range forest officer (RFO) Vikramaditya Gaonkar said that round-the-clock vigil at Galgibaga and Agonda nesting sites in Canacona by forest officials is helping turtle nesting. Gaonkar said, “Various factors are leading to the gradual decrease in the arrival of the flippered creatures, including light pollution on seashore, fishing activities, water pollution, climate change and even erosion on beaches. But forest department officials are carrying out patrolling even through the night to save the eggs from threats like stray dogs on the two beaches of Agonda and Galgibaga.” The first female Olive Ridley turtle of the season appeared on Galgibaga beach on December 23, 2020 and laid 135 eggs. Since then forest officials, under the state’s turtle conservation programme, have protected 911 eggs at the 7 hatcheries set up close to the turtle interpretation centre at each of the beaches. Gaonkar also said that his department is happy to see that within 17 days as many as five flippered visitors arrived on Agonda beach and laid 664 eggs which have been collected from the nests and relocated in the hatcheries for incubation and protection. “The turtle conservation programme is helping protect the turtles till they are hatched and released into the sea”, Gaonkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/forest-depts-turtle-conservation-efforts-bearing-results-on-canacona-beaches/articleshow/80439867.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Pune||‘Spot vaccination’ has cut wastage of doses in Maharashtra: Officials||PUNE: On-the-spot vaccination of registered but unscheduled beneficiaries has drastically reduced vaccine wastage in the state, with officials saying they have been able to fully use the day’s last-opened vials. Each vaccine vial, with about 10 doses, needs to be used within four hours of opening. But vaccinators, during the three days before the walk-in policy was implemented, said doses from their sessions’ last vials were going to waste because of low turnout. Observers said 285 session sites — due to low turnouts — had no choice but discard doses after administering the first three to five doses from a vial. They estimate an average of 1,000 doses were being wasted every day. But that has reduced considerably ever since site in-charges were allowed to utilise remaining doses by calling colleagues who have registered on CoWIN. They have been allowed to do so if the day’s beneficiary count is low. State immunization officer Dileep Patil said, “Wastage was at a minimum even during the first three days of the drive as we had instructed every centre in-charge to open a vaccine vial only if there were 10 beneficiaries present. But after the introduction of spot vaccinations, there has been a further drop in wastage.” Officials said they were particularly concerned about the day’s last vials. Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of the state health department, said, “Several times, it so happened that the vaccinator had to open a vial to finish the inoculation of those who had turned up, before closing the day’s vaccination session. And if there weren’t nine to 10 beneficiaries present, the rest of the doses were discarded. But on-the-spot vaccination has significantly reduced wastage of this last-opened vial.” An in-charge of the vaccination site at Ruby Hall Clinic, said, “We can now immediately call our own employees if we see the day’s scheduled beneficiaries have stopped turning up. This helps in timely administration of doses from an opened vial and reduces wastage.” The state currently accepts a one-dose loss per vial. Mistakes can occur while filling up a syringe. “But our vaccinators are well-trained. Many have years of experience working in large-scale immunization programmes. So wastage while filling up is almost non-existent at most centres,” said Ashish Bharati, chief of the Pune Municipal Corporation’s health department. Every site is currently allowed to carry out the vaccination of 100 registered healthcare workers who are randomly selected a day before the session. “If we come to know a site is likely to have low turnout, we can send in our members living nearby to receive their shots,” said Sanjay Patil, chairman of the IMA’s Hospital Board of India (HBI).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/spot-vaccination-has-cut-wastage-of-doses-officials/articleshow/80438716.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 25, 2021||Pune||491 people test Covid positive in Pune, 414 recover||PUNE: As many as 491 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Pune Metropolitan Region on Sunday, taking the progressive caseload to over 3.76 lakh. In the same 24-hour window — till 8pm on Sunday — 414 patients recovered from the contagion. With this, the total number of recoveries in PMR has gone up to nearly 3.63 lakh. Four people succumbed to the virus during this period. The region’s death toll stood at 9,012. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported the highest number of cases at 208, while Pimpri Chinchwad had 135 new cases. The rural areas added 123 patients, while municipal councils (20) and cantonments (5) made up the rest. PMC also led the pack in recoveries, reporting 229 discharged patients on Sunday. As many as 111 people recovered in the rural areas, while 44 patients were discharged in Pimpri Chinchwad. Twenty-three people recovered in municipal council limits and seven in cantonment areas. As of Sunday, there were 4,967 active cases in the region — 1,991 patients were being treated in hospitals, while 2,976 people were under home quarantine. As per data available with PMC, 293 patients were being treated with oxygen support at hospitals in its jurisdiction and 206 patients were in a critical condition. Out of four fatalities reported in PMR on Sunday, PMC areas accounted for three, while one patient succumbed in the rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/491-people-test-ve-414-recover/articleshow/80438720.cms||---
January 25, 2021||India||Two health workers die days after vaccination||HYDERABAD/VISAKHAPATNAM: Two women health workers died on Sunday in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, days after they were administered the Covishield vaccine. With this, eight health workers have died across the country after they were given Covid-19 vaccine. However, none of these deaths were found to be related to the vaccine. Authorities in both the states clarified that the deaths were unrelated to the vaccine, and it was just a coincidence that both the health workers received the jab on January 19. While a 45-year-old healthcare worker was given the vaccine at Shayampet in Warangal Urban district of Telangana, a 42-year-old Asha (accredited social health activist) worker was vaccinated in Guntur district of AndhraPradesh. The Warangal worker developed chest pain and uneasiness while the Asha worker in Guntur died of a brain stroke in the early hours of Sunday. While health officials in Telangana maintained that the death of the Warangal worker was not related to the vaccine, the state’s public health director, Dr G Srinivasa Rao, said late in the evening that postmortem examination had been completed “but we could not establish anything. Samples are being sent for further investigation to central forensic laboratory”. Rao added that the patient did not have any known comorbidities, except psychological issues. Earlier, public health department said that the Warangal Urban District adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) committee was examining the matter and will submit its report to the state AEFI committee. In both the cases, family members alleged that the health workers died after severe adverse reaction following the vaccination. The family of the Guntur worker protested outside the government hospital and they were joined by other health workers aswell||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/two-health-workers-die-days-after-vaccination/articleshow/80440841.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 25, 2021||Kochi||With no plan in place, Kochi corporation fund may go down the drain||KOCHI: In an effort to contain waterlogging, Kochi corporation has decided to allot Rs 4.88 crore to district disaster management authority (DDMA) for meeting the expenses of work to be carried out for containing waterlogging in the city. But, lack of clarity on how to implement the project is a major hurdle. It was after a high court order Kochi corporation decided to provide the sum to DDMA. As per an estimate prepared by officials associated with Operation Breakthrough, Rs.4.88 crore would be required for carrying out various work in this regard. “The work mainly include renovation of Mullassery canal, Kareethodu parallel to Palarivattom-Vyttila national highway bypass, cleaning of Punchathodu and cleaning of various interlinking canals along Vaduthala-Atlantis stretch,” sources associated with the project said. “The plan was to entrust all these work with Operation Breakthrough team. But, some of the corporation councillors have already demanded that the work should be carried out by engineers of the local body,” sources said. Operation Breakthrough team had requested the district administration to conduct survey with the support of authentic documents like Thandaper register and identify the original boundaries of Mullassery canal. “However, authorities are not ready to conduct the survey and fix the boundaries. The original width of the canal has been shrunk following rampant encroachments. Moreover, local body authorities concreted the canal bed thereby raising it by more than one-and-a-half feet. This has reduced the carrying capacity of the canal. We will have to restore the original depth of the canal,” an official associated with Operation Breakthrough said. At the same time, Kochi corporation has also plans to introduce some other projects with the financial support of the Union government for the renovation of Mullassery canal. Another hindrance in the way of carrying out the work by Operation Breakthrough team is that the authorities haven’t paid the bills of the contractors who already carried out Rs 10 crore works as part of the project. So, key officials who are part of Operation Breakthrough are not ready to undertake the responsibility of carrying out further works. Meanwhile, the corporation has decided to start desilting of small drains in the city. Mayor M Anilkumar said a meeting of all the standing committee chairpersons will soon be conducted for discussing how to conduct cleaning of drains effectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/with-no-plan-in-place-corp-fund-may-go-down-the-drain/articleshow/80437758.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||Allow bird flu testing at Mafsu lab: Maharashtra minister||NAGPUR: The state’s minister for animal husbandry Sunil Kedar said there is no threat of bird flu to humans. “The actions being taken by the department are only to control spread of the disease from birds to poultry. If not controlled, it may end up wiping out a large number of poultry livestock, leaving the farmers in losses,” he said. Kedar said he has written to the Centre that tests for bird flu should be allowed to be done at Maharashtra Animal and Fisheries Sciences University (Mafsu) lab at Nagpur also. At present, the tests are done at Western Regional Disease Diagnostics Laboratory (WRDL) at Pune, from where the samples are further sent to National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases at Bhopal. Sources said the Mafsu facility can diagnose the virus, though not isolate and propagate the microbe. “It is enough to test the samples of bird carcass,” said the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/allow-bird-flu-testing-at-mafsu-lab-kedar/articleshow/80438731.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Pune||‘Thanks to vaccines, an end to a long chapter of suffering is within sight’||PUNE: When I got my first vaccine jab last week, I felt this immense wave of relief come over me. The end to a long chapter of suffering finally seemed within reach. Our world hasn’t been normal since last March, and Pune, almost immediately, found itself right in the middle of it all. The worst period was from July through September. At Ruby Hall Clinic, where I work, we had over 4,000 Covid-19 patients. More than a thousand of them were critically ill. Scores were in turmoil — a daughter couldn’t see her ailing elderly parents who had been isolated; a couple who had been sickened worried about their children at home. Patients and their families suffered physically, emotionally and financially. As doctors on the frontlines, we were scarred by deaths and constantly worried about our patients. My family became increasingly concerned about my own health. I was spending long hours at the hospital, without weekly offs. And my absence from home added to their anxiety and unease. No one knew what the future held. Which is why that needle brought about such relief. We have lost colleagues to this virus. So I do believe the vaccines are our best shot. They will protect healthcare workers, who will go on to save more lives. As a doctor, I can say with much confidence the inoculation drive will bring this world back on track. (The writer is chief intensivist and head of the neurotrauma unit at Ruby Hall Clinic)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/thanks-to-vaccines-an-end-to-a-long-chapter-of-suffering-is-within-sight/articleshow/80438737.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Kochi||US native found dead at homestay in Fort Kochi||KOCHI: In case of suspected suicide, a 68-year-old US native was found dead at a homestay in Fort Kochi on Sunday morning. David M Pearson, a native of Pennsylvania, who has been staying at the homestay in Njaliparambu in Fort Kochi for the past two years, was found dead in the balcony of his room. According to the police, Pearson, a divorcee, was staying alone at the homestay after renting it out two years back. It was reportedly his birthday on Sunday and had consumed alcohol with a friend till early morning and went to bed only around 5am. It was the friend who found him dead in the balcony around 11am and alerted the homestay owner, who informed Fort Kochi police. Fort Kochi police completed the inquest formalities and the body was shifted to the mortuary at Ernakulam general hospital. “Prima facie it is a case of suicide but more details will be available only after the postmortem. The victim’s son is reportedly lodged in a US prison and he was said to be upset over it. We have searched the room and examined the belongings of the deceased. A case of unnatural death has been registered and police have launched a probe,” said an officer. The forensic team too inspected the room. The postmortem will be conducted after testing for Covid-19. Details of the deceased have been handed over to foreigners regional registration officer who will have to contact the embassy and find details about him and relatives. According to homestay officials, Pearson has been leading a retired life with having confined to the homestay most times. “He was a very friendly and warm person,” said a homestay official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/us-native-found-dead-at-homestay-in-fort-kochi/articleshow/80437784.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Natya Parishad’s theatre festival puts spotlight back on the stage||NAGPUR: A theatre festival in memory of veteran Prakash Lunge organized at the Scientific Society Hall on Sunday marked the much-awaited re-start of ‘onstage’ amateur theatre activity. Organized by the Nagpur Mahanagar Shakha (city branch) of the Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Natya Parishad, the day-long theatrical activity saw one-act plays from Nagpur, Chandrapur, Indore and two mono-acts by renowned actors from the city. Organizers, guests and audiences followed Covid-19 guidelines strictly. Vanarai President Dr Girish Gandhi presided over the inaugural function while Bahujan Vichar Manch’s Narendra Jichkar inaugurated the event. Actor Jayant Gadekar, Chef Vishnu Manohar, theatre activist Anil Chakherkar and Professor Sanyukta Thorat from RTMNU’s Lalit Kala Vibhag also graced the occasion. Veterans of Nagpur’s amateur theatre were felicitated. “Being the first theatrical event post-lockdown, we designed it in a unique way. One-act plays, mono-act and theatrical presentation of a short story are three different aspects of theatre. All of them were presented in the festival,” said Salim Sheikh, president of Natya Parishad Nagpur Kendra. The day began with Talyat Malyat, a play which was formerly directed by Prakash Lunge himself. Theatre activist Sanjay Bhakre re-directed it as a tribute to Lunge. It was an emotional roller coaster ride of a young married couple. Lead actors Samradhni Vaidya and Sachin Giri brilliantly portrayed the issues that almost every couple faces a few years after their relationship. The play was written by Sagar Deshmukh. “My entire family is grateful to the Natya Parishad Nagpur for dedicating a theatre festival in memory of my brother Prakash Lunge. It’s great to see theatre activists in Nagpur remember his contribution,” said Madhukar, brother of late Prakash Lunge. Senior theatre activist Kishore Ayalwar was all praise for the organizers. “It was an impressive as well as disciplined event. Theatre resumed after a long Covid break and I’m all for it,” he said. Veteran social activist Baba Deshpande said the event was memorable. “All of us remembered Prakash Lunge and the golden days of theatre. Everybody followed Covid norms which added to the beauty of the event,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/natya-parishads-theatre-festival-puts-spotlight-back-on-the-stage/articleshow/80438762.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 25, 2021||Bareilly||Captured PTR stray tiger set free in Dudhwa||Pilibhit: A three-year-old stray tiger of Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR) that was tranquilized on Saturday evening was released deep into the core forest of South Sonaripur forest range of Dudhwa tiger reserve at about 8.30 am on Sunday. After the tiger was tranquilized at Kakraua village, under Madhotanda police station, it was taken to Garha forest guest house in PTR’s Mala forest range for medical examination before releasing it. The tiger had strayed out of PTR’s Barahi forest range on November 29 and moved from village to village in Puranpur and Kalinagar tehsil areas. Villagers heaved a sigh of relief on learning about its capture. The forest department officials here believe that the tiger had strayed out of the wild due to the scarcity of space it could mark out as its own territory. Cubs leave their mother at the age of three. Wildlife experts said the total core forest area of PTR is 60279.80 hectares and has the capacity of accommodating a maximum of 25 - 26 tigers. However, as per the estimation report of the National Tiger Conservation Authority for 2018, tiger population has gone up to 65 in the reserve “As the tiger had been found to be absolutely healthy during the medical examination, we ensured its release at the earliest so that it did feel any irritation due to confinement in the cage. Consequently, it was released early on Sunday morning,” said Lalit Verma, chief conservator of forest. The tiger was escorted to DTR by additional principal chief conservator of forest (project tiger) Kamlesh Kumar, officiating field director of PTR Javed Akhtar, divisional forest officer Sanjeev Kumar and veterinary officer of PTR, Dr Daksh Gangwar. The moment the gate of the cage was lifted, the tiger jumped out and disappeared amid the dense vegetation of the forest, said DFO Sanjeev Kumar. Sanjay Kumar Pathak, field director of DTR, said as the tiger has a tendency of straying out of the wild, it was released at a spot that had core forest in a radius of at least 10 km with low density of big cats. “This will almost wipe out the possibility of its straying and also infighting for territorial dominance. The field forest staff has been directed to keep a close watch on the tiger’s movement,” added Pathak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/captured-ptr-stray-tiger-set-free-in-dudhwa/articleshow/80436312.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 25, 2021||Pune||Pune: ZP wants gram panchayat staffers included in Phase 2 of Covid vaccine drive||PUNE: Pune Zilla Parishad CEO Ayush Prasad has that his administration has urged deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar to include nearly 20,000 gram sevaks and employees of the nearly 1,400 gram panchayats and teachers in Phase 2 of the Covid vaccination drive. Currently phase 1 of the drive is on, which includes frontline healthcare workers (HCWs) such as doctors, nurses and other key patient-facing staff. Phase 2 is set to include frontline personnel, including members of police units and disaster response teams. Prasad said, “These staffers put in tremendous effort during the peak months of the pandemic. The My Family, My Responsibility survey was the most important task. Teachers at ZP schools worked sincerely. And gram sevaks assisted scores of villagers when we were laying out containment zones. This is why we have urged the deputy chief minister to make them all a part of of phase 2." Dr DN Patil, state immunisation officer, told TOI on Sunday that gram sevaks, gram panchayat workers and teachers, who were all part of the frontline force would be included in phase 2, which is expected to start after two months. “Before phase 2 starts, our plan is to shortlist those who have worked as a frontline worker during the "My Family..." survey. We will starting work on that effort in the days to come," he said. Apart from HCWs, Patil said other frontline workers are indeed keen on getting themselves vaccinated. "But that will happen only after the first batch of HCWs received their two doses, which will be a mammoth task," he said. Eknath Dhakne, president of the Maharashtra state gram sevaks association, said, “A total of 30 gram sevaks in the state died due to Covid while performing frontline duties. They need to be vaccinated during phase 2. We have sent our demands to health minister Rajesh Tope, who has, in principle, agreed. But there has been no order yet." Sandip Pokale, a high-school teacher who has carried out extensive surveys of Covid-hit villages near the Chakan MIDC area, said, "Whenever we were called, we performed our duty without second thought. We expect the government to consider our names for the second phase."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-urges-deputy-cm-to-include-gram-panchayat-staffers-in-phase-ii-of-vaccination/articleshow/80438749.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 25, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: ‘Work-from-nature’ option soon at MTDC resorts||PUNE: The Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) have come up with a plan to offer working professionals a change of setting by allowing them to work remotely from the scenic MTDC properties. Under their new ‘Work-From-Nature’ campaign, the MTDC have made unlimited WiFi available at their select properties at a nominal cost. “We have made WiFi zones most visited resorts to rule out any connectivity issues. At our property located in the middle of the rainforest in Matheran, we have provided four WiFi zones. At our Mahabaleshwar property located in the forest area, we have initiated the work-from nature campaign on a trial basis by providing WiFi services,” Deepak Harne, regional manager (Pune) of MTDC, said. “The plan is to provide WiFi zones in all of our resorts that are located in forest areas. There are seven operational resorts and two new ones that are yet to be launched, in the Pune region, which will have these added benefits. We plan to extent this facility to all 25 properties of MTDC across state in due time,” Harne said, adding that MTDC will be charging visitors not more than Rs100 per day for unlimited internet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/work-from-nature-option-soon-at-mtdc-properties/articleshow/80438740.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Do away with growing same crop all the time, urges Telangana CM||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday said agriculture market yards in the state will continue to be live with the support of the government. In an eight hour-long review meeting on agriculture and marketing departments on Sunday, he advised officials to devise a method where farmers systematically sell their produce at the yards. “Despite the farm laws diluting the functioning of the market yards, they will be active in the state. Even if cess is not collected due to the new farm laws, the state government will provide funds to strengthen the marketing department,” he said. Placing more responsibility on marketing department officials to prod farmers adopt viable crops, the CM told officials to educate farmers on new methods of farming which could give them benefit of Rs 10,000 per acre. There should be continuous effort at mandal-level by agriculture officers and agri economists. He said the method of going for same crop all the time should be done away. He also asked the officials to strengthen agriculture marketing department, set up market research wing soon, Rythu Bandhu Samiti offices and agriculture extension offices should be part of Rythu Vedikas. Elaborating on the progress made since formation of Telangana, he said the state made great strides and became a hub of paddy production in the country. He asked the officials to make an estimate of how much paddy was coming market wise and how much buying capacity traders have. There should be easy trading licence methods in the markets, he added. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has entrusted the responsibility of addressing issues of woman government employees to his secretary Smita Sabharwal. During the lunch break of the review, he interacted with the woman employees and told them that amenities would be provided for them to work hassle-free at offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/do-away-with-growing-same-crop-all-the-time-urges-cm/articleshow/80438744.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||Naib tehsildar, talathi stabbed by sand smugglers||YAVATMAL: Umarkhed naib tehsildar Vaibhav Pawar and talathi Gajanan Surose were beaten up and stabbed by sand smugglers when they tried to stop vehicles transporting illegally excavated sand on Umarkhed-Dhanki road on Saturday night. According to sources, one Avinash Chavan and his accomplices were transporting sand on Saturday night when both Pawar and Surose intercepted the vehicles. When the duo asked for papers related to the sand transportation, the men accompanying the vehicles assaulted both Pawar and Surose. The smugglers also stabbed the duo and fled. Both the injured managed to inform their colleagues about the assault and they were rushed to Umarkhed hospital for first aid. Both Pawar and Surose were later shifted to Nanded hospital. Condition of both the injured is reported to be stable. Taking note of the attack on revenue department employees, collector M Devendar Singh has instructed sub-divisional officer (SDO) and sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) of Pusad to take stringent action against sand smugglers. The collector has also instructed police to arrest the main accused Chavan and his accomplices. Earlier, revenue department employees, including naib tehsildars and talathis, had protested demanding police protection as well as issuing weapons for their protection. A first information report (FIR) has been registered with Umarkhed police station. No arrests were made till filing the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/naib-tehsildar-talathi-stabbed-by-sand-smugglers/articleshow/80438742.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: AAP wins 145 village poll seats of 300 it contested||MUMBAI: Aam Aadmi Party members have been elected to the entire panel of four villages in three districts across the state . These include two in Gadchiroli district and one each in Latur and Solapur. The party contested 300 seats in 13 districts and has won 145 on its own. About 50% of those elected are women. Results of some villages in Gadchiroli were out on Friday. At a press conference in Mumbai on Saturday, party secretary Preeti Sharma Menon said a majority of those elected are women. “The party has won 41 seats in Yavatmal in Vidarbha that saw the maximum farmer suicides. The gram panchayat poll results show people are tired of traditional political parties like Congress, Shiv Sena, NCP and BJP... but their rule does not benefit the aam aadmi...” said Menon. The party will now contest the zilla parishad as well as the municipal elections this year. “We invite all like-minded people to join us. Our party is on the rise in Maharashtra,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aap-wins-145-village-poll-seats-of-300-it-contested/articleshow/80430157.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 25, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: AAP wins 145 village poll seats of 300 it contested||MUMBAI: Aam Aadmi Party members have been elected to the entire panel of four villages in three districts across the state . These include two in Gadchiroli district and one each in Latur and Solapur. The party contested 300 seats in 13 districts and has won 145 on its own. About 50% of those elected are women. Results of some villages in Gadchiroli were out on Friday. At a press conference in Mumbai on Saturday, party secretary Preeti Sharma Menon said a majority of those elected are women. “The party has won 41 seats in Yavatmal in Vidarbha that saw the maximum farmer suicides. The gram panchayat poll results show people are tired of traditional political parties like Congress, Shiv Sena, NCP and BJP... but their rule does not benefit the aam aadmi...” said Menon. The party will now contest the zilla parishad as well as the municipal elections this year. “We invite all like-minded people to join us. Our party is on the rise in Maharashtra,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/aap-wins-145-village-poll-seats-of-300-it-contested/articleshow/80426723.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Laakhon ki galti’ in tribal development outlay||Ahmedabad: A measly Rs 103: That’s the amount that the state’s climate change department is going to spend on tribal development in the ongoing financial year. Wait. Before you think that the climate in the climate change department really needs to change, this was actually the result of a clerical error in the state government’s tribal sub-plan which put the annual expenditure for tribal development at Rs 14.1 lakh instead of the actual Rs 14,000 crore. The error was brought to the notice of the authorities, but the flawed document remained posted on the official website of Gujarat’s tribal development department until Tuesday evening. With the word ‘lakhs’ missing in the document, the allocation of various departments for tribal development makes for an amusing reading. For instance, if the document is taken at face value, the state’s legal department has allocated a meagre Rs 2,316, the information and broadcasting department has allotted a paltry Rs 1,845, and the climate change department has set apart Rs 103 for tribal development. Officials said it is the job of the State’s planning department, which functions under the general administration department (GAD), to compile sub-plans for all departments of the state government. A document erroneously showing Rs 14.1 lakh as budgetary expenditure for tribal development should have caught the attention of the authorities as it is mandatory to spend about 15% of the State’s annual budget outlay on tribal development. "It is a clerical mistake. It is mandatory to allot 14% to 15% of the State’s total expenditure for tribal development. The actual amount is over Rs 14,000 crore," confirmed Secretary (tribal development) Anupam Anand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/laakhon-ki-galti-in-tribal-development-outlay/articleshow/80438759.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
January 25, 2021||Mumbai||Cash-strapped BMC to float infra bonds, raise Rs 4,000 crore||MUMBAI: Facing a cash crunch amid falling revenues and increased Covid spending, the BMC will soon float ‘Municipal Infrastructure Bonds’ to raise money from the market to pay for big-ticket infrastructure projects after two years. The BMC, Asia’s richest civic body, is expecting to raise Rs 3,000-Rs 4,000 crore. “This will be a Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI)-regulated financial product like other bonds. Currently, BMC’s financial and credit credentials are good, so we are expecting to get an interest rate of 6%-6.5% if we float the bonds now,” a senior civic official said. “The bond period will be 10-15 years.” The senior official said that the BMC currently has enough funds to spend on ongoing projects like the Mumbai Coastal Road and Goregaon-Mulund Link Road, but is expecting a cash crunch after 2023. “We will need money to finance major projects like the sewage treatment plants and Mithi river rejuvenation whose costs range from Rs 300 crore to Rs 1,000 crore,” he said. “The details of the infrastructure bonds will be revealed in the upcoming civic budget. We will appoint a consultant to work out the financial modalities and an elaborate credit rating process will be carried out,” the official added. In 2019, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation had raised Rs 200 crore by selling ‘muni bonds’ for funding urban infrastructure development. With a maturity of five years, the bonds offered an interest rate of 8.7%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cash-strapped-bmc-to-float-infra-bonds-raise-rs-4000-crore/articleshow/80438771.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 25, 2021||Mumbai||Corrigendum||In the TOI report titled 'Reunited by WFH, long-distance couples learn to live together', the names of Maithili Sonar and Jigar Chavda were used inadvertently. The inconvenience is regretted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/corrigendum/articleshow/80439872.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||Get ready for wild sightings at International Zoological Park at Gorewada||NAGPUR: The stage is set for the opening of the country’s largest Balasaheb Thackeray Gorewada International Zoological Park on January 26, covering an area of more than 564 hectares. Overall, Gorewada is spread across 1,914 hectares. On Tuesday evening, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will throw open the Indian safari, the first phase of the project in 115 hectares. It consists of leopard, sloth bear, herbivore and tiger safaris. Forest minister Sanjay Rathod, other VIPs and forest officials will remain present. Overall, the safari is divided into four segments, covering a 12km route. It starts from the leopard safari and ends with the tiger safari. There are 7 leopards (2 male & 5 females), two tigers (Lee & Rajkumar), six sloth bears, 14 nilgais and 4 chitals. “We plan to introduce two more tigers in the safari. The entire show will be run by us,” said N Vasudevan, managing director of Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM), which is executing the project. On the proposed Phase II, Vasudevan said, “We will complete the next phase in one year as the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) has granted approval to the master plan of Phase-II which includes the African safari, tribal trail, night safari, biopark and a trail of senses. The government has spent Rs60 crore on the Indian safari.” Of the Rs452 crore project, the viability gap funding (VGF) by the state government was Rs200 crore while the remaining fund was to be brought by Essel World. “The MoU signed with the private partner hangs in the balance. We will have to either see another partner or if funds are provided by the state we will go ahead on our own,” said Vasudevan. During a preview of the safari, though no leopards or tigers were sighted, home minister Anil Deshmukh, who visited the park on Sunday morning, was lucky to sight both. “As the animals are still not familiar with the entire area and were habitual living close doors, it will take some time for them to settle,” Vasudevan told the media. PCCF (HoFF) N Rambabu, PCCF (wildlife) NH Kakodkar and other officials were present. All four safaris are connected with tall fences and automated gates that help one to enter another safari. There is no scope for animals to enter each others’ area. The leopard, tiger, and bear safaris in 25 hectares each and herbivore in 40 hectares have big water ponds which will have round-the-clock water. Apart from the night shelter, the entire area is an open forest with small trees and grassland for animal movement. Most of the forest has thin vegetation. “The cave and prototype of dilapidated houses in the leopard safari are symbolic to show how inviolate spaces have been created for the animals by taking up relocation. Some trees also have artificial images of vultures indicating its presence in the region,” said PCCF Rambabu. Visitors will be taken to the safari in air-conditioned buses with broad glass windows to maximize viewing pleasure. The park offers many ancillary facilities like a cafeteria, spacious parking area, selfie points etc to cater to the needs of the tourists. Care has been taken to provide a natural habitat to the animals in the safari by creating big termite mounds, natural-looking waterholes, reservoirs etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/get-ready-for-wild-sightings-at-intl-zoological-park-at-gorewada/articleshow/80438788.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Temples top priority for CM: KTR||HYDERABAD: In a response to BJP’s criticism on the TRS stand on donations to Ram temple in Ayodhya , TRS working president KTR tweeted that CM K Chandrasekhar Rao has temples as top priority. The municipal administration and urban development minister tweeted about the developmental works taken up by the TRS regime for Yadadri temple and said that this was a dream project of the chief minister.  “Building modern day temples like Kaleswaram and Palamuru on one hand and moulding Yadadri into a world class spiritual destination simultaneously. Kudos to his versatility” he said in a tweet. In another instance, youth wing activists of TRS and BJP locked horns in Karimnagar. Trouble began when TRS leaders tried to burn effigies of BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/temples-top-priority-for-cm-ktr/articleshow/80438764.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Pune||Private classes, libraries can reopen in PCMC areas||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has approved the resumption of private coaching classes, libraries, and skill-training institutes in non-containment zones. These include classes training typists, skill development, and computer classes. Civic chief Shravan Hardikar in his order said private coaching classes from standard IX onwards can resume their functioning after complying with Covid-19 safety measures. The notification said coaching classes must ensure all safety precautions of social distancing, sanitisation, RT-PCR tests of faculty, admin staff and non-teaching employees are conducted before they reopen. Masks, thermal scanning, sanitiser bottles at the entry point, safe distance between two benches will be mandatory. Vaibhav Bakliwal, director of Bakliwal Tutorials, said they have a branch in Chinchwad and were not in a rush to open. Students and teachers should have an option about joining classes physically or to continue online. A teacher at the private coaching class said the offline classes were more useful for students. Hardikar also said gardens outside the containment zones will remain open from 6am to 9am and 4pm to 7pm every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pvt-classes-libraries-permitted-to-reopen-in-pcmc-areas/articleshow/80438763.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||New Nagpur airport tender: Nitin Gadkari to talk to CM||NAGPUR: Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari is upset that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has scrapped the tender for new Nagpur airport and is not floating another one. Addressing the inaugural function for concretization of a portion of Inner Ring Road on Sunday, Gadkari said, "Devendra Fadnavis government had finalized the tender for the new international airport. This government cancelled it without assigning any reason. It has not bothered to float another tender for the airport. This is very distressing. I will talk to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in this regard. I appeal to Fadnavis to also take initiative on this issue." The minister said that he had sanctioned several works under the Central Road Fund (CRF). "In past six years I have sanctioned or got approved projects worth Rs86,000 crore in the city," he added. He said that the road from airport to Automotive Square would be concretized. "Fadnavis has already sanctioned the concretization of the road from Rani Jhansi Square to Ambazari T-point. I have recently sanctioned the proposal to concretize the road from Ambazari T-point to Hingna. The road to Jaitala will also be converted into a cement one," he added. The minister further said that a large number of flyovers would be built in the city. "So far you have just seen the trailer. The real movie is yet to begin," he added. Gadkari slams those defaming Metro Without taking the name of Jai Jawan Jai Kisan leader Prashant Pawar, Nitin Gadkari slammed him and his supporters for gambling and indulging in other unwanted activities inside Nagpur Metro. "MahaMetro officers are doing a good job but some elements are not liking this. So they indulge in activities to defame MahaMetro and the city. I had asked Metro managing director Brijesh Dixit to start ‘Celebration on Wheels’. It is sad that some people misused the facility," the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-airport-tender-gadkari-to-talk-to-cm/articleshow/80438767.cms||Ashish Roy
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||Five back-to-back murders prompt CP to press panic button||Nagpur: City police chief Amitesh Kumar has slipped into high alert mode to break the streak of five murders over last few days. The city has a murder average of around 95-100 per year. With five murders already recorded this month and another fortnight to go, city cops have pulled up their socks to prevent the average rate taking an upswing early in the year. The murder rate data of National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) for Nagpur city had already brought the city police under scanner. Even as new strategy is being adopted, police station in-charges have been spared merely with warnings. Kumar only sought clarifications, and had some stern words for senior officers as well as cops, but no formal action has been initiated. A former murder accused was stabbed to death at Mangalwari market this week in full public view with no cops present at the crowded place. Last year too, there had been a brutal murder at the same location. Even the bike-borne beat marshals had been missing from the crowded market. Moreover, there was no hint of the ongoing rivalry between the murdered goon and his assailants with Sadar police detection branch wing or intelligence unit. CP Kumar too said the murder at Mangalwari had left him concerned and admitted it was a law and order issue. “Corrective measures are being taken. Police officers and lower rung personnel are being told their roles and responsibilities categorically,” he said. “Around 6,000 criminals with records of 2,000 murders in the last 20 years are now under scanner. They are being summoned to police stations regularly,” he said. When asked why no formal action has been initiated, CP said strongly worded warnings have been issued and strict vigilance is being kept on compliance with strategy. In Ajni, a former murder accused was killed even when he had been regularly visiting the police station over a complaint lodged against him. “We have initiated massive surveillance drive against criminals with murder history after the Ajni incident,” he said. There had been a spate of murders at regular intervals at Yashodhara Nagar police station. Serious cases of assault too have become common at places like Kalamna, Hudkeshwar and Nandanvan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/five-back-to-back-murders-prompt-cp-to-press-panic-button/articleshow/80453054.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 25, 2021||Bareilly||Farmer under financial stress shoots himself dead in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: A 39-year-old Sikh farmer, identified as Gurpreet Singh of Hetamdandi village under Amaria police station, allegedly shot himself dead on Saturday night. His family said the victim was suffering from “acute depression” as he was facing acute financial crisis for the past one and a half years. Police sent the body for an autopsy.The family said the victim had a holding of six acres, but he had to sell two acres to repay bank loans, which could be a possible reason behind his depression.Besides, Singh had to meet the heavy expenditure of his sister’s marriage last year and the cardiac surgery of his father Kartar Singh four months ago, said the family. SHO Udai Veer Singh said upon getting information about the incident, police rushed to the spot and rushed Singh to the district government hospital in Pilibhit, where doctors proclaimed dead upon his arrival. According to the SHO, Singh is survived by his parents, wife and two children aged 7 and 10 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/farmer-under-financial-stress-shoots-himself-dead-in-pilibhit/articleshow/80436323.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 25, 2021||Rajkot||SUV knocks down bikers, 3 of a family die near Bhuj||Rajkot: Three persons of a family died and another was injured after their bikes were knocked down by an SUV near Bhuj air force station on Saturday night. The four victims, living at Ashapuranagar in Bhuj, were on their way to their dairy farm around 8 pm when the SUV driver knocked them down and fled away. Police said that the four victims - Hanif Sama (20), Aadreman Saleh Sama (21), Mushtaque Sama (17) and Taiyab Sama (20) - were taken to the GK General Hospital for treatment. All four suffered leg fractures and head injuries. Hanif and Aadreman died during treatment, while Mushtaque succumbed while being taken to Ahmedabad for further treatment. Doctors conducted a surgery on Taiyab on Sunday morning, but his condition is still critical. Based on Mushtaque’s grandfather Juma Sama’s complaint, an offence was registered against the unidentified SUV driver. Cops found the abandoned SUV in Bhuj. “We are trying to find out the owner of the SUV and arrest the accused driver soon,” said sub inspector V H Zala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/suv-knocks-down-bikers-3-of-a-family-die-near-bhuj/articleshow/80437161.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||No TRS &BJP alliance in Telangana: Bandi Sanjay Kumar||HYDERABAD: BJP Telangana chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar has challenged chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to announce publicly if there could be an alliance with BJP. Addressing a press conference on Sunday, the BJP chief said: “There will be no alliance with TRS and BJP in the state. KCR is trying to spread confusion by claiming to some officials and political leaders that there will be a TRS-BJP alliance.” “TRS leaders are being fed wrong information by their brass that there could be an alliance, but that is not at all true,” he said, adding “Instead of spreading canard, he should openly declare it”. He said that despite private teachers committing suicides, the state government was ignoring their issues. He said teachers had contributed to the Telangana movement, but the TRS regime was ignoring them along with private employees, who were with the pink party during the statehood agitation. “KCR had earlier said revenue employees were good, but now he is painting them as corrupt. TRS will be taught a lesson in the MLC elections,” he said. The Karimnagar MP also alleged that TRS was meting out injustice to the poor in the state . Replying to a question, he said it was TRS’ internal matter who should be the chief minister. “But don’t they have any choice other than KCR’s family in key posts.” Reacting to Sanjay’s comments, government whip and Alair MLA Gongidi Sunita said there was no need for TRS to have an alliance with any party, including BJP. “In future too in any election, we will win on our own. Sanjay should stop making false claims,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sanjay-no-trs-bjp-alliance-in-state/articleshow/80438773.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Kochi||HC orders action against school sans recognition||KOCHI: The high court has passed an order against the functioning of Arooja’s Little Stars School, Thoppumpady, for lack of infrastructure, proper building permits and requisite approvals, including no-objection certificate (NOC). The court directed Kochi corporation, education department, CBSE regional officer and district collector “to take appropriate actions within three months to stop the functioning of the unrecognized institution.” “In view of the fact that the school has no proper building permit for the modifications made to the building, nor any recognition or no objection from the state government or affiliation to the CBSE, I am of the clear opinion that the party respondents (the school and its manager and principal and the members of the school managing committee, Melbin D Cruz and Maggie D Cruz) cannot be permitted to conduct the school …,” said the order passed on December 18. The court passed the order on a writ petition by Vincent Trueman, who lives adjacent to the school. Last year, the school had landed in a controversy when 28 students of Class X could not write the CBSE board exam due to lack of affiliation of the school. The court accepted the petitioner’s submission that the school is being conducted in two residential buildings making illegal constructions on the upper floors without required staff or other facilities. Kochi corporation had issued an order directing demolition of the unauthorized constructions but it is yet to be implemented. “The Ernakulam district education office is collecting the details of similar illegal schools,” said an education department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-orders-action-against-school-sans-recognition/articleshow/80437813.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Thane||Two foot over-bridges for Thane by March 2022||THANE: Thane station will get a new pair of foot over-bridges (FOBs) at either end, connecting east and west sides of the city by March 2022, to replace the existing ones that are now old.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/2-fobs-for-thane-by-march-2022/articleshow/80439885.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Goa||Dual sarpanch deadlock finally broken at Netravali panchayat||Poinguinim: The no-confidence move forwarded against sarpanch Rajani Dayanand Gaonkar of Netravali village panchayat was passed with five votes in the seven-member panchayat. It may be recalled that five of the seven members of the panchayat headed by deputy sarpanch Abhijit Satyavan Desai moved a no-confidence motion to break the deadlock of two sarpanchas who were governing the panchayat. Suman Naik, representative of Sanguem Block Development office, was present as observer during the voting, panchayat secretary B M Tilve said. Abhijit Desai is now the acting sarpanch. A legal loophole had left Netravali panchayat with two sarpanchs— Archana Gaonkar and Rajani Gaonkar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dual-sarpanch-deadlock-finally-broken-at-netravali-panchayat/articleshow/80439892.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Pune||Two senior BJP leaders find flaws in party’s plan for Pune roads||PUNE: Two senior leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Pune unit, Ujjwal Keskar and Suhas Kulkarni, have strongly opposed the controversial proposal to widen 335 roads in the city to nine meters, against the party line. Both rejected the arguments of their party colleagues that the proposal will help redevelopment of old properties in the Peth areas and boost civic revenue. “We know at whose behest the 335 roads were shortlisted. Some big developers have already taken up plots in some societies for redevelopment and this proposal has been framed to benefit them,” Keskar and Kulkarni said in a letter to municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar. Both Kulkarni and Keskar, who have headed the BJP unit in the PMC, and been leaders of the opposition in the civic body, told TOI that they are aware that the proposal was approved by their party colleagues during the standing committee meeting last June, and that it is based on this approval that the recent notices, seeking suggestions and objections from the affected citizens, have been issued by the administration. Their letter to Kumar pointed out that he was not the civic chief when the process of shortlisting the roads was carried out. “We request you to probe how these 335 roads were shortlisted and make public the criteria for their selection,” the letter added. It further said, “There is a need for urgent physical inspection of all the 335 roads. Let us visit each road to know what the actual situation on the ground is, and then decide if it needs widening for the intended purpose. Till then, revoke the proposal and give us a hearing.” On the reasons for challenging the proposal, Keskar said though the list of the 335 roads is available on PMC's website with maps, the criteria based on which these roads were shortlisted has not been explained to citizens. “Nor is it known why some roads were omitted from the list. And yet citizens are being made to file suggestions and objections,” he said. Kulkarni said the bungalow owners who have small plots of 2,200 sq ft will suffer if this proposal is pushed through. “After widening, their plots will become non-buildable and the TDR will be useless for them. For no fault of theirs bungalow owners are being forced to spend from their pockets on pulling down the compound wall and then rebuild it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-senior-bjp-leaders-find-flaws-in-partys-plan-for-roads/articleshow/80438780.cms||Abhijit Atre
January 25, 2021||Business||Budget 2021: Rail, roads ministries seek fund boost||NEW DELHI: The railway ministry has proposed to step up its capital expenditure by 13% next year as it seeks to ramp up and modernise its operations with the roads and highways ministry too seeking a 10% increase in its allocation. Railways has proposed that its capex budget be enhanced from this year’s Rs 1.6 lakh crore to over Rs 1.8 lakh crore, higher than the business-as-usual growth of around 10%. This includes nearly Rs 80,000 crore as gross budgetary support from the last budget’s allocation of Rs 70,000 crore, sources told TOI. The government’s largest departmental enterprise has argued that over the last few years, there has been a significant focus on augmenting capacity and modernising creaky infrastructure, resulting in the allocation often becoming a stumbling block. This is despite attempts to get greater private participation. For instance this year, it is expected to spend around Rs 1.55 lakh crore of the capex budget despite several projects coming to a standstill during the lockdown period. Yet, sources said, during the lockdown considrable amount of work could be accomplished as passenger trains were stopped, allowing focused attention on revamping tracks and other works. In several cases special permission was taken from local authorities to hire manpower with some workers reallocated to these “focus projects”. Similarly, the road transport and highways ministry has asked the finance ministry to increase the fund allocation by around 10% given that major projects have been lined up including expressways. Last year, the government had allocated nearly Rs 92,000 crore to the ministry, with a bulk of the funding coming through a cess on petrol and diesel. In fact, during lockdown, the government had increased the levy to ensure that infrastructure projects do not suffer for want of funds. Higher capital spending by key infrastructure ministries and public sector companies has been a major focus for the finance ministry given that it also generates demand for steel, cement and other inputs apart from creating jobs. Roads and railways are the two biggest elements of the government’s Rs 180 lakh crore infrastructure pipeline with the former accounting for over a third of the over 7,400 projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rail-roads-ministries-seek-budget-boost/articleshow/80440844.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 25, 2021||Visakhapatnam||No Covid-19 death in Andhra Pradesh for fifth time this month||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 158 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,87,010. For the fifth time this month the state recorded no novel coronavirus deaths. Altogether 155 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state on Sunday. There are currently 1,476 active cases with 8,78,387 cumulative recoveries and 7,147 deaths. Other than Krishna, the active case load is less than 200 in the remaining 12 districts. West Godavari reported 24 new infections, followed by Visakhapatnam (22), Krishna (20), Chittoor (16), Guntur (15), East Godavari (14) and Anantapur (10). The remaining six districts recorded single-digit case numbers. The active case load dropped below 100 in seven districts. The state conducted 44,382 Covid-19 tests on Sunday and detected as many as 158 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.4%. The state has so far conducted 1.28 crore tests with an overall positivity rate of 6.9% against the national average of 5.6%. The mortality rate remained stable at 0.8%. According to the official data, the share of active cases as a proportion of total positive cases has shrunk to 1.73% in the country, whereas it is less than 0.2% in Andhra Pradesh. Kerala reported the maximum daily new cases (6,960) since Saturday. Maharashtra recorded 2,697 new cases. The number of recovered cases in the country stood at 1,03,16,786 as of Sunday, which translates to a recovery rate of 96.83%. Andhra Pradesh leads among all the states with a recovery rate of more than 99%. The state has so far vaccinated about 1.45 lakh healthcare workers. Five states, namely Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, account for about 75% of the total active cases in the country. While India reported 14,849 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, about 81% of the new cases came from six states, including Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and West Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-covid-death-in-state-for-fifth-time-this-month/articleshow/80437165.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Rajkot||Industrial equipment stolen in Sikka||Rajkot: Industrial equipment worth Rs 2.7 lakh were stolen from the Jamnagar facility of a coatings manufacturing company. Police said that the burglars targeted the facility of Kirloskar Corrocoat Pvt Ltd at Sikka in Jamnagar between March 21 and December 24 last year. The facility was shut due to the lockdown and the theft came to light in December when the work had resumed and an offence of theft had been registered on Saturday.The assistant manager of the company Chintan Lathigara told cops that the burglars entered through the iron fence and broke open the lock of a makeshift office and a storeroom in the shed. Two air-conditioners and several equipment worth Rs 2.5 lakh used for coating work were stolen. Cops said that the offence has been registered late on Saturday as the assistant manager received instructions from his seniors to register a plaint recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/industrial-equipment-stolen-in-sikka/articleshow/80437192.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Three arrested for bike theft, 9 vehicles seized||HYDERABAD: In a joint operation, CCS of Warangal along with Hanamkonda police arrested three thieves and recovered nine stolen bikes from their possession. The gang had committed offences in Warangal and Hyderabad. The accused — B Sai, 27, K Pranay, 22, from Warangal and B Vijay, 29, from Hyderabad — had committed the offences along with their associate, P Chandu from Warangal. According to Warangal commissioner P Pramod Kumar, the trio along with Chandu decided to commit bike thefts as their income from labour work was not sufficient to lead a comfortable life. As part of the plan, the accused stole nine bikes at Intezar Ganj, Hanamkonda, Mee Colony, Chelpoor in Warangal and Hyderabad during the past few months. While the accused were travelling from Padmakshi Gutta to Hanamkonda on three bikes, police intercepted them at Hanamkonda bus stand road. Based on their confession, police retrieved another six stolen bikes hidden by them in the bushes at Padmakshi Gutta. The accused were remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-arrested-for-bike-theft-9-vehicles-seized/articleshow/80438784.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Amaravati||No Covid-19 death in Andhra Pradesh for fifth time this month||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 158 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,87,010. For the fifth time this month the state recorded no novel coronavirus deaths. Altogether 155 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state on Sunday. There are currently 1,476 active cases with 8,78,387 cumulative recoveries and 7,147 deaths. Other than Krishna, the active case load is less than 200 in the remaining 12 districts. West Godavari reported 24 new infections, followed by Visakhapatnam (22), Krishna (20), Chittoor (16), Guntur (15), East Godavari (14) and Anantapur (10). The remaining six districts recorded single-digit case numbers. The active case load dropped below 100 in seven districts. The state conducted 44,382 Covid-19 tests on Sunday and detected as many as 158 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.4%. The state has so far conducted 1.28 crore tests with an overall positivity rate of 6.9% against the national average of 5.6%. The mortality rate remained stable at 0.8%. According to the official data, the share of active cases as a proportion of total positive cases has shrunk to 1.73% in the country, whereas it is less than 0.2% in Andhra Pradesh. Kerala reported the maximum daily new cases (6,960) since Saturday. Maharashtra recorded 2,697 new cases. The number of recovered cases in the country stood at 1,03,16,786 as of Sunday, which translates to a recovery rate of 96.83%. Andhra Pradesh leads among all the states with a recovery rate of more than 99%. The state has so far vaccinated about 1.45 lakh healthcare workers. Five states, namely Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, account for about 75% of the total active cases in the country. While India reported 14,849 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, about 81% of the new cases came from six states, including Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and West Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/no-covid-death-in-state-for-fifth-time-this-month/articleshow/80445452.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Pune||Sedation and theft complaint by Chennai man against ‘date’||PUNE: A 30-year-old businessman from Chennai lodged an FIR on Saturday accusing a woman, whom he met through a dating app, of stealing his gold ornaments, cash and cellphone, collectively worth Rs1.5 lakh, after sedating him with a spiked soft drink in a hotel room on January 17. During one of their chats on the app, the man told the woman that they could meet in Pune as he was visiting the city on January 17 for some business related work. He alleged that during their meeting at a hotel in Wakad on Katraj-Dehu Road bypass, the woman spiked his soft drink and fled with his valuable after he fell unconscious. Assistant inspector Tanaji Bhogam of the Wakad police said, “The complainant runs an education-related business in Chennai. The woman from Pune had introduced herself as Shikha on the dating app. The complainant had checked into the Wakad hotel on January 17 and met the woman at a mall in Camp. When he told the woman that he was into the education field, the woman told him that she needed a job and requested him to help.” Bhogam said, “The woman asked the complainant if they could go to his hotel as she feared getting noticed with an unknown person. The complainant agreed and on their way to hotel, the woman purchased a bottle of soft drink and some snacks. At the hotel, the businessman wanted to sit in the lobby but she insisted that they go to his room.” The complainant told the police that the woman then offered him the soft drink and a little later he lost his consciousness. “He woke up at 5 in the morning on January 18 to find his gold chain, ring, cellphone and Rs15,000 missing,” Bhogam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sedation-and-theft-plaint-by-chennai-man-against-date/articleshow/80438790.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Mumbai||Women drive from Wagah to Kanyakumari for road safety||MUMBAI: As part of Road Safety month, a few cars of women drivers who are part of an all-women team ‘Safe Speed challenge’ from Wagah border to Kanyakumari were flagged off at Western India Automobile Association (WIAA) at Churchgate on Sunday morning. The women drivers arrived here from Attari-Wagah and after a short break here, they visited the WIAA office and saw the series of activities being undertaken for road safety. “They have now proceeded on the road trip to Pune,” said Nitin Dossa from WIAA. The cars were flagged off by principal secretary (tourism) Valsa Nair Singh in the presence of state transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne and other officials. The women will now travel from Mumbai to Pune before heading further south towards Kanyakumari to complete the 3,500 km of stringent test of driving skill with live location and speed tracking. The women will have to ensure safe driving and maintain safe distance from each other’s cars. The route that is being followed from Attari Wagah to NewDelhi, Jaipur, Mumbai, Pune, Calicut and then finally to Kanyakumari. “It is a first-of-its-kind rally to motivate citizens nationally,” Dossa added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/women-drive-from-wagah-to-kanyakumari-for-road-safety/articleshow/80438792.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Pune||Jayant Narlikar to preside over Marathi literary meet||PUNE: A few years ago, when the editor of Kirloskar magazine, Mukund Kirloskar, told Jayant Narlikar, that he would become the president of the Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan one day, the eminent astrophysicist said it was an impossible task as he was not a literary man. “Kirloskar's words have come true today and I am pleasantly surprised,” Narlikar said after he was named president of the 94th Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan to be held in Nashik from March 26. President of Akhil Bhartiya Marathi Sahitya Mahamandal Kautikrao Thale-Patil announced his name on Sunday in Nashik.  “Narlikar has given his consent to be the president of the literary fest to be held at Gokhale Education Society campus in Nashik. He will be present for all three days,” Thale-Patil said. Narlikar and his wife, Mangala, who spoke to the media, said it will be a good platform to spread awareness about the development of a scientific perspective in literature and how it can be used against blind faith in society. The mahamandal had received the names of six dignitaries, and Narlikar’s was a unanimous decision. The others were Bharat Sasane, Janardan Waghmare, former vice-chancellor of Swami Ramanand Teerth Marathwada University, Latur, Bal Phondke, author of science literature from Mumbai, Ramchandra Dekhane from Pune and Manohar Shahane from Nashik. Narlikar said his effort will be to involve young writers in science literature. “My talk will focus on how science literature is important, how it will benefit society and how to spread awareness among people about science literature,” he added. He said he was of the strong opinion that children should be taught in their mother tongue for understanding concepts better. “Once, Einstein was discussing his works in English and while he was in the flow and engrossed in the discussion, he suddenly started speaking in German. He got so excited discussing it that he switched to his mother tongue, but later realised that people may not understand what he was talking so he switched back to English. That's what the mother tongue does to you where you can present things in a better perspective,” he added. The eminent astrophysicist said for Marathi to reach the universally spoken language, it should be used widely and naturally. Thale-Patil said the meet will be inaugurated by a littérateur. He ruled out the possibility of celebrating Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar’s 80 years of age. The three-day programmes would be decided later, and all health precautions will be taken for the meet, Thale-Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/narlikar-to-preside-over-marathi-literary-meet/articleshow/80438799.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 25, 2021||Vijayawada||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams initiates measures to prevent encroachments||TIRUPATI: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has initiated measures to protect its properties in Tirupati from being encroached upon. TTD’s immovable assets in Tirupati now have complete protection with signboards and fencing. The arrangements were put in place under the supervision of JEO Sada Bhargavi. The decision to increase security at TTD’s properties was taken after Bhargavi recently inspected the properties and observed that there was no proper fencing for them. She directed concerned officials to take immediate action and put up fences and signboards across all TTD properties. Among the 22 properties where security was increased, eight are at Bairagipatteda and Kesavayanagunta while 14 are at Vaikuntapuram and MR Palli .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-initiates-measures-to-prevent-encroachments/articleshow/80437188.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 25, 2021||Pune||Pune: Alleged Maoist operative dies at Sassoon hospital pending trial||PUNE: Alleged Maoist operative Kanchan Ramkrushna Nanaware (37), who along with her husband Arun Bhelke, was lodged in the Yerawada Central Prison since September 2014 in an Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) case, died at the Sassoon General Hospital in Pune on Sunday of heart and lungs ailment. Yerawada jail superintendent U T Pawar confirmed her death. “She was suffering from heart and lungs ailment for quite some time now and was recommended for a transplant. Over the last three years, she was frequently referred to the Sassoon hospital for treatment. We got a call from the Sassoon authorities around 4pm on Sunday informing us about her death.” A senior anti-terrorism squad (ATS), Pune officer, who did not wish to be named, said, “We have sought her health reports from the Sassoon hospital and the Yerawada jail’s hospital and a postmortem will be conducted on Monday.” The ATS, Pune had arrested Nanaware and Bhelke on September 2, 2014 for various offences and had seized a forged PAN card, an Aadhaar card and a sizeable stock of medicines, which the police claimed, were meant for underground operatives in the Maoist areas of the state. The police have filed a chargesheet in the case and it has been part heard. In October 2019, a special UAPA court in Pune had rejected Nanaware’s bail plea on health grounds after her lawyer Rohan Nahar had argued that she had already undergone two open heart surgeries and was on high medication and strict dietary regimen. The court then observed that her bail plea had been rejected on merits on previous occasions and the purpose of medical treatment would suffice if directions were given to the jailor and the Sassoon hospital for providing suitable treatment to her. Nahar told TOI, “We will apply (to the court) for the body to be handed over to her relatives. It’s unfortunate that she could not get medical attention nor bail nor a final judgment in her case. She hasn’t been convicted for being a Maoist and now we will never know.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/alleged-maoist-operative-dies-at-sassoon-pending-trial/articleshow/80438807.cms||Vishwas Kothari
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Metro to Central Avenue, Kamptee Road delayed till December||NAGPUR: Residents living near Automotive Square on Kamptee Road and those along the Central Avenue will have to wait till the year-end to get Metro connectivity under phase I. During a ‘Metro Samvad’ on Sunday, MahaMetro managing director Brijesh Dixit said Reach II (Kamptee Road) and Reach IV (Central Avenue) will be completed in December 2021. Earlier, the deadline for completion of these reaches was December 2020. The deadline was extended to June 2021. Now, the project will be completed one year after the initial deadline. Also, MahaMetro has dropped Wasudev Nagar to Dattawadi corridor from phase II of Nagpur Metro following directives of Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA). Phase II will now have only four corridors, instead of five. This has brought down the cost of the second phase from over Rs10,000 crore to Rs6,717 crore. A MahaMetro official said the MoHUA wanted to promote Metro Lite and Metro New coaches (which are smaller in size and hence cost-effective), instead of the existing ones. “The ministry did not want heavy Metro coaches in phase II, but we pointed out that the four corridors were basically extension of the existing phase I corridors and hence a new type of Metro would be costlier. The ministry officials agreed to our contention,” he added. The Wasudev Nagar to Dattawadi corridor will be included in phase III. “We will start preparing detailed project report (DPR) of the third phase after the second phase is cleared by the Union cabinet. The third phase will come up along the Outer Ring Road,” the official further said. Central government is taking its own time in clearing the second phase of Nagpur Metro. The state cabinet had cleared the DPR in January 2019. However, MoHUA took almost two years to clear it. The ministry has now sent copies of the DPR to other central ministries for their comments. These ministries have to return the DPR in six weeks and four have already cleared the same. Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari wanted central government to clear the project before 2019 general elections. However, this did not happen. The Phase II has a length of 43.8km with 32 stations. The corridors include: 1) Automotive Square to Kanhan — 13km length and 12 stations. The corridor will cater to Khasara, Lekha Nagar, Kamptee, and Dragon Palace areas. 2) Mihan to Butibori MIDC ESR — 18.7km length and 10 stations. The corridor will have catchment area of Jamtha, Dongargaon, Mohgaon, Butibori, Mhada Colony, Indorama Colony 3) Prajapati Nagar to Transport Nagar — 5.5km length and 3 stations. The corridor will cater the vicinity of Ambe Nagar, Kapsi, Transport Nagar & Asoli 4) Lokmanya Nagar to Hingna — 6.6km length and 7 stations. The corridor will pass through Nildoh, Gajanan Nagar, Rajiv Nagar, Lakshmi Nagar, Raipur, and Hingna villages including surrounding MIDC areas||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/metro-to-central-avenue-kamptee-rd-delayed-till-dec/articleshow/80438806.cms||Ashish Roy
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||BCI grants Tribal Welfare Law College||HYDERABAD: The Bar Council of India (BCI) granted permission to a Tribal Welfare Residential Law College in Telangana with a sanctioned intake of 60 seats for first year. According to a press release issued by the tribal welfare ministry on Sunday, the newly approved college will offer a five-year integrated law course for students who have completed their intermediate or its equivalent. Admission into the tribal law college will be taken up in the second phase of ongoing law counselling. “Of 60 seats, 39 are reserved for tribals, seven are reserved for backward classes and six for scheduled caste candidates. Two seats each are reserved for upper caste, sports persons and NCC, while one seat each has been reserved for children of ex-servicemen and differently-abled students,” read the press release. Following the approval from the BCI, tribal welfare minister Satyavathi Rathod said that more such educational institutions and courses are on the anvil in Telangana. “Under the National Education Policy 2020, the Centre is expected to sanction a bachelor of education (BEd) college offering integrated BEd course and another physical education college in the state,” she said. She pointed out that the country’s first Tribal Sainik School was opened at Narsampet in Warangal district recently. It was the first Sainik School to be opened outside the purview of the union defence ministry. Further, master of science, integrated courses in chemistry were also sanctioned an intake of 40 seats for men at Jadcherla and women at Shadnagar. The college will offer a five-year integrated law course for students who have completed their intermediate or its equivalent. Admission will be taken up in the second phase of ongoing law counselling||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bci-grants-tribal-welfare-law-college/articleshow/80438801.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Goa||Calangute STP water to be used at Saligao garbage treatment plant||Calangute: The ‘reverse pipeline’, which will be laid to take clean water from the sewerage treatment plant (STP) at Baga, to the garbage treatment plant (GTP) at Saligao, has reached the tendering stage, minister for waste management and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo said. Lobo said the sewerage water from the STP after treatment will not be released into the Baga creek, instead, the treated, clean water will be pumped to the GTP at Saligao for its use there. The waste management minister said the ‘reverse pipeline’ would be ready in about a year’s time once the tender is out. But with the recent decision to choose alternative sites for two sewerage pumping stations in Gauravaddo, he said the commissioning of the sewerage network in Calangute is going to be delayed yet again. Work on the sewerage network in Calangute, the foundation stone for which had been laid by then chief minister Manohar Parrikar, had started in March 2013 and the entire network including the sewerage pipeline, STP and pumping stations was to be completed in three years, in 2016. While the sewerage pipeline, the STP and one pumping station are ready, the sewerage system will not become operational until the reverse pipeline and two more pumping stations are ready, the local MLA said.  ‘Reverse pipeline’ will be ready in about a year’s time once the tender is out. But with the recent decision to choose alternative sites for two sewerage pumping stations in Gauravaddo, the commissioning of the sewerage network in Calangute is going to be delayed yet again||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/calangute-stp-water-to-be-used-at-saligao-garbage-treatment-plant/articleshow/80439905.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Vijayawada||Three killed in separate incidents in Kadapa district||TIRUPATI: Three persons died while two others sustained injuries in two separate incidents reported at Kadapa district on Sunday. A family of four who were on a bike were hit by an Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) bus along the Badvel-Mydukur road in Brahmamgarimatam mandal on Sunday morning. While Rami Reddy and his four-year-old son were killed in the mishap, his wife Suguna and their second son sustained injuries and were rushed to the local government hospital. Meanwhile, a factory worker Vasudeva Reddy died under mysterious circumstances at a cement factory in Jammalamadugu mandal in the district on Sunday. His family members who suspected foul play alleged that the factory management had moved his body and tried to hush up the incident. After Vasudeva’s relatives got into an argument with the representatives of the factory management, his coworkers joined in and extended their support, while imposing a condition that the body be removed only after the management had rendered justice to the deceased’s family. Tension prevailed at the spot for a brief while as both parties negotiated to arrive at a settlement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/three-killed-in-separate-incidents-in-kadapa-dist/articleshow/80437196.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Pune||Valuables worth Rs 84,000 stolen from 9 parked cars in Pune||PUNE: Unidentified persons damaged windows of nine cars parked near a society on Pashan Road and stole cellphones, cash and a laptop, collectively worth Rs84,000, from the vehicles on Sunday early morning. Senior inspector Anil Shewale of the Chatushrungi police said, “Most of these cars belonged to people from Kothrud and Bavdhan, who had come down to the Pashan area for a morning jog at Pune university and other places. They parked their cars on the Pashan Road and went to jog. However, they kept their valuables inside their cars.” Some time between 6.30am and 7am, unidentified thieves broke the windows of these cars with blunt and heavy objects and stole six cellphones, a laptop and some cash, totally worth Rs84,000, he said. “In all, the suspects damaged windows of nine cars parked on the road after spotting cellphones, wallets and laptop bags kept on the seats of these cars,” Shewale said. He added that the incident came to light when morning joggers returned to their cars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/valuables-worth-rs-84000-stolen-from-9-parked-cars/articleshow/80438811.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Pangolin poaching racket busted in Telangana's Kazipet, 8 nabbed||HYDERABAD: Authorities of Ramagundam police commissionerate busted an eight-member racket involving poaching of critically endangered pangolin in Kazipet . A live pangolin, three motorcycles, eight mobile phones, one newspaper and a knife were seized from their possession. One offender is still at large. The other accused are Palle Shankar, Palle Ravi, Dhadi Mahesh, Edhula Lakshman, Marineni Rajkumar, Dhigide Shankar, R Narender and M Kishore.  Officials stated that the poachers and the middlemen were attempting to sell the pangolin by initially quoting the price at one and half crore and were then bargaining in lakhs in order to make money by cheating people. “They captured the live pangolin from Bogga forest area near Bellampalli and were caught while trying to sell the animal. They are not aware that pangolin does not carry any medicinal or commercial value,” said Uday Kumar Reddy, DCP, Mancherial. Pangolins fall under the list of critically endangered animals as per appendix – 1 of Cites and are also listed under Schedule – 1 in Wildlife Protection Act. Hunting and trading of pangolin is a serious offence with minimum seven years of rigorous imprisonment and a fine of not less than Rs 5 lakh. The police officials urged rural folk not to extend support to those who indulge in wildlife crime.  Pangolin was handed over to the forest department officials for safe relocation, DCP said. A case under Wildlife Protection Act will be filed against the eight offenders. The pThe police officials urged rural folk not to extend support to those who indulge in wildlife crime and that the offence can also attract severe punishments. PD Act will be imposed against offenders. angolin was handed over to the forest department officials for safe relocation. A case under Wildlife Protection Act will be filed against the eight offenders||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pangolin-poaching-racket-busted-in-kazipet-8-nabbed/articleshow/80438809.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: In a combing operation, action taken against 3,000||MUMBAI: Ahead of Republic Day, city police conducted ‘All Out Operation’ on the intervening night of January 23 and 24. In a massive combing operation conducted at 223 places, police checked 1,369 accused, found 349 and arrested 52 of them. All senior IPS officers were part of the operation, along with the police personnel, which witnessed 101 nakabandis across the city. In view of Republic Day, police are on high alert and have begun taking action. Police have been after drug peddlers, suppliers, hardened criminals and those who enter the city’s jurisdiction, despite being externed. ‘All Out Operation’, led by city police commissioner Param Bir Singh, began at 11pm and continued till 2am. Joint police commissioner (Law and Order) Vishwas Nangre Patil, five regional additional commissioners, 13 DCPs, ACPs, and senior police inspectors, along with the force, carried out the operation. “Two accused who were fleeing from Ghatkopar after snatching a chain were caught,” said a police source. Police took action against 66 people under NDPS Act during the drive. Action was also taken against 33 people for illegal weapons. Deputy police commissioner Chaitanya S, who holds the portfolio of city police’s spokesperson, told TOI that the operation was a measure to keep a check on criminal activities During the operation, 8,595 two-wheelers and cars were checked. Action was taken against 2,479 drivers/riders while 92 were booked for drunken driving. Police raided 31 places for illegal business, took action against 40 accused. Action was also taken against 31 who were externed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-a-combing-operation-action-taken-against-3000/articleshow/80438840.cms||Mateen Hafeez
January 25, 2021||Pune||Farmers oppose airport in Purandar at new site too||PUNE: Landowners in the six new villages, covering 2,800 hectares, in Purandar tehsil where the district administration has planned the Pune airport project have held a series of meetings over the last few days to strongly oppose any attempt to take away their land for the project. This situation does not augur well for the project considering that the administration has had to deal with a four-year protest by landowners at the earlier site covering seven villages of Pargaon, Udachiwadi, Munjwadi, Ekhatpuri, Khanauri,Vanpuri and Kumbharvan. The new site now covers the six villages of Mavadi, Pimpri, Rajuri, Naygaon, Rise-Pise and Pandeshwar. Purandar’s Congress MLA Sanjay Jagtap, who has played an important role in initiating a change of site, has alleged that former Shiv Sena MLA Vijay Shivtare was acting with “political motives to create trouble for the project”. Jagtap told TOI that the ongoing protests in the six villages are politically motivated by Shivtare to divert attention. “Matters are in a primary stage now. The current site is being changed as it is not technically, geographically and financially feasible. My proposal for a site change has been accepted by the district administration. The airport will come up only with the farmers’ consent. We have had discussions with NCP’s Baramati MP Supriya Sule and we want the project to come up. Shivtare is creating problems by politicizing the issue,” Japtap added. Shivtare blamed Jagtap for the current situation. He said he would meet NCP chief Sharad Pawar soon to discuss the matter. “The project could have taken off by now but Jagtap diverted the whole issue and won the election promising that the project will not happen at the earlier site. He did not talk to local leaders or the gram panchayats before coming up with change of site decision. I have learned that they are trying to push the project closer to Baramati and this will put Purandar at loss. It is Jagtap who has caused problems. We will not let the project move elsewhere under any circumstances,” he said. Santosh Kolte, an IT professional, who owns a few acres in Rajuri, told TOI, “The meetings were held at Rajuri on Saturday and at Pandeshwar on Sunday. Our land had issues related to fertility and water 10 years ago, but now over 90% land is fertile and irrigated through government projects. As such, we cannot hand over our land for the airport project.” Another Rajuri farmer said not an inch of land will be given for the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/farmers-oppose-airport-in-purandar-at-new-site-too/articleshow/80438814.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 25, 2021||Ludhiana||Dugri colony residents cry foul over poor sewerage, bad roads||Ludhiana: Several residents of a private colony near Dugri are up in arms against the sarpanch of the area and the developer of colony, claiming that for the past one and half months both have failed to resolve their sewerage-related problems. The aggrieved residents are claiming that even after taking one time charges and now recurring charges, the developer has failed to repair and maintain the roads and sewerage of the area near Shaheed Bhagat Singh Park and water tank number 2 in Basant Avenue. The residents are also alleging that the sewerage is overflowing outsider their homes, making commuting on the road difficult and posing a threat to their health. The residents are also claiming that several manholes have been kept open in order to try to solve the problem of overflowing sewage, which poses a huge threat to the children who can fall inside these. Furious over inaction, these residents have now lodged a complaint at the chief minister office. Meanwhile, the CMO has taken notice of the complaint and it has been forwarded to secretary, local government, Ajoy Kumar Sinha, asking him to take necessary action as per government rules and also inform the complainant about the action taken under intimation to this office at the earliest. In their complaint residents have said “We were made to pay Rs 80,000 per property (near Shaheed Bhagat Singh Park, water tank number 2 and near Bijli Colony) for construction of sewerage and water supply line. In addition to this, we are being made to pay a recurring monthly cost for the maintenance as well. However, the service being provided is of the lowest standard as the sewage starts overflowing. In addition to the sewage, the roads are also in poor condition and need urgent maintenance. Despite repeated complaints, no action has been taken.” Shankar, president of the residents association of the area, said, “This area falls under Basant Avenue and for past one and half months residents of the area are facing sewerage problem and we are forced to live in hell here. What is even more shocking is that when we go the management of Basant Avenue and ask them to solve our problems, they say that this repair work will be got done by sarpanch of the area Ajay Mehta and when we take up this issue with Mehta he passes the buck on to the coloniser. Both parties are blaming each other, but our problems remain unsolved.” Speaking on the issue, Amit Garg, director of Basant Avenue society, said, “Our colony is one of the best in Ludhiana and already we have modern infrastructure here. The problem of sewerage being faced by a few residents has come to my knowledge and I want to clear that these are just five houses which are facing this problem due to choking of sewerage line. I and sarpanch of the area have already finalised that the new sewerage line will be laid here so that the problem is resolved permanently. In fact, on Sunday, area MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid has also sanctioned Rs 28 lakh for developmental works and we are hoping more facilities will be provided here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dugri-colony-residents-cry-foul-over-poor-sewerage-bad-roads/articleshow/80437855.cms||Mohit Behl
January 25, 2021||Patna||Bihar cabinet expansion likely after nomination of 12 MLCs||PATNA: The much-awaited state cabinet expansion is likely to take place only after the nomination of 12 netas as MLCs from the governor’s quota, a reliable BJP source said on Sunday, adding both the processes might get completed this week. Altogether 12 seats from the governor’s quota are lying vacant in the state legislative council. Since some of the new ministers from both BJP and JD(U) may come through that quota, the Nitish Kumar government will not like to face the embarrassment at the hands of the opposition by inducting someone in the ministry, who is not a member of either House. Education minister Ashok Choudhary is already waiting for a council berth from that quota itself as the two seats vacated by Sushil Kumar Modi and Vinod Narayan Jha of BJP have been filled by Vikassheel Insaan Party chief and minister Mukesh Sahani and Syed Shahnawaz Hussain, the BJP national spokesperson and a strong contender for a plum portfolio in the state cabinet. Shahnawaz, however, is unlikely to be made deputy CM. Independent MLA from Chakai Sumeet Singh, who has extended his support to the CM and Chainpur MLA Mohammad Zama Khan, who left BSP and joined hands with Nitish’s party may be accommodated from the JD(U) quota as Rajput and Muslim faces, respectively. Nitish was sworn in with 14 other ministers on November 16 after the assembly election results. Vijay Choudhury, Ashok Choudhary, Mewalal Choudhary, Bijendra Prasad Yadav and Sheela Kumari from JD(U) and Tarkishore Prasad, Renu Devi, Amarendra Pratap Singh, Ram Surat Rai, Rampreet Paswan, Mangal Pandey and Jivesh Kumar Mishra from BJP had taken oath along with Nitish. Mewalal, however, had to resign after the media highlighted a corruption case pending in the court against him. The JD(U) has four ministers besides Nitish and BJP got 7 ministerial berths. HAM(S) and Vikassheel Insaan Party got one seat each. Given the fact that the state cabinet can have a maximum 36 ministers, including the CM, on the basis of 15% of the House strength of 243 members, there are 22 more ministerial berths up for grabs. There is also a related issue to be decided regarding JD(U) participation in the Narendra Modi government at the Centre. The central cabinet expansion is likely after the West Bengal assembly elections scheduled to be held in March-April. Since JD(U) had opted not to be part of the central government as it was offered only one berth on the basis of notional representation, BJP had to accommodate Nitish Kumar’s party, which wanted proportionate representation in the ministry. BJP had won 17 out of 40 seats while JD(U) and LJP bagged 16 and six seats, respectively, in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. However, the scenario has changed after the 2020 assembly elections as BJP has emerged the big brother in the Bihar NDA with 74 seats compared to 43 of JD(U). “JD(U) is now on the back foot and can’t bargain much,” said a BJP leader, preferring anonymity. But JD(U) national president R C P Singh on Saturday told his party functionaries that they had been and will remain a decisive force in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-cabinet-expansion-likely-after-nomination-of-12-mlcs/articleshow/80437835.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||Covid vaccine doses for 320 persons wasted in fist week in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Covid-19 vaccine enough for 320 persons has gone waste in the first week of vaccination programme in the district. The wastage has continued despite the state government permitting on-the-spot vaccination and increase in schedule of health care workers. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and Zilla Parishad (ZP) data says 4,770 health care workers took the jab at 12 centres in the district between January 16 and 23. For this. vials containing 5,090 doses were opened. Hence, 320 doses have gone waste. The overall wastage in Vidarbha is 6.29% of total utilized doses and 6.7% of total beneficiaries. The wastage in city is more than rural areas. In city, 164 doses have gone waste at five centres, which was 7.56% of total utilized doses and 8.17% of total beneficiaries. Wastage was 156 doses (5.34% of total utilized and 5.64% of total beneficiaries) at seven centres in Nagpur rural. Wastage was highest at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). Four centres of the city are using Covishield and GMCH is administering Covaxin. Each vial of Covishield comprises 10 doses while there are 20 doses in Covaxin vial. Therefore, chances of wastage in GMCH is higher compared to remaining four centres, but it can always be avoided if experts are to be believed. On January 21, GMCH administered vaccine to 21 health care workers. Two vials were opened so wastage was 19 doses. Wastage could have been zero if GMCH had postponed vaccination of one beneficiary to next day. As per norms, doses are to be consumed within 4-6 hours of opening as it cannot be preserved. The wastage was high in initial two days due to low turnout of health care workers. Then, the government allowed on-the-spot vaccination of registered health care worker. Earlier, 100 beneficiaries per centre were supposed to be scheduled for one day. The government permitted scheduling up to 150 per centre for one day so that 100 are covered, without any wastage. Some centres could vaccinate 100 per day and did not stop there, leading to wastage of doses. NMC Pachpaoli Centre gave jab to 102 on January 21, 112 on January 22 and 133 on January 23 resulting in wastage of 23 doses in three days. NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi told TOI, “Wastage is below permissible limit of 10%. Still, we are continuously pursuing with centres to minimize wastage.” He added, sometimes wastage is unavoidable. When GMCH could not use 19 doses from a vial after vaccinating one beneficiary on January 21, officials said the last beneficiary turned up at 3.30pm and they were expecting more before 5pm, so they opened the second vial. Unfortunately, no one turned up for the inoculation after 3.30pm. “Now, we have planned two centres at GMCH from Monday onwards. Opened vial can be transferred to other centre to minimize wastage,” said Joshi. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said, “Beneficiaries should be contacted first before scheduling for the day to avoid any wastage. Apart from health care workers, government should also allow registered front-line workers in case of low turnout at any centre. Need is to speed up vaccination, which would avoid wastage and also encourage others. More vaccination means reduction in transmission and deaths,” he said. Activist Narayan Ahuja said, “Registration of people above 50 years and below 50 years with comorbidities should kick-off. They should be covered between 5 and 6pm in case any centre is left with unused doses. Wastage of these precious doses is not at all acceptable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vaccine-doses-for-320-persons-wasted-in-1st-week-in-dist/articleshow/80438854.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 25, 2021||Pune||Mundhwa jackwell output draws activists’ ire||PUNE: Sajag Nagrik Manch, a citizens’ group, has demanded that the Mundhwa jackwell release treated water to farmers. The group said some 550 MLD water is to be given on a daily basis from the jackwell, but it is only 10 to 15% of the promised quota. Steps should be taken to increase the discharge to villages around Pune Municipal Corporation so that adequate quantity of water can be lifted for civic areas. The demand has been made against the backdrop of a meeting on water supply on Monday. “Around Rs 100 crore has been spent on the jackwell. It was to treat water and discharge it for farming. But the two months’ record shows that the discharge has not been made to the fullest,” Vivek Velankar of the Manch said. He said since the treated water is not being sent for irrigation, potable water is being supplied for farming which amounted to mismanagement. An inquiry should be carried out and officials pulled up, he added. Civic officials said the water is being discharged as per the demand. “The PMC has the capacity to send the allocated water, but discharge depends on the demand from the irrigation department. The civic administration releases water according the requirement,” Aniruddha Pawaskar, head of PMC’s water department, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mundhwa-jackwell-output-draws-activists-ire/articleshow/80438841.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Ludhiana||‘No party should try to politicise farmers’ stir’||He joined Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) at a young age and was given party’s ticket from Ludhiana west constituency. He also remained state general secretary of the party and now is spokesperson of the party. 41-year-old Ahbaab Grewal, farmer-cum-politician, has a take on issues related to ongoing farmers’ agitation and also about political scenario in Ludhiana. He talks to TOI’s Shariq Majeed on various issues related to farmers’ agitation and about Ludhiana. Q: How do you see things evolving in Punjab in view of the ongoing farmers’ agitation? A: It is the habit of the government to shove everything down the people’s throats. The way they scared the CAA-NRC protesters and crushed them, they felt that they would do it here as well. Fortunately, that trick didn’t work here and their ploy to use polarisation as a tool also failed here badly. The ball is totally in their court now. They feel that they will not go back but the thing is that if they are trying to reform something without trying to talk to farmers (stakeholders) and no consultation is done with them, then how it can work. The way the movement has evolved, I don’t think that without getting their demands fulfilled they will return because for them it is do or die. Also, the way they (government) have put this offer of holding back the laws for some time, you will see that silently they will placate farmers in one or the other way. Q: AAP had given a go ahead to one of these laws. What do you have to say on this? A: It was not so. When the Centre passes some law, automatically it gets implemented in states as it had happened in Punjab. After that the state government in order to repeal it has to make a parallel separate law. That is what had happened and it was implemented in all states after they (Centre) passed the law. So, in order to get rid of that, the party had to bring new law in Delhi Assembly. Q: Do you think political changes may happen because of the ongoing farm movement? A: Any political party should not try to get benefit out of it. We need to unite. Our politics will go on, but it is a very big issue and it needs to be kept foremost. Our party’s stand is that in any case we are not in favour of politicizing this issue. Q: Local bodies poll have been announced. Should these have been held at such a juncture when farmers agitation is going on? A: Chief minister Amarinder Singh is trying to take full advantage of this issue by announcing such polls. As you know in such polls, there is full misuse of government machinery in their bid to win. Capt feels that he can cash in on this agitation as the wave is in their favour. I think it is important to leave politics out of such an issue. Q: Do you think such polls should have been held at this point of time? A: Now, that such polls have been announced, we will contest these elections because we are a political outfit. Ideally, it shouldn’t have been done. When such big part of your state is there and it is such a big issue which will have an impact on your future generations and you are trying to dilute it, then this is not right. Q: How are things changing politically in Ludhiana? A: Congress government has been thoroughly exposed and they haven’t done anything for the past three years. Their output is zero. I think people of the state, especially of Ludhiana, are so intelligent to realise that they have been fooled by voting for them. They will reply. We will expose them in future. Q: What are the issues AAP will focus in Ludhiana in coming time? A: They tried to make a smart city and central funds are being used for the same. But they are projecting it as if they are doing some big favour to people. It is misplaced utilization of funds and there is so much irregularities in it, which you cannot even imagine. There is no visible change in the area despite spending crores of rupees. There has been no change in people’s life and their lives have become difficult. You are taking credit for such a project which has failed and people can see that it is a sheer waste of tax payers’ money. The other issue is related to Buddha Nullah, for which a Rs 650-crore project was announced, and their seriousness is reflected in such a way that Amarinder didn’t come. Secondly, have you taken proposal from anyone and have they asked people what should be done. We had given them a very good proposal a long time ago before the elections for this project, which would have been implemented with less expenditure. But it is their habit of making big announcements, which we think will not make any difference. The maximum they will do is to get it covered, but it will remain filthy as before and store house of diseases, etc. and its condition will remain bad. Q: What else you feel is going wrong in the city? A: Illegal construction is openly going on. They were talking of making Malhar road a smart one, whereas 90% building don’t have parking. You have dug up that road. How can you make smart roads when there is not even space for parking vehicles and you are allowing construction of buildings. Not only this area, but you go to any area of Ludhiana and you will see similar things happening. The MC is being controlled by a cabal and openly irregularities are happening. People’s property is being usurped. Q: Do you think the MC is taking care of civic issues? A: I don’t think that they (government) have done much in three-and-a-half years. At the end of their tenure they are announcing a project of which nothing much will happen. Roads are not in proper shape and so is garbage collection. They have announced something for elite colonies. No one is questioning them, and if someone raises voice then they silence them, while others are not bothered. Despite being the biggest MC of state, Ludhiana MC is most mismanaged civic body of the state. Even former cabinet minister Navjot Sidhu had indicated that house tax was not coming, ad revenue was very less and he had asked them to correct it. He had raised issue of irregularity in advertisement of crores of rupees and he came up with a policy about it, but he left the cabinet and they reversed the policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-party-should-try-to-politicise-farmers-stir/articleshow/80437875.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Rape accused promises marriage to evade censure||VIJAYAWADA: A 24-year-old man allegedly raped a 23-year-old woman at Kona village under Machilipatnam mandal in Krishna district. The incident happened on Saturday but came to light on Sunday after the woman lodged a complaint with the police. The accused is in police custody. According to the complaint given by the victim, she boarded an autorickshaw being driven by the accused on Saturday. The accused stopped the auto near a tent house on the pretext of loading some material and asked the victim for help. When she went inside a room, the accused’s brother locked the door from the outside. The victim alleged that the accused held her captive in the room and raped her. Later, the woman informed her parents about the incident and locals caught the autorickshaw driver and his brother. After the accused confessed to his crime, an agreement was reached before the village elders that he would marry her. The victim, however, alleged that he made a false promise of marrying her in order to escape from the locals. The victim then lodged a complaint with the police stating that the accused was now denying to marry her. Machilipatnam rural inspector N Kondaiah said they have registered a case under relevant sections of rape, cheating and sexually exploiting with the false promise of marriage. An investigation has been launched, the inspector said, and police will initiate criminal proceedings against the accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rape-accused-promises-marriage-to-evade-censure/articleshow/80437205.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Pune||Biker, friend die after skidding off bypass near new Katraj tunnel in Pune||PUNE: Two final-year engineering students from Dhule died after their motorcycle skid off the road at a high speed near the new Katraj tunnel on Katraj–Dehu road bypass during the wee hours of Saturday. “Both victims, Dheeraj Sunil Patil (24) and Kiran Krishna Bhambre (25), were not wearing helmets at the time of the accident,” said assistant inspector Ashish Kawathekar of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station. “Patil and Bhambre were residing at a rented flat behind Navle hospital at Narhe and hailed from Dhule. They were students at an engineering college located at Vadgaon Budruk,” he added. The two deceased as well as three of their friends were on the way back to their flat at Narhe after having dinner at an eatery in Khed–Shivapur, when the mishap took place. Kawathekar explained, “Patil was riding the motorcycle with Bhambre in the pillion seat but he lost control over the vehicle after crossing the tunnel at a high speed. The motorcycle swerved almost 30 feet on the road. Their friends, who were riding on other motorcycles, had gone ahead when the accident occurred.” “Some passers-by alerted the police, who reached the spot. At this point, one of their friends tried contacting on the cell phone of the victim and the police answered the call. Their friends reached the spot and told the police that they all had gone to have dinner and were on the way back home,” Kawathekar said. “We informed their parents about the accident and they came to Pune on Saturday afternoon. Later in the evening, we filed a complaint against the motorcycle rider Patil for rash and negligent driving,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/biker-friend-die-after-skidding-off-bypass-near-new-katraj-tunnel/articleshow/80438846.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Ludhiana||Woman, 4 others booked for manhandling cop||Ludhiana: A group of five persons, including a woman, have allegedly manhandled a cop minutes after they were served summons for joining investigation in a case of attempt to murder lodged against the woman and her accomplice. The Moti Nagar police have lodged an FIR against Indu Bala of New Shastri Nagar, her father Krishan Lal and brother Manoj Kumar and their two unidentified accomplices. ASI Harnek Singh, who is deputed at police station, Dehlon, stated that a case of attempt to murder was lodged against Indu, her accomplice Rishav Benipal and other accused on the complaint of Sushil Kumar of Ishar Nagar on March 2, 2019. On January 23, he, along with ASI Harbans Singh and constable Harpreet Singh and complainant Sushil Kumar, had gone to serve the summons at the house of the accused. He added that the woman refused to sign the copy of summons and when he left from there in the car, the woman, along with her accomplices, intercepted his way near Cheema Chowk and manhandled him before fleeing. Investigating officer ASI Dhanwant Singh said that an FIR had been lodged against the accused and they would be arrested soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/woman-4-others-booked-for-manhandling-cop/articleshow/80437888.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Republic Day set to unfold with pandemic protocols on Tuesday||MUMBAI: Tuesday’s Republic Day festivities are set to unfold in multiple ways in a world altered by Covid-19 restrictions. Observing protocol, Shanmukhananda Sabha, King’s Circle, will honour 15 army men who were wounded or disabled in various operations, as well as eight war widows of soldiers who were martyred during 2019-20. Lt Gen S K Prashar, GOC (Maharashtra, Gujarat and Goa), will confer the Sri Shanmukhananda Shaurya Ratna award and a cash prize of Rs 1 lakh to Shakeela Shoukat Ali, whose husband Naik Shaukat Ali, sons Major Javed Khan and Lt Jafar Khan serve in the army. Sabha president V Shankar said that the wounded warriors will be presented with a purse of Rs 1 lakh cash and mementos, and the families of the martyrs will each get a purse of Rs 2 lakh and mementos. The ongoing farmers’ nationwide agitation and other social injustices are resonating with disparate groups on the occasion. The Bombay Catholic Sabha’s Vikhroli unit will show solidarity with farmers and jailed activists, including Fr Stan Swamy on Republic Day. BCS unit chairman Mario Rodrigues said that they will display placards and banners at Eastern Express Highway (EEH) in Vikhroli from 9.15am-11am. St Peter’s Church, Bandra, will hold multi-faith prayers. Flag sales dropped by half as institutions and societies curtailed celebrations due to Covid-19, say manufacturers. Gyan Shah of The Flag Corp said, “This year we have no new installations in Mumbai. Business, demand is very less. Yes, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation has taken a new flag as have a few societies. But clubs, parks, schools and colleges, which usually have public gatherings for flag hoisting, are not hosting them this season.” A Malad society is observing flag hoisting with masks and social distancing, but will forgo the festive meal, which residents say was a highlight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/republic-day-set-to-unfold-with-pandemic-protocols-on-tuesday/articleshow/80438859.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Man rapes 2-year-old in Shengaon village||CHANDRAPUR: Ramnagar police arrested a 21-year-old man for raping a two-year-old girl in Shengaon village on Jiwti hillocks on Sunday. Accused Ashok Pawar works as a farm labourer with the victim’s father. He took the girl on his bike to a secluded place and raped her. The matter came to light after the accused came back with the girl. The victim’s parents lodged a complaint with Jiwti police. The girl was taken to a rural hospital in Jiwti from where she was shifted to Chandrapur GMCH for treatment. After the accused fled to Chandrapur, Jiwti cops alerted Ramnagar police who made the arrest. Offences pertaining to rape as well as the POCSO Act were registered against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-rapes-2-year-old/articleshow/80438856.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 25, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Railways initiative to cover 5 goods sheds in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Indian Railways has come up with a new scheme termed Service Market at Rail Terminals (SMART) that will develop sidings by roping in private parties. The Waltair division of East Coast Railway has selected 10 goods sheds for implementing the scheme. As the scheme is meant for regions where loading and unloading activities are carried out, the Railways has selected goods sheds at Kantakapalli, Vizianagaram, Srikakulam, Bobbilli and Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh; Rayagada, Kakriguma and Jeypore in Odisha; and Jagdalpur and Bodearpur in Chhattisgarh. The intended party should approach the nearest goods shed and enroll the name of the firm or individual details in the Freight Operations and Information System (FOIS). Any customer can directly contact the service provider through the SMART system. This will help the service provider have wider reach and more scope of business activity, said AK Tripathi, senior divisional commercial manager. “This is beneficial for both the service providers such as trucks, logistics, labour, storage, etc and the customer using rail transport. So SMART will be a meeting platform for the services providers and the customers,” Tripathi added. Service providers may enhance basic facilties through their own investment. Services include advertisement at the location confined to goods shed area, constructing or improving basic amenities. “We are waiting for interested players. A minimum Rs 1 crore is required to start this scheme. We will hopelly finalise the players by this month-end,” said a senior Railways official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rly-initiative-to-cover-5-goods-sheds-in-ap/articleshow/80437209.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 25, 2021||Bareilly||UP: Declared dead, octogenarian fights hard to prove she’s alive||BAREILLY: An octogenarian woman, who was mistakenly declared dead in legal documents, has been fighting a hard and lonely battle in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad district – to prove that she is alive. The woman reached out to the district administration officials during the recently held Sampoorna Samadhan Diwas and complained that she had not received the widows’ pension for two years. The woman, identified as Sharifan, 80, a resident of Bilari city, claimed that she had been running from pillar to post, but to no avail. Officials said that a probe has been ordered into the case. “The pension was stopped abruptly around two years ago. We made efforts to approach the officials, but nothing was done. Sharifan herself visited the officials on several occasions and it was later learned that her name was removed from the list of widows’ pension beneficiaries as she was declared dead,” said Shariq Ali, a relative of Sharifan. “Soon after my pension was stopped, I tried to meet the officials concerned, but to no avail. Ever since then, I have been struggling to get my pension. I am 80 years old and it was challenging for me to make rounds of several government offices. Recently, I came to know about the district administration’s Sampoorna Samadhan Diwas where I met the officials and apprised them of my plight,” she said. “Without any financial support, I have now become totally dependent on my children who have their own families to look after,” Sharifan said. “I have been assured by the officials that my problem will be resolved at the earliest,” she further added. Meanwhile, Moradabad sub-divisional magistrate Prashant Tiwari said, “It has come to light that the woman was declared dead in official records and stopped receiving her widows’ pension. It is negligence on the part of officials. Local officials have been told to rectify the error. Besides, a probe has been ordered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/declared-dead-80-year-old-woman-runs-from-pillar-to-post-to-prove-shes-alive-and-get-her-pension/articleshow/80436722.cms||Maria Khan
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||100 Covid vaccination centres now in Vidarbha, target 10,000/day from today||NAGPUR: The number of Covid-19 vaccination centres has increased from existing 56 to 100 in 11 districts of Vidarbha. As against 5,600 per day, new vaccination target for the region will be 10,000 health care workers per day from Monday onwards. Deputy director of health services, Nagpur division, Dr Sanjay Jaiswal told TOI, “Earlier, there were 34 centres in six districts of the division. Now, 28 more centres have been added for a total of 62. Target for each centre will be 100 per day.” Dr Jaiswal added turnout has increased to a great extent in the division and was 102% on Saturday. “Administering first dose to health care workers will speed up with increase in centres.” Deputy director of health services, Amravati division, Dr Rajkumar Chavan said 16 centres have been increased in five districts of the division. From earlier 22, total number of centres will be 38. Chavan added one centre will be opened in a private hospital in Yavatmal town. “Our division was probably first to start centre in private hospital in Akola right from first day. All health care workers from government and private hospitals are availing the benefit,” he said. Highest number of 22 centres will be in Nagpur district. CEO of Nagpur Zilla Parishad Yogesh Kumbejkar said, “There will be 14 centres in Nagpur rural as against earlier seven. There are 13 tehsils so one centre will be for each tehsil. One centre is at Lata Mangeshkar Hospital (charitable trust-run hospital) from second day of vaccination programme. Thus, we will be able to provide vaccines to health care staff of entire district.” Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has increased only three centres as against proposal of 14. Earlier, there were five centres and plan was to increase to 19, of which 12 were private hospitals and remaining 7 government hospitals. NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said, “Of three new centres, one each will be at GMCH and NMC Pachpaoli Women’s Hospital, which will now have two each. One centre will be at NMC Isolation Hospital. We will inspect centres proposed at private hospitals on Monday and start them from Wednesday.” Before the launch of vaccination programme, NMC had planned 60 centres. NMC official said, “Government allowed centres only in hospitals, so we cannot start in urban primary health centres (UPHCs) before any revision in guidelines. Centres are most suitable and equipped with all requirements in hospitals.” In Nagpur division, all districts have reportedly started giving jab to doctors, nurses and other staff of private hospitals but are yet to open centres in private hospitals, excluding charitable trust-run Lata Mangeshkar in Nagpur rural. Chandrapur collector Ajay Gulhane said, “It is not necessary to open centre in private hospitals for vaccinating their staff. Need is to facilitate centres in as many parts of the area as possible. We are covering staff from government as well as private hospitals at centres developed in government set up.” Gulhane added selfie points have been facilitated at all centres in Chandrapur district for creating awareness as well as encouragement for others to get the jab. “We ensured vaccination of civil surgeon, district health officer and members of Indian Medical Association (IMA) first. They took videos and pictures at selfie points and shared on social media which is bearing good results,” he said. In the first week of vaccination programme, 22,077 (13.85%) of 1,59,427 registered health care workers were vaccinated in the region. Target is to give first dose to remaining 1,37,350 doctors, nurses, technicians, attendants etc by February 14 and begin second dose from February 15. For smooth continuation of the programme, the state government is likely to deliver another 1.57 lakh doses to the region on Tuesday. Earlier, the region had received 1.88 lakh doses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/100-vaccination-centres-now-in-vid-target-10k/day-from-today/articleshow/80438890.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 25, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Reopen schools for all, urge doctors and educationists||BENGALURU: With the government staying mum on a decision to reopen primary classes, educationists and stakeholders are beginning to up the ante, seeking immediate action on the issue. ‘Vidyarthigala Nade Shaleya Kade’, a group comprising stakeholders, educationists and health experts that has been seeking reopening of schools for months now, has already chalked out their next course of action — to leave children on school campuses from February 1. The group has been vociferous on the issue and had earlier put pressure on the government by shooting videos of schoolchildren demanding reopening of schools in December. The government then allowed campuses to reopen for classes 10 and 12 from January 1, while on-campus Vidyagama sessions for classes 6-9 also began the same day. At that time, the government had said it will decide on throwing open campuses for other classes after 15 days, depending on the situation. VP Niranjanaradhya, Centre for Child and Law, NLSIU, who is batting for schools to reopen, said about the campaign: “We had initially planned to start the new campaign on Monday (January 25), but have decided to wait till February 1. As per the campaign, parents will leave their children on campus when they leave for work as they believe it’s the safest place for their children. School development monitoring committees have requested the cooperation of teachers to look after children.” He went on to say, “Unlike older children, primary school graders will not be able to manage lessons by themselves. They need guidance from teachers. When the Supreme Court has said even anganwadis can open, why is the government still hesitating on opening schools?” Moydeen Kutty, president, School Development Monitoring Committee Coordination Forum, said: “Children, and their parents, have been sitting at home for almost a year now with no learning happening. Parents are unable to go to work as they have no place to send their children. Those homes where parents used to go to work leaving the younger child in the care of an older sibling are also in a dilemma now as older children are back in school.” The worry is also about providing midday meals. Dr Srinivas Kakkilaya, physician and activist, said: “World over, schools have reopened and classes for grades 10 and 12 have begun here too. Have Covid-19 cases increased after schools reopened? It has been proved time and again that children between 3 and 10 years of age are the least affected by Covid-19. For young children, school is not just about academics; it is also about learning social skills. Inadequate nutrition has also been a major concern. It’s time the government provides straight answers.” The department of public instruction has said it has already recommended to the government to resume oncampus classes for grades 9 and 11. “It’s up to the government now. Reopening classes 6 to 8 have been discussed orally. However, we are moving cautiously on reopening for primary grades,” said V Anbukkumar, commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/reopen-all-classes-by-feb-experts-tell-state/articleshow/80438884.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
January 25, 2021||Patna||Missing Masaurhi agriculture officer was killed, 1 held: Cops||PATNA: A fertilizers trader has been arrested for killing Masaurhi block agriculture officer (BAO) Ajay Kumar so that not to repay him Rs14 lakh. Police on Sunday exhumed the decomposed body from the banks of Morhar river at village Sahebnagar under Dhanarua police station area in Patna district. Ajay had been missing since January 18. Police recovered the body after the accused Abhinav Gaurav alias Golu (21) confessed to his crime. Gaurav, who belongs to Lakhna village under Gaurichak police station area, told the police that he, along with three other associates, took Ajay in his car to the river bank in the name of showing him a piece of land as he wanted to buy one and for which the BAO had given him Rs14 lakh, city SP (east) Jitendra Kumar said. Ajay (55) had left his rented accommodation on Chandmari Road in Kankarbagh in state capital on January 18 morning, but never returned home. His wife lodged a kidnapping case with Kankarbagh police station on January 19. “Ajay’s family also didn’t know about the money,” the SP told TOI over phone. He said Gaurav did not want to return the money to Ajay and hatched a conspiracy to kill him. He said Gaurav picked up the BAO in his car soon after he reached Masaurhi and took him to a secluded place. “Gaurav hit him hard on his head with a spade, resulting in Ajay’s death. At least three Gaurav’s associates were involved in the killing. They later buried the body on the river bank and fled,” the SP said, adding that other accused were evading arrest. The SP said Gaurav was spotted moving in his car on the day the BAO went missing but did not tell the police when asked about it during interrogation. “But he broke down after rigorous interrogation on Saturday night,” he said. He said Gaurav took away the BAO’s cellphone and kept changing its location with the help of associates to mislead the police. “The mobile tower location showed even in Patna town. Besides, Gaurav intentionally injured his leg on January 19 to avoid police interrogation,” he said. “He even called Ajay’s wife on January 19 and suggested her to approach the police. Gaurav visited the block office twice that day in the name of submitting vouchers of fertilizers worth Rs7 lakh so that no one could suspect him,” Kumar said. Masaurhi block development officer Pankaj Kumar said Ajay had joined the state agriculture service in August, 1990. “He was to retire in five years. Block office staff told me that he was keen to purchase a land for investment and used to inquire from others on this count,” the BDO said, adding the slain officer was of calm nature and never had any dispute with anyone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-missing-masaurhi-agri-officer-was-killed-1-held/articleshow/80437881.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Health staff get pat for helping Nepali woman||HYDERABAD: Khammam district health officials received accolades from health minister Eatala Rajender for their role in providing timely help to a pregnant foreign national, who developed sudden labour pains while she was aboard a train approaching Khammam. Despite the fact that the woman, Anitha Devi Mada from Dailic near Kathmandu, and her family did not speak Telugu, passengers figured out she was in labour and help was arranged. Also, the Bengaluru-Yeshwantpur superfast train, which does not halt at Khammam, was stopped at the station. She later delivered a healthy baby boy. “Her fellow passengers who understood her situation informed the railway staff. The railway constable informed Railway inspector. He, in turn, alerted district health authorities,” Eatala Rajender said in an official statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/health-staff-get-pat-for-helping-nepali-woman/articleshow/80438889.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Toy pistol creates flutter in Araku Valley||VISAKHAPATNAM: A youngster brandishing a cigarette lighter shaped like a pistol created a flutter in Araku Valley in Vizag Agency on Saturday night. Locals beat the youth, aged around 30 years. Police said four tourists from Vizag city drove down to Araku Valley on Saturday night. One of them went out to purchase liquor and cigarettes and got into an altercation with the shopkeeper while buying cigarettes. Though locals tried to pacify the youngster and the shopkeeper, the shopkeeper spotted the toy gun in the hand of the youngster. Scared, locals present at the spot ran away, claiming the youngster was inebriated and would resort to firing. Upon receiving credible information from the shopkeeper, police rushed to the spot and brought all four youngsters to the station. Upon questioning the youngster who was present at the shop, he said he had bought the pistol-shaped lighter online for Rs 904. Police filed a case of drunken driving against him before letting off all four.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/toy-pistol-creates-flutter-in-araku-valley/articleshow/80437214.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Madurai||HC allows pregnancy termination of minor||Madurai: Allowing pregnancy termination of a minor girl from Virudhunagar district, Madras high court directed the trial court to award an interim compensation of Rs 5,000 monthly maintenance to the victim for 36 months. The court was hearing the petition filed by the girl’s aunt seeking to terminate the pregnancy of her niece. The girl whose mother had mentally illness was living with her aunt and uncle after her father died. A historysheeter enticed her into a physical relationship as a result of which she got pregnant. Medical experts stated after examining her that the gestation period being 10-11 weeks continuing the pregnancy may endanger her physical and mental health. Justice G R Swaminathan observed, “While we do celebrate life, the foremost spiritual prayer is that there should be liberation from the cycle of births and deaths.” In this regard, he quoted a Thirukkural which reads: “If anything is to be desired, it should be freedom from birth.” The judge observed that the court must put itself in the shoes of the unborn child and objectively decide if coming into this world would be in its best interest. An unborn child is also a person. In the case on hand, the father of the child has been shown to be involved in a host of criminal cases, some of which are very grave in nature. The minor girl is 15 years old and she was not in a position to take care of herself. Though she might have accompanied the accused on her own volition, technically what has been committed is a non-compoundable offence under Pocso Act. “If a choice is given to the foetus now in the womb of the minor, it would definitely proclaim that it would not wish to be born. I am however spared the trouble of taking such a harsh decision, by overruling the stand of the minor because she had changed her mind in the meanwhile. She told me during the video conference that she had agreed for termination of the pregnancy,” observed the judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-allows-pregnancy-termination-of-minor/articleshow/80439901.cms||Kaushik Kannan
January 25, 2021||Madurai||Plea against autos which carry excess people closed||Madurai: Madras high court closed a plea, which sought to initiate actions against the autorickshaw drivers violating the traffic rules in Madurai.The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by ‘Traffic’ Ramasamy, who sought the state government to take stringent actions against the auto drivers, who are violating the traffic regulations by carrying more than 12 passengers instead of three passengers as per the law.A division bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice M M Sundresh observed that pursuant to the earlier queries raised by this court, the state government had filed a status report. The judges observed that a perusal of the status report would show that adequate instruction has been given to all the authorities working in the respective districts to consider the imposition of either suspension or cancellation as against fine.“Though a larger issue arises for giving a permanent solution, we are closing the writ petition, in view of the status report filed. We shall examine the larger issue in an appropriate case,” said the judges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-against-autos-which-carry-excess-people-closed/articleshow/80439903.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Pune||Four men attack criminal in Pune, suffers bullet injury on thigh||PUNE: A 20-year-old criminal on police records, Vighnesh Ashok Gore, suffered a bullet injury on his thigh after four men assaulted and opened fire at him on the Katraj-Kondhwa Road around Saturday midnight. Senior inspector Sardar Patil of the Kondhwa police said, “Gore, who has two body offence cases to his name on police records, told the police in his statement that he had no idea who the assailants were and why they had opened fire at him. He was discharged after treatment at the Sassoon General Hospital.” Based on Gore’s FIR lodged on Sunday morning, the police have filed a case under Section 307 (Attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code, besides the relevant provisions of the Indian Arms Act. “Gore is unemployed and stays in an SRA scheme located on the Katraj-Kondhwa Road,” Patil said. According to the FIR, Gore and three of his friends were walking on the road around midnight, when the four assailants — two each on an orange motorcycle and a scooter — came from behind and intercepted them. Before Gore and his friends could realize what was happening, one of the four men pulled out a firearm and fired at Gore, police said. Gore’s friends ran away from the spot. The bullet hit the victim’s thigh as he too started running away. But, the two men on the scooter chased and assaulted him, Patil said. All the four attackers then fled. Police have launched a search for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-men-attack-criminal-suffers-bullet-injury-on-thigh/articleshow/80438858.cms||---
January 25, 2021||India||11% women aged 45 and above surveyed as part of ageing study reported having undergone hysterectomy||NEW DELHI: Nearly 11% women out of 41,494 women aged 45 and above surveyed as part of the Wave -1 of the Longitudinal Ageing Study of India (LASI) reported having undergone hysterectomy - the surgical removal of the uterus. The proportion is higher among women aged 45-59 (13% out of 25,198) compared to elderly women of 60 and above (10% out of 16,296). The data on hysterectomies forms part of a section of the study on women’s health with special focus on reproductive health problems. The findings gain significance given that even though hysterectomy is the second most frequently performed non-obstetric surgery after caesarean in many parts of the world, knowledge around data on this in India has been limited, partly due to lack of information from large-scale national representative surveys. The study also brings out an important fact that the proportion of women aged 45 and above who had undergone hysterectomy is higher in urban areas (15%) than rural areas (10%), and is found to increase with educational attainment as well as with MPCE (Monthly Per Capita Expenditure) quintile. It turns out that across MPCE quintiles, the percentage of women of 45 years and above who had undergone hysterectomy is more than twice as high in the richest quintile (18%) than the poorest MPCE quintile (8%). The state and Union Territory data is even more telling as it shows that in Daman & Diu (24%), Andhra Pradesh (23%), and Punjab (21%), at least one in five women aged 45 and above reported having undergone hysterectomy. The proportion of older women who had undergone hysterectomy is lower in the north-eastern states of Assam (3%), Arunachal Pradesh (3%), Nagaland (2%), and Meghalaya (0.9%). LASI, is cited to be the world’s largest and India’s first nationally representative ongoing (first two waves 2016-2021 and long term goal to continue survey for 25 years) covering health, economic and social determinants and consequences of population ageing in India. LASI Wave-1 (2017-19) covered 72,250 older adults aged 45 and above. The ministry of health and family welfare released the Wave-1 results earlier this month. Citing various research reports, LASI highlights that since in India, the prevalence of hysterectomy, premature menopause, and cervical cancer is rising, female participants (45-59 years) were asked about their reproductive health conditions, including menstrual, menopausal, or gynaecological health concerns. During the survey interviews carried out in 2017-18, the study found that about 16% of women (45-59 years) reported having at least one reproductive health problem in the past 12 months. Women (45-59 years) in rural areas (17%) reported higher prevalence of any reproductive health problem than older adult women in urban areas (14%). The data also shows that currently married women (17%) and those living with a spouse and children (17%) have a higher prevalence of any reproductive health problems. It also comes through in the study that despite rise in cancer cases, women getting tested for early detection remains small with just 2% women aged 45 and above reporting to have undergone pap smear test for cervical cancer and just 1.6% underwent mammography to check for breast cancer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/11-women-aged-45-and-above-surveyed-as-part-of-ageing-study-reported-having-undergone-hysterectomy/articleshow/80440845.cms||Ambika Pandit
January 25, 2021||Madurai||Loco pilot who averted crash to get gallantry medal on R-Day||Madurai: J Suresh, a loco pilot from Madurai whose timely action of stopping the Vaigai Express before it hit boulders on the track in November, thereby saving the lives of 1,500 passengers, will receive the Tamil Nadu government’s Anna Medal for gallantry. He will receive the honour from chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami at the Republic Day celebrations at the Marina. The 49-year-old loco pilot started from the Madurai Junction at 7 am on November 18 and was heading to Chennai when he noticed the boulders ahead of Kodai Road railway station. “It was a foggy morning. Rocks had fallen on the track due to the landslide. Due to the curvy path I could notice two boulders and many pieces of rock on the track only 450 metres ahead” he told TOI.Recalling that the train was at a speed of 50 kms per hour, he managed to stop it 100 metres ahead of the boulders by applying emergency brakes. The effort of the pilot was widely appreciated and Madurai divisional railway manager V R Lenin appreciated him and his assistant loco pilot with a cash reward. Minister for revenue and disaster management R B Udhayakumar recommended Suresh for the prestigious award.“I consider this award a recognition and motivation for loco pilots and assistant loco pilots,” he said. Suresh joined the railways as an assistant driver (traction assistant then) in January 1994. He was promoted as a loco pilot in 2013. The resident of Thirumangalam will be among the three government servants who will be receiving a medal, citation and cash prize of Rs 1 lakh from the CM on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/loco-pilot-who-averted-crash-to-get-gallantry-medal-on-r-day/articleshow/80439906.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Madurai||CBI arrests regional labour commissioner while receiving bribe||Madurai:The Central Bureau of Investigation on Saturday arrested the regional labour commissioner (Central) Madurai, P Shivarajan, and a man while receiving a bribe of Rs 30,000 from a private company official.According to a statement by CBI on Sunday, it received a complaint that the labour commissioner and a man from Triplicane in Chennai have been demanding money from the representative of a private company for issuing a labour licence.Acting on the complaint, the CBI laid a trap on Saturday. Both the accused were intercepted while exchanging Rs 30,000. They were booked for graft. CBI also conducted searches at five places in Chennai and Madurai. The two accused were taken to Chennai and produced before the court of Principal Special Judge for CBI Cases. The court remanded them in judicial custody till February 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cbi-arrests-regional-labour-commissioner-while-receiving-bribe/articleshow/80439907.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Heritage cemeteries in Vizag to get a facelift||VISAKHAPATNAM: As the renovation of the Town Hall nears completion, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is taking up cleaning and renovation work at the Regimental Lines Cemetery at Jagadamba junction while work on the European Cemetery in Old Town will follow next. Burials had stopped in the two cemeteries in 1818 and 1880, respectively, and the properties remain heritage graveyards. Both cemeteries are overgrown with weeds, while debris and garbage are often dumped in the Old Town cemetery by residents from apartments. Recently, the GVMC commissioner and other officials visited the Regimental Lines cemetery. Speaking to TOI, chief city planner of GVMC R J Vidyullatha said, “We have decided to restore the key heritage structures of Vizag one by one, especially Old Town area that comes under GVMC. Already, Town Hall renovation is nearing completion and next we are going to clean up and renovate the Regimental Lines cemetery and also construct parking nearby. “The other Old Town European cemetery has some access problem but we will nevertheless clean that up and restore it as part of heritage conservation. We will consult local heritage enthusiasts and experts who were associated with the Town Hall renovation. All the conservation projects will be funded by GVMC,” she added. The Regimental Lines cemetery (Mors Janua Vitae) belongs to the Christian Cemeteries Board and houses 125 graves dating between 1802 and 1880. The European cemetry, the oldest in the Port City, has 50 graves, with some dating as far back as 1699 and up to 1818. Welcoming the move, heritage enthusiast and Intach member Sohan Hatangadi said, “Sometimes, foreigners or those with roots in Vizag used to come from Europe and visit these cemeteries where their ancestors were buried during the Dutch and British colonial era. For such visitors and for preserving the history and heritage of the city, these graveyards should be cleaned, restored and renovated maintaining the sanctity of the structures and without damaging the graves.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/heritage-cemeteries-in-vizag-to-get-a-facelift/articleshow/80437220.cms||Sulogna Mehta
January 25, 2021||Goa||MSMEs need strategies to mitigate impact of pandemic: Assocham||Panaji: Stating that micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) continue to suffer the after effects of the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, Assocham has urged the Centre to take concrete steps to support MSMEs, particularly those waiting for access to finance. Assocham’s MSME council chairman Manguirish Pai Raiker said that despite reforms initiated by the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India, MSMEs continue to be denied access to credit. “This sector is facing a variety of problems such as decrease in demand, supply chain disruptions, cancellation of export orders, raw material shortage, transportation disruptions and migration of labour force among others,” Raiker said. “Provisions should be made for MSME borrowers to directly apply to Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE) for credit guarantee. On the basis of an eligibility certificate issued by CGTMSE, they should approach financial institutions and get loans at competitive rates.” Raiker said that unlike large enterprises, MSMEs do not have sufficient resources and are unprepared for disruptions such as the pandemic and a lengthy lockdown. On behalf of Assocham, Raiker has submitted a list of steps which the Center could take to provide comfort to this sector. Principal among the steps is a call for reduction in tax on MSMEs which are operating on a proprietorship or partnership basis. “Reduce tax rate of 30% on partnership firms up to a certain turnover since companies also now have lower tax rates of 22%,” Raiker said. Assocham has also suggested that banks should provide financial consultancy services to their MSME borrowers to support and nurture them. Touching upon the persistent issue of delay in payment of dues to MSMEs, Raiker said that government and private enterprises should clear such dues within 45 days or pay interest at three times the bank rate. Reduction in stamp duty, permitting input tax credit of GST on construction of immovable property, conversion of GST payment on cash basis and exemption from reverse charge mechanism are among the other suggestions made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/msmes-need-strategies-to-mitigate-impact-of-pandemic-assocham/articleshow/80439930.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||13 sent to jail for drunk driving in Cyberabad||HYDERABAD: A total of 13 motorists, who were found driving under influence of alcohol and without driving license in Cyberabad police jurisdiction were sentenced to undergo imprisonment ranging from one day to 13 days. The motorist sentenced to 13 days had the highest blood alcohol content (BAC) among the cases disposed of by the local court. BAC reading was a shocking 408, against the permitted 30 mg of alcohol in 100 ml of blood. Apart from sending drunk drivers to jail, the court imposed hefty penalties. Among the 13 jailed, eight of them were caught under the Balanagar traffic police station limits, two were fined Rs 20,000 each, while one has to cough up Rs 15,000. A DCM van driver, has to pay Rs 12,000 and the rest have to pay Rs 10,000 each apart from their jail terms. Five persons got two days each, while another five got one day each. One got four days, another three days and the motorcyclist with 408 BAC got 13 days. “Of the 13 imprisoned, nine were motorcyclists, with most of them having high BAC readings,” an official said. Out of 173 cases which were disposed, 130 were of drunk driving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/13-sent-to-jail-for-drunk-driving/articleshow/80438936.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Jaipur||Over 1,000 tractors from Raj to join farmers’ rally in Delhi||Jaipur: Around 1,000-1,500 tractors from Rajasthan will join the farmers’ tractor rally in Delhi on the Republic Day (January 26). Meanwhile, Kisan Mahapanchayat leader Rampal Jat will lead a batch of tractors from Gurugram in Haryana and will head towards Delhi. Farmers have been urged to wear the state’s traditional dress along with turban (saffa) on the Republic Day, a statement issued by Kisan Mahapanchayat said. “The number of tractors that will join Delhi’s Kisan tractor rally from Gurugram will be decided by Monday evening,” said Rampal Jat. A tractor rally to be organised by several farmer organisations from Rajasthan will begin from Alwar’s Shahjahanpur border on Tuesday morning. “The farmers’ rally in Delhi will begin after the Republic Day ceremony at Rajpath. We want to head towards Dhaula Kuan (Delhi) from Shahjahanpur (Rajasthan) via NH-8. A meeting was held with Haryana police on Sunday, but it has not been finalised yet. They are suggesting a different route (via NH-52), but we are firm on taking NH-8,” said farmer leader Himmat Singh. Farmers who will not be able to participate in the tractor rally in Delhi will organise rallies at the district headquarters and tehsils, read a statement issued by Kisan Mahapanchayat. Farmers of Baran, Tonk, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur, Jodhpur and Udaipur districts have already planned big rallies in these districts. Kisan Mahapanchayat leader Satyanarayana Singh will be coordinating with all the farmer organisations after finalising a plan for organizing tractor rallies in the districts, read the statement. Meanwhile, at Alwar’s Shahjahanpur, four farmers from Kerala, three from Rajasthan and four from Andhra Pradesh observed fast. A batch of young farmers under the banner of ‘Kisan Jyot Yatra’ reached Shahjahanpur protest site on Sunday to extend support to the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-1000-tractors-from-raj-to-join-farmers-rally-in-delhi/articleshow/80438921.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 25, 2021||Madurai||New cases drop to 63 in south Tamil Nadu, 48 in central region||Madurai/Trichy: Fresh cases in the southern region dropped to 63 on Sunday from 91 on Friday and 79 on Saturday.Meanwhile, the central region reported 48 new cases taking the tally to 75,580, which include 442 active cases. The southern region recorded one death, while there are no casualties in the central region. Kanyakumari (17) recorded the highest number of new cases in the region. Madurai recorded 10 cases. The eight other districts recorded less than 10 cases each with Ramanathapuram (1) having the lowest. It is followed by Tenkasi (2), Theni (4), Dindigul (4), Virudhunagar (5), Sivagangai (5), Tirunelveli (6) and Tuticorin (9). The lone death reported in the southern region is a 74-year-old man in Madurai with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Among the central districts, Trichy is on top with 17 new fresh cases pushing the number of total cases to 14,588. Thanjavur recorded 13 fresh cases taking the tally to 17,617. Nagapattinam reported eight new cases, Tiruvarur-four, Karur and Pudukottai-three each. Ariyalur and Perambalur reported zero positive cases. With no deaths the region maintained its toll at 940.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/new-cases-drop-to-63-in-south-tamil-nadu-48-in-central-region/articleshow/80439909.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Madurai||Tuticorin fuel station blast kills 1||Tuticorin: Explosion in an empty petrol tank of a fuel station in Kovilpatti left one dead and another injured on Sunday. The incident took place in the fuel station located at Velayuthapuram around 12.30 pm. The deceased has been identified as K Raghu, 27, of Kadayam in Tenkasi district. Due to contamination of petrol with water in the underground tank during the recent rain, the tank was closed for operations from January 16. Ragu and his co-workers Thiagarajan and Balasubramanian were engaged in emptying the tank and cleaning it over the last few days. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the tank was emptied and the workers were cleaning it on Sunday morning. They were assisted by T Justin, 35, who works in the fuel station. As it was humid inside the tank the workers tried to cool it using a fan. Raghu and Justin were near the entrance of the tank when the fan was turned on around 12.25 pm. There was a sudden explosion that threw Raghu and Justin a few feet away. Fire and rescue service personnel who rushed to the scene said that the ladder kept inside the tank was found on the top of a house about 100 metres away. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tuticorin-fuel-station-blast-kills-1/articleshow/80439923.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Farmer dies, kin cry foul||HYDERABAD: A man who came to Moinabad police station in connection with an issue related to usage of tractor few days ago, died on Sunday. His family members alleged that he succumbed from injuries he suffered after local police beat him. However, senior Cyberabad police denied it by calling it as false allegations. Police said on January 19, one Naresh, a farmer, came to police station allegedly in drunken condition and doused himself with fuel. He was counselled and sent back home. However on Sunday, Naresh’s family gave a statement before local media alleging that Naresh died after he was beaten up by cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmer-dies-kin-cry-foul/articleshow/80438955.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Surat||‘Truce with survivor can’t provide bail to rape accused’||Surat: A local court has refused to grant bail to a 24-year-old rape accused even as a compromise was struck between his and the survivor’s families. Vishal alias Balli Jadav, a resident of Adajan, was arrested on June 29, 2019, after the 15-year-old girl’s mother lodged a complaint of kidnapping and rape against him alleging that he lured her with a promise of marriage. He was booked under IPC sections 376 (rape) and sections of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act. Since his arrest, Jadav has been kept in judicial custody. Later, the complainant’s advocate had filed an affidavit in the court stating that they have reached a compromise with the accused and produced documentary evidence also in this regard. The court observed that it was a serious crime, and, when the offence was committed, the girl was a minor and therefore compromise can’t be considered. The court also observed that if the accused is released on bail, he might threaten the complainant and witnesses. Noting that the elders of the families intervened to strike a truce, the compromise cannot be considered for granting bail as the girl was 15 years and five months when the crime was committed. “Taking the victim’s age into consideration, her consent is useless,” the order stated. It further said that in this situation, compromise between the victim and accused can’t be taken into consideration at this stage. This case is lodged under POCSO and it is a serious crime, court ruled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/truce-with-survivor-cant-provide-bail-to-rape-accused/articleshow/80437981.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
January 25, 2021||Madurai||200 goats slaughtered for Madurai temple fest||Madurai: Over 200 goats and 120 cocks were slaughtered for the Thirumangalam biryani festival held in connection with the festival of the local temple on Saturday. Vadakkampatti Muniyandi temple in Thirumangalam is the deity of the famous non-vegetarian hotel Muniyandi Vilas, which has branches across the state. Every year, the pongal festival of the temple is celebrated in a grand manner by the people of Vadakkampatti and the neighbouring Pottalpatti and Alangarapuram villages. Women take out processions with milk pots for offering to the deity. Men also participate in the procession which witnesses many folk art performances and floral tributes. After the ceremonial rituals, the sacrifice of goats and cocks pledged to the deity as a way to redeem their vows takes place. The first goat was slaughtered at midnight and the others followed. As many as 120 cocks were also sacrificed as an offering to the deity. After the completion of rituals, the men and women get busy cleaning the slaughtered animals and birds and the preparation of biryani begins. Piping hot biryani is offered to the deity along with other food items. The people then sit down for the feast as early as 5 am one after the other as soon as the offerings are made by each devotee. According to festival organising committee chairman Govindarajan, as much as 2,500 kilograms of biryani was prepared this year. Every year, people come from many districts including Chennai to attend the festival. This year, about 10,000 people participated and consumed the food, he said though the number was lesser than last year.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/200-goats-slaughtered-for-madurai-temple-fest/articleshow/80439925.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Madurai||OPS skips inauguration of jallikattu in Theni||Madurai: Over 500 bulls and 300 bull tamers participated in the jallikattu held at Palavarayanpatti village in Theni district on Sunday, but deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, who the district public relations officer informed would be participating, did not attend the event, raising eyebrows. As many as 557 of the 558 bulls registered with the revenue department participated in the game that began at 8 am and went on till 4 pm. In all, 21 of the 366 tamers who had registered were disqualified before entering the arena, leaving 345 to tame the bulls. The communication issued by the district PRO’s office on Saturday stated that Panneerselvam would inaugurate in the games at 8 AM, before proceeding to tribal hamlets. But he did not turn up. Meanwhile, posters by ``Naatumadu Nala Sangam’’ (Nativebreed Cattle Welfare Association) calling him the villain of the jallikattu and not the hero, were pasted at many places around Pallavarayanpatti also. They are protesting against the Tamil Nadu Bovine Breeding Act of 2019, which they claim would destroy the jallikattu game, and also lead to the extinction of native cattle breeds. Jallikattu is one of the propaganda subjects of the AIADMK on which it is expected to win over voters. Even in the jallikattu games in Madurai, it was something that was highlighted with AIADMK members claiming they were the saviours of the game. However, the absence of OPS at the game on Sunday disappointed many cadres. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ops-skips-inauguration-of-jallikattu-in-theni/articleshow/80439927.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Activist bags award for ocean life awareness||MUMBAI: City-based environmentalist, Elsie Gabriel, has been honoured with the Ocean Quest Global Ambassador for India title. Gabriel, who runs the Powai-based Young Environmentalist Programme Trust, has actively helped in the awareness for conservation of marine ecosystems. The founder of Ocean Quest Global, Anuar Abdullah, an expert in coral propagation, said: “We are happy to honour Elsie Gabriel. This ambassador program is truly a recognition earned through the work and sacrifice of one to advocate, protect, conserve, and restore the earth’s fragile environments.” —Vijay Singh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/activist-bags-award-for-ocean-life-awareness/articleshow/80438968.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Mysuru||Political slugfest over illegal stone mining at Baby Betta||MANDYA: Illegal stone mining in Baby Betta, a hillock about 11km from Krishna Raja Sagara (KRS) reservoir in Mandya district, has triggered a political slugfest with parties blaming each other for the menace. HD Kumaraswamy of JD(S) on Sunday accused the BJP government of allowing illegal mining and claimed that he completely stopped the activity in Mandya district during his tenure as the chief minister. BJP workers countered him on social media, reminding him of allegations against JD(S) member and former minister CS Puttaraju, who owns mining units in Baby Betta. In 2017, Puttaraju was slapped with a fine of Rs 90 lakh for carrying out illegal mining on the hill. BJP workers also recounted how HD Deve Gowda protested at a mining unit in Nagamangala taluk last year after claiming that district in-charge minister KC Narayanagowda had harassed JD(S) members who were in the mining business. At the time, farmer leaders had criticised Deve Gowda’s stance to support mining, pointing to a report by the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre that highlighted the dangers of mining close to the dam and recommended a complete ban. The report drew attention to the fact that seismic activity recorded within the radius of the reservoir on September 25 was linked to blasts at nearby stone quarry units. The reservoir is the main water source of Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mandya and other districts. Congress and JD(S) activists on Sunday questioned the BJP government’s alleged failure to tackle the problem, circulating videos of an election speech in which Yediyurappa had vowed to end illegal mining in Baby Betta. The speech was made before the KR Pete bypoll in 2019. That year, mining was completely banned at Baby Betta after a study highlighted the risks. Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh raised the issue in the Lok Sabha. “I’ve got reports that illegal mining work is affecting the KRS dam. I have instructed officials to take immediate steps to stop it,” Yediyurappa said on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/political-slugfest-over-baby-betta/articleshow/80438965.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Gold finance fraud case accused held||HYDERABAD: Tamil Nadu police with the help of Cyberabad cops arrested the main accused in Rs 300 crore worth gold finance fraud case registered in Tamil Nadu. In 2019 over 1,500 people from various parts of Tamil Nadu lodged police complaints against T Nagar based Ruby Gold Jewellers management for escaping with about 300 kilos of their mortgaged gold jewellery. On Sunday evening, Tamil Nadu police along with RC Puram cops of Cyberabad raided a house at Metro Colony under Ameenpur police station limits and arrested the main accused Ifsar Rehman, his brother Anees Rehman and three women who used to work at the jewellery store. “By promising to lend money on mortgaged gold without any interest. The accused collected over 300 kilos of gold jewellery in a span of three years and suddenly shut the shop in 2019,” a Cyberabad police official said. The accused are reportedly being shifted to Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gold-finance-fraud-case-accused-held/articleshow/80438970.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Harassment case against driver in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A YouTube channel actress lodged a complaint with Banjara Hills police alleging that she was being harassed by her driver.  The accused Sk Ibrahim has been working as a driver for the 26 -year-old actress. In her complaint to police, the actress alleged that while she was travelling to Kerala a few days ago, Ibrahim misbehaved with her and later started harassing her for money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/harassment-case-against-driver/articleshow/80438962.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Biker shot at near Kharghar for thwarting robbery bid, 4 held||NAVI MUMBAI: The Kharghar police have arrested four men within 24 hours for trying to rob a 24-year-old biker on Sion-Panvel highway near Kharghar on Saturday night. One of them shot him on the leg after the biker managed to thwart them. They waylaid the victim, Pratik Aher, shot him on the thigh when he fended them off. Aher, a real estate agent from Pen, Raigad, was admitted to a hospital in Kamothe by the cops after a passerby informed the police. Aher was returning home from Vashi and had halted at a paan stall behind Kopri village when the four men attacked him. They told him to hand over his mobile and cash and also snatched his bike keys. When Aher confronted them, one of them took out a a pistol and fired and the bullet hit him on the thigh. When he lay bleeding profusely on the road, they escaped without robbing him. The incident had occurred on an isolated road with no CCTVs in the area. However, a sole camera located at Kopra village entrance helped the cops to zero in on the suspects who were staying in a chawl in the village. All four were nabbed by Sunday evening, said senior inspector of Kharghar police station, Shatrughna Mali. The police have recovered the pistol and live bullets from the four arrested accused, identified as Bipin Thakur (19), Gopal Singh (23), Abhinandan Sharma (23) and Muchan Thakur (19). They have confessed to their crime and said they have been robbing people in order to collect money and start a hotel business. An FIR has been registered against them for robbery with attempt to cause death under relevant sections of the IPC and Arms Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/biker-shot-at-near-kharghar-for-thwarting-robbery-bid-4-held/articleshow/80438980.cms||George Mendonca
January 25, 2021||Madurai||Lack of flights adds to woes of Madurai-Bangalore travellers||Madurai: Lack of direct flights to Bangalore from Madurai or on the return route has been causing much inconvenience to frequent travellers as well as other domestic fliers who were dependent on it, now that there are not enough train or bus services also.Booking websites do not show direct flights between Madurai and Bangalore while three or four flights have layovers at Chennai or Hyderabad. S Logesh, a frequent flier on the route, said there was an IndiGo flight on the Madurai- Bangaloreroute at 12.30 pm. ``But when I tried to book for February, there were no direct flights and the minimum layover is three hours in Chennai, which is a very long journey and the fares are also high,’’ he said.An owner of a travel agency said there was a flight from Kolkatta to Bangalorewhich was routed through Madurai, making it a direct one between the two southern destinations. ``It is there to the best of my knowledge, but I do not know why it is not appearing on booking websites,’’ he said. This was the winter schedule and the new schedule which to be announced in March may have new flights, he said.A Surya, a software engineer, said he had aged parents in Madurai who he would visit at least once a month. Flights were the most convenient though he used to take private buses earlier. But now, there are no private buses or direct flights, he said. ``A single journey which cost about Rs 3,000 earlier is now costing over Rs 4,000 and you are also asked to pay for other conveniences like pre-booking your seat,’’ he said.Senior president of Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry, S Rethinavelu, said there was a drastic reduction of flights in the domestic sector. ``Maybe they are facing losses and compensating them with connecting flights, but even these flights are very expensive and services should be resumed on sectors like Madurai - Bangalore at the earliest as the trade and industry depend on them,’’ he said.With only Tuticorin Express the one daily train between Madurai and Bangalore and private bus operators yet to resume full fledged services, flights would have filled a big vacuum. ``Besides, flights are less dangerous as far as Covid is concerned as it takes barely an hour’s journey compared to travelling on trains and buses,’’ said Bhanumathi, an engineer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lack-of-flights-adds-to-woes-of-madurai-bangalore-travellers/articleshow/80439932.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Madurai||Govt school students to be assessed soon||Madurai: After reopening the schools for classes X and XII to prepare them for board exams, the school education department is set to hold online tests for the students of all government-run schools. The tests will assess how much the students have learnt from the ‘Kalvi Tholaikatchi’ TV programs and video lessons. The teachers can devise a proper plan for the upcoming classes based on the performance of the students. Madurai district chief educational officer (CEO) R Swaminathan said that online tests were planned to be held using the computer lab facilities at the schools. Students would be able to log in using the user ID and password given to them. “The tests were expected to be conducted by Friday or Saturday. However, due to server and connectivity issues, students were not able to take the tests. We are hoping the technical issues will be sorted and the tests can be conducted from Monday,” said Swaminathan. The CEO further said that the students would be tested based on the video lessons given to them so far. The assessment tests are to be held for all subjects for a total of 30 marks each, except for language subjects. The tests are to held in a phased manner, first for class XII and then for class X. Meanwhile, government school teachers said that they are not expecting students to have learned much while they were at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-school-students-to-be-assessed-soon/articleshow/80439934.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Madurai||Applications open for MPhil at MKU from Jan 25||Madurai: The application portal for MPhil programmes offered by various schools, departments, centres of Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) is being opened on the university’s official website.As per a press release from the university, eligible candidates can apply online from January 25 to February 3 on the official website - www.mkuniversity.ac.in. The university has total 20 schools for arts, languages, science and management.There are 40 M Phil (regular) programmes offered at the university across various subjects for which students can apply, including, biotechnology, botany, chemistry, commerce, computer science, economics, English, French, history, journalism and mass communication, management, mathematics, physics and political science etc., There is no interview conducted for admission to the M Phil courses and it will be based on the merit list of the common entrance test held.Only those who cleared the common entrance test conducted by the university in December 2020 will be eligible to apply. This time, the exam was an AI proctored online exam due to the Covid-19 pandemic and more than 2200 candidates had appeared. The results of the common entrance test have also been uploaded and made available on the university website www.mkuniversity.ac.in/research/research/.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/applications-open-for-mphil-at-mku-from-jan-25/articleshow/80439933.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||34-year-old man found murdered in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A 34-year-old man was found murdered in Bowrumpet village in Dundigal on Sunday. Police said the victim Shiva Goud, was found in the morning lying in a pool of blood.  Police suspect that the victim consumed alcohol with an unknown person on Saturday night. Perhaps after an argument, the unknown person attacked the victim on his head with a blunt object and killed him. Police registered a criminal case and trying to trace the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/34-yr-old-man-found-murdered/articleshow/80438972.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Madurai||MKU prof bags Tamil Chemmal award||Madurai: Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) professor and head of the department of Tamilology Dr B Sathiyamoorthy has been selected for the ‘Tamil Chemmal’ award, which is given annually to eminent scholars for their contributions in the field of Tamil literature by the state government. The award also comprises a cash prize of Rs 25,000. The criteria for the award include number of research publications, ability to organise national and international conferences, and contributions in developing and promoting Tamil literature and culture. Dr Sathiyamoorthy has 98 research publications to his name and has organised around 70 conferences in the last 10 years. He has also published an English-Tamil-Chinese dictionary and 35 books on various Tamil scholars. Under his mentorship, six students have received their PhD and 60 students have received M Phil. “It is an honour. This is the first time that someone from MKU is being selected for the award. With the support from the university, we were able to reach out and collaborate for the growth of Tamil, nationally and internationally,” he said. The professor has been actively involved in collaborating with various educational institutions, organisations and associations working for development of Tamil, from not just in India but countries like China, US, Malaysia, Singapore, Australia, Uganda etc., to organise cultural and literary events. Around 300 students, faculty and scholars from various countries have visited the department of Tamilology to learn and exchange knowledge. He was instrumental in signing at least 10 MoUs with other international and domestic universities, colleges for the development of Tamil language. He said that the award encourages him to do more for the growth and development of Tamil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-prof-bags-tamil-chemmal-award/articleshow/80439936.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 25, 2021||Surat||Addict became drug peddler to overcome financial crisis||Surat: Drug addiction pushed him into a financial crisis some time ago and to overcome it, Usman Gani alias Salman Dobiwala himself became a drug peddler. Interrogation of Dobiwala, who was arrested on Saturday, revealed that he was under debt of Rs 10 lakh and had already lost his home as well as a two-wheeler.The cops seized 133 grams of Mephedrone (MD) worth Rs 13.30 lakh from Dobiwala and his father Abdulkar Abdulgani who too was arrested on Saturday. Dobiwala told the investigating officials that he had bought the drugs from Mumbai for selling it to his clients.The police said that 23-year-old Dobiwala used to play online games with his friend Mohammed Sufiyan alias Baba Ashraf Memon, a resident of Adajan. Memon, a drug peddler, was arrested by the cops in September last year for his involvement in a Rs 1.31 crore drug racket. He had bought MD from Salman alias Aman Hanif Zaveri who was caught with MD worth Rs one crore.Dobiwala told the police that Memon started giving him MD by mixing it in pan masala pouch. He gradually became a drug addict and even mortgaged his house for Rs 10 lakh to finance his addiction. The two-wheeler he had purchased too was seized by the bank as he failed to repay the loan. Dobiwala then convinced his father to start dealing in drugs to earn some quick money.He got into a relationship with a bar dancer in Mumbai and came in contact with a drug dealer through her. The police said that he soon started buying MD from the dealer and sold it to his clients in the city. “Dobiwala was already in touch with the other addicts in the city. He started selling MD in close circles. But we got tip-off in time and busted the racket,” city police commissioner Ajay Tomar told TOI.The police said that Dobiwala had recently convinced his bar dancer friend to buy a motorcycle worth Rs 1.50 lakh. The accused borrowed the bike from her and brought the drugs to the city on it. The cops have seized the bike too.“Drug addiction can push a person into social and financial crisis. What the accused is claiming may be true but we are still investigating his claims,” Tomar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/addict-became-drug-peddler-to-overcome-financial-crisis/articleshow/80437989.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Man booked for abusing minor in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 35-year-old married man was arrested by Banjara Hills police for sexually abusing a minor girl on Sunday. Banjara Hills inspector Kalinga Rao said the accused was booked under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. Three days ago, the accused took the victim away and abused her sexually, the inspector said.  Based on the complaint given by the victim’s family both accused and victim were traced. Since the victim is a minor, accused was booked under Pocso Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-booked-for-abusing-minor/articleshow/80438975.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Dehradun||Woman, 45, run over by truck in US Nagar||Rudrapur: A 45-year-old woman, Bakhtawar Bano, died after being run over by a speeding truck on Sunday afternoon near Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Chowk in Rudrapur, Udham Singh Nagar. According to the police, the truck hit the motorbike, on which Bano was riding pillion, from behind around 12.30 pm near Gava Rice Mills. After the hit, Bano fell on the right side of the road and came under the wheels of the truck. Bano’s husband, who was riding the motorbike, and her nephew fell towards the left side of the road and sustained injuries. The family was returning home after visiting a relative admitted at Kashipur-based hospital. While the accused truck driver managed to escape, the vehicle has been impounded and efforts to apprehend the errant driver are underway, said police officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-45-run-over-by-truck-in-us-nagar/articleshow/80437251.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 25, 2021||Mumbai||Two held in Mumbai for bid to murder after video goes viral||MUMBAI: The Shivaji Nagar police registered an attempt to murder case against three persons after a video went viral showing the accused beating up a 30-year-old man with bamboo sticks and a baton. Two of the accused have been arrested. The incident took place on January 11 around 8.30 pm. The victim, Akram Shaikh, had an argument with his wife and went to the house of his acquaintance Jamshed Akhtar alias Jambo in Govandi, to solve the issue. There, Akram allegedly inflicted injuries on his body using a blade while he was drunk. Jambo’s brother, Rasheed Jagga started beating up Shaikh. His family did not file a complaint. When the police found the video clip, a case was filed. Police have arrested Jambo and another person, Irfan Qureshi. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-held-for-bid-to-murder-after-video-goes-viral/articleshow/80438991.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||Patwari’s death: HC orders FIR against 4 Yavatmal cops, in-laws||YAVATMAL: Ordered by the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court, local Awadhootwadi police have registered an FIR against eight persons, including two police inspectors, a police sub-inspector and a head constable, in connection with death of a man in his in-laws’ house. Brief backdrop of the case is that a patwari Vijay Govind Gadwe, a resident of local Gurunanak Nagar, was found dead in his in-laws’ house in Dandekar Layout on June 26, 2018. Awadhootwadi police had registered a case of accidental death, allegedly under the influence of Gadwe’s in-laws. Being aggrieved by the police inaction, mother of the deceased Bhimabai Gadwe had filed a petition before the high court and pleaded for a thorough inquiry into the suspicious death of her son. The high court had ordered Yavatmal superintendent of police to investigate the case. SP Dilip Patil Bhujbal probed the matter and found something fishy. Following this, the SP ordered the local crime branch to lodge an FIR against all the eight persons, including the cops. Accordingly, LCB officials reached Awadhootwadi police station late on Saturday night and filed an FIR against Anand Wagatkar and Dinesh Shukla (present and former PSOs of Awadhootwadi, respectively), PSI Dnyaneshwar Dhawade, head constable Satish Chaudhari, deceased’s wife Reshma (27), father-in-law Baburao Athawale (60), mother--in-law Chhabutai (50) and brother-in-law Risham (22) under sections 302, 306, 34, 166 (A) and 167 of IPC. Further investigations are being carried out by LCB chief Pradeep Siraskar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/patwaris-death-hc-orders-fir-against-4-ytl-cops-in-laws/articleshow/80438993.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Delhi||Group clashes with cops, Signature Bridge closed||A group of people, claiming to be farmers, clashed with police late on Monday evening at Delhi-Loni border as they tried to force their way into the capital on tractors. When the cops tried to stop them, the men got into a scuffle with them. However, they were soon brought under control and dispersed using mild force. The Signature Bridge was subsequently closed as a precautionary measure. The cops have allowed farmers to carry out a rally between 12pm and 5pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/group-clashes-with-cops-signature-bridge-closed/articleshow/80456275.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Railway cop risks life, nabs thief from tracks||MUMBAI: A railway cop risked his life and jumped on the track to chase a mobile thief and recovered a stolen phone worth Rs 8,000 on Saturday night. The alleged thief, Juber Shaikh, stole the phone from a commuter on a train and jumped on the track on the other side at Masjid station when two policemen saw him and one of them jumped on the tracks, the railway police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rly-cop-risks-life-nabs-thief-from-tracks/articleshow/80439008.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Surat||Gujarat: Fashion designer to embrace monkhood||SURAT: She is all of 23 and was racing to dress the world with her vibrant creations. But along the way, life suddenly cut a different pattern on her fabric of thoughts and the aspiring fashion designer, Poonam Mehta, decided to abandon it all for the monochromatic hues of monkhood. Mehta, a resident of Palanpur town of Banaskantha district, who has been living with Jain monks and sadhvis for the last few weeks. She will renounce the worldly ways a few months later when she takes Diksha on May 15 in a grand function in Manilaxmi Tirth near Vadodara. Her father, Kiran Mehta, is a businessman in Palanpur town and owns a tyre business. “My sister Poonam is pursuing a fashion designing course in a college in Palanpur after graduating in Commerce. Another sister of ours had taken up monkhood seven years ago. Poonam, who had been visiting Jain monks and our Sadhvi sister got attracted towards the simple life of penance and decided to take Diksha,” Khushali Mehta, Poonam’s sister, told TOI from Ahmedabad. “Poonam has been learning religious scripture and gaining knowledge about the religious life from Jain monks for the last two and a half years,” her family members said. “Poonam is the fourth child among five siblings. Her sister, who turned into sadhvi Yugadirathna shriji seven years ago had studied management and was also a hockey player representing the state in the national team,” the family said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fashion-designer-to-embrace-monkhood/articleshow/80438028.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Nagpur||Shiv Sena MP Prataparao Jadhav, MLA demand expansion of Dnyanganga sanctuary||NAGPUR: At a time when wildlife and forest conservation lacks political will, both Shiv Sena MP from Buldhana Prataparao Jadhav and MLA Sanjay Gaikwad have pushed for the expansion of Dnyanganga wildlife sanctuary in Buldhana district. “The 200sqkm sanctuary has scope to be expanded by around 10,000 hectares (100sqkm) by taking over an adjoining territorial forest area of three forest ranges,” says Jadhav. In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on January 18, 2021, Jadhav said, “Dnyanganga has good wildlife and tiger TWLS-T1-C1 that dispersed from Tipeshwar wildlife sanctuary has also stabilized in the park. Apart from release of a tigress here, the park should be expanded. Two irrigation projects – Paldhag and Geru Matargaon – on both sides of the sanctuary are an added advantage. “Post its expansion, the Ajanta and Ellora caves in Aurangabad will not remain far. Besides, if included in the sanctuary, the corridor connectivity will be strengthened. Thousands of tourists visit these caves and the Dnyanganga sanctuary can be an added attraction for them. I had raised this issue with forest minister Sanjay Rathod on Monday.” Presently, there is rampant grazing around the sanctuary and territorial officials have failed to control it. Once brought into the sanctuary, there will be restrictions on sheep and cattle grazing. “The issue has been part of our discussion and will be resolved,” Gaikwad said. Earlier, on November 3, 2020, Jadhav had urged Thackeray to ask the forest department to release a tigress as a mate for TWLS-T1-C1 that travelled over 2500km to reach the sanctuary last December. Jadhav has also demanded the release of over Rs57 crore to rehabilitate 298 families from Devhari village inside the sanctuary. The villagers are volunteering to move out accepting the Rs10 lakh per family package. “People are demanding relocation since last year. The Devhari gram sabha has also passed a resolution to move out,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shiv-sena-mp-jadhav-mla-demand-expansion-of-dnyanganga-sanctuary/articleshow/80439002.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 25, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s air quality on Saturday was worst in 5 years||MUMBAI: Calm winds and lower temperatures saw the city’s air quality index (AQI) drop to ‘very poor’ once again. System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) recorded an overall AQI of 320 on Saturday, the worst since the fire at Deonar dumping ground when it dipped to 341 on January 29, 2016. The AQI marginally improved to 307 on Sunday. An AQI of 301-400 is considered very poor and triggers a health warning. “Due to the presence of high pressure in western India, calm winds are prevailing in Mumbai and surrounding regions. At the regional level, contribution is predominantly from oceanic air which is carrying pollution from north west India and dust. This condition has led to very poor AQI in Mumbai,” said a short range forecast by SAFAR. It added that AQI is expected to move into ‘poor’ category for Mumbai in the next two days. On Sunday, among the 10 locations monitored by SAFAR, the most polluted was Navi Mumbai with an AQI of 374 and the least polluted was Borivali with an AQI of 252. Before this, the city’s worst AQI this year was 319, recorded on January 8. In 2020, AQI breached the 300-mark only on December 31. On Sunday, the minimum temperature at IMD’s Santacruz observatory dipped to 17.4 degree Celsius vis-à-vis 18.8 degree Celsius on Saturday. Colaba’s minimum temperature remained the same at 20 degree Celsius. The maximum of 31.3 degree and 29.6 degree Celsius at the two stations, too, was lower compared to the previous day. The IMD also forecast that temperatures in north Maharashtra, including Mumbai, are likely to dip until Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/citys-air-quality-on-sat-was-worst-in-5-yrs/articleshow/80439023.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 25, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand reports 15 new bird deaths, forest department disposes of 982 dead birds||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand reported death of 15 birds on Sunday, taking the total number of dead birds to 982 in the state. Out of the 30 different species of birds burried by the forest department since January 8, 2021, the highest number of crows (over 835) were found dead, and Dehradun district alone disposed of more than 700 crows. After crows, 62 pigeon deaths were recorded in the state, of which 45 alone died in Dehradun. Notably, 12 birds were found dead in Dehradun and Haridwar forest divisions on Sunday. While Dehradun reported deaths of 5 cranes, 3 crows and 1 pigeon, Haridwar reported deaths of 3 crows. Nainital also reported death of 3 pigeons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-reports-15-new-bird-deaths-forest-dept-disposes-of-982-dead-birds/articleshow/80437308.cms||Shivani Azad
January 25, 2021||Surat||Gujarat: Much-married 63-year-old lusts for a 7th wife||SURAT: His heart ailment, diabetes and other diseases don’t give this 63-year-old farmer sleepless nights. It’s the sheer agony of his sixth wife, 21 years younger to him, refusing to share bed that causes him all the heartache. When people were desperately seeking some panacea for coronavirus in September last year, Ayyub Degiya was determinedly hunting for a seventh wife, after almost five months into his sixth but unconsummated marriage. Degiya, a wealthy farmer from Kapletha village in Surat district, got married for the sixth time in September 2020 and separated in December after the younger woman allegedly refrained from keeping a physical relationship with him. “She did not allow me to sleep with her. She used to complain of infection. I have heart disease, diabetes and other diseases. I need a wife who can keep a relationship with me,” Degiya told TOI. Degiya’s first wife is alive and lives in the same village with their five children, aged between 20 and 35 years. The 42-year-old Rander woman, a widow, did a background check on Degiya and was shocked to discover that she was biwi no. 6. Last week, she lodged a complaint against him in Mahila police station. The accused has been booked under IPC section 498-A (cruelty to married woman). “He got married to more than five women before marrying me but kept me in the dark. After deserting me, he is now living with another woman even when his first wife is alive. I was told by some villagers that he keeps relations for a few months with women and later abandons them,” the complainant told TOI. Chandresh Jobanputra, her lawyer, added, “In December, Degiya dropped the woman at her sister's house in Rander saying he was going out of town. He assured to pick her up upon return. But he never came back and hence she approached the police.” Jobanputra said Degiya initially approached her family claiming that he wants to marry and support the woman as she is a widow. He said it was permissible under their faith. He promised to give her Rs two lakh worth jewellery and a house, a promise which he allegedly reneged upon. Degiya, however, could not give a satisfactory reply when asked why he separated from all his previous wives. Asmita Pargi, investigation officer at Mahila police station said, “Degiya told us that he does not wish to live with the woman as she is unfit to fulfil his physical demands. Further action will be taken after registering statements of all those concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/refused-sex-farmer-hunts-for-7th-wife/articleshow/80438069.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
January 25, 2021||Ranchi||R-Day to be low-key affair, Jharkhand Guv to unfurl Tricolour at Morhabadi||Ranchi: Deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan along with the top brass of state police on Sunday supervised the final dress rehearsal for the Republic Day function at Ranchi’s Morhabadi ground, where governor Droupadi Murmu will unfurl the Tricolour on Tuesday. Ranjan said much like the Independence Day function last year, this year’s R-Day, too, will be a low-key affair and celebrated in strict compliance with Covid-19 protocols. Ranjan said even though the customary parade by different platoons will be conducted, they have decided to do away with cultural programmes and prahbat pheris (processions). “Police, municipal bodies and on-duty magistrates have been briefed about the protocols. The entry of visitors will also be restricted to ensure proper adherence to social distancing norms,” Ranjan said. Masks will be mandatory for everyone entering the R-Day venue, while provisions for thermal scanning will be made at different entry points, officials said. The governor is expected to arrive at the venue at around 9am on R-Day. As per the convention, the chief minister will unfurl the Tricolour in Dumka, the second capital of the state, on Republic Day while the governor does so in Ranchi. Asked about the expected turnout, another district official said around 3,000 visitors will be allowed to enter the venue. “We have made seating arrangements for 3,000 people in accordance with social distancing norms,” said an official, adding that parking spaces have been earmarked for visitors while the entry of heavy vehicles in the city will be restricted on that day as per the normal practice. As many as 10 platoons comprising state police and paramilitary forces will take part in the parade apart from three band parties — JAP 1, JAP-10 and Home Guard. “Hatia ASP Vineet Kumar has been appointed as the first in-command for the platoons for the parade,” said a communiqué from the district administration. Meanwhile, Ranchi’s Albert Ekka Chowk, a prominent landmark in the state capital named after a 1971 Indo-Pak war martyr and Paramvir Chakra recipient, will also witness flag hoisting ceremony this time. Rashtriya Yuva Shakti, a city-based socio-political outfit, on Sunday said it will organise an R-Day ceremony at the Chowk where Uri martyr Jawra Munda’s wife Jhigi Dungung along with her three minor kids will hoist the national flag. Uttam Yadav, the central president of the outfit, said, “This time, we have decided to host this programme to pay our tributes to the martyrs of the terror strike in Uri. Two jawans from Jharkhand — Jawra Munda (Khunti) and Niman Kujur (Gumla) — died in the attack. The wife and children of Jawra Munda have given their consent to hoist the flag at Ranchi’s Albert Ekka chowk on January 26.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/r-day-to-be-low-key-affair-jharkhand-guv-to-unfurl-tricolour-at-morhabadi/articleshow/80438031.cms||ASRP Mukesh
January 25, 2021||Ranchi||3 yrs after starting PG course, college in Gumla gets its first state topper||Gumla: Three years after starting postgraduate courses, Gumla’s Kartik Oraon College, a constituent of Ranchi University (RU), has produced its first gold medallist student. Jimmy Gupta, a student of the college, scored 77.75% to become the topper in PG economics of RU for the 2018-2020 session, the results of which were declared earlier this week. Hailing from a humble background, Gupta, resident of a Toto village, had also qualified for the National Eligibility Test ( NET) before her PG result was published. She was also the topper in the economics (honours) during her graduation from RU in 2018 with 73.80% marks. Gupta said she plans to enrol herself in the PhD course to become a professor. She said, “I felt happy with the results and I aspire to be a college teacher after completing my PhD." Gupta's father Tohan Gupta is a small businessman while her mother Anita Devi is an ex-panchayat samiti member of Toto panchayat. She travelled 12 km by autorickshaw to attend classes from her village. College principal Jitbahan Baraik lauded Gupta’s performance and said, “She has brought laurels to the college and district as well.” The head of department for economics in the college, Dilip Prasad, said, “She belongs to a very simple family and the university's topper in economics. We are proud that she is from our college.” Prasad, who had been motivating Gupta to excel in her studies, said, “Our college is located in the tribal belt and is the biggest rural college of RU. The PG courses started here three years ago to motive the students here." Amitabh Bharti, another professor of the college, said, “The performance of our students both at graduate and postgraduate levels is impressive. Our efforts are to guide them properly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/3-yrs-after-starting-pg-course-college-in-gumla-gets-its-first-state-topper/articleshow/80439274.cms||K A Gupta
January 25, 2021||Ranchi||Rocks collected from Rajmahal Hills to study Earth’s evolution||Ranchi: A three-member team of senior geologists from Sido Kanho Murmu University, Dumka and Indian Institute of Technology (Indian School of Mines) Dhanbad, on Sunday collected various rock samples from the Rajmahal Hills in Dumka district to gather more evidence on the evolution of Earth. The team comprised Dr Ranjit Kumar Singh, assistant professor, department of geology, Sido Kanho Murmu University, Prof Sahendra Singh, department of applied geology, IIT(ISM), Dhanbad and Dr S Chatterjee, Fellow, IIT, (ISM), Dhanbad. “Rajmahal Hills were created as a result of volcanic eruptions and extensive lava flows more than 125 million years ago. The Team from IIT(ISM) Dhanbad collected rock samples from the hills which would be studied to get more information on the continental drift and their possible recurrence in the future. In short, the studies will help understand the evolutionary processes that our planet has gone through over millions of years in a better manner,” Ranjit said. “Rock samples that we have collected from different places of the Hills have magnetic properties trapped in them. We will examine the rocks in our labs at IIT(ISM) Dhanbad to find out more on the formation of hills and the origin and the extent of lava flows that had led to the creation of the hills,” said Chatterjee. “A chemical analysis of the rock samples will also be carried out to understand the evolution of Earth,” Sahendra said. Ranjit said Rajmahal Hills are a treasure house of some of the rarest plant fossils which have been conserved by nature over millions of years. It is therefore natural that this region has become a favourite visiting spot of scientists, from all over the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rocks-collected-from-rajmahal-hills-to-study-earths-evolution/articleshow/80438065.cms||Tapas Biswas
January 25, 2021||Ranchi||Cov vaccination centres to be doubled in Jharkhand from today||Ranchi/Jamshedpur: With the Centre providing in-principle approval to increase the number of Covid-19 vaccination centres across the country, Jharkhand will now increase them to around 100 from Monday. Currently, there are 48 vaccination centres — two each in the 24 districts of the state. Talking to TOI on Sunday, Ravishankar Shukla, who is the managing director of the National Health Mission, Jharkhand unit, said, “As many as 45 centres will be added to the current lot. The district authorities have been asked to identify places in their respective areas which can be made into vaccination centres.” He added, “Barring a few, most of the districts have been asked to add roughly four centres each. The number of centres will be increased as per the requirements which will depend on the number of targeted beneficiaries in the current phase of vaccination.” The state health department, which has to administer vaccines to around 1.62 lakh beneficiaries in the first phase, is planning to wrap up administration of the first dose of the Covishield vaccine in the first phase by February 10. “Our turnout has gone up to 68% from last week when it was below 60%. Now with additional session sites, the first phase should be over by February 10, following which we can start administering the second dose from February 13,” Shukla said. The state had earlier submitted a list of 129 centres across 24 districts which were selected as session sites for the vaccination drive. However, just a few days before the drive was set to begin, the Union government allowed vaccination in only 48 centres. Meanwhile, a total of nine Covid vaccination centres will operate in the two adjoining districts of East Singhbhhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan from Monday, officials said. East Singhbhhum, where two vaccination centres are currently operating, will add two more, additional chief medical officer Sahir Pall said. Sadar hospital in Pursudih and Tata Motors Hospital, Telco, will be the new additions while the existing one at the Tata Main Hospital will continue. “We are shifting the vaccination centre from MGMMCH’s medical college (at Dimna chowk) to the hospital (in Sakchi) from Monday,” Pall said. East Singhbhum has vaccinated 695 health workers of the 1,000 beneficiaries, who have registered, in the first five days of the drive. “At each immunisation centre, 100 beneficiaries will receive vaccines every day,” Pall said, appealing to the health workers to come forward to get vaccinated. In Seraikela-Kharsawan, three new vaccination centres at the community health centres of Nimdih, Ichagarh and Chandil will function from Monday. The existing vaccination centres at sadar hospital in Seraikela and Kuchai blocks will continue. “From January 28, immunisation will be carried out at all the eight blocks,” district surveillance officer of Seraikela-Kharsawan, Jhujhar Majhi, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cov-vaccination-centres-to-be-doubled-in-jharkhand-from-today/articleshow/80439467.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 25, 2021||Ranchi||Reopen coaching centres & cinema halls: Saryu to CM||Ranchi: A day after TOI highlighted the plight of coaching centres and cinema halls in the state who are facing severe losses due to a prolonged lockdown since the nationwide lockdown in March last year, Jamshedpur East MLA and former minister Saryu Rai on Sunday threw his weight behind them and demanded chief minister Hemant Soren to allow their resumption. On Saturday, a group of 35 coaching centre owners staged a daylong sit-in protest in Jamshedpur while Ranchi too saw similar protests in the past. In a statement, Rai said, “With all other sectors now opened, government should allow reopening of coaching centres and cinema halls considering the future and livelihood of all those who are struggling to make their ends meet.” He said, “At a time when the state government has allowed unlocking of schools, universities and all other key market places, there is no point in keeping coaching institute and cinema halls shut. Coaching centres are equally significant for students who depend on them for preparing many competitive exams. Likewise, cinema halls are an integral part of amusement for citizens. I urge the government to soon prepare standard operating procedures to open them.” He appealed the state government to hold a meeting to make a formal announcement for reopening. “Every month the state government used to take a call on unlock based on recommendations of the Union government. However, the state government hasn’t held any meeting this month so far. I appeal the CM to take a quick decision on it as many are dependent for survival on these sectors,” he said. Congress, a part of the ruling alliance in Jharkhand too supported the demand. Party spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “Government must now allow coaching centres and cinema halls. We support their demand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/reopen-coaching-centres-cinema-halls-saryu-to-cm/articleshow/80438048.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 25, 2021||Ranchi||10k throng Rajrappa temple, Patratu dam without visitors||Ramgarh: The Chinnamastika temple at Rajrappa in Ramgarh district is witnessing a surge in devotees for the first time since its reopening after the Covid-induced lockdown. On Sunday, more than 10,000 devotees from several districts turned up to offer puja, taking the temple authorities by surprise. Ramgarh DSP (headquarters) Prakash Soy said they had deployed adequate security personnel on the premises to prevent any untoward incident. Temple priest Ajay Panda said, “We were taken aback by the turnout since we don’t have any festival today. As many as 10,000 came for darshan while 5,000 turned up for picnicking around the temple premises. The last time when such a massive turnout was witnessed was on Makar Sankranti. Abhishek Anand, who came all the way from Ranchi with his family to offer puja, said, “We decided to go for a picnic after offering puja at the Rajrappa temple.” On the contrary, Patratu dam, another popular tourist destination in the district, is mostly empty these days ever since an MBBS student’s body was found there earlier this month. Vishwajeet Ganguly, a senior manager of the Patratu Lake Resort located close to the dam, said the low turnout could be attributed to the government not allowing the dam to reopen in its unlock order issued earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/10k-throng-rajrappa-temple-patratu-dam-without-visitors/articleshow/80438034.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 25, 2021||Ranchi||16-year-old student kills self in Ranchi||Ranchi: A student of Class X on Sunday killed himself at his house in Buddh Vihar under Argora police station area limits in Ranchi. The deceased was identified as Rudransh Kabeer (16) who studied in Delhi Public School here. Officer-in-charge of Argora police station Vinod Kumar said, “The deceased was found hanging in his room. We have found a suicide note in which Rudransh said he wanted to become an artist. The note even mentions that lately he had started despising his family members and the people around him.” He added, “We have not been able to gather details as to why the boy took such a step since his family members are in a state of shock.” He further said that they have registered a case of unnatural death and started an investigation. The body has been sent for a post mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/16-year-old-student-kills-self-in-ranchi/articleshow/80439542.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 25, 2021||Vadodara||Farmer pays dearly for buffalo’s fierce loyalty||Vadodara: Dogs are known for their fierce loyalty, but a buffalo in Padra taluka surpassed the faith shown of all canines combined, a price of which its owner had to pay! A dairy farmer named Arvind Luhar had to give up his buffalo on January 22 as he could not repay a loan of Rs 15,000 to his distant relative Bhera Luhar, who lives in Karjan town. He wanted the money to go to Africa but couldn’t repay as he could not earn enough in the last one year due to the pandemic. But in an ultimate display of loyalty to Arvind, the animal did not allow Bhera to milk. Bhera, his sons Kalyan and Baldev cajoled the buffalo and tried every known trick for two days, but the buffalo just refused to give in. A frustrated Bhera asked Arvind to come to his house and take the buffalo back. On Saturday, Arvind and his father Himmat went to Bhera’s house to bring back the buffalo. Arvind told police that he had believed that he had borrowed time to repay the loan and had even got his buffalo back. But when the father-son duo reached there, Bhera insisted that Arvind pay back the money immediately and take back the animal. Arvind said that he will repay as soon as he manages to arrange for cash. Bhera, his sons and an unidentified man then started abusing Arvind when he asked for more time which led to a verbal duel. Following the heated arguments, Bhera brought an iron pipe from his house and started beating Arvind and his father. The three other accused too thrashed the duo before neighbours rushed to their help. Arvind and Himmat were taken to SSG Hospital in Vadodara and later discharged after being treated. Later, Arvind lodged a complaint of assault, causing grievous hurt and insult at Karjan police station. Police said that the accused are yet to be arrested. Asked about buffalo’s behaviour, Dr Snehal Patel, deputy director, animal husbandry department, Anand said, “ “Milch animals do take time to settle in a new environment before allowing to milk if their calf is not around. But buffaloes are quite different because they can identify their owners and caretakers. “Even if the owner asks the neighbour to milk for a day, the animal won’t cooperate,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/farmer-pays-dearly-for-buffalos-fierce-loyalty/articleshow/80437880.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Ranchi||Khunti is now Covid-free, 54 fresh cases in Jharkhand||Ranchi: With fresh infections continuing to dip on a daily basis in Jharkhand, Khunti became the second district to become Covid-19-free on Sunday after the last seven people recovered from the virus. Meanwhile, the state reported 54 fresh infections and 109 recoveries on Sunday, taking the number of active cases in Jharkhand down to 821. The State also reported two deaths and took the death toll to 1,063. Among the two casualties, one each came from Ranchi and West Singhbhum. Only eight out of the 24 districts reported fresh infections. The majority of cases came from Ranchi which reported 40 cases followed by East Singhbhum (6), Bokaro (3) and one each from Chatra, Dhanbad, Garhwa, Hazaribag and Koderma. The rest 16 districts reported zero cases. As per government data, as many as 1,18,286 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,16,402 have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 98.40%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand is now 0.06% against the national average of 0.11%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state stands at 1145.42 days against the national figure of 620.71 days. The casualty rate through the pandemic in the state stood at 0.89%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/khunti-is-now-covid-free-54-fresh-cases-in-jharkhand/articleshow/80439358.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 25, 2021||Rajkot||Six Rosy Starlings found dead in Rajkot garden||Rajkot: A day after the Gir Somnath district authority confirmed the region’s first case of avian flu among poultry birds on Saturday, six rosy starlings were found dead in the Jilla Garden in Rajkot city on Sunday morning. According to sources, morning walkers were shocked to find the carcasses of rosy starling in the garden and immediately called the police control room amid the bird flu scare. Police reached the spot along with a veterinary doctor and sent the carcasses to Bhopal for forensic testing. Earlier, over a dozen poultry birds found dead in Dolasa village of Kodinar taluka a few days ago tested positive for avian influenza on Friday night. Soon after the report was issued, 220 poultry birds were culled in one day while restriction orders were issued in the entire district regarding consumption and sell of eggs and chickens.The Gir Somnath district administration said that the entire area has been disinfected and a 10km radius area has been declared as the surveillance zone for next 60 days.Junagadh district’s Manavadar taluka was the first place to have been affected by avian flu following the death of many birds including migratory birds.Bird flu cases have so far been reported in five districts including Gir Somnath, Junagadh, Valsad, Surat and Vadodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/six-rosy-starlings-found-dead-in-rajkot-garden/articleshow/80437268.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Goa||‘Watching films in theatres will continue despite OTT’||Panaji: The practice of watching movies in theatres will continue unaffected despite the rise and popularity of the OTT platforms, filmmakers at the 51st International Film Festival of India (Iffi) said. “There was a big opposition when OTT made its initial appearance citing that it will end theatrical releases and shut movie businesses. However, the traditional film industry, theatres and blockbuster movies continue to stay despite OTT and TV channels being around. They only complement the entertainment business of cinema financially, making it more lucrative,” said G P Vijayakumar, a leading film producer and distributor of Malayalam film industry. The viewership on OTT is increasing at 20% annually. OTT enables even average and small budget films, which would otherwise end up in cans, to gain viewership across the world, he said. “At the same time, creative people of the industry want their films to be watched in theatres,” said Vijayakumar during a virtual ‘In Conversation’ session on ‘Changing Scenarios in Indian Film Production’. Vijayakumar said that OTT platforms are here to stay. The tastes and choices of movie-goers have changed considerably, they are becoming more selective; people have started liking more of web series, he said. “The primary target among audience these days is the youngsters who are on the move most of the time unlike the older people who settle down to watch TV genres and serials after reaching home. Being app-savvy, the younger lot surf through to catch up with the latest releases,” the producer said. Vijayakumar said that there is no dearth of quality and technological expertise in the industry in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/watching-films-in-theatres-will-continue-despite-ott/articleshow/80439034.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Goa||Process for sand mining licences to start soon: CM||Margao: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday said that the government will soon start the process of issuing permissions for sand mining in certain belts. This will lead to business opportunities for locals, he said. A study was under way to assess the environmental damage due to sand mining, Sawant told reporters on the sidelines of Yuva Sammelan at Ravindra Bhavan, here. “The study of the first cluster covering the Chapora river has been completed. Based on the assessment, permissions will now be issued for sand extraction in that belt,” Sawant said. Sand mining in the rest of the rivers will be legalised once the study is completed, he said. Sawant’s statement comes two days after Goa Forward Party threatened a stir if sand mining is not started. GFP working president Kiran Kandolkar, at a press conference last week, said BJP was extracting “political revenge” against those who did not support it in the 2017 assembly elections. He alleged that Sawant has stopped sand extraction in parts of Goa, while allowing sand extracted from Sawantwadi to be brought into the state. As per environmental clearance (EC) norms, the state has to conduct a study of rivers to assess the impact of sand mining activities. With no such study having been carried out by the state, NGOs had approached the high court seeking restriction on issuing sand extraction permits. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had banned sand mining in Goa while directing that proper environmental licences be issued to operators before extraction is permitted. Later, Sawant inaugurated the Swami Vivekanand Kendra at Ravindra Bhavan. Addressing the gathering, Sawant said the government has started preparing a vision document for the state for the next 25 years. “As we celebrate the completion of 60 years of Goa’s Liberation, it is also necessary to prepare ourselves for the next 25 years. We need to start the work from today,” Sawant said. The government will soon recruit 10,000 people, Sawant said, but added that the government is unable to provide jobs for all unemployed. “If people from neighbouring states can avail of jobs in the private sector in Goa, why can’t Goan youths do so?” the chief minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/process-for-sand-mining-licences-to-start-soon-cm/articleshow/80439117.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Goa||24 Denver_Limit on number of stalls at Bodgeshwar zatra this year||Saligao: As a precautionary measure during the pandemic, the north Goa district administration has given permission to only 75 stalls to operate at the upcoming Shree Dev Bodgeshwar zatra at Mapusa. The stalls will be set up with a gap of 10 metres between them. An inspection was carried around the temple premises in the presence of chief officer of Mapusa municipal council Kabir Shirgaonkar, deputy collector for Bardez Kapil Phadte, Mapusa PI Tushar Lotlikar and Mapusa Fire Station In-charge Bosco Ferrao. The famous Bodgeshwar zatra this year will be held starting January 27. “In a normal year, there are hundreds of stalls put up at the zatra, but this year only 75 stalls have been permitted. This year we will ensure that the zatra is plastic free,” said president of the Devasthan, Anand Bhaidkar. The Bodgeshwar temple committee has decided to provide face masks free of cost among those who are seen without wearing one and vowed to take all measures to ensure incident free festival. Shirgaonkar said that teams of police, fire department and municipal inspectors will ensure that the zatra goes on smoothly. “Ee will have to comply with the order of the collector and ensure that there are only 75 shops set up at the zatra and extra shops will have to be removed,” Shirgaonkar said. Phadte also held a meeting along with the devasthan committee and officials of various other departments on preparations for the zatra. “We will also carry out daily inspection and ensure that all MHA guidelines are obeyed and if need be, we will also undertake remedial measures as per requirement,” the deputy collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/24-denver_limit-on-number-of-stalls-at-bodgeshwar-zatra-this-year/articleshow/80439202.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Goa||As vax drive picks up, DHS reports no severe side effects, workers being closely monitored||Panaji: Even as the vaccination drive moves up a gear in the state, the directorate of health services said on Sunday that no serious adverse effects following immunisation (AEFIs) have been reported. More than 1,500 healthcare workers from the public and private sectors have received the first dose of the vaccine over three days. A DHS official said that none of these persons experienced any serious effects requiring hospitalisation. Some beneficiaries experienced mild side-effects like fever, chills and headache. Doctors say these are normal for any vaccine. The DHS has circulated AEFI surveillance sheets to beneficiaries, where they can record any symptoms they experience for one week after the vaccine. “This is only an additional precaution being taken by the state government,” said state immunisation officer Dr Rajendra Borkar. “Since it’s a new vaccine, we have to be cautious. Beneficiaries may not know what symptoms to mention and what not to report, hence we have prepared an elaborate sheet with possible adverse effects that they could experience.” Vaccine beneficiaries have been given a chart with possible effects like pain, swelling, itching, fever, fatigue, malaise, diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting, headache, and joint and muscle pain. They have also been asked to record any other symptoms they may experience, and immediately report them to their head of department or nearest health centre. The next round of vaccination will take place at the Bicholim and Valpoi health centres, and at Healthway hospital. Doctors said that in some centres, the initial vaccine hesitancy is slowly being replaced by anxiety to receive the vaccine. Several heads of institutions took the vaccine first, setting an example for their colleagues and staff. TOI reported that many prominent private doctors in Margao also took the first dose of the vaccine last week. GMC has given 370 of its healthcare workers the jab. Although it was stated that ten doses can be administered from one vial, vaccinators have found that in some vials, up to 12 doses are possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-vax-drive-picks-up-dhs-reports-no-severe-side-effects-workers-being-closely-monitored/articleshow/80439259.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 25, 2021||Goa||ESG to crack whip on illegal shootings||Panaji: The Entertainment Society of Goa (ESG) will soon crack the whip on illegal film shootings in the state. A system in this regard will be put in place which will include the formation of an ESG squad. “We have decided to put together a robust system by having an organisational structure of a single-window clearance system for film shootings in Goa,” ESG chairman Subhash Phaldesai said. Goa was one of the few places in the country that started allowing film shoots soon after the lockdown. For this, ESG put together several restrictions and SOPs. A team is allowed to shoot here only after ESG has approved of the script and shoot locations. “However, there are people that come in and shoot illegally. We have therefore asked the government to authorise us to confiscate their equipment and penalise them,” Phaldesai said. He said that currently ESG is unable to get involved directly in the crackdown of illegal film shootings and this is left up to the police. “Sometimes there are derogatory scenes shot and it is an embarrassing situation for ESG and the state government when the image of the state is tarnished. When we issue permission, we ensure that the script is proper and that there is no defamatory content on Goa. We will see to it that such things don’t happen in future,” Phaldesai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/esg-to-crack-whip-on-illegal-shootings/articleshow/80439331.cms||Nida Sayed
January 25, 2021||Goa||Canacona CHC to finally get gynaecologist||POINGUINIM: Fulfilling a pressing demand of Canacona residents, the community health centre (CHC) in the town will finally see a gynaecologist and a paediatrician visiting on a regular basis. The services of a gynaecologist, a physician and a paediatricianwill be made available from February 4, a doctor at the CHC said. The CHC is the lone medical facility of its scale Canacona. It presently has eight medical officers who attend to in-house patients and OPD. These doctors, however, also have to attend to patients at rural medical dispensaries at Molorem in Khola, Mashem and Agonda. In the case of emergencies, due to the lack of doctors and technicians at the CHC, Canconkars have to rush to Margao, which is 40 kms away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/canacona-chc-to-finally-get-gynaec/articleshow/80439376.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Goa||Rs 95L gold seized from air traveller||Panaji: The air intelligence wing of Goa customs foiled a gold smuggling bid on Saturday with the seizure of over 2kg gold valued at Rs 95 lakh. Customs sleuths nabbed a Kolkata resident who is part of the smuggling ring. Customs officials said that with fewer flights operating between Dubai and Goa, smugglers are using the New Delhi route to smuggle gold. As per information, the gold was being smuggled aboard Vistara flight UK847. “Goa customs officers have successfully busted a modus operandi whereby an International passenger brought the smuggled gold from Dubai to Delhi and purposely left the gold below his seat with knowledge that the same flight will be on domestic run from Delhi to Goa,” said Y B Sahare, assistant commissioner of Goa Customs. As per information, the gold was left behind by one passenger who disembarked at Delhi after which another member of the ring boarded the flight. The passenger, who is a native of West Bengal was nabbed in Goa with the gold under the provisions of Customs Act, 1962.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rs-95l-gold-seized-from-air-traveller/articleshow/80439454.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 25, 2021||India||Ayodhya mosque to be dedicated to 1857 fighter Ahmadullah Shah||AYODHYA: The mosque in Ayodhya district which will be built on the land in lieu of Babri Masjid as mandated by the Supreme Court could be dedicated to Ahmadullah Shah, who had earned the epithet of ‘Awadh’s Lighthouse of Rebellion’ during the first war of independence against the British in 1857. This was confirmed to TOI by Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF), the trust constituted by UP Sunni Waqf Board to build the mosque. “The trust is seriously contemplating on the proposal to dedicate the Ayodhya mosque project to the great freedom fighter Maulvi Ahmadullah Shah. We have received suggestions from different platforms and will officially make an announcement soon after deliberation,” Athar Hussain, secretary of IICF, told TOI. Earlier, the trust had taken an in-principle decision not to attach the name of any Mughal emperor with the mosque. IICF, which is entrusted with the task of building the mosque on five acres of land at Dhannipur village in the district, had reiterated at the launch of the mosque blueprint in December last year that the project will imbibe modernity, break away from the past and mirror the future in true spirit of Islam. “While we have been deliberating on the name of the mosque for several months, the trust finally zeroed in on the name of Ahmadullah Shah, who was fondly called Moulvi Faizabadi,” said a source. Ahmadullah Shah, believed to be born in 1787, was killed on June 5, 1858, after spearheading an armed rebellion against the English army. British officer George Bruce Malleson has particularly mentioned Shah’s valour and organisational capabilities in ‘History of Indian Mutiny’, a book written in six volumes on the 1857 revolt. Shah had turned Ayodhya into a crucible of armed resistance against the British and triggered mutinies across the Awadh region. He turned Masjid Sarai in Faizabad’s Chowk area into his headquarters and held meetings with freedom fighters. He had liberated Faizabad and large parts of Awadh region. Noted researcher and historian of Awadh, Ram Shankar Tripathi, said, “While being a practising Muslim, he was also the epitome of religious unity and Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb of Ayodhya. During the 1857 revolt, royals like Nana Sahib of Kanpur and Kunwar Singh of Arrah fought alongside Ahmadullah Shah. His 22nd Infantry Regiment was commanded by Subedar Ghamandi Singh and Subedar Umrao Singh in the famous Battle of Chinhat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ayodhya-mosque-to-be-dedicated-to-1857-fighter-ahmadullah-shah/articleshow/80440861.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
January 25, 2021||Goa||Sattari to take on state on Jan 26 for land rights||Valpoi: Groups of locals in Sattari have begun mobilising villagers from across the taluka to join a meeting planned on January 26 to protest the issue of land rights. Villagers’ groups said that their long-pending demand for land ownership rights remains unaddressed. The meeting at Valpoi will mark the start of an agitation against the state government over the issue, they said. The issue found a trigger in the protest against the Melauli IIT project. “Even after withdrawing the IIT project from Melauli, villagers are still being harassed as the government is yet to withdraw the criminal cases filed against us for participating in protests against the project. If the government can write off such a large parcel of land to the IIT overnight, it should also similarly give us our rights immediately,” said Melauli resident Ram Melekar. Ranjit Rane said that for the last 60 years the villagers of Sattari are requesting the elected representatives of the taluka to give them ownership rights to their properties, but their requests have fallen on deaf ears. “Though the state was liberated 60 years ago, Sattari taluka is not liberated,” Rane said. Ganpat Gaonkar said that over the last several days meetings are being conducted in different villages of the taluka with the aim to launch a massive agitation over the issue. “I appeal to the people of Sattari to come out in large numbers at Hath-wada junction at Valpoi on Tuesday at 10am,” he said. Ganpat said most villagers don’t have land ownership documents even though they have been residing in the property for generations. They only have tax payment receipts to show as proof, Ganpat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sattari-to-take-on-state-on-jan-26-for-land-rights/articleshow/80439511.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 25, 2021||Goa||Anti-coal activist calls Central committee’s visit an eyewash||Margao: Environmental activist Abhjit Prabhudesai who has been spearheading the anti-coal agitation in the state since 2016, termed the Supreme Court appointed Central Empowerment Committee’s (CEC) visit to the state as an “eyewash”. Prabhudesai, who was seen waiting right outside the closed door room of a city-based starred hotel whilst the CEC members met with a five-member delegation of activists inside on Saturday, expressed his disappointment over not being able to present his views before the CEC. Speaking to TOI, Prabhudessai suspected a intentional move to exclude his participation from the deliberations. He said that if the government intends to push the projects through by incorporating mitigation measures, “then we condemn this.” “Despite the overwhelming evidences placed before the CEC regarding the complete absence of public interest and the massive destruction of environment, economies and society due to the three infrastructure projects, the CEC seems to be only considering saving a few old trees and other mitigation measures,” Prabhudessai added. He said that the protesters would intensify the agitation if the projects aren’t scrapped. “All the three projects are against the interest of Goans, and against environmental laws. We will do whatever it takes to see to it that the projects are scrapped, including launching a civil disobedience movement if needed,” he said. He, however, said he would soon make additional submissions before the CEC. “We are still hopeful, but we are also prepared for the worst,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/anti-coal-activist-calls-central-committees-visit-an-eyewash/articleshow/80439546.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Goa||Sardesai hints at united opposition plan in House||Panaji: Goa Forward Party (GFP) president Vijai Sardesai on Sunday said that a united opposition will corner the state government during the assembly session for selling out Goa. Suggesting that Congress and GFP have arrived at some strategy for floor management, Sardesai said that BJP’s role in Goa’s destruction will be exposed on the floor of the House. GFP also plans to introduce two private member’s bills during the session and asked BJP MLAs to support the bills which are in Goa’s interests. GFP plans to move a bill to provide 80% employment to locals in the private sector and a bill to strengthen the Goa Lokayukta Act. “I will coordinate with my colleagues in the opposition benches to expose the government over the National Education Policy, House Building Allowance (HBA), failure to beautify the historic Lohia Maidan, the scams in the international promotional events and road shows as well as rampant land conversions in the state and ongoing destruction of ecology by sale of illegally subdivided agricultural plots in the state,” Sardesai said. He said that the Goa government has failed to prevent the diversion of Mhadei water, has permitted coal transportation and allowed the three linear projects to destroy the Mollem forest. Speaking about GFP’s private member bill to give more powers to the Lokayukta, Sardesai said that the government’s attempts to dilute the office of the Lokayukta is not surprising. “The former Lokayukta had passed several orders against various misdeeds of the government such as the labour gate scandal and beach dustbin scam in the tourism department which exposed the rampant corruption,” he said. The opposition is also expected to pin down the government on the agitations by sugarcane farmers, freedom fighters, local taxi owners and Covid warriors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sardesai-hints-at-united-opposition-plan-in-house/articleshow/80439551.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 25, 2021||Goa||Suspect early dissolution of House: Cong||Panaji: Congress suspects that the BJP may dissolve the House by September in order to avoid the embarrassment of seeing its MLAs being disqualified for defection. Speculation about early polls have been doing the rounds and despite chief minister Pramod Sawant insisting that the government will complete its term, the notion refuses to die down. Speaker Rajesh Patnekar said that he cannot decide on the disqualification petition filed against 10 former Congress MLAs as the case is pending before the Supreme Court. “From what we have heard after talking to people, particularly within the government, elections are imminent,” said former Union minister Ramakant Khalap. “The speaker said that he cannot take a decision, but the SC has not given a stay on the disqualification proceedings.” Khalap expects the BJP to move for an early dissolution, by September, with a caretaker government continuing till fresh elections are held. “That way the government will complete its term but the House will be dissolved,” he said . Many Congress office bearers share Khalap’s view but add that BJP has yet to make up its mind. “The BJP is still trying to see if it will work out in their favour,” said a Congress general secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/suspect-early-dissolution-of-house-cong/articleshow/80439556.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 25, 2021||Goa||Committee constituted for dairy devpt||Panaji: The government has constituted a technical management committee for the state to implement the National Programme for Bovine Breeding and Dairy Development (NPBBDD) scheme. The committee includes representatives from the department of animal husbandry and veterinary services, rural development, Goa Dairy and SUMUL. The Technical Management Committee (TMC) will meet every every six months – in September and March – and a minimum of five members will form the quorum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/committee-constituted-for-dairy-devpt/articleshow/80439565.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Goa||Four years later, only 9 kids from Apna Ghar given in foster care||Panaji: Four years after the state government introduced a foster care scheme, just nine children from Apna Ghar, the state-run children’s home, have been given up for foster care. Admitting that the response to the scheme has been rather lacklustre, director of women and child development Deepali Naik said that the state too is choosy when selecting a foster family for any child in their care. The ultimate aim of the scheme is that the children without parents get family care and love. “Only after a thorough home study of the prospective foster care family is done, and that we are satisfied that the child in question will be well looked after, he or she is given in foster care,” Naik said. The selected foster care family is paid a stipdent of Rs 2,500 per month by the government towards the child. The institute’s responsibility towards a child does not end once she is given in foster care. “A probation officer keeps a track of children given in foster care to see that they are happy with their foster families, and that they do not face any kind of problems or harassment in their respective new homes. Regular home studies are done,” she said. She said that sometimes, they themselves carry out inspection, but after district collectors have gotten involved, checks have increased. A collector gets the report through a talathi. Children placed in foster care families, she said, will remain with their respective foster families till they (the children) wish to be. They have the option of coming back to the child care home, can remain with the institute till they turn 18, or may be placed in the care of another family. In some cases, she said the child welfare committee (CWC) may make an exemption, and the child continues to stay in the institute for a further period of two years. “Extension is only possible if the CWC passes an order to that effect,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/four-years-later-only-9-kids-from-apna-ghar-given-in-foster-care/articleshow/80439570.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Gurgaon||Haryana: Shift Bandhwari plant out of Aravalis, say residents||GURUGRAM: Residents of Gurugram and Faridabad on Sunday staged a protest near the Bandhwari waste treatment plant demanding its removal from the Aravalis. About 90 residents, including 30 school students, gathered near the Bandhwari landfill site along the Gurugram-Faridabad road and shouted slogans like “remove this polluting landfill from our Aravali forest” . “The theme of our campaign is ‘Green’ versus ‘Black’. The adults wore green clothes to show that our generation has been blessed to enjoy the beauty of nature and the children wore black to symbolise the dark future they will be inheriting because of the waste-to-energy plant,” said Anu froms Aravali Bachao Citizens’ Movement, which organised the protest. Slogans by Heritage High school students echoed the entire area. They kept saying slogans such as “if waste is burnt here, we will not be able to breathe”, “enforce solid waste management rule’”, “Burning mixed waste is not a solution”. A few children performed a street play on the hazardous impacts of single-use plastic. The protesters alleged that the government was doing little to save NCR’s last remaining green lungs and its critical water recharge zone with toxic emissions and ash that the plant will generate. “Ever since this landfill came into existence 10 years ago, it has completely poisoned our groundwater. About 60 people in our village have died of cancer and many are still suffering from the disease and other health issues. The plant will only make matters worse,” said Dhir Singh, a resident of Bandhwari village. Another protester, Dr Sarika Verma, said: “Dioxins and furans generated by waste-to-energy plants are amongst the most toxic substances. Inhaling these can lead to respiratory and cardio-vascular diseases.” Ash generated after burning waste plants is also very toxic when is dumped in the open, it contaminates the soil, air, surrounding water bodies and the groundwater of a place as well, the protesters said. Waste incineration is a completely failed model in India. More than 60% of waste generated in India is food waste that has a high moisture content. “An approved 15 MW plant at Bandhwari and a proposed plant to generate 25 MW have been designed to process much more waste than what Gurugram and Faridabad generate together, which means that the government is not following its own guidelines and the focus is to burn more than 50% of both the cities’ waste in the plant, which as per the rules, should be recycled and undergo composting”, said Neelam Ahluwalia from Aravalli Bachao. The are in the Aravalli forest between Bandhwari and Damdama is rich in wildlife and acts as an animal corridor acting as a corridor between Asola Bhatti wildlife sanctuary in Delhi and Sariska in Rajasthan. The Wildlife Institute of India has confirmed the presence of leopards, hyenas, jackals, nilgais, porcupines, palm civets and many birds around the landfill. “The government needs to declare this entire stretch from Asola to Sariska as a wildlife sanctuary, not make polluting waste to energy plants in our Aravallis,” said Jyoti Raghawan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/shift-bandhwari-plant-out-of-aravalis-say-residents/articleshow/80440160.cms||Ipsita Pati
January 25, 2021||Faridabad||Haryana: Shift Bandhwari plant out of Aravalis, say residents||GURUGRAM: Residents of Gurugram and Faridabad on Sunday staged a protest near the Bandhwari waste treatment plant demanding its removal from the Aravalis. About 90 residents, including 30 school students, gathered near the Bandhwari landfill site along the Gurugram-Faridabad road and shouted slogans like “remove this polluting landfill from our Aravali forest” . “The theme of our campaign is ‘Green’ versus ‘Black’. The adults wore green clothes to show that our generation has been blessed to enjoy the beauty of nature and the children wore black to symbolise the dark future they will be inheriting because of the waste-to-energy plant,” said Anu froms Aravali Bachao Citizens’ Movement, which organised the protest. Slogans by Heritage High school students echoed the entire area. They kept saying slogans such as “if waste is burnt here, we will not be able to breathe”, “enforce solid waste management rule’”, “Burning mixed waste is not a solution”. A few children performed a street play on the hazardous impacts of single-use plastic. The protesters alleged that the government was doing little to save NCR’s last remaining green lungs and its critical water recharge zone with toxic emissions and ash that the plant will generate. “Ever since this landfill came into existence 10 years ago, it has completely poisoned our groundwater. About 60 people in our village have died of cancer and many are still suffering from the disease and other health issues. The plant will only make matters worse,” said Dhir Singh, a resident of Bandhwari village. Another protester, Dr Sarika Verma, said: “Dioxins and furans generated by waste-to-energy plants are amongst the most toxic substances. Inhaling these can lead to respiratory and cardio-vascular diseases.” Ash generated after burning waste plants is also very toxic when is dumped in the open, it contaminates the soil, air, surrounding water bodies and the groundwater of a place as well, the protesters said. Waste incineration is a completely failed model in India. More than 60% of waste generated in India is food waste that has a high moisture content. “An approved 15 MW plant at Bandhwari and a proposed plant to generate 25 MW have been designed to process much more waste than what Gurugram and Faridabad generate together, which means that the government is not following its own guidelines and the focus is to burn more than 50% of both the cities’ waste in the plant, which as per the rules, should be recycled and undergo composting”, said Neelam Ahluwalia from Aravalli Bachao. The are in the Aravalli forest between Bandhwari and Damdama is rich in wildlife and acts as an animal corridor acting as a corridor between Asola Bhatti wildlife sanctuary in Delhi and Sariska in Rajasthan. The Wildlife Institute of India has confirmed the presence of leopards, hyenas, jackals, nilgais, porcupines, palm civets and many birds around the landfill. “The government needs to declare this entire stretch from Asola to Sariska as a wildlife sanctuary, not make polluting waste to energy plants in our Aravallis,” said Jyoti Raghawan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/shift-bandhwari-plant-out-of-aravalis-say-residents/articleshow/80440934.cms||Ipsita Pati
January 25, 2021||Bengaluru||Rock-solid role models: How women are mastering art of climbing||Bengaluru: One last try, Prateeksha Arun said to herself as she began climbing a vertical rock face, part of an extremely difficult route called Samsara, in the blistering afternoon heat of Badami, Bagalkot district. She faltered in the final stretch, an outcome she faced again in subsequent attempts. Months later, she completed the route in one go, ticking off a challenge that had, as she puts it, haunted her in sleep. The 22-year-old Bengalurean represents a growing community of women who are showing great skill, mental strength, and dedication in one of the toughest outdoor activities that have an uneasy relationship with gravity. Prateeksha Arun Prateeksha is a national-level sport climber who hopes to compete in the Olympics. She was 10 when she was introduced to the art of intense focus and precise movements, and she has spent an untold number of hours fine-tuning her technique. “In a way, I got exposure even earlier, when I was a toddler. My father used to climb outdoors in the 1990s and he would take me and my mother to Turahalli,” she says. Her interest gradually acquired a serious purpose. “When I was younger, I would train and compete with no professional goals. I did it purely for the joy it brought me. As I grew up, my goals changed, and with that came new physical and mental challenges. I love what I do, so the exhaustion is worth it,” says Prateeksha, who is studying architecture. “Once you start loving a sport, things appear more like goals than challenges.” Prateeksha enjoys bouldering in Hampi, and such pursuits have shaped the past 10 years of her life, providing constant motivation. There’s nothing that athletes dread more than injuries. “They are always frustrating as you need time to recover. But they are part of the game and you must know how to deal with them,” she says. Visualising a climb is crucial in this context. “I look at the route, piece the moves together in my head and memorise them. This helps me reduce mistakes, conserve energy, and improve the chances of a smooth climb,” she says. “If I don’t finish it, I won’t be at peace. There’s a running joke among climbers. We often say: ‘One last try.’ In reality, there will be a hundred more attempts before that final one.” Does she ever doubt herself? “Something I have heard many times is: 'Isn’t climbing a male-dominated sport? Girls don’t have upper body strength, no?’ I’m happy to say that’s not true. Rock climbing is getting more attention and thanks to initiatives like CLAW [Climb Like A Woman], which is led by Gowri Varanashi, Lekha Rathinam and Prerna, more women are joining the activity,' she says. Lekha says CLAW seeks to encourage and support women. “Over the past year, many women have completed some classic hard routes even though training facilities were shut for a bit. It’s inspiring. I, too, reached my personal best in bouldering early last year,” she says. “Three years ago, I used to see mostly competition climbers. The trend has changed, and you see women with no plans of competing training as hard as the former.” Lekha Rathinam A close friend, Ria Andrews, introduced Lekha to climbing in 2017. “I became addicted to it quickly, and I started training to keep up with other climbers, which helped me become stronger. I began loving the process of problem-solving and learning new techniques,” she says. Lekha, who works as a marketing manager at agricultural firm Pubert India, challenges herself by attempting one difficult clamber after another. “Once I pick a project, I work on building the necessary strength and endurance and then go back to finish it. I am filled with emotions when I top out or clip the anchor. It’s difficult to explain the feeling; you have to experience it,” she says. She believes a lot needs to be done to help the overall climbing community grow. “There are always access issues in outdoor climbing. It’s a never-ending process to get permission. When we get the permission in some cases, it’s just in words, and not on paper. There were times when my friends and I had to explain to the police that climbing is a sport. They thought we were doing something illegal and asked us to visit the nearest police station to justify our presence. Then there are places where quarrying is a problem,” she says. Badami, Hampi, Avathi, Deverabetta, and Sethan (Himachal) are some of her favourite destinations. “I respect the effort people put into developing areas and setting up new lines. The work makes things easier for others,” she says. Priyanka Lal, a lawyer with experience in human rights law, started climbing professionally over three years ago. She has a simple yet effective motto: don’t give up. “Climbing is very liberating. I grew up scrambling up trees, walls, and almost anything scalable around me. The outdoors is my home and fondest teacher,” she says. “The activity came very naturally to me. When I was younger, I entered a district-level competition at Kanteerava without much technical knowledge, but still completed the event as a finalist.” Priyanka Lal Priyanka lost touch with her passion before returning to it at the age of 27. She ranks a clamber in Varlakonda as one of her most memorable moments. “I was fully zoned in — it felt like I was a part of the rock. That’s always the idea,” she says. “I experience a mix of emotions during a climb. I feel strong, frustrated, content, peaceful, angry, grateful, and aware; sometimes all at once. But the feeling when you finish a route, the entire process, in fact, is incredible.” Athletes often find a deeper meaning in their pursuit, seeing it as a playbook or an emotional guide for life. “Climbing helps build confidence and enhances your problem-solving and social skills and ability to deal with failure, making you resilient,” says Priyanka. “Reaching a plateau can be frustrating. But it’s a sign that you need to move up to the next level.” Anjana Chhabria, co-founder and CEO of Realm Fight Club, a martial arts studio in Koramangala, says her passion is her work and she considers herself a student for life. “Currently, I am training to become a strength and conditioning coach. Another activity that has a special place in my heart is rock climbing. I became fascinated by it three years ago,” she says. Anjana Chhabria She regards movement as her meditation. “It is much more than just learning how to be physically strong. There are so many aspects of climbing that transfer to my personal and professional life. Planning every move using cracks, crimps, jugs, and other intricate features to ascend rocks and adapting to new situations seem like a reflection of life to me,” she says. Photographer Abhijeet Singh has chronicled some of her trips. Anjana suffered an accident two months into climbing, but she fought through the pain and doubts to later return to the rugged sites. “I broke my ankle. After two surgeries and rehab, I returned to climbing in January 2020. My ankle is still not 100%, and I continue to work on my rehab,” she says. “The biggest challenge after the mishap was to face my fear of heights and falling. Fears are a part of life, and I am learning how to overcome them.” Return from injury can take an emotional toll, as Anjana has realised. “I cannot do certain moves or shift my weight to the left leg as it hurts. At times, you question yourself,” she says. “I see other people do a route easily and sometimes, I struggle and have to think of a different way. It’s hard. But I’m grateful for where I’m today, from not being able to stand post-surgery and learning to walk again to being able to climb once more.” Anjana is glad that young girls are taking a keen interest in sports, from football to mixed martial arts. “Women have this incredible capacity to be role models because we are called upon to do so many varied activities,” she says. Mitali Poovayya, a neuroscientist and founder of startup Insectifii, took to the sport thanks to CLAW. “Two years ago, I spent four days in Hampi. Some of the best women climbers, who are now my friends, introduced me to the activity. I was drawn to it because it catered to so many dimensions of my personality and lifestyle. I enjoy the physical and mental challenges it brings, and love being part of a community that’s filled with wonderful people,” she says. “The first year, I was on and off as I didn’t have much time. A year ago, I decided to make it a priority and now, I am out climbing every weekend.” Mitali Poovayya Progress in the early stages can be slow and one may have to shake off mistakes. “It is overwhelming in the beginning. It took me some courage to be bad at it for a while. But removing pressure helped me. For me, it’s important to focus on the fun of moving up a wall or rock, exploring my limits, developing friendships, and enjoying the process of failing. Along the way, something I considered impossible becomes possible. This is a surreal feeling,” she says. Recently, Mitali completed a gruelling climb in Badami and it marked her transition to a new level. She wants to dispel some flawed notions. “When you see mostly men climbing, you form an idea that your body needs to be a certain way to climb. I felt this way, too. But it’s not true. Through CLAW, I have met amazing women athletes with different body types. I realised that with practice, I can also do it,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rock-solid-role-models-how-women-are-mastering-art-of-climbing/articleshow/80440854.cms||Harsh Vora
January 25, 2021||Delhi||Delhi residents, traders bear civic stir brunt||NEW DELHI: Residents are bearing the brunt of the ongoing agitation by North Delhi Municipal Corporation workers, including sanitation staff. Despite release of salaries to sanitation staff, their unions continue to support other workers who have not yet received salaries, and have refused to call off their strike. The unions claimed that salary hasn’t yet been credited to the accounts of most of the workers. Traders in many places have had to close their shops due to the stink from the garbage piling up on roads. “Stretches in the market have become filthy. Due to locking of depots by unions, tippers aren’t lifting garbage,” said Nitin Gupta, president of Kamla Nagar Market Association, on Sunday. 15 shops on karnal road down shutters due to the stinkThe traffic movement has been affected in areas, including GT Karnal Road (near Kamla Nagar) and Kingsway Camp Chowk (GTB Nagar), with agitated workers dumping garbage on roads. Sunny Gupta, a shopkeeper on GT Karnal Road, said all 15 shops next to his have been closed for the past three days. “We fear the spread of the disease. Even entrance gates of colonies have been closed due to piling up of garbage. Traffic can’t move on one side and jam has become a normal feature. Due to filth, customers have stopped coming despite our staff cleaning the stairs and nearby area,” Gupta said. “When we are paying taxes and are trying our best to boost the business after the pandemic, why should these circumstances occur? Is this the way we should celebrate Republic Day or observe Swachh Bharat Abhiyan?” asked Gupta. Residents and shopkeepers called a meeting with the mayor and zonal chairmen to find a solution. Efforts are being made to clear the main roads with the help of private workers before January 26 but the unions are not letting them work, Jai Prakash, the mayor, said. “I got the Netaji Subhash Marg cleaned up on Sunday morning and put efforts to get the main roads cleaned. We are talking to sanitation unions for getting back to work as their salaries have been paid. We will again call a meeting with them on Monday to ensure people don’t face inconvenience,” he said. JP Tank, president of Delhi Nagar Nigam Shramik Sangh, said that sanitation workers don’t want to create any inconvenience to Delhiites but they will continue their strike unless all their demands are met. “Majority of workers haven’t received salaries as it has not been credited in their accounts yet. Also, we are demanding regularisation of contractual employees working for over 20 years as well as cashless medical insurance. The strike will continue and if required we will dump garbage outside residences of the chief minister and the mayor,” he said. Ram Niwas Solanki, general secretary of Nagar Nigam Shikshak Sangh, blamed the municipality and the Delhi government for being apathetic towards teachers, nurses and other North Delhi Municipal Corporation staff and their families, forced to live without pay for five months. Some areas of Shahdara south zone were also affected due to the strike. “Garbage was not picked up from Patparganj and neighbouring areas. We have released one month pending salaries on Saturday and will call meeting with agitating employees on Tuesday as soon as salaries get credited to their accounts,” said Nirmal Jain, the mayor of East Delhi Municipal Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-residents-traders-bear-civic-stir-brunt/articleshow/80440870.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 25, 2021||Kolkata||City celebrates Indo-French connections over food and adda||The directors of an ongoing literary fest – Maina Bhagat, Swagata Sengupta and Priti Paul — hosted a dinner reception for the newly appointed country director of Institute of France Emmanuel Lebrun Damiens on Saturday evening at a city five-star hotel. Along with members of the French Consulate in Kolkata, a number of guests from different walks of life were present at the event. Fashion designer Abhishek Dutta was also present on the occasion. The event kick-started with the felicitation of Emmanuel Lebrun Damiens and the French diplomat said that with the arrival of the vaccine the human race is on the verge of defeating COVID 19. He also pointed out the need to strengthen the bond between these two countries. “India and France go a long way and I would say that our relations are deeply rooted with shared values of the culture. We are all eager to strengthen it even more,” he added. The dinner party went on till late in the evening with a number of fascinating beverages and food on offer. Finally, at the dinner, the guests were served Kolkata-style mutton biryani and raita. Shahanshah Mirza, one of the specialists on Mughlai cuisine was there as a guest and shared a lot about the particular cuisine with the French delegates. “The future is now our present. We look forward to an ever-increasing culture of innovation, and collaboration in the future, and to novel approaches with our valued partners,” Maina Bhagat told CT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-celebrates-indo-french-connections-over-food-and-adda/articleshow/80440875.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
January 25, 2021||India||Ghazipur cops ban oil supply to tractors, SP orders probe||VARANASI: Officials at two police stations in Ghazipur district left their seniors red-faced by asking petrol pumps to stop giving oil to tractors in view of the proposed tractor rally as part of farmers’ agitation. Cops at Suhwal police station issued an order telling fuel pumps not to give oil to tractors or in drums and canes. Going a step ahead of Suhwal cops, the Saidpur police imposed a complete ban on movement of tractors on the highway till January 26. SP Ghazipur Om Prakash Singh was shocked when he was informed about the orders issued by the SOs of the Suhwal and Saidpur police stations and asked ASP (rural) to probe how this order was misinterpreted by the cops of the two police stations. He also made it clear that no such restrictions have been imposed in the district. The SP said he had issued directions to ensure movement of fully fit tractors on roads, especially highways, to prevent accidents in view of the ongoing Road Safety Month, but this order was misinterpreted by cops of the two police stations. SO Suhwal issued an order to petrol pumps through notice. This order stated, “In view of January 26, high alert has been sounded in state and prohibitory orders under Section 144 CrPC are effective. In view of the possibility of farmers taking out tractor rallies a ban is imposed on movement of tractors. You are directed to stop giving oil to tractors, in drums or containers from January 22 till 26 in order to maintain peace.” The petrol pump at Kalupur pasted this order of Suhwal police on the machines with additional notices that oil will not be given to tractors and in bottles. Saidpur inspector started issuing notices to tractor owners mentioning that in view of national festival, flag marches and movement of school children on roads, movement of tractors will not be allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ghazipur-cops-ban-oil-supply-to-tractors-sp-orders-probe/articleshow/80440873.cms||---
January 25, 2021||India||Thousands of farmers hit Mumbai for today’s rally||MUMBAI: Thousands of farmers from across Maharashtra reached Mumbai on Sunday evening to participate in a rally at the state capital on Monday against the Centre’s three new farm laws. Police have stepped up security at Azad Maidan, the rally’s venue in south Mumbai, and personnel of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) have also been deployed there. Drones will also be used to keep an eye on the event, a police official said. The All India Kisan Sabha’s (AIKS) Maharashtra unit in a statement said around 15,000 farmers had set out for the state capital from Nashik on Saturday in several tempos and other vehicles. NCPchief Sharad Pawar and some other prominent leaders of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) in the state will address the rally on Monday, the release said. The state Congress unit, which is an ally of the MVA, has already extended its support to the protest. Farmers from various places had gathered in Nashik and started their journey towards Mumbai on Saturday. Many peasants also joined on the way, the AIKS said. On the way, hundreds of Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU)-affiliated factory workers from Igatpuri and Shahapur tehsils welcomed the farmers by showering flowers. At the Kalyan-Bhiwandi crossroad, the farmers were welcomed and provided food packets.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a pro-farmer body, has given a nationwide call for a struggle from January 23 to 26, including rallies to Raj Bhavans (governor houses) in states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/thousands-of-farmers-hit-mumbai-for-todays-rally/articleshow/80440879.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Vadodara||‘Gujarat’s agri-tech market to touch US$ 3bn by 2025: Study||Vadodara: Agri-tech market in Gujarat is expected to be more than US $ 3 billion in the next five years, while food technology market, which had taken a hit during the Covid-19 induced pandemic, is expected to cross US $1 billion by 2022, a study condcuted by a market research firm claims.The study on business-to-business (B2B) and direct-to-consumer (D2C) industries was done by city-based XX“Our analysis indicates that industries such as agri-tech, food technology, wearables, automotive technology, smart utilities and infrastructure industry are aggressively capturing the market gap post-pandemic,” said firm’s founder Harsh Shah.The report states that the agriculture sector in Gujarat was adversely affected due to lockdown and lack of transportation facilities. This period was mainly for harvesting rabi crops including wheat, jeera, cumin and mustard among others.“Due to lockdown during this period, prices of these crops declined significantly. But at the same time the farming sector has performed better compared to other sectors during Covid-19 pandemic,” the report states.“Some agri-tech firms have tied up with farmers to provide knowledge and guidance about farming the best crop, yielding a better income. Some firms are buying directly from farmers and supply them to small and large retail stores, eliminating possible intermediaries to condense the chain,” said Shah, adding that as farmers will overcome these challenges with the use of technologies, agri-tech will see higher growth in the coming years.“Its market size in Gujarat was around US $ 1.3 billion in 2020 which will grow to more than US $ 3 billion by 2025,” he said.The current market size of food technology industry in Gujarat is estimated to be US $ 750 million, which is expected to cross US$ 1 billion by end of next year.“Before the pandemic, the food technology market in Gujarat was expected to grow by around 25 % by 2025. However, due to export issues, unexpected lockdown duration and night curfew in major cities, the food processing industry, food delivery businesses and cloud kitchens are facing growth issues. Currently, its growth rate has come down by 5% to 7%,” the report states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gujarats-agri-tech-market-to-touch-us-3bn-by-2025-study/articleshow/80437898.cms||Prashant Rupera
January 25, 2021||India||Over 100 farmer leaders under ‘house arrest’ in Agra region||AGRA: To prevent farmers from travelling to Delhi for the Republic Day tractor parade, more than 100 farmer leaders have been allegedly put under “house arrest” in Agra region on Sunday. Strict checks of vehicles at district borders are being conducted by police and tractors are being stopped from proceeding towards Delhi. Farmers alleged that fuel stations have been “instructed not to give diesel to tractors”. After being stopped by police at several places on Sunday, farmers briefly blocked the Agra-Bareilly highway in Etah district. In Mathura, farmers blocked the Yamuna expressway for around 30 minutes resulting in long queues of vehicles. At Chilla border, Yogesh Pratap Singh, state president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu), said, “Thousands of our workers were scheduled to reach Chilla border by Sunday evening from Agra region. On orders of the state government, our senior workers have been put under house arrest. Those who had managed to leave their houses with their tractors were stopped. We will not tolerate this kind of behaviour of the UP government. Singh added, “If our workers are not allowed to move to Delhi, we will stage protest and block roads during the CM Yogi Adiyanath’s visit to Noida on Monday.” District president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait), Rajveer Lawaniya, who had planned to leave for Ghazipur border with 20 tractors and 200 farmers on Sunday morning, was allegedly stopped by the police outside his residence. “Police will not be able to stop hundreds of farmers from Agra to reach Delhi border. In case police don’t allow us to take tractors, we will go by private vehicles or board buses. Farmers from Agra will mark their strong presence in Delhi on January 26. The Centre will have to withdraw the three farm laws and guarantee MSP,” Lawaniya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/over-100-farmer-leaders-under-house-arrest-in-agra-region/articleshow/80440883.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 25, 2021||India||Kargil vet now a tractor 'commander'||AGRA: At Chilla border, former Armyman Ramnath Singh Sikarwar, who had fought in the Kargil war, is gearing up for another “battle”. Retired and now a social activist, he is focused on farmers’ rights and busy training youngsters for the Republic Day tractor parade in Delhi. Sikarwar, 53, a former radar technician with the Army, is one of the parade commanders and has constituted six quick response teams (QRT) of six men each to combat tear gas shells and water cannons, if any, on January 26. In true military style, each QRT team has been assigned “code words”. And the QRT will act on “secret signals” of the parade commander. Bhanu Pratap Singh, national president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu), told TOI, “We have directed all the workers from across UP and other states to report at Chilla border by Monday evening. The parade responsibility at Chilla border has been assigned to ex-Armyman Ramnath Singh Sikarwar. He is training the farmers now.” The Centre has failed to understand the discontent among farmers, Sikarwar said. “We will hold a historic parade in Delhi. Farmers are being trained to maintain discipline and run a smooth show. Thousands will march on one side of the road and tractors will move in long queues on the other. Specific tasks have been assigned to a team of 25 young farmers. I will lead the parade with other senior members on tractors. We’ll give specific instructions from loudspeakers.” “Leaving nothing to chance, we have constituted six QRTs as well. In case of tear gas shells by police on us, they will shield them with wet sacks. If water cannons are used, QRTs will cordon the police vehicles from all sides and protect the farmers. The aim is to ensure that the elderly and women do not suffer any difficulties,” he said. A resident of Kathumari village of Agra district, Sikarwar was involved in radar operations during the Kargil war and served along the LoC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kargil-vet-now-a-tractor-commander/articleshow/80440893.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 25, 2021||India||100 bright students to join PM in his box during R-Day parade||NEW DELHI: One hundred meritorious students from schools and colleges will join Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his box to together witness the Republic Day parade on Tuesday. According to Ramesh Pokhriyal, Union education minister, the students will also have a chance to interact with him after the parade. “Happy to share that meritorious students across the country will be given a chance to witness the RepublicDay2021 parade from the PM’s Box. They will also have a chance to meet & interact with the minister of education, Govt. of India Shri @DrRPNishank,” the ministry of education tweeted. According to a ministry official, 100 students have been shortlisted for the purpose — 50 each from schools and higher education institutions. A total of 105 toppers from CBSE and universities got to watch the 71st Republic Day Parade from the PM’s box last year. Due to the Covid-19 safety norms gravity-defying stunts by motorcycle-borne men, a major attraction for the crowd at Republic Day celebrations on the Rajpath, will be missing this year, while the spectator size too has been reduced to 25,000, officials said on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/100-bright-students-to-join-pm-in-his-box-during-r-day-parade/articleshow/80449476.cms||---
January 25, 2021||India||PM salutes ‘desh ki betis’ and those empowering them||NEW DELHI: On Sunday observed as the National Girl Child Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to twitter to say “we salute our #DeshKiBeti and the accomplishments in various fields”. He also said that it was also a day to “specially appreciate all those working towards empowering the girl child and ensuring she leads a life of dignity and opportunity”. The PM also highlighted that the central government has undertaken many initiatives that focus on empowering the girl child, including access to education, better healthcare and improving gender sensitivity. Women and child development minister Smriti Irani also put out a tweet saying, “On National Girl Child Day, we reiterate our commitment towards ensuring equal rights for every girl child and empowering them with opportunities. Let us take pride in our daughters and spread awareness about the importance of girl child using #DeshKiBeti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-salutes-desh-ki-betis-and-those-empowering-them/articleshow/80440907.cms||---
January 25, 2021||India||32 children get Pradhan Mantri Bal Puraskar||NEW DELHI: This year 32 children have been awarded the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar, 2021. for their exceptional abilities and outstanding accomplishments, in the diverse fields of innovation, scholastics, sports, arts & culture, social service and bravery. The awardee children are from 32 districts of 21 states and UTs. Seven awards have been given in the field of art and culture, nine for innovation and five for scholastic achievements. Seven children have won in sports category, three for bravery and one child has been honoured for her efforts in the field of social service. President Ram Nath Kovind stated in a message that “I am hopeful that Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar, 2021 would not only motivate the winners but will also encourage millions of other young children to dream, aspire and stretch their limits. Let us all do our personal best to take our nation to new zenith of success and prosperity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/32-children-get-pradhan-mantri-bal-puraskar/articleshow/80440911.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Goa||Danish movie wins Golden Peacock, Assamese ‘Bridge’ sole Indian winner||Panaji: Denmark’s ‘Into the Darkness’ which portrays dilemmas of the Danish population against the backdrop of World War II took home the coveted Golden Peacock at the 51st International Film Festival of India (Iffi). Assamese film ‘Bridge’ by Kripal Kalita about the struggles of villagers living across a swelling river became the only Indian film at the 51st Iffi to win an award. ‘Bridge’ won the special mention from the jury award for bringing to life the pain of Assamese villages which face hardships due to the annual flooding. Taiwan’s ‘The Silent Forest’ bagged two Silver Peacocks at Iffi for best director to Chen-Nien Ko and best male actor award to Tzu-Chuan Liu. The film is based on real-life events involving a hearing-impaired boy. While most award winners accepted their prizes virtually, Iffi organisers hailed the festival as a “blueprint for others across the world to follow its hybrid format during the pandemic”. This edition of the festival conquered all ifs and buts, said Union minister for state for environment and forests Babul Supriyo. “Iffi is special this year. For the first time in Asia a festival has been held in hybrid mode. I am extremely proud that we could hold the festival despite the challenges thrown by the Covid-19 pandemic. It is the triumph of human spirit over disease,” said secretary for Information and Broadcasting ministry of government of India, Amit Khare. He added, “More than 60 countries participated. This was an historic effort to host Iffi this time and even those abroad are taking interest in how India held the festival.” At the closing ceremony of the 51st Iffi, Brazilian film ‘Valentina’ which portrays the struggles of trans-gender students won its director, Cassio Pereira dos Santos the Silver Peacock for best debut film director. While Kamen Kalev from Bulgaria won the special jury award for ‘February’, the best female actor accolades went to Zofia Stafiej for her performance in the Polish film ‘I Never Cry’. Veteran actor of Hindi and Bengali film industry Bishwajit Chatterjee received the Indian film personality of the year award. While concluding this year’s Iffi edition, chief minister Pramod Sawant said he wants to transform the state’s image into a much-sought after destination for film shootings. “I invite all national and international filmmakers to film in Goa Our government will give all support required for film shooting,” said Sawant. Governor for Goa and Maharashtra Bhagat Singh Koshyari said that Indian cinema has become a unifying factor not only for people from different parts of India but for all its neighbouring countries. “Cinema makes us realise that we are similar in some way or the other,” said Koshyari. The 51st Iffi closed with the screening of the Japanese film ‘Wife of A Spy’. Hindi film actress Zeenat Aman and Bhojpuri film star and MP Ravi Kishan were felicitated at the closing ceremony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/danish-movie-wins-golden-peacock-assamese-bridge-sole-indian-winner/articleshow/80438996.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
January 25, 2021||Goa||‘We are watching democracy turning into tyranny’||Panaji: Gandhi was an “inclusive man” who respected all religions but today we see this fabric of inclusiveness being frayed by a sense of bigotry in India, said Ramesh Sharma, director of the documentary film ‘Ahimsa - Gandhi: The Power of the Powerless’. The film which pays homage to Mahatma Gandhi on his 150th birthday was screened at the Indian Panorama section of the 51st Iffi. It focuses on the global impact of the Gandhian message of non-violence. Citing the example of a group of youngsters in UP who were recently in the news for breaking down a toilet which was built near a temple, he said a “sense of instant instinctive use of violence is going to destroy this country”. Juxtaposing the same against the non-violent life of Gandhi, he said that the leader believed that the beauty of India lies in that inclusiveness. “But today we see this fabric of inclusiveness being frayed by a sense of bigotry,” he said. Referring also to the recent attack on the Capitol building in the USA, he said, “The same thing is happening in America where racism, bigotry and anti-immigration sentiments prevail. We are watching democracy turning into tyranny.” Calling the story of Gandhi, “one of the greatest exports from India” he said that working on his documentary made him realise that there is a statue of Gandhi in many countries around the world due to his inspiring work in creating social justice and social equity. The documentary also touches upon the tragedy of India’s partition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/we-are-watching-democracy-turning-into-tyranny/articleshow/80439021.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Kolkata||Fight is between 10 crore and ‘jumla’ party: TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee||KULTALI (SOUTH 24 PARGANA): Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday took the battle to BJP, saying people would not be fooled by their falsehoods. Stepping up the political heat, Abhishek urged people to respond befittingly and said they (BJP) would be “held accountable” for everything they say or do. “Now, it is a fight between Bengal’s 10 crore people and a jumla party,” he said and added “they will pay inch for inch”. He also “challenged” Suvendu Adhikari to prove his charges against him (Abhishek) while he showed people “evidence” of how Saradha boss Sudipto Sen wrote to a Kolkata judge implicating the BJP leader. Abhishek alleged this – along with the indictment in the Narada sting – proved Suvendu was trying to be a “saint” after “selling his spine to BJP” for fear of central agencies. Suvendu said he would respond to Abhishek’s allegations at a public meeting on Monday. The Trinamool MP and the BJP leader are also locked in a legal tussle over Suvendu’s “tolabaj bhaipo” barbs. Abhishek said: “It is good they are targeting me. They will have to digest 10 goals from me before they can even think of Mamata Banerjee.” Responding to BJP’s “pishi-bhaipor sarkar” barbs, insinuating dynastic rule, Abhishek said: “I challenge them. Let them introduce a bill – even a private member bill – stipulating only one member from a family can remain in politics. I declare today, from my family, only Mamata Banerjee will remain in politics. Can BJP leaders say the same?” “Suvendu Adhikari talks of dynastic politics. He was an MLA and minister; his father and brother are MPs; another brother is a municipality chairperson and another a councillor. Mukul Roy talks of dynastic politics. His son is an MLA. Kailash Vijayvargiya’s son is an MLA... I promise you, if they bring this bill, I’ll be the first to sign it and quit politics within 24 hours. I dare them to do the same,” he said. Referring to former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee, Abhishek said: “Someone has woken up after three years. He is saying he is sorry for ensuring my win. When he was around, I won by 70,000 votes. When he was sleeping, I won by 3.5 lakh votes. It is good he keeps stepping out. The more they do, the more it helps us. I ask him to contest any one of the 31 seats in the district; I will ensure he loses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fight-is-between-10cr-and-jumla-party-abhishek/articleshow/80440182.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
January 25, 2021||Vadodara||Register new tenant, file vehicle theft using phone||Vadodara: Want to check your passport application status? Click on your mobile. The hassle of going to the police station for verification process is passé. Cops will now verify your documents and send it to the passport office by checking crime records, if any, of the applicant online. With an aim to give a technology push to its policing services, city police decided to provide ‘Citizen First’ - a facility-laden mobile app. “The police department offers a lot of facilities to the people but they have to often visit the police station. Our aim is to go virtual and give effective service to the citizens without any hassles,” said Shamsher Singh, city police commissioner. “Now, Barodians can download the app from the play store and thereby do away with having to visit the police station physically. Cops will also be able to carry out the procedures smoothly,” Singh told TOI. According to the police, citizens can now give any application online. If any person has gone missing or vehicle has been stolen, the complainant can submit an online application quickly. “This will help us act swiftly and locate the missing person. People also need proof of vehicle theft for insurance claims. Once they submit an application on the app, they can use the application number as a proof,” Singh added. “Those who want to register the details of their tenants, driver or maid, they don’t need to visit the police station. I have asked our team to never call the applicants to the police station for such registrations,” Singh added. Also, if people want to get NOC from the police or register details of senior citizens, they can use this app that has been developed by the Gujarat police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/register-new-tenant-file-vehicle-theft-using-phone/articleshow/80437921.cms||Tushar Tere
January 25, 2021||Ranchi||Local oranges hook sellers and buyers in Palamu||Daltonganj: Palamu’s homegrown oranges are making their mark in the fruit market of Jharkhand. Recently, the Chiyanki-based zonal research station of Birsa Agricultural University has produced oranges on a 10-acre plot. The yield from the cultivation was sold at Rs 30 a kilogram. A M Ansari, a horticulture scientist at the research station, said: “Our research station earned Rs 5 lakh this year by selling the oranges. A healthy tree can produce between 30-100 kg of oranges every year.” Ansari said Palamu’s soil texture and climate were conducive for orange cultivation. “Orange cultivation has been taken up in Paton, Satbarwa and other blocks recently,” he said. However, for farmers in Palamu, rice, wheat and maize were preferred crops as orange trees take years to bear fruit, he said. Notably, most oranges found in Palamu markets were from Nagpur. “But the local oranges are of good quality and their shelf life is longer as well,” Shamsad, a fruit seller in Daltonganj, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/local-oranges-hook-sellers-and-buyers-in-palamu/articleshow/80438064.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee stance on ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogan political or not, asks BJP||KOLKATA: The BJP on Sunday wanted to know whether chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s refusal to speak at the Netaji 125th birth anniversary event amid ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogans was a political stance or not. Arun Govil, who played Lord Ram in TV serial ‘Ramayan’, tweeted: “Why do some people get irritated on taking Shri Ram’s name. Shri Ram is the ideal for every human being, and his life is an inspiration for all. Getting irritated or opposing the chanting of Shri Ram’s name is like opposing the entire humanity.” Netaji’s grandnephew Chandra Kumar Bose, who had contested for BJP from South Kolkata constituency, criticised Banerjee over her reaction. He said Netaji had different communities in his Azad Hind Fauj, and felt the CM should not have reacted sharply as it was the day to pay homage to Netaji. BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta said while the chant undeniably had a religious meaning to some, in West Bengal, it had also become a symbol of protest against a political dispensation. “This originated during the 2019 election campaign when Mamata Banerjee lost her cool at a man who shouted ‘Jai Shri Ram’ at her passing cavalcade. She viewed it as a term of abuse. Since then, the chant had acquired a symbolism of its own. It has, in fact, become secularised.” Professor Ruby Sain, co-convenor of Bengal BJP’s intellectual cell, said if Banerjee felt the ‘Jai Shri Ram’ chant was wrong, then why did she say ‘Jai Bangla’ at a government programme. “Jai Bangla was the salutation, slogan and war cry of Mukti Bahini of Bangladesh. So it is unethical to use it here, as millions of Hindus were persecuted and had to flee Bangladesh,” Sain said. Medic Indranil Khan, a Bengal BJP spokesman, said ‘Jai Shri Ram’ was used by a large section of Indians as a welcome greeting. It was not an abuse in any way, he added. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh was sharpest in his attack, saying those who had “allergy” to ‘Jai Shri Ram’ needed “treatment”. “Those who are afraid of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ chants should not be in politics. Mamata Banerjee’s police had even arrested people for chanting ‘Jai Shri Ram’; so it was something due to her. She chants Jai Bangla and Jai Ma Kali; we do not oppose,” he said. Bengal BJP minder Kailash Vijayvargiya said no one else on the dais reacted as the CM did and advised Banerjee to be more tolerant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-stance-on-jai-shri-ram-slogan-political-or-not-asks-bjp/articleshow/80440178.cms||Debashis Konar
January 25, 2021||Kolkata||Netaji event sloganeering at CM Mamata Banerjee ‘misogynistic’: TMC||KOLKATA: Trinamool Congress on Sunday dubbed the treatment meted out to chief minister Mamata Banerjee deeply “misogynistic” and questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “silence” at the event meant to mark Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s 125th birth anniversary. At a press conference held at Trinamool Bhavan on Sunday, Bengal minister Bratya Basu said: “Prime Minister Modi did not utter a single word condemning the behaviour of a section of audience... This shows BJP has no respect for Netaji and has no idea of what he stood for.” He highlighted how BJP was trying to promote a certain concept of Lord Ram in Bengal that didn’t go with the state’s way of conceiving and worshipping him. According to Basu, there is a “huge socio-cultural divide” between north Indian and Bengali concepts of Ram. A case in point, Basu said, is the ‘Krittivasi Ramayan’. “When Krittibas Ojha wrote about Ram in Bengal during the 15th century, his writings made sure it was more in tune with the Bengal spirit and ethos. The Ram of Krittibas didn’t ask his wife to give an agnipariksha. Rather, he was afraid of his wife. He loved to eat ‘naru’, ‘muri murki’, ‘kadma’ and even ‘machher jhol’ and ‘bhat’,” the minister said. BJP, Basu said, was trying to promote “the concept of Ram that is more in tune with Valimiki’s writings”. “That has a synergy with the north Indian view of Ram. It talks about male chauvinism. But this doesn’t reflect the true culture of Bengal,” he said. Using the words ‘Jai Shri Ram’ to shout slogans at a woman chief minister is an attempt at promoting misogyny, he added. “Bengal’s concept of Ram, with which we have grown up, respects women. Those who used Sri Ram’s name in their slogans at Victoria (Memorial) neither respect Ram nor women.” At a public rally in Kultali, Trinamool MP Abhishek Banerjee said: “Mamata Banerjee is a chief minister who was elected by 2.5 crore people in Bengal. By not allowing her to speak, she was insulted. It appears they have not learnt their lesson from people after the Vidyasagar statue vandalism in 2019. People of Bengal will ensure they are swept away.” He added: “Say Jai Shri Ram as much as you want to. Say that at home, in temples. But this is a government programme in which a CM has been invited to speak.” Trinamool spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said: “This wasn’t a political programme but a government one. Their understanding of what should be said where, is slightly less. People are seeing it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/netaji-event-sloganeering-at-cm-misogynistic-tmc/articleshow/80440151.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
January 25, 2021||Kolkata||Bidyut Chakrabarty’s book on Netaji shows BJP’s insincerity: CPM||KOLKATA/BOLPUR: The CPM on Sunday cited excerpts of a book authored by Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty in which he had reportedly referred to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose as an “anachronistic personality” who “failed both as a national and regional leader”. Responding to these statements by CPM, Chakrabarty said: “Please read the book and assess yourself.” The book, ‘Subhas Chandra Bose and Middle Class Radicalism’, was first published by a London publisher in 1990. In the book, Chakrabarty had quoted N C Chaudhuri, saying he had “rightly observed” that Bose in a sense had become “an anachronistic personality”. Speaking to reporters in Kolkata, CPM politburo member Md Selim criticised what he called a “BJP-RSS ploy” to “present their version” of history, and chided attempts to eulogise leaders whom they reportedly belittled before. Selim said: “The present Visva-Bharati VC in his book on Netaji had made certain remarks. What will be said about it now?” He then shared excerpts, of which on page 49, Chakrabarty writes that “Bose failed both as a national and regional leader”. On the same page, Chakrabarty refers to “roots in the revolutionary terrorism”. On page 66, he has reportedly written that Bose “was incapable of devising a strategy that would undermine or counter the ‘divide and rule’ policy of the government”. On another page, Chakrabarty writes: “What is evident is Bose-type middle-class leadership is the tendency to operate from the top.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cpm-bidyuts-book-on-netaji-shows-bjps-insincerity/articleshow/80440197.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Cyber city comes alive as runners hit the streets amid pandemic||For the first time in over 10 months, runners in the city had a reason to cheer as Hyderabad staged its first major run during the pandemic. More than thousand people turned up at the crack of dawn to take part in the 5K and 10K runs respectively that began at the Durgam Cheruvu Cable Bridge near Hitec City. Participants were given sanitisers and were advised to maintain physical distance from fellow runners as people from all walks of life turned up and embraced the new normal. Rajitha Kumari, a software engineer from the city, tells us, “I’ve sorely missed these runs over the past 10 months and it feels great to be able to do it again. Participants were released in batches as a safety precaution keeping the Covid-19 pandemic in mind. We felt safe and had a great run. The added advantage was that it took place on the cable bridge, making it a very scenic run.”Nikhil, a fitness enthusiast, adds, “It’s important to pay attention to fitness, especially during the pandemic where many are working from home and lead sedentary lifestyles. Participating in runs like this is just the tonic you need to kick-start the new week.” 06:00 am: The 5K run kicked off as early as 6 in the morning on Sunday as hundreds showed up for the run. The 10K run started at 6:30 am : 1000+: More than thousand participants from across the city turned up for the marathon Safety first!: City’s first marathon in pandemic era took place with Covid guidelines in place. Participants were released in batches, were given sanitisers and were advised to maintain social distance||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyber-city-comes-alive-as-runners-hit-the-streets-amid-pandemic/articleshow/80439899.cms||Sravan Vanaparthy
January 25, 2021||Kolkata||Now, EIMPA president Piya Sengupta & actor Koushani Mukherjee join TMC||KOLKATA: Eastern Indian Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA) president Piya Sengupta and actor Koushani Mukherjee formally joined Trinamool Congress in the presence of minister Bratya Basu at Trinamool Bhavan here on Sunday. Sengupta, who is the first woman president of EIMPA, is perhaps the first to have joined a political party while in office. She is optimistic about preventing any migration of Tollywood people to BJP. “There are some who are now singing off-key tunes. I hope my formal joining will get them back on track. I now have a bigger platform where I can speak about the industry in particular and people in general,” said Sengupta, who is the daughter of actor Sukhen Das. Koushani, who has acted in 14 Bengali films, said she was deeply inspired by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Referring to her 2015 debut in Raj Chakrabarty’s ‘Parbona Ami Chharte Toke’, she said: “Back then, I had told Didi that I find her very inspiring and want to learn from her every day. I have seen her work and how she is always beside us in times of need. I will never be able to leave her.” Sengupta said “now that I have formally joined a party, I hope it will increase my bargaining power in the film industry’s interests”. She admitted there were “occasions” when she couldn’t do everything she had wanted for EIMPA during her interactions with Federation of Cine Technicians & Workers of Eastern India. Sengupta was upset some from Tollywood had enjoyed privileges of government posts but were now pointing a finger at the ruling party. “I call them traitors. They never uttered a word while enjoying the posts. Now that they think they have nothing more to gain, they are creating nuisance. They are not only harming Tollywood but also misguiding people at large,” she said. Koushani is now keen to “work” (she means championing women’s causes, among other things) and not just “talk”. “I am all for women’s empowerment. Didi protests all forms of injustice and talks about women’s rights. I want to inspire other youngsters to join the party that is helmed by her and works for people,” she said. Referring to the slogan controversy at Victoria Memorial on Saturday, she said: “It was disrespectful towards a woman. I am so proud that she protested.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/now-eimpa-president-actor-koushani-join-tmc/articleshow/80440266.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
January 25, 2021||Ranchi||Districts, which managed Covid better, lag in vaccination response||Ranchi: The tribal-dominated districts in Jharkhand — which performed well in containing the spread of Covid-19 when the outbreak was at its peak — have witnessed a poor response in the ongoing vaccination drive. However, the authorities concerned said it is only a matter of time before more beneficiaries start taking the shot. So far, Palamu, a Maoist-hit district with a turnout of 76% and Bokaro with 74% performed the best in the state in terms of turnout for the vaccination in the first week of the drive. Giridih, which recorded a spike in cases when the migrant labourers started returning in June-July ranks third with 71% turnout. But Pakur, which by far has been the most efficient district in terms of keeping the number of infections and deaths low and became the first Covid-free district in the state on December 24, has been at the bottom in the list of all 24 districts in terms of vaccine coverage. A district which reported only 902 cases, of which 900 recovered, the vaccine turnout is 42.6% where out of the 938 beneficiaries, only 400 took the jab. “I agree that the pace is slow and very few people have turned up for vaccination but it is not a matter of vaccine hesitancy,” Pakur civil surgeon Dr Ramdev Paswan said. He emphasised that many people have adopted a wait-and-watch policy and would be turning up for the vaccine in days to come. The trend is evident in other districts where the virus management has been efficient. Khunti is the second district in the state that became Covid-free on Sunday with the batch of seven patients being declared recovered and no new case being reported. With 2,132 cases in total and seven deaths, the district has managed the pandemic well but in terms of vaccination, it is also towards the bottom of the list. With the low turnout in Khunti, the health department reduced the number of session sites to one and out of 551 registered beneficiaries, only 320 turned up, registering only 51% turnout. A health worker in Khunti preferring anonymity said, “I am not sure if I should take the vaccine when I remained uninfected even after attending to Covid patients continuously. I am not afraid of being infected.” He added that he is waiting for the drive to proceed for a few more days before he takes a call regarding taking the jab. Sahebganj, which has one active patient and 1,638 total cases along with Jamtara with three active and 1,265 total cases and Dumka with six active and 1,393 total cases are also at the bottom of the list of low Covid-19 cases. But these districts are also at the bottom of the list in terms of vaccine coverage. While Jamtara and Sahebganj recorded 50% turnout in the first four days of the vaccination drive, Dumka has recorded a turnout of 56% where only 581 beneficiaries took the shot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/districts-which-managed-covid-better-lag-in-vaccination-response/articleshow/80438153.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
January 25, 2021||Ranchi||Deceased MBBS student’s parents disagree with police probe, demand CBI inquiry||Dumka: Parents and relatives of Puja Bharti, a first-year student of Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital (HMCH) whose body was recovered from Patratu dam on January 12, dismissed police’s claim that the girl died by suicide. DIG A V Homka at a press conference on Saturday said that investigations suggested that the girl died by suicide. However, the father of the deceased, Awadh Bihari Purve, said, “If police believe that she drowned herself after tying her hands and legs on her own, then why did the police claimed earlier that they were close to cracking the ‘murder mystery’?” He accused the police of being unprofessional and instead demanded a CBI probe in the case. “The cops’ claim that the deceased was under stress is ridiculous. She was in extremely joyous mood while talking to her mother a few hours before her death,” Vidyanand Purve, Puja’s cousin, said. Meanwhile, different social and political organisations have announced to hold protests in Godda on Monday seeking a CBI probe in the death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/deceased-mbbs-students-parents-disagree-with-police-probe-demand-cbi-inquiry/articleshow/80438073.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 25, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: ‘Loved Netaji show but don’t support Jai Shri Ram chants’||KOLKATA: Celebrities present at Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary ceremony at Victoria Memorial on Saturday, reacting to the “Jai Shri Ram” slogans that sparked a bitter political row, have said the chants were “uncalled for” at such an event. Actors Indrani Halder and Rudranil Ghosh, music director-turned-filmmaker Indraadip Dasgupta and percussionist Pt Anindo Chatterjee — who were invited by the Government of India — enjoyed the programme but did not support the chants. The shouts began just as CM Mamata Banerjee got up to speak and ended after she returned to her seat, angry over the slogan associated with BJP invading an apolitical event. Her speech was right after the rendition of ‘Dhana Dhanyo Pushpa Bhara’ by Soumyojit of the Sourendro-Soumyojit duo. “I could hear people shouting and didn’t know what to do,” Soumyojit said. They said it was a privilege to have been invited by the ministry of culture to present their work at “such a historic platform”. “We, however, felt the sloganeering was uncalled for. We believe the spirit of the concert would have been better conveyed without it,” they said. ‘Chants at a beautiful event diverted attention’Rudranil Ghosh, who loved the programme, was impressed by the designing and restraint shown in the presentation. “But I do not support the chants. I don’t support slogans with political or religious implications at any government programme irrespective of party lines,” said Ghosh, who has been critical of the state government in the recent past. “I would have liked if our chief minister had given her speech on Netaji. She could have concluded her speech by telling the mob that such sloganeering at a government programme insults the Prime Minister and spoils the dignity of the event,” he added. On Saturday morning, Halder was present at the CM’s rally from Shyambazar to Red Road. “I attended the Victoria Memorial programme after getting a direct invitation from the Prime Minister’s Office,” Halder said, adding that she was told it would be a “non-political programme”. “Why wouldn’t I go to a non-political programme in Kolkata where the PM is present and I am invited properly? Later, when I heard the chief minister was also going, there was no reason for me not to go.” Halder loved the projection mapping, which was a light-and-sound show on the white marble edifice of Victoria Memorial Hall, on the life of Netaji. “I went with the mentality of attending a non-political programme. The show was going on well. When others gave their speech, there were no such chants. Was it really required to chant when our chief minister was there? I don’t think so,” she said. Halder also pointed out that PM Narendra Modi had said “Jai Hind” before and after his speech. “He didn’t utter the words ‘Jai Shri Ram’. I appreciated that,” she added. Chatterjee pointed out that “Jai Shri Ram” chants are “in the name of God”. “The words are not offensive, but hearing them in the middle of a beautiful programme dedicated to Netaji diverted the attention. That broke the rhythm. How an individual reacts to this … is an individual’s choice,” he said. Dasgupta said he heard ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogans as he was entering Victoria via south gate. “I heard those chants even when Modiji was on stage. We were Government of India’s guests attending a government programme. I don’t support such chants there. I don’t know why we suddenly wanted to display our love for Ram at a government programme. It was an event for Netaji. I was surprised with the ‘Jai Shri Ram’ chants there,” he said. “We should grow up as a country. If it is a government function, it should remain a government function,” Dasgupta added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/loved-netaji-show-but-dont-support-jai-shri-ram-chants/articleshow/80440150.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
January 25, 2021||Kolkata||STF busts arms factory in Malda, Bihar duo arrested||KOLKATA/MALDA: An arms factory that hired gunsmiths from Munger, Bihar for Rs 500-700 for each improvised firearm they made, was busted by Kolkata STF and local police in Malda on Saturday. According to STF, the accused have been identified as Md Azam and Md Faraque Alam, both 32 and hailing from Munger. Rakibul Sk, owner of the house that doubled as an arms factory in Chandpur Patuatoli village, fled moments before the 10.15am raid carried out in Kaliachak with assistance of local police. “The accused used to play loud music at night. The main factory was on the rooftop. Locals thought the labourers were playing music after a hard day’s work. The real reason was to drown the sounds of manufacturing work being carried out mainly at night,” said an investigating officer. DC (STF) Aparajita Rai said among the items seized were one improvised 7mm pistol, seven unfinished improvised 7mm semi-automatic pistols, various firearms-making articles and materials, and some nuts and bolts. “We have started a case under sections 25(a) (1-AA) and 35 of the Arms Act,” Rai said. This is the fourth major raid on an arms factory in West Bengal in the past two-and-a-half years. “We are raiding whenever we are getting leads of Bihar-based gangs trying to open set-ups in this state,” an officer said. SP Alok Rajoria said: “The duo will be interrogated to find out about their employer and the racket behind it.” The two men were produced in a Malda court on Sunday and sent to police custody. It is learnt that one of them was arrested in 2017 in an arms deal case. The busting of the arms factory sparked a political blame game between Trinamool Congress and BJP. District BJP’s Ajoy Ganguly said: “We have been complaining that at the ruling party’s behest, arms are made in rural Bengal prior to elections to create violence. Now, with pressure from Election Commission, state police are acting.” District Trinamool’s Dulal Sarkar said: “Police are acting and miscreants are being arrested. This proves law and order in Bengal is far better than in BJP-ruled states.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/stf-busts-arms-factory-in-malda-bihar-duo-arrested/articleshow/80440203.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 25, 2021||India||China starts smear campaign against India’s vaccine diplomacy||NEW DELHI: As India’s vaccine diplomacy puts China on the back foot in South Asia, Chinese government mouthpiece Global Times has sought to mount a smear campaign to try and discredit the Indian initiative. India has already gifted the Covishield vaccine manufactured locally by Serum Institute of India to all Saarc countries except Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Pakistan. While India will donate 500,000 doses of the vaccine to Sri Lanka on January 27, the government has assured Kabul that Afghanistan will figure high on India’s priority list for Covid-19 vaccine once the local regulator grants approval for its use. Not surprisingly, Global Times has reacted with a propaganda campaign against India’s ‘Vaccine Maitri’ initiative, raising questions about India’s capacity to manufacture vaccines after the fire at the Serum Institute and also claiming that Indians in China were “embracing” Chinese vaccines.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Read AlsoVaccine diplomacy: How India is gaining edge over China with supplies to neighboursNEW DELHI: As the battle against coronavirus reaches a turning point, India is sharpening its vaccine diplomacy to reach out to its South Asian neighbours and boost its presence in a region dominated by China. Free shipments containing the first batch of Covishield, the Covid vaccine manufactured byGT quoted a BBC report to claim that the All India Drug Action Network, a patients’ rights group, said the approval of SII-produced Covishield was rushed as the manufacturer had not completed a “bridging study” for the vaccine. It claimed “the company has said it will try to conduct the bridging trial of the vaccine in India in February, according to the BBC”. In contrast to the Indian effort, China has had little to offer to countries in a region where it continues to otherwise rapidly expand its influence, both economically and politically. While Nepal’s drug regulator is yet to approve the use of Chinese vaccines, sources in the Maldives government said there was no indication of any delivery of Covid-19 vaccines by China so far. In fact, even China’s close ally Cambodia recently requested India for vaccines despite having received a million doses of Chinese vaccines. A Reuters report last week said China has been in a vaccine deadlock with Bangladesh since the latter refused to contribute towards development cost of the vaccine. GT quoted anonymous “netizens” and analysts in an article to say that the SII fire “may affect people’s confidence in high-quality vaccine production” and that India’s vaccine production capacity was unlikely to keep up with the Indian government’s ambitions. Read AlsoCovid vaccine may not be sold in open market anytime soonUnion health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Friday that the two Covid-19 vaccines given approval for restricted use would not be available in the open market till the country’s apex drug regulator, Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), approved the data sought from their manufacturers.The article also quoted an expert as saying that India’s vaccines were being mainly supplied to South Asian countries as a form of aid and that not many countries were actually purchasing Indian vaccines due to “quality concerns”. India, however, is also supplying vaccines on contractual or commercial basis to Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Brazil, Morocco, Bangladesh and Myanmar. In another article, Global Times quoted Indian restaurant workers as saying that they were prepared to be inoculated by Chinese vaccines as they had no doubt about the quality of these vaccines. It also highlighted Indian media reports saying healthcare workers in India were reluctant to accept Indian vaccine Covaxin. India had said last week that there was interest in many countries in accessing vaccines from India which was the global hub for vaccine production. The government also said India would continue to supply vaccines to partner countries in a phased manner, while ensuring that domestic manufacturers had adequate stocks to meet domestic requirements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-starts-smear-campaign-against-indias-vaccine-diplomacy/articleshow/80440935.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Nandgram police station to start January 31, will cover Hindon and Raj Nagar Extension||GHAZIABAD: Nandgram police station in Ghaziabad is going to come into force from the night of January 31. SSP Kalanidhi Naithani has also appointed an SHO, one senior sub-inspector, six sub-inspectors, seven women constables and 50 other police personnel for the police station. The SSP also allocated a budget of Rs 4 lakh for the construction, furniture and other resources in the police station. With this police station, Naithani said, there will be an increased patrolling. “The chowki building of Nandgram is almost ready for the use of the police station. I have made Nipurn Aggarwal, SP (city) 1 as the nodal officer and now he is responsible for arranging all equipment, furniture and weapons along with other entities needed in the police station,” he said. Before SP (city), Avnish Kumar, circle officer 2 was the nodal officer. While Neeraj Kumar has become the first SHO of Nandgram police station, Ranvijay Singh will take charge as SSI. Neeraj was earlier posted in the crime branch of Sihani Gate police station. The Nandgram police chowki will cover areas such as Hindon, Morta, Sihani Chungi, Raj Nagar Extension, apart from Nandgram. According to the police officers, there is a plan to set up another police station at Shalimar Garden. In 2017, a proposal to increase the number of police stations in the district had been sent to the government and in 2019, the government gave its nod to set up five new police stations. While Kaushambi and Tila Mor police stations were set up on January 26 last year, Madhuban Bapudham police station was inaugurated on November 16, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/nandgram-police-station-to-start-jan-31-will-cover-hindon-and-raj-nagar-extn/articleshow/80439865.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
January 25, 2021||India||Help spread right info on Covid vaccine to people: PM to youths||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged NCC cadets and NSS volunteers to help disseminate the right information on vaccines to the poor and general public. He said after Indian scientists have done their duty by developing the Covid-19 vaccine, now there is a need to fulfil the responsibility of defeating the disease by countering lies and rumours. Addressing NCC cadets, NSS volunteers and artists who would be participating in the Republic Day parade, Modi said, “In Covid times also, the work done by you is laudable. When the government and administration needed it, you came forward as volunteers and provided help. Whether it was spreading awareness about the Aarogya Setu App or coronavirus infection spread, the work done by you was praiseworthy.” The PM urged the youths to come forward to help the country with the Covid-19 vaccination programme. “You have to provide the right information on vaccines to the poor and general public,” he said. Modi also said India will not become self-reliant just by somebody saying so, but this will be achieved by actions of the youth for which they have to be armed with necessary skills. He urged the youth to observe what all foreign made items they use everyday and how many are Made in India products. The PM said India will become Atmanirbhar when everyone does the needful. Stating that many foreign-made items have invaded our lives, the PM said, “We don’t know we have become mentally slave. I urge the NCC cadets and NSS volunteers to make a list of the items that we use are not Made in India and you will realise how much loss we have caused to ourselves,” Modi said as he urged them to be more “vocal about local”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/help-spread-right-info-on-covid-vaccine-to-people-pm-to-youths/articleshow/80440956.cms||---
January 25, 2021||India||Move to call & inoculate helps cut vaccine wastage in Maha||PUNE: On-the-spot vaccination of registered but unscheduled beneficiaries has drastically cut vaccine wastage in Maharashtra, with officials saying they have been able to completely use the day’s last-opened vials. Each vaccine vial, containing about 10 doses, needs to be used within four hours of being opened. But vaccinators, during the three days before the walk-in policy was implemented, said doses from the day’s last vials were going waste because of low beneficiary turnout. Observers said 285 session sites — due to low turnouts — had no choice but to discard doses after administering the first three to five doses from the last vial. They estimate that an average of 1,000 doses was being wasted every day. But that has reduced considerably, ever since site in-charges were allowed to utilise remaining doses by calling colleagues who have registered on CoWIN app. They have been allowed to do so if the day’s beneficiary count is low. State immunization officer Dileep Patil said, “Wastage was at a minimum even during the first three days of the drives as we had instructed every centre in-charge to open a vaccine vial only if there were 10 beneficiaries present. But after the introduction of on-spot-vaccination, there has been a further drop in wastage.” Officials were particularly concerned about the day’s last vial. Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of the state health department, said, “Several times, it so happened the vaccinator had to open the vial to finish the inoculation of those who had turned up, before closing the day’s vaccination session. And if there weren’t nine to 10 beneficiaries present, the rest of the doses were discarded. But on-thespot vaccination has significantly reduced wastage of this last-opened vial.” The state currently accepts a one-dose loss per vial. Mistakes can occur while filling up a syringe. Every site is currently allowed to carry out the vaccination of 100 registered healthcare workers who are randomly selected a day before the session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/move-to-call-inoculate-helps-cut-vaccine-wastage-in-maha/articleshow/80440974.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 25, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers' Republic Day parade: A trail of tractors to Delhi borders||NH-44 AMBALA TO SONIPAT: Vehicles on Sunday touched bumper to bumper on all roads leading to Singhu-Kundli and Tikri Haryana-New Delhi borders to participate in the much publicised tractor march on Republic Day. With songs on farmers strike being sung by popular Punjab singers blasting and flags of farmer unions fluttering, the tractor trolleys could be seen moving towards the borders. Unlike November 26 and 27, when Haryana Police had put up lots of obstructions, this time round, the police could be seen regulating the traffic at some of the bottleneck points of Karnal, Panipat and Sonipat districts. Panipat police had planned the diversions on the under repair road stretches between Panipat and Sonipat district. Police in districts falling on the route had already issued advisories to locals to avoid use of NH 44 from Saturday to Monday. Mohra in Ambala has emerged as first assembly point for vehicles coming from Punjab and Haryana. “In a bid to ensure smooth traffic we had started in the midnight from Jalandhar. But to our surprise, there were still a lot of vehicles,’’ said Zorawar Singh of Mithapur village of Jalandhar. Zorwar was driving the tractor, carrying 15 people from his village. “There was hardly space for vehicles beyond Murthal, hence the traffic for other states was diverted much ahead of Murthal. Only tractor trolley or media vehicles are moving beyond Murthal to Kundli,’’ said Sonipat superintendent of police, Jashandeep Randhawa. Notably, the tractor trolleys had started arriving in a group of two and more since Saturday and the flow continued on Saturday night as well as on Sunday throughout the day. Selfie pointsFoot overbridges in Kurukshetra, Karnal and Panipat have emerged as ‘selfie points’ for the locals as well those coming out on roads to see the farmers’ tractor trolleys. Men and women of all walks and all ages could be seen taking selfies. “We could not go to the border due to work commitments. But our support is with them,” said Navneeta and Gagan, executives working in Karnal. They had come to see the tractors pass by. Similarly, Harvinder and his newly-wed wife Gunjeet could be seen taking selfies and waving to farmers from the foot overbridge. Farmers try to cut costs while fuelling protests, groups at tolls to stay putIn a bid to save fuel, farmers have arttached three to five tractors or trolleys to each other. In some places, tractors or modified jeeps could be seen on trolleys attached with the tractors. “When we all have to reach the same destination, then why not one tractor pull the rest? This will save fuel as well. We are doing this by turns. This is quite cost effective,” said Harbhajan Singh , a young farmer from Chamkaur Sahib. The farmer groups who are camping at toll plazas of Dappar, Bastara, Panipat, Sonipat and Makroli Kalan will be having tractor marches of their own. “Our tractor trolleys have already left for borders. Now, the remaining shall participate here. We cannot leave these venues as we have to take care of those returning from borders as well,’’ said Harinder Singh at Dappar toll plaza. While at Bastara toll plaza of Karnal, a group of farmers too were planning to organise a tractor march at toll plaza and city as well. “Since farmers will not be entering the city, we shall have our own parade,’’ said Alambir Singh, one of the coordinators there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/a-trail-of-tractors-to-delhi-borders/articleshow/80439505.cms||Manvir Saini
January 25, 2021||India||Danish film on WWII wins top award at Iffi||PANAJI: Denmark’s ‘Into the Darkness’, which portrays dilemmas of the Danish population against the backdrop of World War II, took home the coveted Golden Peacock at the 51st International Film Festival of India (Iffi). Assamese film ‘Bridge’ by Kripal Kalita about the struggles of villagers living across a swelling river was the only Indian film to win an award. ‘Bridge’ won the special mention from the jury award for bringing to life the pain of Assamese villages which face hardships due to the annual flooding. Taiwan’s ‘The Silent Forest’ bagged two Silver Peacocks at Iffi for best director to Chen-Nien Ko and best male actor award to Tzu-Chuan Liu.  The film is based on real-life events involving a hearing-impaired boy. While most award winners accepted their prizes virtually, Iffi organisers hailed the festival as a “blueprint for others across the world to follow its hybrid format during the pandemic”. This edition of the festival conquered all ifs and buts, said Union minister for state for environment and forests Babul Supriyo. “I am proud that we could hold the festival despite the challenges thrown by the Covid-19 pandemic,” said secretary for Information and Broadcasting ministry, GoI, Amit Khare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/danish-film-on-wwii-wins-top-award-at-iffi/articleshow/80440988.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
January 25, 2021||World||China-Taiwan tensions rise days into Biden presidency||TAIPEI: Chinese air force planes including 12 fighter jets entered Taiwan’s air defence identification zone for a second day on Sunday, Taiwan said, as tensions rise near the island just days into US President Joe Biden’s new administration. China views democratically ruled Taiwan as its own territory, and has in the past few months increased military activity near the island. But China’s activities over the weekend mark a ratcheting up with fighters and bombers being dispatched rather than reconnaissance aircraft as had generally been the case in recent weeks. After eight Chinese bomber planes and four fighter jets flew into Taiwan’s defence zone on Saturday, between mainland Taiwan and the Taiwan-controlled Pratas Islands in the South China Sea, a further 15 flew into the same air space on Sunday, Taiwan said. The defence ministry said Taiwan’s air force was sent up to respond. China has yet to comment. It has previously said such actions are aimed at defending the country’s sovereignty and designed to act as a warning against “collusion” between the US and Taiwan. The move is likely to further concern Washington, which on Saturday urged China to stop pressuring Taiwan and reaffirmed its commitment to the island and desire to deepen ties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-taiwan-tensions-rise-days-into-biden-presidency/articleshow/80441006.cms||---
January 25, 2021||Vadodara||GCTOC criminals will now lose rights to their properties||Vadodara: Vadodara cops sting back on Bicchu gang by initiating the process of identifying movable and immovable properties of the 15 members who were nabbed over the past two days. Criminals arrested under the stringent Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime Act (GujCTOC) are set to lose their properties too. “Our focus is on identifying the properties owned by these criminals in and outside the city. Only those properties that were bought from the proceeds of the crime would be confiscated,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). The police department have formed special teams to identify such properties.City police commissioner, Shamsher Singh said that it will send a strong message to all the undesirable elements in the city and discourage them from resorting to crime. “Also, those booked under the GujCTOC may not get bail for several months. It will act as a deterrent for those indulging in crimes frequently,” said a police official.Cops recently booked 26 members of the Bichhu gang and arrested 15 of them under the GCTOC as they had become a menace for the citizens, especially the traders’ community.Aslam Bodiyo, who is leader of the gang, is yet to be nabbed. “We have got remand of the accused and our teams are trying to gather details about their network,” Jadeja said.Singh said that the police is also planning to crack down on other similar gangs in the city. Those under the radar include the Chirag Pandya and Vicky Pandya who have been extorting money from small and medium traders in the old city. Famously known as Pandya brothers, they have also been accused in murder as well as many assault cases. “A drive is on to identify criminals who have committed serious offences in the city in last three years,” a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gctoc-criminals-will-now-lose-rights-to-their-properties/articleshow/80437932.cms||---
January 25, 2021||World||Trapped for 2 weeks, 11 miners rescued in China||BEIJING: Eleven workers trapped for two weeks by an explosion inside a Chinese gold mine were brought safely to the surface on Sunday. State broadcaster CCTV showed workers being hauled up one-by-one in baskets on Sunday afternoon, their eyes shielded to protect them after so many days in darkness. One worker was reported to have died from a head wound following the blast that deposited massive amounts of rubble in the shaft on January 10 while the mine was still under construction. The fate of 10 others who were underground at the time is unknown. Authorities have detained mine managers for delaying reporting the accident. The official China Daily said on its website that seven of the workers were able to walk to ambulances on their own. State broadcaster CCTV showed numerous ambulances parked alongside engineering vehicles at the mine in Qixia, a jurisdiction under Yantai in Shandong province. Increased supervision has improved safety in China’s mining industry, which used to average 5,000 deaths per year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/trapped-for-2-weeks-11-miners-rescued-in-china/articleshow/80441017.cms||---
