January 26, 2021||Bengaluru||Music, dance and lots of fun as digital auditions of Times Fresh Face Season 13 Bengaluru get a rollicking start||Even the pandemic could not deter the energy of students from Bengaluru from showcasing their talent at the first-ever digital auditions of Everyuth Times Fresh Face Season 13 held recently. Students from various colleges brought their A game to the event and enthralled celebrity judges Rahul Rajasekharan, actor, model and Mr India 2015 1st runner-up and actress-entrepreneur Ekta Rathod with top-notch displays of dance, song and even a bit of mentalism skill. Day 1 left the judges pleasantly surprised, as the auditions turned out to be a huge success. The event began with a video message from actor Siddhant Chaturvedi, who was the Fresh Face 2012 national winner, and often credits the platform as a major contributor in his journey and success as an actor. With the immense talent on display, it was no easy task figuring out who brought a dollop of extra zing to their performance. In the end, it was Aryan Verma’s cool mentalism skills, Sharan Yajman, Aman Rawat and Gomathy Reddy's dance moves and Ananya Mohan’s singing that left indelible marks. “Though judging Fresh Face auditions offline has always been fun for me, I was surprised at how seamless the entire process was online. Bengaluru talent never fails to impress and each contestant was so well prepared that it was a tough job for me. There were such unique performances that as a judge, it was a pleasant experience for me,” says Rahul, who also offered tips to the contestants. “I was happy to be a part of the auditions this year. I feel Fresh Face is building a pathway for youngsters and is the best platform for these young students to showcase their talent,” says Ekta. The shortlisted participants will now compete at the city semi-finale. Semi Finalists  Brinda Raj L Shwetha Shekhar Aanchal Narendra Vasantha Lakshmi M Aishwarya KS Akshay Chethan Anagha Ramesh Ananya Mohan CM Aryan Verma Bhavna Sharma Aman Rawat Deepika R Dhanu Shree H Girish Narayan Gomathy Reddy Khushi Patel Rohan BS Neha Shastri Ojas Balluru Rahul Sinha Pooja V Kumar Priyadharshini Nathan Vedant Tripathi Salman Noor Prakruthi Kambam Sriranjani YS Ujjwala Vilveetil Pugazhenthi K Kruthika Umashankar Abhimanyu A Shashank Patil||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/music-dance-and-lots-of-fun-as-digital-auditions-of-times-fresh-face-season-13-bengaluru-get-a-rollicking-start/articleshow/80452798.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
January 26, 2021||Business||Vehicle scrappage policy for over 15-year-old govt, PSU vehicles from April 2022||NEW DELHI: The policy to scrap more than 15-year-old vehicles owned by government departments and PSUs is likely to be notified soon and will be implemented from April 1, 2022, the government said on Monday. The road transport, highways and MSMEs minister Nitin Gadkari has approved the policy. "The minister... approved the policy of deregistration and scrapping of vehicles owned by government department and PSU, which are above 15 years in age," the ministry of road transport and highways said in a statement. "It is to be notified, and will come into effect from April 1, 2022," the statement said. On July 26, 2019, the government had proposed amendments to motor vehicle norms to allow scrapping of vehicles older than 15 years in a bid to spur adoption of electrical vehicles. "We have submitted the proposal and I am expecting that we will get approval as early as possible for the scrapping policy," Gadkari had said on January 15. The minister had also said that once the policy is approved, India will become an automobile hub and there will also be reduction in the prices of automobiles. He had said recycled material from old vehicles will help reduce the prices, adding that the automobile industry's turnover, which is Rs 4.5 lakh crore with Rs 1.45 lakh crore exports, will get a boost. Earlier, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that a policy for scrapping of old vehicles "is in the works" and will be announced after ministries concerned "fine tune" it. In May 2016, the government had floated a draft Voluntary Vehicle Fleet Modernisation Programme (V-VMP) that proposed to take 28 million decade-old vehicles off the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/vehicle-scrappage-policy-for-over-15-year-old-govt-psu-vehicles-from-april-2022/articleshow/80455513.cms||---
January 26, 2021||India||15 yrs old govt owned vehicles to be scrapped from April 2022||NEW DELHI: The government has approved scrapping of vehicles owned by the Central government and the Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs), which have attained 15 years. The policy will come to effect from April next year. The Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari has approved the policy, which is aimed at kick starting the phasing out of old polluting vehicles. The government is also likely to announce the policy for voluntary scrapping of old vehicles owned by individuals and private entities. TOI on January 15 had first reported about the plan soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a review meeting of the proposed vehicle scrapping policy with different ministries. Last week, the transport ministry had told all the state transport ministers that the voluntary scrapping policy would be based on the principle of stringent fitness and emission regime. As per the proposal, there will be several disincentives including higher charges for obtaining the fitness certificate and for renewal of registration. The PM has directed the ministries to step up the setting up of automated fitness testing and vehicle scrapping centres to accelerate the implementation of the policy. Sources said Modi has asked the transport ministry to compress the timeline for full implementation of the scheme instead of stretching it up to 2025.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/15-yrs-old-govt-owned-vehicles-to-be-scrapped-from-april-2022/articleshow/80455514.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 26, 2021||Business||Toyota seeks simplification of laws, policy support for electric vehicles in Budget||NEW DELHI: Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) has sought simplification of laws to improve ease of doing business, roll out of scrappage policy and lowering of custom duties on imported vehicle parts in the upcoming Union Budget. Spelling out its Budget wish-list on Monday, the automaker also sought policy measures to support production of electric and hybrid vehicles (xEVs) in the country. "We believe that focus on long-term growth and a further improvement in the investment climate are necessary for continued sustainable economic development. "For this, the Union Budget 2021 is a good time to bring in more policy measures, reforms and simplification of laws that can further strengthen ease of doing business," a TKM spokesperson said in a statement. The scrappage policy, which has been under consideration of the government for quite some time, has the potential to simultaneously reduce pollution, fossil fuel consumption as well as boost demand for new vehicles, thereby meeting many key objectives, it added. "We are hopeful that this will find a mention in the upcoming Budget along with enhanced actions to usher in reforms in land, labour and liquidity, which will help in attracting investments and improve competitiveness," the statement said. Besides, rationalisation of custom duties on SKDs (semi knocked down) and CKDs (completely knocked down) units should also be considered, as it will be beneficial in the long term for faster market introduction and localisation of newer and enhanced technologies, it added. "We are also looking forward to measures that can provide the necessary impetus for the manufacturing of xEVs and their parts in India," the company spokesperson noted. To attract investments for local xEV parts manufacturing, it is necessary that government policy support extends to all xEV technologies proportionate to the social benefits they provide, the company said. This will help for a faster, smoother and disruption free technology shift to the electrified vehicle ecosystem, it added. The company, which is a joint venture between the Kirloskar group and Japanese auto major Toyota Motor, said the economic recovery is evident now and, hence, proved that the fundamentals of the Indian economy remains strong. The growth momentum across key sectors witnessed in the post-lockdown period is encouraging, it said. India Inc is now looking forward to a Budget that will strike a right balance between the need for addressing fiscal considerations and the requirement to propel growth, the spokesperson added. TKM sells models like Fortuner and Innova Crysta in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/toyota-seeks-simplification-of-laws-policy-support-for-electric-vehicles-in-budget/articleshow/80455633.cms||---
January 26, 2021||India||Former Japan PM Shinzo Abe, S P Balasubramaniam conferred Padma Vibhushan; Tarun Gogoi, Paswan, honoured with Padma Bhushan||NEW DELHI: Former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and late singer S P Balasubramaniam were conferred the Padma Vibhushan on Monday, while former Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan, late Union minister and LJP supremo Ram Vilas Paswan, former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi, former Gujarat chief minister Keshubhai Patel and ex-principal secretary to Prime Minister Nripendra Misra were named for the Padma Bhushan. As many as 119 Padma awards – including 7 Padma Vibhushan, 10 Padma Bhushan and 102 Padma Shri awards – have been announced this year. Among the awardees are 29 women and one transgender; while 10 are either foreigners, NRIs, persons of Indian origin (PIO) or overseas citizens of India (OCI). Sixteen awards were conferred posthumously. No Bharat Ratna was announced this year as well. Among the states, Tamil Nadu accounted for the highest number of Padma awards (11), followed by UP (9), Assam (8), and seven each from West Bengal and Odisha. The Padma Vibhushan list announced on Monday includes Puri-based sculptor Sudarshan Sahoo, cardiologist and Manipal University ex-chancellor B M Hegde, Islamic scholar Maulana Wahiduddin Khan, archaeologist B B Lal who led the first excavation at Ram Janam bhoomi-Babri mosque site at Ayodhya and Indian-American Sikh physicist Narinder Singh Kapany known for his work in the field of fibre optics. Welcoming the honour for his father, LJP chief Chirag Paswan told TOI: “It’s an extremely proud moment for the family and the party as well. It’s a very emotional moment and we are remembering and missing papa. I thank the Central government, President, Prime Minister and home minister for recognizing his effort for the weaker and downtrodden sections of the society”. The 10 Padma Bhushan awardees this year include Tarun Gogoi, a former Congress chief minister of Assam that is due for assembly polls in April; Islamic spiritual leader Kalbe Sadiq (posthumous); former MP and ex-chairman of National Commission for Minorities Tarlochan Singh who has done great work for Sikh community; famous playback singer Krishnan Nair Shandakumar Chithra; Kannada poet and playwright Chandrashekhar Kambara; and Maharashtra-based industrialist Rajnikant Devidas Shroff. In the Padma Shri list are former Goa governor Mridula Sinha, who passed away in November last year, and former Union minister from Assam Bijoya Chakravarty. Among the sportspersons in the Padma Shri list are basketball player P Anitha, table tennis player Mouma Das, athelete Sudha Hari Narayan Singh, para-sportsman K Y Venkatesh, wrestler Virender Singh and mountaineer Anshu Jamsenpa. The list, like past few years, includes many unsung heroes in fields like art, social work, agriculture and also in the new category – grassroots innovation. From the field of trade and industry, Punjab-based Cremica founder Rajni Bector, late P Subramanian of Shanthi Gears based in Coimbatore who was also a philanthropist, and Zoho Corporation CEO Sridhar Vembu have been conferred Padma Shri. Father Valles, Spanish-born Jesuit priest settled in Gujarat who wrote in Gujarati and on mathematics and Greek Indologist Nicholas Kazanas were awarded Padma Shri in the ‘literature and education’ category, the former posthumously. Another foreigner in the Padma Shri list is British playwright Peter Brook, who popularised ‘Mahabharata’ abroad by adapting it into a play and subsequently, a film. ‘Dom Raja’ of Varanasi Jagdish Chaudhary, who had signed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s nomination papers in 2019 LS poll, was also awarded Padma Shri for social work posthumously. Jitender Singh 'Shunty', another Sikh Padma awardee, was elected as the MLA from Shahdara from BJP in 2013. He is the founder of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Seva Dal, an NGO that helps to cremate unclaimed bodies and immerse the ashes as guided by the Hindu and Sikh religion. The famous ‘Two Rupee Doctor’ Thiruvengadam Veeraraghavan, who served quietly the underprivileged in North Chennai for more than four decades, has also received the Padma Shri (posthumously). The former MBBS had become so popular that other doctors in the neighbourhood got together and protested, demanding he take at least Rs 100 as consultation fee.  The list also includes Nanadro B Marak from Meghalaya's West Garo hills, who is known as one of the best organic black pepper grower. Ali Manikfan, an Indian marine researcher, ecologist, shipbuilder, and a polyglot has also received Padma Shri for his autodidactic research skills in the marine, ecology, and agricultural fields without holding any formal educational qualification. Chutni Devi from Jharkhand, who has helped hundreds of victims who were accused of witch practice, has been awarded with Padma Shri. She was once expelled from her village for alleged witch practice. Late Dr Jitendra Nath Pande has been awarded with Padma Shri (posthumously) was an Indian pulmonologist and professor and head of medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Studies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/former-japan-pm-shinzo-abe-s-p-balasubramaniam-conferred-padma-vibhushan-tarun-gogoi-paswan-honoured-with-padma-bhushan/articleshow/80455611.cms||Bharti Jain
January 26, 2021||India||Coronavirus in Kerala 'beyond control'; positivity rate highest in the country||NEW DELHI: The spread of coronavirus in Kerala is "beyond control", according to Dr Rajeev Jayadevan, scientific advisor, Indian Medical Association, Kerala. The test positivity rate in Kerala is the highest in the country and the ICU beds in the state are getting full. The state is also relatively slow to rollout the Covid-19 immunisation programme which was started across the country on January 16.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The five-day average trendline indicates that the cases are once again rising in Kerala since the beginning of January. On Sunday, there were over 6,000 new cases registered. The state has been reporting over 5,000 cases since January 16. The state alone added more than 70,000 cases in the last 14 days, more than Maharashtra’s 38,000.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); On Sunday, the state reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 5,173, yet it has the highest number of active cases among all the states. Kerala accounts for 39.7% (73,121) of the active cases. Maharashtra, with 25% (46,057) of the total active coronavirus cases was at the second spot. The total number of active cases in the state is higher than the combined total of the other five worst-hit states.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); In Ernakulam and Kozhikode districts over 1,000 cases are being reported each day which will lead to severe shortage of Intensive Care Unit facilities. As many as 2,14,211 people are under observation in various districts, including 12,116 in hospitals, according to state health minister.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  In the 24 hours ending 2 pm on Monday, 30,903 samples were tested and the test positivity rate was 12.5%. So far, 92,89,304 samples have been sent for testing. Since November, Kerala’s positivity rate has been above 9%, which is a matter of concern. There are only four states with a positivity rate above 3%. Four other states/UTs have it between 2% and 3% while 22 others have 0.2% to 1.6%, an indication that herd immunity may have set in in these areas. If the positivity rate, number of confirmed Covid cases per 100 tests, is above 5% measured over a 14-day period, the state is considered to be in the red zone and needs to impose lockdown in its containment zones. In Kerala, the positivity rate is still rising in contrast to the nationwide trend.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The state has been comparatively slow in implementing the immunisation programme. The state is at 13th spot on the list of states with the highest number of doses administered as of January 25. As of Monday, Kerala had administered nearly 72,0000 doses. "The vaccination was conducted in 227 centers today. On Saturday, 6236 health workers were vaccinated at 80 centers. With this, a total of 72,530 health workers were vaccinated.There are 4,97,441 registered people across the state, including health workers and Covid Front fighters," said Kerala health minister KK Shailaja. "In Kerala, many people are testing daily and our ICUs are a reliable indicator of how many cases are there in the community. Slowly ICUs are getting full. Ten days ago, about 70% of the ICUs in Ernakulam district were full," said Dr Rajeev Jayadevan, scientific advisor, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Kerala. The IMA official highlighted that social distancing guidelines have been relaxed in the last few months. "Elections took place in December that meant there was a lot of social activity. Many gatherings are taking place. Cinema theatres have been opened. What we are saying now is only an expected outcome of what was happening in November and December," Jayadevan said. "When elections are held, it was impossible to control the crowd. No matter how much we tried. It is impossible to enforce social distancing in an election," he added. (With inputs from agencies)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-in-kerala-beyond-control-positivity-rate-highest-in-the-country/articleshow/80455079.cms||---
January 26, 2021||India||Row over Mamata Banerjee refusing to speak after ‘Jai Shri Ram’ chants: Who said what||NEW DELHI: A war of words has erupted over West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s refusal to speak at a function in Kolkata on Saturday in protest against chanting of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ by some audience. While Banerjee came down heavily on the BJP, the latter accused her of pandering to the Muslims who constitute 30 per cent of the population in the state, ahead of the assembly elections. Banerjee on Monday lashed out at the BJP, accusing it of insulting Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose by raising 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans at an event to mark the icon's 125th birth anniversary. Banerjee said she had to face taunts and insult in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Victoria Memorial during the main 'Parakram Diwas' celebration on Saturday. Branding the BJP as a group of "outsiders" and "Bharat Jalao Party", she said it has been continuously insulting the icons of Bengal, Netaji being the "latest addition to the list". "Would you invite anyone to your house and then insult the person? Is this the culture of Bengal or our country? I would have had no problem if slogans hailing Netaji were raised. I would have saluted them. "But they didn't do that. To taunt me, they shouted slogans which had no relation to the programme. I was insulted in front of the prime minister of the country. This is their (BJP) culture," the Trinamool Congress boss told a rally here. She also termed those who raised the slogans as "religious fanatics", and said they have no idea about the culture of Bengal. Banerjee had on Saturday refused to speak at an official event attended by Modi to observe Subhas Chandra Bose's 125th birth anniversary, after 'Jai Shri Ram' chants greeted her. Wondering why Mamata Banerjee gets angry on hearing the "Jai Shri Ram" slogan, BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari said that Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose had respect for Lord Ram. Quoting from a letter written by Netaji to his mother, Adhikari said that Bose had praised the Ramayana and Lord Ram. Adhikari, who switched sides from the TMC to the BJP last month, said that the letter was published in a book which is a collection of letters written by Netaji to his mother. He questioned why Banerjee "gets angry on hearing Jai Shri Ram". The prime minister, who participated in the birth anniversary celebration of Netaji in Kolkata on Saturday, has shown the highest regards to the great freedom fighter, he said. Adhikari, once a trusted aide of Banerjee, claimed that Modi has never differentiated among religions in his development agenda. Reacting to Banerjee's accusations of disrespecting icons, BJP vice-president Jaiprakash Majumdar said it was the CM who insulted Netaji. "The allegations are baseless. It is she who insulted Netaji and tried to politicise the event. We don't need lessons from her," he said. No one is being forced to raise 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans and there is nothing to feel bad about its chanting as it is a greeting, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Monday. Speaking to a select group of journalists here, Adityanath said, "If someone says Jai Shri Ram there is nothing to feel bad about it as it is a greeting"'. "If someone says 'namaskar' or 'Jai Shri Ram' it shows his etiquette," he said. Responding to questions on Banerjee refusing to speak after the chants, Adityanath said, "We are not forcing anyone to speak it. But if someone says Jai Shri Ram there is nothing to feel bad about it." The BJP claimed that Banerjee's reaction reflected her mindset of appeasement politics. The VHP leadership also came down heavily on Banerjee, saying it reflects her "anti-Hindu" mindset and efforts to appease a particular community. BJP leader and grandnephew of Netaji, Chandra Kumar Bose, had said there was nothing wrong with the slogan and Netaji's birth anniversary should not be mixed with politics. The Congress and the Left Front had backed Banerjee and slammed the BJP for the incident. With elections due in the state in March-April, the tussle between the BJP and Banerjee's TMC has intensified. West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose stood "too tall among us" and there should not be any attempt to "belittle the maker". In a series of tweets on the microblogging site, Dhankhar cautioned against any attempt of creating din on the legacy of the great patriot. "There cannot be any room for creating noise on legacy #NetajiSubhasChandraBose. Such attempts will only belittle the maker and be irrelevant. "Netaji all through thrived for unity of country. He stands too tall amongst us..lets dump any ulterior thinking on this great occasion," the governor tweeted. Though Dhankhar did not refer to any particular incident, there was an unexpected turn of events during the 125th birthday celebrations of Netaji in Victoria Memorial here where Banerjee was greeted with 'Jai Shri Ram' chants when she was about to deliver her speech in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the governor on Saturday. Mamata Banerjee's nephew and Diamond Harbour TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, while addressing a rally in Kultali assembly constituency on Sunday said 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans were deliberately raised to prevent Mamata Banerjee from delivering her speech. "We are proud that Mamata Banerjee made it clear that if Netaji is insulted by such slogans during a government function, we will rise in protest. Bengal will rise in protest," the TMC MP said. "You can chant Jai Shri Ram thousand times, but at temples, at religious functions, at your place but not in this fashion at a government programme to commemorate an icon like Netaji," he said. By not allowing her to make her speech in such a programme, they also insulted the people who elected her to the assembly. This reminded people of the vandalism of the Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar bust in 2019, he said. The TMC has expressed regret over Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "silence" on the "reprehensible treatment" meted out to chief minister Mamata Banerjee by a section of audience, who raised 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans ahead of her speech on Netajis birth anniversary. State minister Bratya Basu, during a press meet in Kolkata, said the incident reflects the "misogynistic mindset" of certain people. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was present at the programme, did not utter a single word condemning the behaviour of a section of audience... This shows that the BJP has no respect for Netaji and has no idea what he stood for," he claimed. The TMC MLA claimed that "a dark fascist force" was trying to grab power in West Bengal, and alleged that freedom of expression would be under stake, if it gets to seize control. "Please don't allow this force to take control of Bengal. It will do away with our freedom of expression. People of different ideologies are free to air their views in Bengal. That would all come to end," Basu said, after popular Bengali actress Kaushani Mukhopadhay and the chairperson of Eastern India Motion Pictures Association, Piya Sengupta, joined the ruling camp at the meet. "An ugly force is now out to throttle the voice of all artistes in the country. Director Anurag Kashyap and actor Naseeruddin Shah have already got a taste of it," he underlined. Lauding Banerjee, TMC MP Mahua Moitra said on Twitter, "Never have I been prouder to be part of Mamatadi's team. In an ocean of monkeys she stands out as the lone lioness." BJP MLA from Uttar Pradesh's Bairia, Surendra Singh, said West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee hails from a "demoness culture" and that her DNA is "defected". "There is a defect in the DNA of Mamata Banerjee, and she hails from the demoness culture (Mamata Banerjee ke DNA mein dosh hai, woh raakshashi sanskriti ki hai). No demon can love Lord Ram. Mamata Banerjee is a dishonest and evil (shaitan) person. Her hatred for Lord Ram is natural," he told reporters. Singh added that the violence and murder unleashed allegedly by members of Banerjee's party TMC in West Bengal provide proof of their "evil" act. The BJP claimed that Banerjee's reaction reflected her mindset of appeasement politics, while the ruling Trinamool Congress said no one can teach lumpens to be dignified. The VHP leadership came down heavily on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for not delivering her speech at the main 'Parakram Diwas' celebration here after 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans greeted her, saying it reflects her "anti-Hindu" mindset and efforts to appease a particular community. "What Mamata Banerjee did reflects her anti-Hindu mindset and her efforts towards appeasement politics. Lord Ram is soul of the country. Why does she get angry with 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans? We fail to understand," international joint general secretary of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) Surendra Jain said. BJP leader and grandnephew of Netaji, Chandra Kumar Bose, said there was nothing wrong with the slogan and Netaji's birth anniversary should not be mixed with politics. The Congress and the Left Front had backed Banerjee and slammed the BJP for the incident. Senior BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya claimed that Mamata Banerjee refused to deliver her speech on Netaji's birth anniversary, after being greeted with 'Jai Sri Ram' chants, as she wanted to appease a section of people. Vijayvargiya, the saffron party's national general secretary, alleged that the chief minister has only been sensitive to the needs and the interests of 30 per cent of the state's over nine crore people. "Jai Sri Ram is used to greet people. It was chanted when Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived, and also when he was leaving the Netaji Research Bureau. Why did Mamata didi feel insulted? Why did she feel upset on hearing 'Jai Sri Ram' or 'Bharat mata ki jai' chants?" he told reporters at Jalpaiguri, where he is scheduled to attend a party programme. Asserting that Banerjee's move was aimed at "appeasing 30 per cent of the voters in the state", Vijayvargiya, who is also the BJP's Bengal minder, said "for the remaining 70 per cent, it has always been a tale of neglect." Minorities, especially Muslims, constitute 30 per cent of the state's population. "People of Bengal will give a befitting reply to her in the next elections," the BJP leader added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/row-over-mamata-banerjee-refusing-to-speak-after-jai-shri-ram-chants-who-said-what/articleshow/80455740.cms||---
January 26, 2021||World||Republican Senator Rob Portman of Ohio won't seek reelection||CINCINNATI: Republican US Senator Rob Portman, of Ohio, said Monday that he won't seek reelection due in part to how it's gotten “harder to break through the partisan gridlock and make progress,” and plans to end a career in federal government spanning more than three decades. Portman's announcement comes the same day the US Senate is receiving the House impeachment article against former Republican President Donald Trump. While some Republican senators have criticized going ahead with the trial next month with Trump out of office, Portman said last week he would listen to both sides before making a decision on how to vote. “Our country is very polarized,” Portman said, adding that Trump did not help with the polarization. “It's shirts and skins right now. We need to tone it down.” Portman, who turned 65 last month, is among establishment Republicans who clearly struggled with supporting Trump. Once dubbed “The Loyal Soldier” in a front-page profile story in his hometown Cincinnati Enquirer, Portman usually supported Trump in carefully worded statements. After Trump called the presidential election rigged, Portman said Trump had a right to a probe of any irregularities. But in the immediate aftermath of the Jan. 6 insurrection at the US Capitol, Portman said Trump needed to go on national TV to address his supporters and tell them to refrain from violence. “Both in his words before the attack on the Capitol and in his actions afterward, President Trump bears some responsibility for what happened,” Portman said. He said he's heard criticism from both those who think he shouldn't have supported Trump so much and those who think he didn't support him enough. Portman was elected handily twice to the U.S. Senate, but was considered likely to face primary opposition in 2022. Portman, who served in the presidential administrations of both Bushes, was under consideration by both John McCain and Mitt Romney to be their running mates in their respective presidential bids. Portman also helped them and other GOP presidential candidates practice for debates by playing their Democratic rival. He was elected to Congress from southern Ohio in a 1993 special election and won six more elections before being tapped by President George W. Bush to serve as U.S. trade representative in 2005. He travelled the globe, negotiating dozens of trade agreements. Bush then nominated him to be his White House budget director in 2006. Portman stepped down in 2007, then returned to politics in 2010 with a successful U.S. Senate run, and won again in 2016, both times by landslide margins in a traditional swing state. Ohio Republican Party Chairman Jane Timken said in a statement following Portman's announcement that his service has been “invaluable.” Generally voting with his party, Portman broke ranks in 2013 to announce support for same-sex marriage. He said their son Will had earlier come out as gay to him and his wife, Jane. They have three children. (AP)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/republican-senator-rob-portman-of-ohio-wont-seek-reelection/articleshow/80455898.cms||---
January 26, 2021||World||California lifts virus stay-at-home orders, curfew statewide||SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA: California lifted regional stay-at-home orders across the state Monday in response to improving coronavirus conditions, returning the state to a system of county-by-county restrictions. The order had been in place in the San Francisco Bay Area, San Joaquin Valley and Southern California, covering the majority of the state's counties. The change will allow businesses such as restaurants to resume outdoor operations in many areas, though local officials could choose to continue stricter rules. The state is also lifting a 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. curfew. ``Together, we changed our activities knowing our short-term sacrifices would lead to longer-term gains. Covid-19 is still here and still deadly, so our work is not over, but it's important to recognize our collective actions saved lives and we are turning a critical corner,`` Dr. Tomas Aragon, the state's public health director, said in a statement. Gov. Gavin Newsom was expected to address the public later Monday. Public officials in some of California's major cities and counties indicated they could soon lift local restrictions. ``We will be moving forward with some limited re-openings, including outdoor dining and personal services,'' San Francisco Mayor London Breed said in a tweet. Orange County planned to lift some restrictions as well, said Jessica Good, a spokesperson for the county health agency. In Los Angeles County, home to 10 million people, Republican Supervisor Kathryn Barger expressed support for opening outdoor dining, personal care services and other industries and said the state must balance public health with ``devastating social, emotional and economic impacts of this virus.'' Los Angeles County public health officials are expected to hold a briefing later Monday. The state's decision came amid improving trends in California's rate of infections, hospitalizations and intensive care unit capacity as well as vaccinations. Newsom, a Democrat, imposed the stay-at-home order in December as coronavirus cases worsened. Under the system, a multi-county region had to shut down most businesses and order people to stay home if ICU capacity dropped below 15%. An 11-county Northern California region was never under the order and the Greater Sacramento Region exited the order last week. The state makes its decisions based on four-week projections showing ICU capacity improving, but officials have not disclosed the data behind the forecasts. During the weekend, San Francisco Bay Area ICU capacity surged to 23% while the San Joaquin Valley agricultural region increased to 1.3%, its first time above zero. The huge Southern California region, the most populous, remains at zero ICU capacity. Republicans said Newsom was relaxing the rules in response to political pressure and the threat of a recall. Republican organizers have until mid-March to gather 1.5 million signatures to force a recall against Newsom, who is halfway through his first term. ``This Governor's decisions have never been based on science. Him re-opening our state is not an attempt to help working Californians, but rather an attempt to counter the Recall Movement. It's sad and pathetic,`` California Republican Party Chairwoman Jessica Millan Patterson tweeted. Early last year, the state developed a system of color-coded tiers that dictated the level of restrictions on businesses and individuals based on virus conditions in each of California's 58 counties. Most counties will now go back to the most restrictive purple tier, which allows for outdoor dining, hair and nail salons to be open, and outdoor church services. Bars that only serve beverages cannot be open. The county-by-county tier system uses various metrics to determine the risk of community transmission and apply a color code _ purple, red, orange or yellow _ which correspond to widespread, substantial, moderate and minimal, respectively. As of the weekend, California has had more than 3.1 million confirmed Covid-19 cases and 36,790 deaths, according to the state's public health website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/california-lifts-virus-stay-at-home-orders-curfew-statewide/articleshow/80455990.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Amazon’s 12 ex-staffers in dock for reinstating barred entities||BENGALURU: Subramanyanagar police have launched a manhunt for 12 ex-staffers from Amazon Development Centre (India) Pvt Ltd, Dr Rajkumar Road. The 12 allegedly shared details of ‘blacklisted sellers’ to a third person and also helped in reinstating some 114 tainted entities in return for monetary benefits. Some of these entities were blacklisted by the fraudsters and later reinstated in return for monetary considerations. The accused had caused a loss of around Rs 2.5 crore to the company, the firm said in its complaint. The case dates back to May 2018 when a criminal complaint was lodged against the suspects with cybercrime police and the same was transferred to Subramanyanagar police station. Stating that nothing has happened in the case, the complainant company moved the court, which directed Subramanyanagar police to register an FIR and probe the matter. Accordingly, police registered an FIR on January 21 under IPC sections 120 (B) (hatching criminal conspiracy), 409 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property). The suspects named in the FIR are: Anup Kumar Bhatt of Siddapura in Uttara Karnataka; Debajyoti Das of Kalkere-Bannerghatta Road; Eashwar Rao Teki of Mayurinagar in Hyderabad; Manjunath M of Kolar; Chris Mathew of Jalahalli; Vamshi Krishna Mugula of Bengaluru; Chodavarpu Naveen of Miyapura in Hyderabad; Pramod P of Begur; Kishore Kumar MR of Tadipatri in Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh; Saniya Z Sadiq of Siddapura in Uttara Karnataka; Telukunta Sukesh of Bengaluru and Balijepalli Naga Satya of Andhra Pradesh. DCP (north) Dharmender Kumar Meena told TOI they will trace the accused ex-staffers soon. “The con came to light in May 2018 when the Transaction Risk Management System found that some sellers blacklisted by Amazon for fraudulent practices had been removed from the list. The complaint explains that the suspects identified such blacklisted entities and illegally shared their details with a third person. The third person contacted such blacklisted entities and after receiving some money, got the accused to remove their names from the blacklist. We have to find out who is this third person and in what way are the accused connected to him,” he said. The said offences were discovered by an Amazon compliance team. The team came across the fact that the unknown accused was operating a Facebook page and providing reinstatement services for the seller accounts within hours of them getting blacklisted by Amazon, the complainant added. It said the unknown accused charged US $3,000 to US $20,000 for reinstating the blacklisted sellers and shared it with the firm’s ex-staffers. Some of the accused were still working with Amazon when the scandal came to light but later quit. When called for an inquiry, one of the suspects, Anup Bhatt, stopped coming to office and destroyed the laptop given to him by the company. Box: Company's complaint“Some erstwhile employees are assisting an unknown accused in unblocking the accounts of certain sellers registered with Amazon and blacklisted for illegal and fraudulent activities and the said activity/fraud is in complete contravention of the company’s policies. The erstwhile employees are not only dishonestly misappropriating the said confidential information of the blocked sellers which had been entrusted to them in confidence by the company but are also misusing the same to make illegal monetary gains,” the complaint filed by Amazon official Dhunesh Karrada read. Petition to courtIn its petition to the court, the company said cybercrime police officials informed that the complaint has been marked to Subramanyanagar police station for further investigation. “Our authorised representative visited Subramanyanagar police station to join the investigation but no action was taken by them. Considering the behaviour of police officials at Subramanyanagar police station, a complaint was made with city police commissioner on July 2019. But nothing happened...”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/amazons-12-ex-staffers-in-dock-for-reinstating-barred-entities/articleshow/80456294.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
January 26, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Riders for sanctioning PHCs withdrawn, govt tells court||BENGALURU: The state government on Monday said a controversial circular, which said a primary health centre (PHC) will be sanctioned only if the village makes a Rs 1 lakh deposit or gifts two acres of land, has been withdrawn. The government advocate informed the court that the conditions have been deleted from the order. Considering this, the court disposed of a PIL filed by villagers of Jodihochihalli gram panchayat in Chikkamagaluru. The court directed the chief engineer to submit a proposal for construction of the PHC in a month. The government has to grant administrative approval on that proposal by April 12. Thereafter, construction of the new PHC should be completed in 18 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/riders-for-sanctioning-phcs-withdrawn-govt-tells-court/articleshow/80456382.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Bengaluru||Farmers’ protest, Republic Day bandobast: Police face twin challenges today||BENGALURU: With a large number of farmers expected to reach Bengaluru from across the state on Tuesday noon for their protest against the Centre’s farm laws, citizens may have to think twice before stepping out on Republic Day holiday. Farmers and their supporters are expected to converge on major stretches leading to the city — Tumakuru Road, Kanakapura Road, Bannerghatta Road, Varthur, Ballari Road, Old Madras Road, KR Puram and Old Airport Road. “These roads will be filled with vehicles carrying the protesters. We anticipate huge pile-ups,” an officer said, adding: “Being Republic Day, 1,500 officials will be deployed in and around Manekshaw Parade Ground. We are taking help from home guards and other volunteers to regulate traffic.” Around 500 personnel will guard Freedom Park to enure the protesters don’t head towards Raj Bhavan or Manekshaw Parade Ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/farmers-protest-r-day-bandobast-police-face-twin-challenges-today/articleshow/80456392.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Two nabbed with smuggled goods worth Rs 13 lakh||BENGALURU: Customs sleuths intercepted two passengers who tried to smuggle in gold pieces, foreign cigarettes and food supplements. The suspects who landed at Kempegowda International Airport on a flight from Dubai had smuggled goods worth over Rs 13 lakh. Officers with the customs’ air intelligence unit said the two, whose identities haven’t been revealed, reached Bengaluru on Sunday afternoon. When they failed to give convincing answers about their Dubai trip, officers inspected their baggage to find 165 grams of gold worth over Rs 7 lakh in the Indian market and 12kg of foreign cigarettes that were smuggled in without pictorial warnings, which is an offence under the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (Copta). Further inspection of their luggage revealed large quantities of food supplements which they had not declared with the customs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/2-nabbed-with-smuggled-goods-worth-13-lakh/articleshow/80456512.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Residents, Siddaramaiah’s visitors clash over parking of vehicles||BENGALURU: Commotion prevailed near former chief minister Siddaramaiah’s house on Kumarakrupa Road, High Grounds on Monday morning, after a heated argument broke out between residents and suspected Congress workers over parking of vehicles. The residents expressed anguish over the ex-CM’s visitors parking vehicles all over the place and said they were finding it difficult to move their vehicles in or out of their houses. However, a few men, who were inside Siddaramaiah’s house, came out on hearing the argument and got into a verbal duel with the residents. A video taken during the scuffle shows a couple of men pushing each other and a woman being abused and shoved. Soon, a posse of officials from High Grounds police station rushed to the spot and intervened to sort out the issue. A senior citizen said they have been facing this problem for more than a year now and repeated complaints to police have gone unheard. The video showed the veteran conversing with a police officer, who tried to pacify him. “Why don’t you call police if you have parking problems?” the cop was seen asking the veteran. “Why should I call police? We have called innumerable times. Most of the time, they don’t come and even if they come, they do nothing,” he replied. The cop was also seen telling the veteran that Siddaramaiah, being the leader of opposition, gets many visitors and faces parking problems. Jurisdictional police from High Grounds station said they have not received any complaint in this regard. “...Since there was an amicable settlement, we didn’t get any complaint,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/residents-siddaramaiahs-visitors-clash-over-parking-of-vehicles/articleshow/80456514.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Goa||Churchill continue fine run||Luka Majcen scored one and set up another as Churchill Brothers FC secured a 2-0 win over Sudeva Delhi FC in the I-League at Mohun Bagan ground in Kolkata on Monday. Man-of-the-Match Luka broke his two-match goal drought to give Churchill the lead in the 19th minute and then set up Bryce Miranda for the second before the break. Churchill are now unbeaten for four matches and maintained their top spot with 10 points, four ahead of second-placed TRAU. Sudeva are in eighth place with four points from as many games. Churchill head coach Ferrando Varela made two changes from their 1-0 win over Punjab FC. Keenan Almeida started as a centre-back while Kingslee Fernandes came in place of midfielder Clencio Pinto. Sudeva had an all-Indian line-up as coach Chencho Dorji made three changes after their 1-1 draw against Real Kashmir. The newcomers started strong and could have stunned their opponents early, if they had converted their chances. Captain Kean Lewis sent in a dangerous ball from a set piece inside the box but Sairuatkim could not keep his header on target. At the other end, Churchill’s foreigners Clayvin Zuniga and Luka who had combined to score all of Churchill’s six goals till now, did well to give their team the breakthrough in the 19th minute. Kingslee’s corner took an awkward bounce, but Clayvin did well to bring the ball under control and lay it to Luka for a neat finish. The goal gave Churchill the confidence they needed as they saw more of the ball. Clayvin and Luka continued their deadly combination. The Honduras striker once again put in a through ball for his Slovenian striking partner and although Luka’s shot got past goalkeeper Lovepreet Singh, Bryce gave the finishing touches before Akashdeep Singh could clear the ball on goalline. Sudeva kept trying. Shaiborlang Kharpan headed wide before the break, while after the restart, Kharpan’s promising lob over the keeper missed the target. Churchill were happy with their two-goal cushion and did not mind defending to keep a clean sheet. The two-time champions will next face TRAU on Friday in a crucial game that could help extend their advantage at the top of the table||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/churchill-continue-fine-run/articleshow/80456576.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
January 26, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka HC bars Centre, NIC from sharing data of Aarogya Setu users||BENGALURU: The Karnataka high court on Monday restrained the central government and National Informatics Centre (NIC) from sharing data obtained from users of Aarogya Setu app unless express consent has been obtained from users to share the data. A division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, in an interim order on a PIL filed by Anivar A Aravind, a Bengaluru resident, found there is no informed consent from users of the app to share their response data as provided in the Aarogya Setu Data Access and Knowledge Sharing Protocol 2020. Response data includes, among others, information shared by users. Aarogya Setu Data Access and Knowledge Sharing Protocol, 2020, issued vide order dated May 11, 2020 will be in force till May 10, 2021. But the high court left the door open for the central government and NIC to file an affidavit proving to the court otherwise. The court accepted assurances given by the Centre that no individual will be denied benefits of any services provided by governments, its agencies and instrumentalities on the ground that she has not downloaded or installed the application. The petitioner claimed Aarogya Setu violates right privacy and other fundamental rights of citizens. According to him, since there is no law enabling mandating use of Aarogya Setu, the app runs contrary to the Supreme Court’s decision in the Aadhaar case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-bars-centre-nic-from-sharing-data-of-aarogya-setu-users/articleshow/80456698.cms||P Vasantha Kumar
January 26, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka first to inoculate 2 lakh+ health workers||BENGALURU: Karnataka on Monday became the first state in the country to administer Covid-19 vaccines to over two lakh people ever since the inoculation drive was launched on January 16. On Monday alone, the state administered the vaccine to 32,000 healthcare workers. To boost the vaccination drive, health officials will focus on districts with low vaccination coverage and identify reasons that are preventing healthcare workers from taking the vaccine. “There seems to be some apprehensions among healthcare workers in the coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada. We will visit these districts to understand the situation on the ground and devise strategies,” health minister K Sudhakar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-1st-to-inoculate-2l-health-workers/articleshow/80456706.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Goa||Anybody’s to win||Churchill Brothers FC have built a team exclusively to defend their Goa Professional League title – which they won along with Sporting Clube de Goa – but they won’t have it easy. The coronavirus pandemic brought last season’s GPL to an abrupt end with Goa Football Association deciding to declare two teams – both in contention for the title – as champions. This season, Churchill will not be able to field their best team. They are inside a bio-secure bubble in Kolkata where the I-League is being played. But the defending champions have assembled a separate squad, which they believe is good enough to retain the title. That, however, is easier said than done. The league will be unpredictable, thanks to a single-leg format, absence of fans and limited preparations. “It’s a completely new team this year. Everyone is eyeing the title. We are trying our best. We have a good team, but much depends on the day's performance,” said Churchill head coach Norberto Gonsalves. Churchill have signed experienced midfielder Velito Cruz from Dempo SC and defender Joaquim Carvalho from Calangute Association. Mauvin Borges has continued his association with the club while former Sporting forward Trijoy Dias has joined Churchill after his one-year absence from football following a ban for assaulting a match official. For Sporting Clube, the other joint champions, it will be an emotional return on the pitch as they begin their campaign after the death of their owner Peter Vaz. “We have to play this year for our boss. He was the one who used to promote Goans and Goan footballers. We have to play for him and win the title,” said Sporting head coach Savio Vaz. Peter Carvalho has left Sporting and moved to Velsao SCC, while Cajetan Fernandes has joined Sesa FA. Despite the experienced players moving elsewhere, it is Vaz’s influence that they will miss the most. “His (Peter Vaz) inputs were very good. His reading of the match was too good. He used to always encourage junior coaches and guide us well. We will miss that,” said Savio. The two ‘champions’ could be challenged by FC Goa, who won the league in 2018-19. The developmental side of the Indian Super League first team have promoted many players from the youth squad. Aaren D’Silva, Sarineo Fernandes and Nestor Dias have trained with the first team and gained valuable experience, which they will share with their teammates. They have a new and young coach in Deggie Cardozo, an experienced hand at developing youth players. “We want to develop players with the right mentality. The mindset has to be in such a way that every player in the team gives their 100 percent. We are giving more match time for every individual,” said Cardozo. Mackroy Peixoto remains the experienced player at Salgaocar FC, apart from the youth who can spring a surprise. Samir Naik’s Dempo SC have shown promise, finishing in the top-three for the last three seasons. Set piece specialist Suraj Hadkonkar has returned after failing to break into Churchill’s I-League squad. Goa’s oldest club, Vasco SC, have secured the services of former India players Joaquim Abranches and Francis Fernandes. Meanwhile, Velsao have roped in Brian Mascarenhas from I-League side Real Kashmir FC, while Ganesh Thakur has joined from Churchill. “This time it was very difficult because of Covid, but all the club members have agreed to support. Only six players from last year are there. “We had a strong squad last year, but this time there is a balance as we got some youngsters and seniors,” said former India captain and assistant coach of Velsao Climax Lawrence. After Corps of Signals pulled out, First Division side Youth Club of Manora replaced them and will have a herculean task to prepare at short notice. The league has served as a platform to attract the best scouts in the country for players. Overall, it will be an exciting 66 matches in the single-leg format this season which will be played behind closed doors at the Duler Football Stadium in Mapusa. With little to separate the teams and not much time for preparations, this league could throw some surprise results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/anybodys-to-win/articleshow/80457116.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
January 26, 2021||Amaravati||SC dismisses AP govt's plea against HC order on panchayat polls||VIJAYAWADA: The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed the special leave petition filed by the AP government and employees’ associations challenging the AP high court division bench’s nod to holding of panchayat elections in the state. The bench headed by Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy, after listening to the arguments of the AP government and the state election commission, expressed unhappiness with the state of affairs in AP. Observing that the government has been looking for some excuse or the other, or is creating lame excuses to stall the process of local body elections in the state, the court said elections to local bodies in AP are being postponed for the last two years without any justifiable reasons. The court also noted that the state election commission, being a designated constitutional authority, deserves the respect that is conferred on it by the Constitution. The apex court further observed that the state government seems to be bent upon not holding elections during the term and tenure of Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar. The special leave petition filed by the government is also badly drafted and pleaded, the bench observed, to which the senior counsel for the state of AP admitted that the personal allegations made against the SEC were unwanted and unwarranted. The court said with the employees’ association deciding to boycott the elections, there is lawlessness in the state with absolutely no respect to rule of law. The intervention applications are fraudulent, and the behaviour of AP government employees is atrocious, it said, and upheld the directions of the HC division bench on the conduct of panchayat polls in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/sc-dismisses-ap-plea-against-hc-order-on-panchayat-polls/articleshow/80460152.cms||Venu Lanka
January 26, 2021||Vijayawada||SC dismisses AP govt's plea against HC order on panchayat polls||VIJAYAWADA: The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed the special leave petition filed by the AP government and employees’ associations challenging the AP high court division bench’s nod to holding of panchayat elections in the state. The bench headed by Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy, after listening to the arguments of the AP government and the state election commission, expressed unhappiness with the state of affairs in AP. Observing that the government has been looking for some excuse or the other, or is creating lame excuses to stall the process of local body elections in the state, the court said elections to local bodies in AP are being postponed for the last two years without any justifiable reasons. The court also noted that the state election commission, being a designated constitutional authority, deserves the respect that is conferred on it by the Constitution. The apex court further observed that the state government seems to be bent upon not holding elections during the term and tenure of Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar. The special leave petition filed by the government is also badly drafted and pleaded, the bench observed, to which the senior counsel for the state of AP admitted that the personal allegations made against the SEC were unwanted and unwarranted. The court said with the employees’ association deciding to boycott the elections, there is lawlessness in the state with absolutely no respect to rule of law. The intervention applications are fraudulent, and the behaviour of AP government employees is atrocious, it said, and upheld the directions of the HC division bench on the conduct of panchayat polls in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sc-dismisses-ap-plea-against-hc-order-on-panchayat-polls/articleshow/80460153.cms||Venu Lanka
January 26, 2021||Visakhapatnam||SC dismisses AP govt's plea against HC order on panchayat polls||VIJAYAWADA: The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed the special leave petition filed by the AP government and employees’ associations challenging the AP high court division bench’s nod to holding of panchayat elections in the state. The bench headed by Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy, after listening to the arguments of the AP government and the state election commission, expressed unhappiness with the state of affairs in AP. Observing that the government has been looking for some excuse or the other, or is creating lame excuses to stall the process of local body elections in the state, the court said elections to local bodies in AP are being postponed for the last two years without any justifiable reasons. The court also noted that the state election commission, being a designated constitutional authority, deserves the respect that is conferred on it by the Constitution. The apex court further observed that the state government seems to be bent upon not holding elections during the term and tenure of Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar. The special leave petition filed by the government is also badly drafted and pleaded, the bench observed, to which the senior counsel for the state of AP admitted that the personal allegations made against the SEC were unwanted and unwarranted. The court said with the employees’ association deciding to boycott the elections, there is lawlessness in the state with absolutely no respect to rule of law. The intervention applications are fraudulent, and the behaviour of AP government employees is atrocious, it said, and upheld the directions of the HC division bench on the conduct of panchayat polls in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/sc-dismisses-ap-plea-against-hc-order-on-panchayat-polls/articleshow/80457248.cms||Venu Lanka
January 26, 2021||India||Exceptional individuals who brought qualitative changes in others' lives: PM on Padma awardees||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday hailed the contribution of those conferred with the Padma awards, saying these exceptional individuals from different walks of life have brought qualitative changes in the lives of others. Former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and late singer S P Balasubramaniam were on Monday named for this year's Padma Vibhushan, while former Chief Ministers late Tarun Gogoi and Keshubhai Patel, former Union Minister late Ram Vilas Paswan and former Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan have been awarded the Padma Bhushan. "We are proud of all those who have been conferred the Padma Awards. India cherishes their contribution to the nation and humanity at large," Prime Minister Modi said on Twitter. We are proud of all those who have been conferred the Padma Awards. India cherishes their contribution to the natio… https://t.co/ue4XJkpi0h— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1611590727000"These exceptional individuals from different walks of life have brought qualitative changes in the lives of others," he said. The Union Home Ministry said the President has approved conferment of 119 Padma awards -- seven Padma Vibhushan, 10 Padma Bhushan and 102 Padma Shri. Twenty-nine women are among the Padma awardees and the list also includes 10 persons from the category of foreigners, NRI, PIO and OCI and one transgender. Sixteen people have been given the award posthumously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/exceptional-individuals-who-brought-qualitative-changes-in-others-lives-pm-on-padma-awardees/articleshow/80458028.cms||---
January 26, 2021||India||Shinzo Abe, SP Balasubrahmanyam awarded Padma Vibhushan; honours for Gogoi, Paswan, Keshubhai||NEW DELHI: Former Japanese PM Shinzo Abe and late singer S P Balasubrahmanyam were conferred the Padma Vibhushan on Monday, while former Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan, Dalit leader and LJP chief Ram Vilas Paswan, Tarun Gogoi and Keshubhai Patel (all three posthumously) and ex-principal secretary to the PM, Nripendra Misra, have been named for the Padma Bhushan. In a list which under the Modi government has shown a tilt towards "Bharat" or the grassroots, as many as 119 Padma awards — seven Padma Vibhushan, 10 Padma Bhushan and 102 Padma Shri — were announced. Among the awardees are 29 women and one transgender, while 10 are foreigners, NRIs, persons of Indian origin or overseas citizens of India. Sixteen awards have been conferred posthumously. "Dom Raja" of Varanasi, Jagdish Chaudhary, who had signed PM Narendra Modi’s nomination papers in the 2019 LS poll, was also posthumously awarded Padma Shri for social work. Apart from Abe, who shares a good equation with Modi and is seen as a prime architect of the Indo-Pacific strategy, other foreign nationals share a strong India connect. UK filmmaker Peter Brooks, who made the well-received film "Mahabharata" based on his nine-hour play, and the late Father Valles, a Spanish Jesuit priest who lived and worked in Gujarat, have been honoured with Padma Shri. No Bharat Ratna was announced this year as well. The focus on low-profile achievers was best reflected in the selection of recipients from the art, culture and medicine categories, with many recipients hailing from the hinterland. The choice of the late Congress leader Gogoi, former CM of poll-bound Assam, is significant and will strike many as a shrewd move. B B Lal is another interesting pick in the Padma Vibhushan list. The reputed archaeologist was head of the ASI during an excavation in Ayodhya that was seen as yielding evidence of a Hindu temple — a determination which saw him being criticised by left historians but which strengthened VHP’s case for construction of a Ram Mandir at the disputed site. Three from the Sangh Parivar — former Gujarat CM Keshubhai Patel, Sumitra Mahajan and former governor Mridula Sinha, who passed away recently — too made the cut. The maximum 11 awards went to people from Tamil Nadu, incidentally another state headed for the polls. The Padma Vibhushan list included Puri-based sculptor Sudarshan Sahoo, cardiologist and Manipal University ex-chancellor B M Hegde, Islamic scholar Maulana Wahiduddin Khan and Indian-American Sikh physicist Narinder Singh Kapany, known for his work in the field of fibre optics. Playback singer K S Chithra was given the Padma Bhushan. Rattan Lal was awarded Padma Shri for regenerative agriculture. Pappammal from Coimbatore, who runs her own organic farm, was conferred Padma Shri. The 10 Padma Bhushan awardees include Islamic spiritual leader Kalbe Sadiq (posthumous), former MP and ex-chairman of National Commission for Minorities Tarlochan Singh, who has worked for the Sikh community, Kannada poet and playwright Chandrashekhar Kambara, and Maharashtra-based industrialist Rajnikant Devidas Shroff. In the Padma Shri list are former Union minister from Assam Bijoya Chakravarty. Among sportspersons in the Padma Shri list are basketball player P Anitha, table tennis player Mouma Das, athlete Sudha Hari Narayan Singh, para-sportsman K Y Venkatesh, wrestler Virender Singh and mountaineer Anshu Jamsenpa. The list, like the past few years, includes many unsung heroes in fields like art, social work, agriculture and also in a new category — grassroots innovation. From the field of trade and industry, Punjab-based Cremica founder Rajni Bector, late P Subramanian of Shanthi Gears based in Coimbatore who was also a philanthropist, and Zoho Corporation CEO Sridhar Vembu, have been conferred Padma Shri. Greek Indologist Nicholas Kazanas was awarded Padma Shri in the "literature and education" category, the former posthumously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/abe-spb-awarded-padma-vibhushan-honours-for-gogoi-paswan-keshubhai/articleshow/80458092.cms||---
January 26, 2021||India||Army pilot dead, another critical in J&K helicopter crash||JAMMU: An Army pilot died while his co-pilot was battling for life after their helicopter crashed at Basoli in Lakhanpur area of J&K’s Kathua district. “Both pilots received grievous injuries and were rushed to a hospital, where one of them succumbed during treatment,” said an official source, adding: “The helicopter that crashed was a HAL Dhruv. A technical snag is believed to have caused the mishap.” Kathua SSP Shailnder Mishra confirmed the crash, adding that further details were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-pilot-dead-another-critical-in-jk-helicopter-crash/articleshow/80458373.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
January 26, 2021||World||Afghanistan welcomes US move to review deal with Taliban||ISLAMABAD: The Afghan government on Saturday welcomed the move by the Biden administration to review the February 2020 deal that Washington had signed with Taliban insurgents. Sediq Sediqqi, spokesperson of Afghan President Dr Ashraf Ghani, said in a statement that the US-Taliban agreement has so far failed to deliver the desired goal of ending Taliban violence and bringing a ceasefire. “The Taliban did not live up to its commitments,” he said. His statement followed a phone conversation between Jake Sullivan, the new US national security adviser, and his Afghan counterpart Hamdullah Mohib. The Biden administration on Friday said that it was looking to review the deal between Washington and the Taliban. In the conversation with Sullivan, Mohib said that they agreed to work towards a permanent ceasefire and a just and durable peace in Afghanistan “capable of preserving the gains of the past two decades, protecting the rights of all Afghans, and continuing the reforms.” In a series of tweets on Saturday, Mohib said that Sullivan affirmed that the partnership with the government of Afghanistan and Afghan security and defense forces remains a priority and a key to US national security objectives. “We will continue close consultations in the days and weeks ahead,” he added. Last week, following the targeted assassination of two female judges in the capital Kabul, the US Embassy warned the Taliban to cease attacks on civilians for peace to come to Afghanistan. “The Taliban should understand that such actions for which it bears responsibility outrage the world and must cease if peace is to come to Afghanistan,” tweeted Ross Wilson, the US chargé d’affaires. The review comes amid the stalled intra-Afghan talks in the Qatari capital of Doha, which aimed at ending the nearly two-decade conflict in war-torn Afghanistan. Former US President Donald Trump had made the withdrawal of US Nato troops from Afghanistan a priority. According to the US-Taliban deal, the US and Nato allies would withdraw all troops from Afghanistan by May this year if the Taliban upheld its promises. The promises included not to allow militant outfits to operate from areas controlled by the Taliban, shunning violence and to start dialogue with the government in Kabul. Following the deal, the militants halted attacks to a greater extent on foreign troops but intensified its fight against Kabul, with the country having seen a wave of targeted killings in recent months. Journalists, activists, politicians and women judges were among those killed in targeted assassinations. Given the volatile situation in the war-torn country, the new US administration has said that it will review a peace deal that President Trump had made with the Taliban.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/kabul-welcomes-us-move-to-review-deal-with-taliban/articleshow/80458457.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
January 26, 2021||India||J&K to host its 1st national poetry event||JAMMU: In a first in J&K, the Jammu and Kashmir Academy of Art, Culture and Languages (JKAACL) in collaboration with Radio Mirchi will host a two-day national poetry event in Jammu on January 27-28, to mark the 72nd Republic Day. “The country’s top Hindi and Urdu poets, Bollywood lyricists and writers will participate in the programme,” JKAACL secretary Munirul Islam said while addressing a press conference on Monday. The event will be held at Zorawar Singh Auditorium, University of Jammu, which top dignitaries of the Union Territory are expected to attend. “JKAACL will also provide a platform to J&K youth through these events. Radio Mirchi has already received 450 entries, of which 10 young poets have been chosen to present their pieces (Urdu and Hindi) and interact with senior poets during the event,” Islam said. Distinguished personalities to grace the occasion include Wasim Barelvi, Manzar Bhopali, Nawaz Deobandi, Kunwar Javed, Khushbu Sharma, Ana Dehlvi, Pritpal Singh Betab, Balraj Bakhshi, Dr Liaqat Jafri, Dr Shafaq Sopori, Dr Nazir Azad and Rukhsana Jabeen. “J&K lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha will be the chief guest on January 27. At the Kavi Sammelan on January 28, Sunil Jogi, Jagdish Solanki, Sudip Bhola, Shashi Kant Yadav and Vishnu Saxena will take part,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-to-host-its-1st-national-poetry-event/articleshow/80458503.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
January 26, 2021||India||Indo-Bangladesh sign MoU on joint student satellite||MUMBAI: On the eve of India’s 72nd Republic Day, India and Bangladesh signed a memorandum of understanding on Monday to design, make, and launch a satellite fabricated by students from both countries. The Indian side was represented by the Chennai-based Space Kidz India (SKI), a private organization, which focusses on encouraging students to study science, technology, engineering, and mathematics, especially space science. The Bangladesh side was represented by Global Law Thinkers Society, a global youth organization. The project celebrates 50 years of Indo-Bangladesh friendship, and the 100 birth anniversary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the founder of Bangladesh. Speaking to ToI, Srimathy Kesan, CEO of SKI said five students from Bangladesh will be trained by her organization in satellite systems and technology. "We plan to start the training programme in April or May. They will collaborate with us in making the satellite which will be 10 cm x 10 cm x 10 cm and will consist of basic payloads intended for training purposes,’’ she said. Kesan said the current plan envisages launching the Indo-Bangladesh student satellite in the third or fourth quarter of this year by Isro’s Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indo-bangladesh-sign-mou-on-joint-student-satellite/articleshow/80458544.cms||Srinivas Laxman
January 26, 2021||Business||Centre tells HC of concern about WhatsApp policy bias||NEW DELHI: The Centre told the Delhi high court on Monday that it is concerned about the “differential treatment” WhatsApp accords its Indian users compared to European ones on the new data-sharing policy. Appearing for the Centre, additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma submitted before Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva that by denying Indian users the option to opt out of sharing their data with other Facebook companies, the messaging service prima facie appears to be treating users with an “all or nothing approach”. The ASG said Indian users were being “unilaterally” subjected to the change in privacy policy by WhatsApp and these concerns had been communicated to the company. “This leverages the social significance of WhatsApp to force users into a bargain which may infringe on their interests in information privacy and information security,” the government said during the hearing of a petition by a lawyer against the Facebook-owned social networking platform’s new privacy policy. In response to the prayer in the plea that laws should be enacted to govern such messaging services, the senior law officer informed the court that the Data Protection Bill was being discussed and the Central government had sought WhatsApp’s response. Senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Mukul Rohatgi, representing the tech companies, told the court that the communication had been received and the companies would respond. During Monday’s hearing, Justice Sachdeva again pointed out that using WhatsApp was voluntary. “It is not mandatory to download WhatsApp on your mobile, it is voluntary. If you want to choose not to download it, you can,” the HC remarked. It also reiterated that not only WhatsApp but every other application has similar terms and conditions and asked the petitioner advocate, Chaitanya Rohilla, to explain his contention that the app was prejudiced against Indian users. The plea by Rohilla has been filed through advocate Manohar Lal. WhatsApp recently announced it had postponed its planned privacy update, which will give users more time to review the policy and accept the terms of the Facebook-owned messaging app. The decision to postpone the privacy update has been taken due to “misinformation causing concern” among people, the company had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/centre-tells-hc-of-concern-about-whatsapp-policy-bias/articleshow/80459204.cms||---
January 26, 2021||India||Telecom cables trigger Centre-state turf war||NEW DELHI: Can the State's exclusive land rights prevail over the Centre's sole authority over telecom? Can the State give a telecom operator the exclusive right to lay overhead and underground optical fibres in a city, emphasizing its land rights, in exclusion of other players to create a monopoly? A Supreme Court bench of Justices R F Nariman, K M Joseph and S R Bhat on Monday termed these questions "very interesting" and issued notice to the Madhya Pradesh government as additional solicitor general Vikram Banerjee argued that the state and civic authorities are unconstitutionally attempting to create such monopolies in six smart cities. Justice Nariman-led bench said, "It is a lovely question... Very interesting question. We will issue notice and condone delay (in filing of the appeal by the Centre)." Tower and Infrastructure Providers Association (TAIPA) had moved the Madhya Pradesh HC challenging the "Request for Proposal (RFP) issued in July 2018 for 'selection of concessionaire for implementation of intelligent street pole' at six smart cities of Madhya Pradesh - Indore, Gwalior, Jabalpur, Ujjain Sagar and Satna under 'public-private partnership (PPP) on Design, Build, Own Operate and Transfer (DBOOT) Model. TAIPA membership included all key players in the sector - ATC India, Bharti Infratel, GTL Infrastructure, Indus Towers, Reliance Infratel and Tower Vision India. It challenged the clauses in the RFP which prescribed that the successful bidder will have exclusive Right of Way (RoW) rights for laying Optical Fiber Cables (OFC) within the project site. No other telecom operator other than the concessionaire will have any right ROW permission for laying OFC or Intelligent Pole, the RFP specified. The HC dismissed the petition. The Centre in its appeal said that the telecom department had written to the Madhya Pradesh government objecting to creation of monopoly through grant of RoW and said that even though the Centre had the right to make laws on telecom, it could also not create monopoly of a service provider in a particular area. The telecom service providers association had cried that the decision of the MP government for six smart cities will deprive all the players in the telecom industry from the business of installing OFCs and will amount to blacklisting of other companies or will result in the commercial death of their business. The Centre asked the SC to determine -Whether the RFP issued by the State Government creates exclusivity in favour of the selected concessionaire, which is violative of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 and the Indian Telegraph Right of Way Rules, 2016, which does not even empower the Union Government to grant exclusive license to any person. It said the HC erred in holding that right of way for establishing and maintaining underground and overground telegraph infrastructure pertains to land, and hence a State subject under Entry-18 in List II of the seventh schedule of the constitution. The HC failed to consider that the present matter falls under Entry-31, List-I and didn't appreciate that in any event or in the event of a conflict, the Indian Telegraph Right of Way Rules. 2016 (Central Rules) would prevail over the MP Nagar Palika Rules, 2012(State Rules).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/telecom-cables-trigger-centre-state-turf-war/articleshow/80459280.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 26, 2021||India||Skin-to-skin ruling: NCPCR seeks appeal||NEW DELHI: The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) urged the Maharashtra government on Monday to file an appeal against a Bombay high court ruling that an act cannot be termed as sexual assault if there is no “skin-to-skin” contact. In his letter to the Maharashtra chief secretary, NCPCR chief Priyan Kanoongo said the words “skin-to-skin with sexual intention without penetration” in the judgment need to be reviewed and the state should take note of this as it seems to be derogatory to the minor victim. In the January 19 judgement, the Bombay high court said groping a minor’s breast without “skin-to-skin contact” cannot be termed a sexual assault as defined under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The court modified the order of a sessions court which had sentenced a 39-year-old man to three years of imprisonment for sexually assaulting a 12-year-old girl. “The Commission being the monitoring body under Section 44 of the POCSO Act, 2012 requests you to take necessary steps in the matter,” Kanoongo said. The NCPCR chief also said that it seemed that the identity of the victim had been disclosed and the Commission is of the view that the state should take note of this and initiate necessary steps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/skin-to-skin-ruling-ncpcr-seeks-appeal/articleshow/80459317.cms||---
January 26, 2021||India||Nation salutes farmers, says President, backs new agri laws||NEW DELHI: In the midst of prolonged protests by farm unions, chiefly from Punjab, Haryana and west UP, President Ram Nath Kovind strongly backed the new farm laws as much-needed reforms and said that initial doubts and anxieties of a section would subside over time. Addressing the country on the eve of the 72nd Republic Day, he said: “Economic reforms continue apace and are supplemented by long-pending reforms in areas of labour and agriculture through legislation. Path to reform at initial stages may cause misapprehensions. However, it’s beyond doubt that the government remains singularly devoted to farmer welfare.” The President also urged people to accept the vaccines against Covid-19 and said: “I urge upon countrymen to utilise this lifeline and get vaccinated as per guidelines. Your health opens the way for your advancement.” He praised health and other frontline workers, expressing confidence that India was emerging from the pandemic. “Our scientists, along with doctors, administrators and people from other walks of life, have made major contribution in containing the virus and keeping the fatality rate lower in our country, compared to that in developed countries,” he added. Kovind saluted the martyrs of the clash between Indian and Chinese troops at Galwan and said the three Services were doing a yeoman duty in protecting frontiers at -50 degrees in Ladakh to the hot deserts and the vast coastlines. Healso recalled a commitment to constitutional values of “justice, liberty, equality, and fraternity that are perennial principles of our philosophy of life”. Kovind said despite varying beliefs, icons of the freedom struggle were bound by a shared commitment to these values. Hours before protesting farmers’ unions lead a tractor parade through the national Capital, Kovind made a special mention of farmers and said the nation saluted them for ensuring that agricultural production did not suffer even during the pandemic. “A grateful nation is fully committed to the welfare of our farmers,” the President said, while also saluting the efforts of Indian armed forces to secure the country in the severest of weather conditions on land, in skies and on seas. Kovind commended frontline health workers who put their lives at risk to care for Covid patients. “With this accomplishment, our scientists have added a glorious chapter of contribution to the well-being of humanity,” he added. Drawing from Hindi poet Maithili Sharan Gupt’s poem, Kovind said India had benefited the most from “the feeling of fraternity” that saw Indians rising to the occasion and putting others before themselves. “We Indians live and die for humanity,” he said, adding that India converted crisis into an opportunity following the PM’s call of Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, which was in line with the aspiration to shape a new India by 2022 when the country turns 75.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nation-salutes-farmers-says-president-backs-new-agri-laws/articleshow/80459325.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Business||Covid-19 boosts instant coffee consumption, instant coffee brands gain||Chennai: With people confined to their homes and spending most part of the day in front of their computers, they are drowning in cups of coffee, and instant coffee makers are reaping the rewards. Pressed for time and with increasing household chores, some hardcore “filter coffee” enthusiasts have moved to the faster and more convenient instant coffee, pushing the sales of instant coffee. While institutional sales suffered due to closed offices and public places, domestic consumption witnessed strong growth for many companies. Companies including Nestle, Levista Coffee, and ID Fresh are either ramping up distribution networks or innovating with coffee variants in instant form to meet rising demand and changes in consumption pattern. Levista, a coffee brand from Karnataka’s SLN Coffee said its top-line grew by over 50% during April to December 2020, and increased its retail presence from 26,000 points of sale in Feb to over 42,000 by December. Levista also launched four types of flavoured coffee — vanilla, chocolate orange, caramel and hazelnut — for the younger demographic. Though die hard “filter coffee” users or those who buy freshly ground coffee are hard to convert, we witnessed a number of consumers moving permanently from other leading brands to Levista during this period, said Shriram S, VP of Levista Coffee. “Due to continued work-related calls and video conferences, people had to keep consuming some beverage or the other, and preferably a hot beverage. So, overall coffee consumption increased leaps and bounds,” he said. Food company iD Fresh has seen sales for its instant filter coffee liquid product grow by almost 70% in 2020 compared to the previous year. Rahul Gandhi, CMO, iD Fresh Food, said that as food service joints and restaurants remained shut during the lockdown, consumers took to easier and faster coffee options at home due to kitchen fatigue. “An analysis of customer preference on e-commerce channels showed us that many filter coffee users shifted to our instant liquid option,” he said. The surge in demand during The lockdown also prompted the company to create three new blends -Strong, Bold and Intense- for their instant filter coffee liquid. Nestle India which holds one of the largest market share in the instant coffee spacesaid the faster and more convenient version of coffee “has seen a higher relevance during this time and the company has innovated with different recipes.” “We created different coffee recipes that could be easily made at home using Nescafe Classic and Gold. This resonated well with the consumers,” a spokesperson for the company said.However, the out-of-home coffee market took a hit in 2020 due to non-functioning of hotels, airports, and offices,that are traditionally the largest group of bulk consumers. Data from research firm Euromonitor showed that the market for fresh coffee (largely used institutionally and by traditional coffee drinkers) grew just by around 7% in 2020 to Rs 1,867 crore, while the instant coffee market grew almost 13% during the period and recorded at Rs 3,899 crore. Multinationals Nestle and HUL have dominated the instant coffee market for years, and Tata’s beverage arm has also recently managed to make inroads in the segment with Tata Coffee Grand, a decoction crystals product.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-19-boosts-instant-coffee-consumption-instant-coffee-brands-gain/articleshow/80455619.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
January 26, 2021||Patna||Flag sales drop amid Covid-19 pandemic||PATNA: With almost no takers, the sale of flags has witnessed a sharp dip in the city ahead of Republic Day celebrations. Vendors in front of Patna Women’s College on Bailey Road claim that the demand has gone down due to the restrictions imposed on cultural events in educational institutes and other places. One of the sellers, Mohd Shakib, told this newspaper on Monday, “We used to receive bulk orders from offices, commercial establishments, schools and colleges every year, but the demand for flags has dropped drastically this time. Although educational institutes are open, no cultural events are being organized on their campuses.” Another vendor, Mohd Riyazuddin, who has been selling flags, badges, sashes, ribbons, balloons and wrist bands for the last 20 years, echoed similar views. “I set up my shop on January 24, but no customer has bought anything from me yet. I have never witnessed such a scenario before,” he rued. Most vendors are now planning to sell off the flags and other items on Independence Day. “I managed to sell only five or six items this year,” flag seller Raju Kumar said and attributed the dip in sales to online R-Day celebrations. However, Ajit Kumar, a vendor near Maurya Lok Complex, hoped that customers would buy all his flags on Republic Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/flag-sales-drop-amid-covid-19-pandemic/articleshow/80455314.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 26, 2021||Patna||18 cops from Bihar chosen for President’s police medal||PATNA: Eighteen police personnel, including IG (headquarters) Rakesh Rathi, DIG (human rights) Rajesh Tripathi and the SPs of Arwal and Naugachhia Rajiv Ranjan and Sushant Kumar Saroj, respectively, were chosen for the prestigious President’s police medal on the eve of Republic Day on Monday. While Rathi, Ranjan and Saroj have been selected for the President’s police medal for meritorious service, Rajesh Tripathi and Abdul Mannan, a sub-inspector posted at the police headquarters, have been chosen for distinguished service. Five police officers posted with the STF, an elite force of the state police, have been selected for President’s police medal for gallantry. The officers are Birendra Kumar Medhavi, Pradeep Kumar (both inspectors), Dhanraj Kumar (sub-inspector) and Uttam Kumar and Dharmendra Kumar (both constables). Others selected for the meritorious service award are Vijay Prasad, SP-cum-assistant commissioner of civil defence, Amarkant Choubey, DSP (headquarters)-Madhepura, Abhay Narayan Singh, a DSP posted at the police headquarters, Alay Vats, inspector, STF, Om Prakash Singh, sub-inspector, CID, Girindra Mohan Mishra, havildar, CID, Anil Limbu, havildar, BMP-01 and Kamini Devi, a police constable posted in Jamui.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/18-cops-from-bihar-chosen-for-presidents-police-medal/articleshow/80455190.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Patna||Funds allocated for EVM-based rural polls: Bihar chief secy||PATNA: Chief secretary Deepak Kumar on Monday said the coming panchayat election will be held using EVMs. The electronic machines will be used for the first time in panchayat polls in the state. Speaking at a function on the occasion of the National Voters’ Day, Kumar said the state government would provide sufficient funds for the election to be held in April-May. He also clarified that the election process will not linger and may be conducted in less phases compared to the previous panchayat polls. Notably, earlier panchayat election in the state was held through ballot papers. The state election commission has initiated the process to purchase EVMs for the purpose. The Election Commission has asked all DMs to complete the process of physical verification of polling booths by January 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/funds-allocated-for-evm-based-rural-polls-bihar-chief-secy/articleshow/80455839.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Madurai||Risky Masi streets pose a challenge||Madurai: Digging up of roads for the smart city works that are under way in the four Masi streets, have left the stretches damaged, and making commuting a challenge for residents. Corporation officials, said that work in the area is being given priority and would be completed by March 31. “With one side being barricaded for road work, the portion left for commuting is narrowed down and traffic easily gets congested, especially during peak hours. Heavy vehicles also take up space on East Masi Street making it more difficult for regular commuters,” said K Manickam, an autorickshaw driver. The driver added that even the portion of the road left for commuting is also in a bad condition, damaged and filled with pot holes. “For those on two-wheelers, the roads are a constant threat. I have to cross two stretches of Masi streets to get to and from my store and it feels like the road is only getting worse,” said K Manickavel, a small business owner on South Masi Street. South Masi Street and West Masi Street are also shopping hubs in the city housing many prominent businesses and are often busy, especially on weekends. “It is extremely difficult to find a spot for parking. We also have little space left on the pavement and are forced to move here and there,” said S Mohammed, a street vendor. City engineer S Arasu said that by the weekend, around 90-95% of the work on South Masi and West Masi streets is expected to be completed on both sides and a plan of action is ready. “Unseasonal rains this year has come as a detrimental to the work. However, now, the work on Masi streets is being given priority and it is being targeted to be completed by March 31 so that the roads will be ready in time for Chithirai festival in April,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/risky-masi-streets-pose-a-challenge/articleshow/80457484.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 26, 2021||Goa||Koshyari claims Goa govt making ‘vigorous efforts’ to prevent Mhadei water diversion||Panaji: The BJP-led state government is making “vigorous efforts” to prevent Karnataka from diverting water from the Mhadei basin, said Goa governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari here on Monday. Spelling out the legal steps taken by the state government, Koshyari said that the Pramod Sawant government is keen to protect Goa’s interests. “My government is very keen to protect the interests of Goa in the Mhadei river dispute. Vigorous efforts are being made to stop any diversion of waters to Karnataka,” the governor said. In his customary annual address on the first day of the state legislative assembly session, Koshyari said that the government is keen to protect the interest of the state in the Mhadei water dispute matter and has challenged the award of the tribunal. Koshyari also said that a Special Leave Petition has been filed before the Supreme Court, which has been admitted. The case has not come up for hearing before the Apex Court. Koshyari also informed the House that the Union Jal Shakti ministry has considered Goa objections and taken into account the salinity zone in the yield calculation of the basin and a salinity study has been entrusted to the National Institute of Hydrology (NIH), Roorkee. NIH-Roorkee has conducted one site inspection in September 2020 and the period of the study has been extended to May 2021 so that the salinity in the lean season can be examined, said Koshyari. “In addition to this, the attempt of the state of Karnataka to divert water has been brought to the notice of the Apex Court by filing a fresh contempt petition in October 2020,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/koshyari-claims-goa-govt-making-vigorous-efforts-to-prevent-mhadei-water-diversion/articleshow/80457533.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 26, 2021||Lucknow||Cabinet nod to Rs 426 crore for Ayodhya airport land||LUCKNOW: The state cabinet on Monday gave a budgetary fillip to the construction of airport in Ayodhya by giving its nod to expenditure of over Rs 426 crore for acquisition of land for it. The development comes even as the fund collection drive for Ram temple os on. The state government plans to acquire around 233 acres of land for development of airport. The cabinet said that in case of any interruption in purchase of land, the government could invoke the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, envisaging proper compensation for the land acquired. The cabinet also authorised CM Yogi Adityanath to take further decisions pertaining to construction and development of the airport in Ayodhya. The department of civil aviation plans to develop the airport with a runway suited to landing of Boeing aircraft and a proper terminal building. In another decision, the cabinet approved the decisions taken by the Project Monitoring and Implementation Committee (PMIC) and the feasibility report for construction of additional runways at Jewar airport. The airport is proposed to get five runways phase-wise. The cabinet also cleared acquisition of 1,365 hectares of land for the mega project. Proposed to be built as one of the biggest airports in South Asia, Jewar airport is projected to handle 8 million tonnes of cargo and 23 million passengers per year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cabinet-nod-to-rs-426cr-for-ayodhya-airport-land/articleshow/80457368.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Citizens register for vaccine at KMC clinic||KOLKATA: Tanmoy Sinha, a former Indian Air Force staffer and a resident of Rashbehari Avenue, queued up at Mayor’s Clinic in Chetla on Monday to get himself and his family registered for Covid-19 vaccination. Sinha, who is in his early fifties, wanted to take the advantage of availing a KMC Covid-19 registration scheme introduced on Monday for citizens above 50. Sources in the KMC health department said around 50 people from across south Kolkata registered at the camp. An official added the civic body will start its vaccination drive for general citizens once the ongoing drive for healthcare and frontline workers ends. Kalyan Chakraborty, a septuagenarian from Chetla, turned up at the camp after it opened at 10am. Chakraborty, a former state employee, felt it was the right time to get registered. KMC Board of Administrators (BoA) chairperson Firhad Hakim took the initiative of opening a registration camp from the Mayor’s Clinic, which will eventually be available from multiple KMC ward health clinics, said an official. Based on the first day, civic officials said they expect more people to turn up in the coming days. Mahamaya Ghosh, a homemaker from Kasba, registered herself, her husband and father-in-law. “I hope the vaccine proves to be effective and the civic body begins the drive for the general citizens at the right time,” Ghosh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/citizens-register-for-vax-at-kmc-clinic/articleshow/80455148.cms||Saikat Ray
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Rs 9 crore TDS delay: Mumbai firm in legal trouble||MUMBAI: A magistrate court on Monday issued process against directors of Hubtown Ltd for an alleged delay in payment of tax deducted at source (TDS) amounting to Rs 8.78 crore for financial year 2017-18. The court held that a prima facie case was made to issue process. The complaint was submitted and argued by special public prosecutor Amit Munde. It said all accused directors are responsible for company affairs for tax compliance.  The complainant added that after deducting amount, instead of depositing it to the government account within due date for payment to the credit of government, the accused failed, without reasonable cause or excuse, to pay within the prescribed period the said amount of Income Tax (TDS) to the credit of the Central Government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rs-9cr-tds-delay-city-firm-in-legal-trouble/articleshow/80457524.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Poll officials get awards on National Voters’ Day||PATNA: On the occasion of the National Voters’ Day, Bihar chief secretary Deepak Kumar on Monday felicitated senior officials for the peaceful conduct of the state assembly election amid the Covid-19 pandemic and new voters were given Electors Photo Identity Cards (EPIC). The state-level programme ‘Best Electoral Practices’ was held here at Adhiveshan Bhawan. Addressing the programme, the chief secretary said Covid-19 was a challenging time for everyone and conducting the assembly election safely during the pandemic was commendable. He congratulated the officers, politicians for making it successful, and voters for turning up in large number despite the restrictions. Deepak said the election taught us to move toward a digital platform for voting. He also suggested that the Election Commission of India should move towards electronic-voting so that registered voters can franchise their votes from anywhere, like the ‘One Nation One Card’, which has been implemented in the public distribution system. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, Kundan Kumar (DEO- Paschim Champaran), director (technical development) department of industries Pankaj Dixit, Ashok Priyadarshi (deputy electoral officer), Narendra Kumar (system analyst-cum-project coordinator at National Informatics Centre-Patna), additional electoral officer Kapil Sharma and Sr Lissil Pallipadan, CEO of Asha Deep, Rehabilitation Centre for the Handicapped were bestowed with a special award. The best district electoral officer award was given to DEO-Aurangabad Saurabh Jaiswal, DEO-Khagaria Alok Ranjan Ghosh, DEO-Katihar Kanwal Tanuj, DEO-Gaya Abhishek Singh and DEO-Muzaffarpur Chandrashekhar Singh. In the best electoral registration officer award, a total of seven officials received the award —Varsha Singh (deputy development commissioner- Katihar), Mohd Ahsan Ahmed (land reforms deputy collector), Ravindra Nath (deputy development commissioner- Paschim Champaran), Amrendra Kumar Pankaj (circle officer- Purnia), Ranjan Kumar Choudhary (Banka Panchayati raj officer) and Anil Kumar Thakur from Araria. The best booth-level officer award was given to officers of Bakkhtiyyarpur (180), Chainpur (206), Kodha (69), Raniganj (47), Pranpur (66), Hathua (104), Rosera (139), Obra (220), Katoria (162) and Valmiki Nagar (1). Celebrations in Katihar & Chhapra too: At least 8,779 voters whose data was accepted by the Katihar district election office and made ready for distribution, were given voter ID-cards on the occasion. According to an official figure provided by the district election office, altogether 28,490 people had filled the forms for the addition of their names in the electoral list, out of which 8,779 electors were given the coloured Epic. In Chhapra, addressing the National Voters’ Day event, Saran divisional commissioner Punam said the purpose of celebrating the day is to ensure participation of every voter in the democratic process. Saran DM Dr Nilesh Ramchandra Deore said the use of power to elect representatives without consideration of caste and creed makes democracy stronger. (With inputs from Sanjeev Mishra and H K Verma)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/poll-officials-get-awards-on-national-voters-day/articleshow/80455596.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 26, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Four new horses to join Red Road parade as ‘Always Welcome’ takes the lead||KOLKATA: Though it will be the third consecutive time that ‘Always Welcome’ leads his group, his younger team mates — ‘Dancing Prince’, ‘Greyfinder’, ‘Champion’ and ‘Summer Hill’ — will march in the Republic Day Parade for the first time. These five are among the 20 horses of Kolkata Mounted Police chosen to march on Red Road on Tuesday. For the other special team — including ‘Topper’ and ‘Flora’ from the dog squad — the early morning duty will be a difficult one. With reports of six neo-JMB men sneaking into Bengal and high alert at Malda and Murshidabad, the Red Road Parade arena will see stringent security where these dogs will be deputed to sniff out explosives. When the march starts, the 20 single-coat horses will become the star attraction along with the police bike show. All eyes will be on ‘Dancing Prince’, ‘Greyfinder’, ‘Champion’ and ‘Summer Hill’ — the newcomers. “They are now seasoned at the Maidan. But a horse joining the show for the first time still needs time to remain relaxed during all the sounds of the band and music. It needs practice. We have had four days of intense practice along with others and we believe the acclimatization has happened,” said an officer. Each year during the parade, the mounted police are known to induct newcomers. Last year, it was ‘Chandragupta’, ‘Bindusara’ and ‘Ashoka’, the three youngest of the 11 studs that have joined the veterans in the force. ‘Chandragupta’ will be present this year too. ‘Rupmati’, one of the popular horses in the show, though, will not be in the parade this year. “Some horses, who were veterans in the parades, have retired and we were looking for replacements. We chose the younger ones who matched the skills of the trained horses and can follow instructions,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4-new-horses-to-join-red-rd-parade-as-always-welcome-takes-the-lead/articleshow/80455123.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 26, 2021||Business||Sensex tanks 531 points on China feud, RIL’s 5% drop||Mumbai: Fresh tensions with China at the international border along Sikkim spooked Dalal Street investors on Monday, with the sensex closing 531 points lower at 48,348. From its all-time high near 50,200 points last week, the sensex is now 1,836 points — or 3.7% — lower. The day’s slide was aggravated by strong selling in sensex heavyweight Reliance Industries (RIL), for multiple reasons. The stock closed 5.4% lower at Rs 1,940. After its results on Friday, local brokerage Edelweiss pointed out that RIL didn’t disclose the gross refining margin (GRM). This is a key matrix globally for all refiners, indicating how efficiently their facilities are operating. It also said that the RIL stopped providing a division-wise turnover breakup for retail. With the drop in its stock price, RIL’s market capitalisation reduced to below Rs 12.3 lakh crore on Monday. This again made IT services giant TCS the most valued domestic firm with an mcap of Rs 12.35 lakh crore. BSE data showed that RIL’s sharp slide accounted for 325 points of the sensex’s over 500-point loss. The other top contributors to the loss were HDFC and Infosys. HDFC Bank and Axis Bank led among the handful of gainers that cushioned the day’s loss to some extent. Monday’s drop left investors poorer by Rs 2.1 lakh crore with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 192 lakh crore. According to Religare Broking VP (research) Ajit Mishra, the market on Monday was volatile and lost nearly a percent during the corrective phase. “The benchmark opened on a firm note following positive global cues. However, it pared all its gains in no time and was range-bound thereafter. Domestic cues — that is, the decline in index major RIL after the results and news of a fresh Indo-China feud at Sikkim border — dented sentiment,” Mishra said. Market players expect the volatility to continue in the current holiday shortened week. The expiry of the derivatives contracts for January, scheduled on Thursday, is expected to add to the market’s volatility, they said. Additionally, the market’s trend would be impacted by expectations from the Budget on February 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-tanks-531-points-on-china-feud-rils-5-drop/articleshow/80456120.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Kishan writes to T seeking land for NCDC||HYDERABAD: In continuation of his letters to Telangana government for land allotment for various projects sanctioned by the Centre, Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy on Monday wrote another letter to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao seeking allotment of land for National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The minister in his two-page letter said the Union government had proposed to set up NCDC in Hyderabad in 2019 and allotted requisite funds. “Despite allocating funds, the state government is yet to allot three acres for the NCDC. As a Union minister, I have taken personal interest to get the centre here, which will be useful for health care workers, doctors and people,” he said in the letter. Kishan Reddy said a team of officials in the past had visited the state and interacted with the government officials who proposed old buildings for the centre. “This is not enough. The central team told the state government to allot three acres of land but there is no response from the state till now. I urge the chief minister to take initiative and allot land,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kishan-writes-to-t-seeking-land-for-ncdc/articleshow/80457486.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Patna||Bihar records less than 100 Covid cases after 7 months||PATNA: The state registered less than 100 Covid-19 cases in a day after almost seven months as 82 people tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. The last two-digit figure was recorded on June 16 last year when 74 people had tested positive for the virus. The graph kept moving upward since then and reached its peak in July-August when the state was registering nearly 3,000 cases per day. However, from the end of August, the number of cases started declining. On August 31, the state had registered 1,324 new cases. The number hovered around 1,200 cases per day in the beginning of October and further decreased to less than 1,000 in the same month. By November 30, the number of daily cases in the state came down to 457. On December 31, the state had registered 392 new cases. On January 1, 463 new cases were recorded. The drop in number of cases and the ongoing vaccination drive have provided relief to the people. “It is really heartening that the number of cases has come down. We cannot give credit to vaccination for this as it has just started, AIIMS-Patna Covid-19 incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said. The state is also witnessing an increase in recovery rate. According to the health department, 222 people recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours. So far, 2,56,230 people have defeated the virus in the state. Even though 82 new cases have taken the state’s tally to 2,59,979, there were 2,264 active cases on Monday. The virus, on the other hand, claimed lives of four people in the last 24 hours. So far, 1,483 people have succumbed to the virus in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-records-less-than-100-covid-cases-after-7-months/articleshow/80455687.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 26, 2021||Patna||Only 51.9% turnout at Covid vaccination sites in Bihar on Day 6||PATNA: The Covid-19 vaccination drive is yet to pick up pace as only 51.9% of the registered beneficiaries took the shots across the state on Monday, showing just 0.3% increase from Saturday’s 51.6%. Altogether 23,281 healthcare workers were registered for vaccination on the sixth day on Monday since the drive was launched on January 16. However, only 12,075 (51.9%) of them turned up at their respective centres, compared to the maximum 61.97% turnout on the launch day. On the other five days since then, the figures hover around 50%. State IMA senior vice-president Dr Ajay Kumar said apprehensions regarding vaccines are not only in Bihar, but across the globe. “But people will come forward for vaccination after they see the results,” he said. When asked regarding the above 60% turnout on the first day and nearly 10% decline on other days since then, a health department official said, “On the first day, the entire mechanism was put in place for the vaccination and even the districts were focused on it. But now it has become a part of a drive and the focus might have slightly shifted to other works also.” As per the data shared by state health society, vaccination on Monday was carried out at 261 centres involving 1305 human resources. Total 88,207 healthcare workers have got the shots — 85,919 of Covishield and 2,288 of Covaxin — since January 16. So far total 72 cases of adverse events following immunization (AEFI), including three cases on Monday, have been reported in the state. “In order to ensure that the beneficiaries do not face any problem post-vaccination, sufficient quantities of anaphylaxis and AEFI kits have been made available at all the vaccination sites,” read a statement issued by the SHS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/only-51-9-turnout-at-covid-vaccination-sites-in-bihar-on-day-6/articleshow/80455663.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 26, 2021||Business||Indian CXOs foresee more disruptions||MUMBAI: Indian CXOs are more resilient and expect regular disruptions to businesses as compared to global peers. According to a survey, 70% of the CXOs in India do not see 2020 as a rare event and believe they are likely to witness occasional, or regular, disruptions of this scale in future, as compared to 62% globally. Most Indian CXOs (77%) appear relatively confident about the organisation’s and their ability to lead through uncertain times as compared to global peers. According to the global resilience report by Deloitte, of the 21 countries surveyed, Indian executives gave their organisations the highest rating for maintaining diverse workforces and fostering inclusive cultures. The report — shared exclusively with TOI — said that once the pandemic and lockdowns end, Indian CXOs expect a larger percentage of their workforce to continue operating remotely, as compared to global executives. Deloitte Global CEO Punit Renjen said, although Indian business has upheld a historic social responsibility that reflects the unique development of capitalism in India, today the gaps in who gets an education and an opportunity are yawning. “That will improve when Indian business addresses issues of diversity and inclusion. I am glad to say Indian business leaders share my sense of urgency.” Worsening climate events have given Indian CXOs enough cause to anticipate regular disruptions. They also have a higher propensity to believe that climate change is a crisis of greater magnitude (51%) than Covid, as compared to global peers (44%). Deloitte said Indian CXOs who had taken specific actions prior to 2020 or who had ongoing efforts to move to new-age work mechanisms seemed to have been better at weathering the change. These include diversifying revenue streams (61%) and an increasing use of advanced tech to create new business models and market opportunities (66%). The report is based on a survey of 2,260 C-level executives and senior public sector leaders, including CEOs/presidents, COOs, CFOs, CMOs, CIOs, and CTOs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-cxos-foresee-more-disruptions/articleshow/80456168.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Patna||Patna pollution: More ‘poor’ days this winter than in 2019||PATNA: The city air quality started deteriorating early this winter compared to 2019, according to an analysis of winter air pollution in the cities in the Indo-Gangetic plains (IGP) by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). This analysis is a part of CSE’s air quality tracker initiative to study the changing patterns of air quality trends in the country. The survey was conducted in 26 cities in the IGP. The Patna air quality started deteriorating from October 1 while the city witnessed the polluting week from December 3 to 6 when the air quality index (AQI) oscillated between 370 and 403, which was in ‘very poor’ and ‘severe’ categories. As per the report, the number of days with PM2.5 (particulate matter less than 2.5 microns) concentration meeting the standard was considerably low this winter with more ‘poor’ or ‘ very poor’ days. The city witnessed 11 severe days, 52 very poor, 19 poor, nine moderate and only six satisfactory days between October 1, 2020 and January 10, 2021. During the same period in 2019, Patna had 13 severe days, 60 very poor, five poor, three moderate and eight satisfactory days. The average level of PM2.5 was lowest during last summer and monsoon due to the lockdown when Patna had its cleanest week in June and July. However, after the respective cleanest week, the weekly average of PM2.5 level in Patna rose to 11 times with the onset of winter from October, the report says. Pradhan Parth Sarthi, a professor of environmental science at Central University of South Bihar (CUSB), said the change in air pollution is dependent on the meteorological conditions. “During the lockdown period, pollution from vehicles, factory, construction activities was almost negligible. Once the economic activities resumed, the air pollution level deteriorated,” he said. Senior program officer at Centre for Environment and Energy Development (CEED), Ankita Jyoti, said air quality in Patna has been deteriorating since 2015, but the parameters remain the same with minor fluctuations. “Besides meteorological conditions, the other contributors are brick kilns, vehicular movement, dust from construction sites and burning of fuel. Due to non-implementation of clean action plan, we have witnessed fall in standard days,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-pollution-more-poor-days-this-winter-than-in-2019/articleshow/80455339.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 26, 2021||Patna||PPU senate passes Rs 614.8-crore budget||PATNA: The Patliputra University (PPU) senate passed the annual budget of Rs614.8 crore for the 2021-22 financial year. The meeting was held on Monday under the chairmanship of acting vice-chancellor (VC) Surendra Pratap Singh. There are 25 constituent colleges and other institutions affiliated to the PPU. The proposal were earlier approved by the PPU’s academic council and syndicate. Addressing the senate members, Singh said he had at least 14 important meetings with the state government officials and various bodies of the university since taking charge on January 5 to streamline its functioning and all-round academic development. He stressed on the need of holding fair examinations, early publication of results and quality teaching. Senate member Alok Tiwary welcomed the move to keep Rs50 crore in the proposed budget exclusively for research work. He, however, demanded that the university must develop library facilities and provide proper amenities in the hostels. Senate member Radhe Shyam urged the VC to start commerce teaching in vocational mode even at Degree level at A N College. College of Commerce, Arts and Science college principal and senate member Tapan Shandilya demanded more add-on courses in the colleges to provide skilled teaching and training to the needy students. Another senator Ananya demanded separate funds for games and sports as well as provision of coaching facility in each college. According to PPU media incharge B K Mangalam, a few members also demanded that the university should hold examinations within 20km areas of the parent colleges of the examinees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ppu-senate-passes-rs-614-8-crore-budget/articleshow/80455353.cms||Kumod Verma
January 26, 2021||Patna||JD(U) gets a mouthpiece||PATNA: JD(U) national president and Rajya Sabha member RCP Singh on Monday said only those political parties would survive and march ahead which are lively, equipped with strong ideology and dedicated to the welfare of the masses. He was addressing party workers at the JD (U) headquarters here after releasing the inaugural edition of the party’s mouthpiece JD(U) Sandhan. “The main aim behind publishing ‘JD(U) Sandhan’ is to spread the party’s ideology to every worker,” Singh said. “The monthly mouthpiece is being published in both Hindi and English. Its Urdu edition will come out in future,” JD(U) media cell state president Amardeep said. The JD(U) chief Singh further asked party workers to publish the monthly mouthpiece in Bihar’s regional languages such as Maithili, Bhojpuri and Magahi in future. He asked party workers to take the necessary steps to strengthen the party magazine and spread the party ideology among people. Other prominent leaders present on the occasion were the JD(U) state president Umesh Singh Kushwaha, former MLC Prof Ram Bachan Roy, party’s state general secretary Navin Kumar Arya, its media cell stated head Amardeep and training cell state chief Sunil Kumar. Meanwhile, JD(U) state president Umesh Singh Kushwaha on Monday released a list of the party’s new presidents for all 41 organisational districts. The party’s state general secretary Anil Kumar said the new district presidents were nominated. Former transport minister Santosh Kumar Nirala, who lost the 2020 assembly polls from Rajpur constituency, has been made the new district president of Buxar, while the newly elected MLA from Benipur, Ajay Choudhary, has been made the district president of Darbhanga. The party’s two MLCs—Bhishma Sahani and Salman Ragib have been made district chief of Bagaha and Nawada, respectively. Altogether three woman leaders namely Manju Kumari alias Guddi Devi, Ashwamegh Devi and Manju Devi have been made the party’s district chief of Madhepura, Samastipur and Arwal, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-gets-a-mouthpiece/articleshow/80455798.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Patna||Lalu Prasad’s kin & RJD launch campaign for his release||PATNA: Incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s kin have started a campaign for his release from judicial custody on the basis of deteriorating health condition.  While his daughter Rohini Acharya uploaded to her Twitter handle a postcard written to the President of India with the hashtag #ReleaseLaluPrasadYadav, his elder son Tej Pratap Yadav launched the postcard campaign at the party’s office, requesting Lalu’s well-wishers to write to the President for his father’s release. “He (Lalu) is a great leader and a legacy of Bihar. Release this leader of social justice from the jail,” reads the ‘Azadi Patra’ uploaded by Rohini. Tej, in his letter, mentioned his father as the messiah of the poor and requested the President for his release on humanitarian grounds. The elder son of Lalu said he will personally meet President Ram Nath Kovind with all the postcards. When asked about the dance programme organized at RJD office on the occasion of Jannayak Karpoori Thakur’s birthday on Sunday in spite of his father’s poor health, he said, “Right now I am only concerned about my father’s health and focusing on this campaign.” Sources said Tej is expected to meet his father on Wednesday and will seek time from the President’s office for a meeting. Chhatra RJD’s state president Akash Yadav said they will collect the postcards from the villages. “Not only in Bihar, his well-wishers are spread everywhere and they can join the campaign on social media. We expect at least one lakh postcards from each district,” said Akash. Lalu was airlifted from RIMS, Ranchi to AIIMS, New Delhi on Saturday as he was facing breathing problems. He is suffering from multiple health issues like diabetes, kidney, cardiac and lung problems and recently developed pneumonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lalus-kin-rjd-launch-campaign-for-his-release/articleshow/80455747.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 26, 2021||Business||Banks review services policy for WhatsApp||Mumbai: Banks, which were looking to integrate WhatsApp as a key channel for customers to transact on, are reviewing their policies in respect of the use of the messaging platform. This comes after general concerns among the public that have arisen over Facebook sharing user data among its group companies. HDFC Bank, which was earlier offering customers the option to obtain bank account balances through WhatsApp banking, has discontinued the facility. Customers seeking balance inquiry are asked to use the bank’s mobile banking app, net banking or other offline methods. Others — ICICI Bank, IDBI Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank and IndusInd Bank — continue to allow customers to check their balance. According to an industry source, earlier the idea was to have deep integration with the bank’s systems and artificial intelligence chatbots so that customers can get their servicing requests and even transactions done in a straight-through manner. The idea was to facilitate the entire banking experience through the social media platform, where customers spend most of their time, without having to log into net banking. Now there appears to be some caution in using WhatsApp banking as a channel. It is not clear whether HDFC Bank’s change in WhatsApp services is part of its ongoing back office overhaul or review of the WhatsApp policy. Incidentally, all WhatsApp banking chats come with a label stating that while these are encrypted, the bank may use a service to store, read and respond to messages and calls. According to Rajshekhar Rajaharia, a researcher on internet security who pointed out the policy change, businesses and solution providers will use WhatsApp’s parent company, Facebook, to securely store messages and respond to customers. While Facebook will not automatically use messages to determine the ads that you see, businesses will be able to use chats they receive for their own marketing purposes, which may include advertising on Facebook. Responding to a query from TOI, an ICICI Bank spokesperson said, “Messages to the ICICI Bank WhatsApp Banking service are secured with end-to-end encryption. This means that WhatsApp or third parties cannot read them. Further, the delivered chats are neither shared with Facebook nor saved in the servers of Facebook.” Facebook has meanwhile integrated a WhatsApp button on the homepage of banks. Customers will have the option to chat with the bank clicking on the button. The button is also available on some advertisements. According to WhatsApp’s privacy policy, “Facebook may use the way you interact with these ads to personalise the ads you see on Facebook.” Experts say that WhatsApp messages, being encrypted, are more secure than SMSs, which are viewable to telecom companies and government agencies and can also be intercepted by hackers. However, the concerns are not about hacking but privacy with organisations using customer data to sell third-party products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-review-services-policy-for-whatsapp/articleshow/80456000.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 26, 2021||Patna||Republic Day: Darbhanga ‘cycle girl’ Jyoti Kumari gets PM’s award||DARBHANGA: Jyoti Kumari, the ‘Cycle Girl’, who brought her injured father Mohan Paswan on a bicycle from Gurugram to her village Sirhulli in Darbhanga district cycling for seven days during the Covid- induced lockdown in May last, was conferred with the Pradhan Mantri Bal Puraskar by PM Narendra Modi on Monday. The award was conferred to Jyoti and 32 other children for their achievements in different fields from across the country at a virtual meet chaired by PM Modi. दरभंगा, बिहार की 16 साल की ज्योति कुमारी को प्रधानमंत्री राष्ट्रीय बाल पुरस्कार मिलने पर बहुत बधाई और उज्ज्वल भवि… https://t.co/Z2eP7tXvKi— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1611578056000Darbhanga district administration brought Jyoti along with parents from her village to the National Informatics Centre (NIC)’s office at the district headquarters here for participating in the virtual award ceremony. Though Jyoti could not get a chance for direct interaction with PM due to paucity of time, she claimed to have learned a lot from the experience and stories of other awardees during the interactive session. “PM’s interaction with children has acted as an encouragement for more success in life. As advised by the PM, I am determined to read the life history of one legendary figure each year,” Jyoti said. Jyoti’s father Mohan said her daughter learned a lot from PM’s advice and suggestions to the awardees. “This event has glorified my family and village and people are expecting more brave actions from my daughter,” he said. Jyoti will get Rs1 lakh, one citation letter and a medal. Meanwhile, Jyoti has also been chosen as a brand ambassador for anti-drug abuse programme of the state government. “District administration is providing all sorts of help for Jyoti’s education and will continue to do so in the future,” DM Thyagrajan SM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/darbhanga-cycle-girl-gets-pms-award-ahead-of-r-day/articleshow/80455201.cms||Binay Kumar Jha
January 26, 2021||Delhi||AAP, BJP continue to spar over corporations||NEW DELHI: AAP functionary Durgesh Pathak on Monday said garbage was piled up across north Delhi because “BJP is utilising Rs 938 crore given by Kejriwal government in the name of councillor fund instead of paying salaries to the sanitation workers.” BJP knows that in the upcoming poll, citizens of Delhi will throw them out of corporations, therefore, it has planned to bankrupt the civic bodies, Pathak said. AAP demanded immediate release of pending salaries to the workers. “It is unfortunate that BJP, which is leading the corporations for the past 15 years, does not have sympathy for these people,” Pathak said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said AAP was misleading people on the issue of municipal funds. “Almost 10 days ago, deputy CM Manish Sisodia announced that Delhi government is giving Rs 938 crore for employees’ salary distribution. Till date, the government has not issued a single penny to corporations for employees’ salary,” Kapoor said. Meanwhile, AAP organised 42 ‘mohalla sabhas’ in 26 different assembly constituencies on Monday under the campaign to expose “corruption” in the BJP-led corporations. About 4,500 people, including AAP MLAs, party councillors, members and volunteers, and residents attended these events.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-bjp-continue-to-spar-over-corpns/articleshow/80456445.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Patna||Republic Day at Gandhi Maidan amid tight security, Covid curbs||PATNA: Security has been beefed up in and around the city’s Gandhi Maidan where the main function of the Republic Day will be held amid restrictions due to the Covid19 pandemic. Passes have been issued to visitors to this historic venue where governor Phagu Chauhan will unfurl the national flag in the presence of the CM, prominent politicians, bureaucrats and other dignitaries. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal along with senior police officers took stock of the preparations for the Republic Day on Monday. A rehearsal of the parade was also held in which 17 teams participated. The venue of the function was later closed and visitors’ entry banned. Special traffic arrangements have also been made by the district administration. Movement of private vehicles has been diverted to avoid congestion in the vicinity of the Gandhi Maidan. Instructions have been issued not to open all entry gates of the Maidan for security reasons. While gate number one has been earmarked for the governor and the CM and some other VIPs, the police teams taking part in the parade will enter from gate number 5. People having passes will enter through gate 10 and gate number 9 has been earmarked for media persons. “Nobody without a valid pass will be allowed to go inside. The directive will be followed strictly. The cops on duty have already been alerted,” a senior police officer assigned to look after the security arrangements told this newspaper. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said around 1,500 additional security personnel have been deployed at Gandhi Maidan for the function. Also, searches were conducted at different places in the city and patrolling intensified in pockets considered to be vulnerable from the security point of view. “An alert has been sounded and the SHOs asked to keep a strict vigil on trouble makers. Those found moving around suspiciously will be detained at the nearby police station,” he added. Meanwhile, instructions have been issued to take precautionary measures in the wake of a call for ‘tractor march’ to protest against the three farm bills. The call has been given jointly by CPI-ML (Liberation) and Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Mahasabha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/republic-day-at-gandhi-maidan-amid-tight-security-covid-curbs/articleshow/80455257.cms||Ramashankar
January 26, 2021||Patna||Notre Dame Academy alumnae walk down memory lane||PATNA: Notre Dame Academy (NDA) Alumni Association launched its official Facebook page at the annual meeting held virtually on Sunday. Over 900 alumnae from across the globe participated in the meet. NDA principal Sister Mary Jessy said the school was established with a progressive vision for girls’ education. “It is the duty of each and every NDA alumna to make the world a better place, especially in today’s chaotic times,” she said. Speaking on the occasion, association’s secretary Yamini Sinha said: “It was a challenging situation as our annual physical meeting could not be possible owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. But we transformed it into an opportunity to organize the meet virtually for the first time. The response was overwhelming and it proved to be one of its kind in the history of the school.” The association felicitated Reena Verma, a former NDA teacher, for her long and dedicated service as the school librarian from 1984 to 2020. Meeta Mohini, senior advocate at Patna high court, and Prem Prakash, principal of Radiant International School, both alumnae of the school, were also felicitated as ‘NDA Super Achievers’. The event also subsumed the silver jubilee celebration for the batch of 1995, which was marked by the release of vibrant balloons and a video presentation. The alumnae engaged themselves in various discussions and participated in interesting quiz based on the institution’s history. “The annual meet brings to us a chance to reconnect with our alma mater and relive the carefree days of our school lives. Since it was virtual this time, so many of us could reconnect,” said Pragya Nidhi. Sister Rose Mary (headmistress), Sister Mary Tessy (provincial superior of Sisters) of NDA were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/notre-dame-academy-alumnae-walk-down-memory-lane/articleshow/80455386.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Varanasi||Kashi DM awarded for best electoral practices||Varanasi: District magistrate and district election officer Kaushal Raj Sharma, on Monday, received annual state award for best electoral practices 2020 (electoral roll management). At a function hosted by the Election Commission of India at Indira Gandhi Pratishthan in Lucknow, Sharma received this award for ensuring preparation of error free electoral rolls. For receiving this award Sharma said, “This was a team work. The collective work of ADM (administration) all SDMs, tehsildars, block development officers and booth level officers resulted in making the electoral rolls error free.” According to the district election office, for electoral roll revision 2020, Sharma had held a series of meetings with assistant voter registration officers in December 2019 and January 2020 to ensure that as per the ECI directives the electoral rolls not only become free of errors but also all eligible physically challenged, women and youths completing age of 18 are included in it. The special drive carried out by Sharma resulted in inclusion of 39,549 new voters while 24,654 names of dead, shifted and of those who had multiple entries were deleted. Special camps were held voter registration in same the months. Among the new names included in voters list, the number of new voters in 18 to 19 year age group was 21,948 including 11,413 male and 10,535 female. Number of third gender votes rose from 818 to 819 while 1,506 physically challenged persons also got included. Corrective measures were also initiated in 14,149 demographical similar entries to remove duplicate names while electors literacy clubs were formed in higher education institutions. Door to door verification of voters qas done by by 2,920 BLOs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kashi-dm-awarded-for-best-electoral-practices/articleshow/80455047.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Patna||Congress to launch ‘Kisan Tiranga Yatra’ in Bihar today||PATNA: State Congress workers will take out Kisan Tiranga Yatra in the state on Tuesday in support of the farmers protesting against farm laws passed by the Centre. State Congress incharge Bhakta Charan Das will flag off the yatra at Bikram in Patna district. Das reached the state capital on Monday. He will visit different parts of the state during his stay for the next 13 days. State Congress media incharge H K Verma said Das will be present in the flag hoisting ceremony at Sadaquat Ashram before moving to Bikram. State Congress president Madan Mohan Jha will hoist the tricolour at the party’s state headquarters. Talking about the Kisan Tiranga Yatra, party’s state spokesperson Rajesh Rathorre said, “Our party has always stood for farmers. Even now all Congressmen across the country are with the farmers. The Centre should not make it an ego issue and rather understand the plight of farmers, or else they may face their wrath which could go to the extent that farmers staging protest outside Parliament.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-to-launch-kisan-tiranga-yatra-in-bihar-today/articleshow/80455823.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Business||L&T’s Dec qtr net rises 3% to Rs 2,648cr||Mumbai: L&T, considered as the bellwether of the country’s infrastructure sector, reported a 3% increase in Q3 profit to Rs 2,648 crore, which included a Rs 209-crore gain from the sale of its electrical and automation business. Revenue declined about 2% to Rs 35,596 crore, L&T said on Monday after market hours. Its infrastructure business, the biggest revenue contributor, declined 7%, while technology services, the second-largest revenue generator, increased about 7%. Operating profit of IT business rose 37% to Rs 1,360 crore, while that of infrastructure fell 6% to Rs 823 crore. The management described the October-December months as the quarter of turnaround from the crippling effects of the pandemic. Revenue, though slightly down, have caught up with the pre-Covid Q3FY20 number, they said. Expenses reduced 1.5% to Rs 32,980 crore mainly because of new work-delivery models triggered by the pandemic (like employees working from home and savings from business travel expenses).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lts-dec-qtr-net-rises-3-to-rs-2648cr/articleshow/80456049.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Varanasi||The boatmen booked for letting Shikhar Dhawan feed birds in Kashi||VARANASI: The two boatmen, who had taken cricketer Shikhar Dhawan on a boat ride in the Ganga during his recent visit and did not tell him about the ban on feeding birds due to the bird flu scare, were traced and booked by Varanasi police for violating prohibitory orders. The two, boatman Pradeep Sahani and his sailor Sonu, have also been barred from operating their boats in the Ganga for four days. Circle officer Dashashwamedh Awadhesh Pandey told TOI on Monday, “We succeeded in tracing the boatman Pradeep Sahani and his sailor Sonu, who took Dhawan for boating in the Ganga last night. They had taken cricketer Shikhar Dhawan on their boat without providing him a life jacket, and also did not stop him from feeding migratory birds during the ride despite being aware that this practice had been banned by the district administration in view of the bird flu scare.” The two have been booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC for the violation of prohibitory orders and have also been barred from operating their boats in the Ganga for four days, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/2-boatmen-booked-for-lettingdhawan-feed-birds-in-kashi/articleshow/80455007.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Patna||Police apathy led to murder of agri official: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav||PATNA: The murder of 55-year-old block agriculture officer (BAO) Ajay Kumar in rural Patna drew sharp criticism from the opposition on Monday. In a tweet, leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav blamed police’s apathy for the kidnapping and subsequent murder of the BAO. The body of Kumar, who was posted at Masaurhi in Patna district, was recovered from a pit near Punpun river under the Gaurichak police station area on Sunday. Kumar had gone missing on January 18. The body was found following confession of Abhinay alias Golu (21), a fertilizer and seeds dealer, who was arrested on Saturday. Tejashwi alleged that the criminals were operating under the patronage of the ruling dispensation in the state. “This is why the CM and his two deputies appeared to be helpless,” he added. BJP MP from Patliputra and former Union minister Ram Kripal Yadav said the BAO’s murder was a matter of concern for the state police. City SP (west) Jitendra Kumar said the prime accused in the case has already been arrested and the role of others was being probes. “The police will take the case to a logical conclusion,” he said. During police investigation, it came to light that Golu was the last person to contact the BAO on his cellphone on the day he had gone missing. Meanwhile, DGP S K Singhal has asked all SSPs and the SPs, including those posted in rail districts, to ensure the arrest of the accused in recent murder cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/police-apathy-led-to-murder-of-agri-official-tejashwi/articleshow/80455731.cms||Ramashankar
January 26, 2021||Patna||Of 88,000 vaccinated in Bihar, just 72 report side effects||PATNA: The health department on Monday confirmed that 88,207 people have so far been vaccinated in the state, including 12,075 on Monday, at 261 session sites. Among the healthcare and frontline workers vaccinated in the state so far, 72 have complained of adverse event following immunisation (AEFI), such as pain, mild swelling and mild fever or nausea. Two of them had to be hospitalised. According to health department sources, only 0.08% adverse side effects has been reported post-vaccination at different selected vaccine centres in the state, including three on Monday. Following the Centre’s guidelines, AEFI surveillance system has been set up at the selected vaccine sites. Post-vaccination, people are kept at the session sites for at least 30 minutes to detect, manage and treat immediate adverse reactions. Special secretary-cum-executive director of State Health Society (SHS) Manoj Kumar said after 30-minute observation at the session sites, the hospitals and health centres stay in touch with the beneficiaries over phone for at least a week. “No serious side effect has so far been recorded in the state,” he added. Dr CM Singh, superintendent of All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna, said there are two categories of AEFI – mild symptoms and serious symptoms. “Mild symptoms like pain, fever and body ache are resolved in 12-24 hours. Serious symptoms (hypersensitivity reaction), on the other hand, require hospitalisation,” Dr Singh added. He said vaccine beneficiaries should not hide their medical history or allergy. “We give seven-day pro forma to the vaccinated people to note any adverse event because Covaxin has been approved for emergency use on trial mode only,” Dr Singh said. Paras HMRI regional director (east) Dr Talat Halim said people who have allergy should inform the medical officer about their condition before taking the vaccine jab. “For instance, a nurse at our hospital, who has severe allergy, did not mention it in the form. She suffered allergic rashes all over the body after vaccination,” he said. Dr Rajiv Ranjan, former president of the state chapter of Indian Medical Association, said muscle pain and swelling are common after vaccination. “When some foreign particles enter the system, reaction is natural. Thankfully, no serious adverse impact has so far been recorded in the state,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/of-88000-vaccinated-in-bihar-just-72-report-side-effects/articleshow/80455636.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 26, 2021||Patna||Retired Lalit Narayan Mithila University teachers cry for pension||MADHUBANI: While working teachers of Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU) have been paid their salaries for November and December, the pensioners remain unpaid. University officials said the payment of pension would be released as soon as allotment for the same is received from the government. Chandra Mohan Jha, secretary of Retired Teachers’ Association and Amresh Shandilya , former general secretary of LNMUTA, have claimed in separate statements that retired teachers are left with no other option but to stage dharna in front of VC’s chamber.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/retired-lnmu-teachers-cry-for-pension/articleshow/80456097.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||HC allows 27-week pregnant minor to undergo abortion||Mumbai: Bombay HC on Monday permitted medical termination of the nearly 27-week pregnancy of a 12-year-old tribal girl after a JJ Hospital panel said its continuation posed physical and mental risk to her. A bench of Justices Amjad Sayed and Madhav Jamdar heard a plea by NGO Rescue Foundation for HC’s permission as the law does not permit MTP beyond 20 weeks. While the NGO’s plea said she is 14 years old, the court was told her age as per the Aadhar card is 12 years. She lives in impoverished conditions with her family in a tribal area of Palghar and was a victim of sexual assault. An FIR was lodged against him on January 8 under IPC and Pocso sections. The Child Welfare Committee. Palghar, sent the girl to JJ Hospital. As sought by the judges, her mother came to court and consented to her daughter undergoing MTP procedure. Government pleader Poornima Kantharia submitted the panel’s report given on Monday which said there is no abnormality detected in the foetus and the minor mother. However, she is anguished by the pregnancy. “At 26.4 weeks of gestation, termination of pregnancy is not without risk for the minor. However, continuation will have risk to both physical and mental ill health to the minor. Hence, it is advisable to terminate the pregnancy,’’ said the medical board’s report. The judges directed MTP to be performed. The NGO’s advocate Ashley Cusher expressed apprehension she could be threatened by the accused. He urged that she should be handed to the NGO after discharge from hospital. The judges accordingly passed such direction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-allows-27-week-pregnant-minor-to-undergo-abortion/articleshow/80456435.cms||Rosy Sequeira
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Can’t withdraw rape case plea now, Bombay high court tells woman||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Monday said it was not, at this stage, inclined to let a woman withdraw her petition that sought witness protection for herself, registration of FIR and CBI probe against a duo including a senior politician on her allegations of being raped in 2013.  “The public prosecutor seeks time to file the closure report,’’ said the HC order while adjourning the hearing in the matter to February 18. The woman through her counsel Sunip Sen submitted that the state has “closed the case,’’ and hence she wished to withdraw her petition. Sen said the petition was “mainly’’ seeking protection as her complaint was against “highly influential person’’. The petition was filed last month alleging that the “accused had also threatened her with dire consequences". The PP Deepak Thakare, said admittedly there has been no FIR registered yet and said the state would submit the report on her complaint by the next date. A bench said, “In case a closure report is filed in the registry, the registry to accept the same.’’ There were two parties who sought to intervene including a women’s NGO from Delhi. Advocate Satish Maneshinde appearing for the NGO said it wished to intervene to assist the court in determining the truth. The Prosecutor questioned their locus or right to intervene in the matter. The bench orally said that there could be two aspects in the matter—that the complaint could be true or false, and in both the cases it would be “serious” matter. It added that there is also a possibility that it is “political” in which case too, it would be serious. The woman, who made only the state and union of India as parties to her petition, had filed a complaint before a Mumbai magistrate in October 2013 which was dismissed as withdrawn, “erroneously’’ on October 30, 2013. Her complaint was against the politician and another man who she alleged invited her to a hotel to meet the politician. Her petition sought quashing of the 2013 magistrate’s order, directions to the police to register an FIR on her complaint and when it does, it be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Her petition said, “The state has a duty to protect life and liberty of its citizens". She said “after withdrawal of complaint’’ she was “leading a peaceful life but all of a sudden from the past four-five months threats to her and her family members restarted.’’ She met with an accident in August 2020 she said and since then she alleged she “ is being followed four unknown persons.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cant-withdraw-rape-case-plea-now-hc-tells-woman/articleshow/80457534.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Dehradun||Now, view Garhwal Himalayas from chopper at Rs 3k||Dehradun: Uttarakhand Civil Aviation Development Authority (UCADA) and the tourism department on Monday jointly kickstarted the “Himalaya Darshan” initiative, under which up to five persons can take a 10-to-12 minute chopper ride and enjoy views of snow-covered peaks of the Garhwal Himalayas at Rs 3,000 per person. Over 45 persons availed the service on day one on Monday, with the choppers taking off from Auli and flying over picturesque locations near Joshimath. Officials of Heritage Aviation, the firm operating the service, said they are also in talks with the state government to start the chopper rides in Haridwar for the Kumbh Mela on the lines of Prayagraj Kumbh, where they had operated similar services. Talking to TOI, Sulabh Khaira, vice-president of business development at Heritage Aviation, said the firm is already in talks with the government to launch the Kumbh plan. Ashish Chauhan, CEO, UCADA, said that chopper rides in Auli are being provided at the lowest possible fare. “The government is charging the aviation agency for only parking and flying,” he said. Khaira said as the initiative is still in its initial stages. “As this is a pilot project, we are taking direct bookings at our counter in Auli,” said Khaira. Heritage Aviation offers similar chopper rides in Gujarat at the Statue of Unity and Govardhan Parvat in Mathura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/now-view-garhwal-himalayas-from-chopper-at-rs-3k/articleshow/80454551.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 26, 2021||Dehradun||Amid Covid-19 restrictions during Kumbh, U’khand eyes three Guinness records||Dehradun: Even as the Kumbh Mela will take place with Covid-19 regulations in place this time, the Uttarakhand department of urban development is planning to attempt at least three Guinness World Records (GWRs). According to officials, the state will try to set a world record by ensuring more than 6,000 participants in the virtual Ganga Aarti, which will be streamed live. The other attempt will be made for ‘virtual women shankhnaad’ where 151 women will blow conch at the same time. And the last record attempt will be made to ensure that more than 2,500 participants sing the Namami Gange anthem together virtually. Officials say that the Kumbh is expected to witness massive participation from across the country through the virtual platform. The event will be recorded and shared with the Guinness World Records for their consideration, they added. The department of urban development has also released a detailed document for the agencies interested in the implementation of the three GWR attempts. TOI has also learnt that the agency selected will ensure 2,500 participants for singing the Namami Gange anthem together on the virtual platform. Also, some of the participants will sing the anthem from Haridwar's Chandi Ghat. Besides, exclusive login ID and password will also be created so that the participants can join the common virtual platform and can also download the images and video of the session. As for the ‘women shankhnaad’ record attempt, the select agency will train 151 attendees. The participants will blow conch shells in a rhythm to qualify the parameters of the Guinness World Records. The attendees will also be given the facility to order 'prasad' and 'Gangajal' through a virtual platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/amid-covid-19-restrictions-during-kumbh-ukhand-eyes-three-guinness-records/articleshow/80454520.cms||Abhijeet Singh
January 26, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Two wanted by Indore police held in Vashi||NAVI MUMBAI: Vashi police arrested two history-sheeters wanted by Indore police for a cybercrime registered last year. They were apprehended from their rental residence in Kopri village in Kharghar node on January 23. Indore cybercrime police arrived in the city and took the custody of Narendra Singh alias Dashrath Singh Rajpurohit (28), who worked as commission agent, and Vijay Singh Solanki (35), a driver, on Monday. They have been earlier arrested for cybercrimes in Mumbai and Indore, said the police. Vashi division ACP Vinayak Vast said that the duo had posed as a prominent jeweller in Indore and contacted another jeweller and “offered a deal”. They took large sums of money as credit from the victim and fled. He then filed a police complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/2-wanted-by-indore-police-held-in-vashi/articleshow/80457578.cms||George Mendonca
January 26, 2021||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Man ‘takes poison’ during raid, dies||BAREILLY: Over eight years after he was last booked for any crime and a year after he got married, a 44-year-old man allegedly consumed poison and died during a late-night raid by Badaun police, who he feared would implicate him in another case and put him behind the bars. According to police records, Dinesh Sharma was a history-sheeter facing 16 criminal cases in various police stations across Budaun. However, in the last eight years, he wasn’t booked for any criminal activity in the region. The last case against Sharma was filed in 2012 at Bisauli police station. A resident of Chatuiya village of Badaun, Sharma had come out on bail a few months ago. But, every time there was a robbery or any other crime in the region, police would pick him up for questioning, his wife claimed. Late on Sunday night, when Sharma and his wife were fast asleep, a police team comprising two sub-inspectors and four constables raided the home. With no warrant in hand, they barged into the home to take Sharma police station in connection with a recent robbery. “My husband was trying to lead a peaceful life. He was always worried that police would implicate him in a false case and put him to jail. We got married last year and everything was fine till December last year when my husband went to Delhi for work. In between there was some robbery and police started looking for him. They raided our house several times and misbehaved. On Sunday, my husband returned home and we were sleeping when a police team raided our house. They barged into the house. My husband, in the meanwhile, consumed poison,” said Geeta Sharma, the wife. Sharma allegedly consumed poison late Sunday night and was rushed to a hospital where he died. Police, on their part, said they just wanted to question him in connection with a loot case in which he was a suspect. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Budaun, Sankalp Sharma, told TOI, “Our investigation team had a tip-off that Dinesh Sharma was involved in a robbery case. He was absconding from his village for the last few days. When we came to know that he had returned home, a team was sent to his house to bring him for questioning. But he consumed poison. We took him to hospital but he couldn’t survive. We never intended to falsely implicate him in any case. He was a history-sheeter and had been involved in many crimes in the past.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-consumes-poison-during-police-raid-dies-wife-says-cops-came-without-warrant/articleshow/80453284.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Can’t quash land grab case against Khadse: ED||Mumbai: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday argued against maintainability of a petition filed by former BJP minister Eknath Khadse for quashing of a criminal case and probe against him connected to alleged Pune land grab. The ED had last year filed its report in connection with the Pune land case under Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The ED alleged the land was bought by his wife at a throwaway price of less than Rs 4 crore when the market value was over Rs 30 crore, with an intention to make profits when it would be acquired by the state. The ED represented by additional solicitor general Anil Singh argued that an ECIR was an “internal document’’ and “unlike an FIR, not a public record” and hence its quashing cannot be sought. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cant-quash-land-grab-case-against-khadse-ed/articleshow/80456498.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Lucknow||Ensure vaccine shots to all 9 lakh health staff by February 5: UP CM||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday directed the officials to ensure that all the targeted health workers get Covid-19 vaccine by February 5. Reviewing preparations for Covid-19 immunisation drive, Yogi said the entire activity should be carried out as per the guidelines laid down by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The state has prepared a list of over 9 lakh health workers of whom nearly 1.26 lakh have taken the shots so far. The list is inclusive of all staff at private hospitals and state medical colleges, besides employees under health and family welfare department. “The next session of vaccination will take place on January 28 and 29. After this, another session will be held on February 4 and 5. Both the sessions will cover health staff. As per the CM's instructions, all the health workers on the list are to be covered by February 5,” additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said. Prasad added that the listed beneficiaries who miss the shot on these four days would get vaccine after the entire schedule gets completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ensure-vaccine-shots-to-all-9l-health-staff-by-feb-5-cm/articleshow/80457632.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 26, 2021||Lucknow||Padma Bhushan honour for reformer cleric Kalbe Sadiq||Lucknow: Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Sadiq, the flag-bearer of amity, progressive thought, education and spirituality, was awarded the coveted Padma Bhushan, posthumously, on the eve of Republic Day on Monday. The 83-year-old cleric, who had been suffering from cancer for the last three years, passed away on November 24, 2020. His death was observed as a day of mourning not only by the residents of Lucknow but also by the people across the world who believe in his ideology. Reacting to the announcement on Monday night, Sadiq’s son Kalbe Sibtain Noori told TOI that the award was “well deserved”. “We are grateful to the central government for recognizing my father’s contribution to the society. He rightfully deserves this badge of honour and even bigger recognitions. He was loved and respected by one and all. His works changed thousands of lives. He brought laurels to the country on international platform and his name and work will live on forever,” said Noori.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/padma-bhushan-honour-for-reformer-cleric-kalbe-sadiq/articleshow/80457571.cms||Yusra Husain
January 26, 2021||Goa||‘Goa’s efforts to restart mining on’||Porvorim: Acknowledging the sharp drop in the mining sector’s contribution to the state’s economy, governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari said that the state is “continuously making efforts” to ensure that iron ore mining resumes in Goa. In his maiden speech in the Goa legislative assembly, Koshyari assured the house that the state government wants mining to resume in a systematic manner based on a sustainable mining principle. “Mining is an important sector in the state’s economy, which had been contributing about 16% of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) in 2011-12 and in 2019-20 is contributing only about 0.2%,” he said. “My government is continuously making efforts to resume mining in a systematic manner by rejuvenating the state’s economy, preserving the environment, the natural resources, the health status of the people in the mining sector with the main vision to ensure sustainable mining in the state of Goa.” Goa’s mining sector came to a halt in 2018, the second time in six years, after the Supreme Court quashed the renewal of 88 mining leases. The stoppage of mining dealt a devastating blow to Goa’s economy and people’s livelihoods, which Koshyari admitted when he said that the mining sector is a major revenue earner, creator of employment and caters to the demand of construction material. He informed the housesaid that based on the SC’s orders, the state governmenthas conducted 24 e-auctions and sold around 14.7 million tonne of the mineral ore lying at various stack yards. He also said that the government has implemented a debt relief scheme for mining-affected borrowers and sanctioned subsidy to the tune of Rs 108.4 crore to 4,696 applicants and disbursed subsidy of Rs 97.3 crore to 4,557 beneficiaries as of November 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-efforts-to-restart-mining-on/articleshow/80457706.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 26, 2021||Jaipur||M-sand policy will prove to be a game-changer: Rajasthan CM||JAIPUR. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said the manufactured sand (M-sand) policy-2020 will prove to be a game changer with investment and creation of jobs in the mining sector in a big way. He said the use and production of M-sand in the state will be encouraged and the dependence on gravel mined the river beds will be reduced. The problem of waste mines in the mining areas will also be solved as masonry stones could be used as an input for m-sand which is a boon for environment besides creating large employment opportunities at the local level. Gehlot was addressing after unveiling the M-sand Policy-2020 at chief minister's residence on Monday. He said in order to instill confidence among the public and to create demand, it has been decided use M-sand mandatory for the PWD and other government department to use a minimum of 25% of their demand for sand from M-sand. “Today, I am very happy that we are going to provide proper alternative to natural gravel in the form of M-sand to the people of the state through this policy.” Gehlot asked the officials of the department of mines to give wide publicity to the entrepreneurs regarding the concessions and encouragement given through this policy so that more and more investors in the state could come forward to set up units of m-sand. There is a need to enlighten the common man that m-sand is a better alternative to natural gravel in construction works, he said. Minister of mines and gopalan Pramod Jain Bhaya said that M-sand units have been given industry status in the policy. He said that there is a demand for about 70 million tonnes of gravel in various construction works in the state in a year. Principal secretary of mines and petroleum department Ajitabh Sharma said in the presentation that new units to be set up under the policy and M-send units already operating in the state will also be eligible for the benefit payable under RIPS-2019 for their expansion. In this policy, attractive provisions have been made for the investors like investment subsidy, exemption electricity duty, land tax and stamp duty in SGST for seven years. At present 20 major M-Sand units are operational, which is producing 20,000tons of M-Sand per day. The establishment of new units will be encouraged once the policy is introduced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/m-sand-policy-will-prove-to-be-a-game-changer-gehlot/articleshow/80456484.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay high court rejects Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor’s bail plea||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Monday rejected Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor’s plea for liberty in a money-laundering case being investigated by Enforcement Directorate (ED). The agency said it apprehended that he would sell off his properties once released, frustrating the ongoing probe. Kapoor, claiming “innocence’’, argued that bail was the norm that cannot be denied on the grounds that investigations are on. Justice P D Naik pronounced the rejection of Kapoor’s bail application. Kapoor’s bail plea, filed through advocate Subhash, said no case of laundering was made out against the bank’s founder. Kapoor was arrested on March 8, 2020 and is in Taloja jail. ED said Kapoor conspired with Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan of Dewan Housing and Finance Ltd (DHFL) to illegally sanction loans and “received kickbacks” in a case where “proceeds of crime involved is to the extent of Rs 5,050 crore”. The Wadhawan brothers, Dheeraj (42) and Kapil (46), were arrested last April. Kapoor’s bail petition said “Rs 600 crore was not a kickback” nor proceeds of crime but a “genuine loan”. But ED, through counsel Hiten Venegaonkar, refuted Kapoor’s contention, saying DUVPL was a “beneficially owned by Rana Kapoor through three daughters’’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-rejects-yes-bank-founders-bail-plea/articleshow/80457662.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Delhi||No hesitancy: Walk-ins fill up daily vaccination quota||NEW DELHI: Contrary to last week, when vaccination centres had reported fewer beneficiaries, the scenario was entirely different on Monday. Not only did the number of beneficiaries cross 100 at many centres, but many were recommended to other places due to the limited number of vaccine vials available at hospitals. At Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital (RGSSH) in east Delhi, 110 people were vaccinated on Monday. “We reached the target around 4pm. Even after that people kept coming in. Since we have a limited daily stock of vials, we are inoculating on a first-come-first-serve basis,” said Dr Ajeet Jain, nodal officer for the Covid programme at the hospital. Ngoru Nixon, section magistrate at Ambedkar Nagar Hospital in Dakshinpuri, said over 80 people had been inoculated by 2.30pm. At Pushpawati Singhania Research Institute, 110 people were vaccinated. After walk-ins were allowed by the government and flexibility was given to beneficiaries, like visiting any centre of their choice at their convenience, the footfall has increased dramatically. Rajesh (name changed), a lab technician at a private clinic in Dilshad Garden, was asked to revisit GTB Hospital for vaccination as the daily quota of 100 was over by 3pm, the time he reached there. However, he was guided by the staff to visit RGSSH as an alternate venue. Mohammad Muazzam, who works in the dialysis ward at Pushpanjali Hospital, visited Indira Gandhi ESI Hospital, Jhilmil for inoculation. “All six of us working in the dialysis ward were scheduled for vaccination on Saturday. But it was not possible for all of us to leave the hospital together, so I decided to visit on Monday. The staff here was very supportive,” he added. He said his wife, who works in a private hospital, could not avail of the facility as she had recently become a mother. At ESI Hospital, 100 people visited the vaccination centre on both Saturday and Monday. A TOI team found doctors from private and charitable hospitals, labs and mohalla clinics turning up for vaccination after receiving calls from the district magistrate’s office. Dr PC Sharma (57), who runs a private clinic in Nand Nagri, was inoculated at RGSSH. “I was contacted by Delhi Disaster Management Authority and immediately registered myself and my employees. When I reopened my clinic after a brief shutdown, the number of people coming with Covid-19 symptoms was really high. Though we were lucky and didn’t get infected, we should avail of the facility being provided to get rid of the disease,” he said. There were also many unlisted people who tried their luck at getting inoculated. Ajay Pal, a 46-year-old driver working at a Delhi government dispensary, walked into Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya Hospital in the afternoon without receiving any message. “We were told by the office of the chief district medical officer that we could get vaccinated, so I came here,” he said. Pal’s colleague, Shashi Bhushan (50), a resident of Begumpur, and he had to wait for the hospital authorities to find their names in the app. “We have to get vaccinated one day, so why wait?” quipped Bhushan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-hesitancy-walk-ins-fill-up-daily-vax-quota/articleshow/80456504.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 26, 2021||Kanpur||SIT leaves for Chennai, to meet kin of victims||Kanpur: The Special Investigation Team (SIT) left for Chennai on Monday to record the statements of a family whose two members were killed in Chakeri’s J K Colony area during the anti-Sikh riots of 1984. “One Narendra Singh and his brother Surendra Singh were done to death by a mob in the JK Colony area. We have come to know that the family members of both the deceased brothers had migrated to Chennai. SIT has left for Chennai today to record statements of their family members. The team is likely to return to the city in two-three days and then further investigations would be initiated in this regard,” said SP SIT Balendu Bhushan. The state government had set up SIT on February 5, 2019, to inquire into the circumstances leading to the riots in which at least 127 people were killed in Kanpur. The team was set up after the apex court issued notice to the state government in August 2017 on a petition seeking SIT probe into the riots. The four-member SIT is headed by retired UP DGP Atul. The other members are retired district judge Subhash Chandra Agarwal and retired additional director (prosecution) Yogeshwar Krishna Srivastava. SP Balendu Bhushan Singh is its member-secretary. In November 2020, the state government gave another six-month extension — till May 2021 — to the SIT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sit-leaves-for-chennai-to-meet-kin-of-victims/articleshow/80455230.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Sales tax officer acquitted in corruption case 2 decades after death||Swati Deshpande Mumbai: A sales tax officer, dead for almost two decades, has 25 years after his conviction been acquitted in a corruption and refunds conspiracy case of 1985. A few days ago, Bombay high court allowed his appeal against conviction. His widow and son had in 2015 stepped into his shoes to continue with the appeal filed in 1996, against the conviction, an 18 month imprisonment and Rs 26000 fine. In September 1996 a special trial court in Solapur had convicted Suresh Kagne and two other sales tax officials, relying largely on the testimony of an approver--the son of another co-accused, an oil mill owner. He had been granted pardon at the fag end of the trial after 92 of the 94 prosecution witnesses were examined, “obviously to fill up lacunae in the case,’’ said the HC in its judgment by Justice S K Shinde on January 19. Kagne was tried with two other public servants and a registered ‘dealer’ of an oil extraction business and his son. The charges included conspiracy to making and securing a false claim of refund of sales tax, admissible to those engaged in business of extracting oil from oilseeds and ‘tel ghanis’ (mini oil mills). A co-accused had granted registration to the dealer’s son. Kagne had allegedly “without following due process accepted the claims for set off’’ of Rs 2.6 lakh, thus causing a loss to the state exchequer. The HC, after analyzing the evidence, did not find the approver’s testimony reliable. Earlier in 2013, the HC, in a judgment by then Justice M L Tahaliyani, had acquitted two of Kagne’s co-accused, also sales tax officials, while allowing their separate appeals against their conviction. He had said, “basically, the approver has to be a reliable witness.’’ “It is possible, that the approver may have accepted pardon when he realized some heat may turn on him. It is highly risky to rely on him as a witness…he had filled up a wide gap in the prosecution case,’’ the 2013 ruling said. “The ultimate aim of trial is quest for truth and the prosecution case has to stand on its legs…The Judge has to be circumspect…Had the (trial court) Judge used his discretion judiciously, he probably would not have tendered pardon to a person of highly dubious character…and the prosecution would have failed miserably,’’ said the HC now, quoting from and relying on the 2013 judgment. The Departmental enquiry found the officials guilty of ‘dereliction of duty for failing to follow procedure’ . The rest of the evidence pointed to “procedural irregularity’’ and “not sufficient’’ to establish guilt, said Justice Shinde, allowing Kagne’s appeal. The fine, if any paid, must be refunded to Kagne’s legal heirs directed the HC. In March 2015, the HC had condoned a delay and applying provisions of section 394 criminal procedure code (CrPC) permitted Kagne’s kin to continue with the appeal. It had observed that since his punishment also included a fine, the appeal would not abate with his death. The law allows near relatives--lineal descendants—to apply within 30 days, and get permission from court to continue an appeal if convict dies pending appeal. . Box · 1985: Case against three sales tax officials, two businessmen, in Solapur filed · 1988: Chargesheet filed · September 30, 1996: Special Anti-Corruption Cases court Judge in Solapur held Kagne for cheating, criminal breach of trust by public servant, criminal conspiracy, forgery, abetment and under section 5(2) for criminal misconduct under the Prevention of Corruption Act of 1947. · November 30, 2001: Suresh Kagane passed away · November 26, 2013: HC allows appeals of two other co-convicts; acquits them · March 10, 2015: Bombay high court allowed his kin to continue with his appeal; condones delay in their application · January 19, 2021: HC allows the appeal, sets aside conviction on merits Box · 1985: Case against three sales tax officials, two businessmen, in Solapur filed · 1988: Chargesheet filed · September 30, 1996: Special Anti-Corruption Cases court Judge in Solapur held Kagne for cheating, criminal breach of trust by public servant, criminal conspiracy, forgery, abetment and under section 5(2) for criminal misconduct under the Prevention of Corruption Act of 1947. · November 30, 2001: Suresh Kagane passed away · November 26, 2013: HC allows appeals of two other co-convicts; acquits them · March 10, 2015: Bombay high court allowed his kin to continue with his appeal; condones delay in their application · January 19, 2021: HC allows the appeal, sets aside conviction on merits||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sales-tax-officer-acquitted-in-corruption-case-2-decades-after-death/articleshow/80437412.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 26, 2021||Allahabad||HC sets aside GO extending term of Sunni Waqf Board||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Monday set aside the state government order dated September 30, 2020 whereby the tenure of UP Sunni Central Waqf Board was extended for six months. While setting aside the extension of tenure, the court appointed principal secretary, department of minority welfare and waqf as an administrator of the Board to manage day-to-day affairs of the Board. However, the administrator will not be eligible to take any policy decision relating to the Board and will ensure holding of the elections and give charge to an elected Board on or before February 28, 2021. Disposing of a writ petition filed by Wasim Uddin and Allamah Zameer Naqvi and another, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Saurabh Shyam Shamshery observed, “We failed to understand as to why the respondents did not choose to hold timely elections. Elections for a democratically elected body are sine qua non for application of democratic values and working of the institution accordingly. Such functioning should have not been compromised at any cost. Election of such body could be deferred only in most emergent and extraordinary circumstances.” The petitioners had challenged the validity of orders dated July 1, 2020, and September 30, 2020, passed by principal secretary, Government of UP, department of minority welfare and waqf. By the orders, the state government had extended the term of UP Sunni Central Waqf Board after it expired on April 1, 2020, citing the reason of Covid-19 pandemic as it was not possible to conduct elections during lockdown. Appearing on behalf of the petitioners, senior advocate SFA Naqvi argued that the Act of 1995 does not empower the state government to extend the term of the elected Board. In absence of any such authority the extension of the term of the Board vide office memorandum is bad. It is asserted that the state government extended the term of the Board beyond its authority for certain extraneous considerations. The court after hearing concerned parties observed, “It is not in dispute that under the Act of 1995, no power is available to the state government to extend the term of an elected Waqf Board. The term of an elected Waqf Board is of 5 years and as per provisions of the Act of 1995 an election is required to be conducted before expiry of the term of 5 years enabling the new Board to occupy the office.” Further, “No one can deny that upto May 31, 2020 the entire nation was facing stringent checks pertaining to lockdown. In that period, no election could have taken place and even prior to 1st April, 2020 at least subsequent to 24th March, 2020 the elections could not have taken place. In such circumstances, the necessity demanded extension of the term of UP Sunni Central Waqf Board.” Regarding the further extension after the situation improved, the court observed, “The state government, if it would have been vigilant enough, could have held the elections in the months of August and September, 2020. It would also be appropriate to state that the number of voters for electing Wqaf Board is too less and voting of such number of voters could have been controlled with application of Covid-19 protocol including social distancing. In the month of September, 2020 elections of several other bodies including legislative assembly were notified in the country.” The court made it clear that the administrative decisions taken by the UP Sunni Central Waqf Board during its extended term shall not be invalidated on the count of setting aside of the extension order. The UP Sunni Waqf Board was appointed in accordance with Waqf Act, 1995. The existing Board was elected on April 1, 2015 for a period of five years. The term of the Board came to end on April 1, 2020 but for all practical purposes, it was working and the government on July 1, 2020 looking to the necessity due to lockdown extended the term. The tenure was further extended on September 30, 2020. Hence, this writ petition was filed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-sets-aside-go-extending-term-of-sunni-waqf-board/articleshow/80455734.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
January 26, 2021||Lucknow||UP Budget Session to begin on February 18||LUCKNOW: The budget session of UP assembly will start from February 18. The cabinet meeting chaired by CM Yogi Adityanath on Monday approved the date. The assembly session will table the budget for the financial year 2021-21, which would be fifth of this government and probably the last before the next assembly elections due in the first quarter of 2022. The session will begin with the joint address of Governor Anandiben Patel. Finance minister Suresh Khanna would table the budget once discussions and vote of thanks on her speech is over. While experts expect a populist budget in the election year, it's also expected that CM Yogi Adityanath's dream project Ganga Expressway would get a generous allocation. PM Narendra Modi is likely to lay the foundation of the project later this year. The 596-km expressway would connect Meerut and Prayagraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-budget-sessionto-begin-on-feb-18/articleshow/80457658.cms||Subhash Mishra
January 26, 2021||Kanpur||No respite from traffic congestion as diversion plan fails||Prayagraj: There seems to be no respite for commuters as they were once again trapped in a long traffic jam between Shantipuram crossing and Phaphamau Bazar on the Lucknow-Prayagraj highway on Monday afternoon. Commuters alleged that the district traffic police authorities have not chalked out an effective plan to manage traffic on the busiest route on Prayagraj -Lucknow highway and as a result, commuters were facing road jams on frequent intervals. On Monday, scores of commuters were trapped in a long jam for more than an hour and the absence of traffic policemen only compounded their woes. Sarla, a government employee, said, “There was not a single policeman at Shantripuram crossing and as a result, there were many queues of vehicles causing jam.” She also added that traffic cops were only managing traffic near Phaphamau bazar. Since the traffic movement was restricted on Basna Bridge after a portion of soil caved in near the approach road of the bridge due to a damaged pipeline and the traffic police subsequently diverting the traffic on alternative route since last month, daily commuters are facing difficulty after getting trapped in traffic jam frequently. Though the police have come up with a diversion plan for the vehicles passing through Beli Kachar Road, there has been no respite for commuters facing frequent jam like situations at Shantipuram crossing. A senior traffic police official said, “As the volume of traffic is quite high on the city’s busiest route, department has decided to deploy more policemen on the route to check the traffic chaos”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/no-respite-from-traffic-congestion-as-diversion-plan-fails/articleshow/80455742.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Lucknow||Students in a fix over exam dates of AKTU, GATE||LUCKNOW: Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University’s examination dates have left final year engineering students in a fix. The dates of the final year semester examination are scheduled close to the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE-2021), considered to be a crucial examination for engineering graduates. “I am a GATE aspirant and my exam is scheduled for February 7, while my AKTU seventh semester examinations are scheduled in the first week. It will definitely pose additional burden on me and traveling to two examination centres will also be a challenge,” said BTech student Sovan Chakraborty. Another B Tech student Gaurav Mishra said, “GATE examination for different branches will be held on February 6, 7, 13 and 14. As GATE is the biggest examination for any engineering graduate the varsity should consider our request of revising the examination schedule.” The students said that as there is no gap between the AKTU examination and GATE it would be difficult for them to focus on two examinations at a time. Meanwhile, AKTU spokesperson Aashish Mishra said, “Our B Tech examinations are not clashing with GATE, but yes they are scheduled close.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/students-in-a-fix-over-exam-dates-of-aktu-gate/articleshow/80457369.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Nagpur||More tests in Vidarbha dists, cases at 39-day low in Ngp||Nagpur: The number of new Covid-19 cases is constantly going down in Vidarbha for the last two weeks, but this time, the reduced number of tests is not the reason. On January 25, Vidarbha (barring Bhandara and Gondia from where reports were not received) witnessed 439 new cases. These include Nagpur 128, Amravati 87, Yavatmal 77, Buldhana 73, Chandrapur 25, Akola 18, Wardha 12, Washim 11, and Gadchiroli 8. This number is significantly low as compared to the number of tests conducted in these districts. For example, Nagpur conducted 4,959 tests on Monday, followed by Buldhana 1,797, Yavatmal 1,130, Amravati 564, and Chandrapur 342. More tests and fewer new patients is a strong indicator that the pandemic situation is under control. On the other hand, 566 patients recovered on Monday. These include Nagpur 193, Buldhana 98, Amravati 90, Wardha 51, Yavatmal 48, Akola 28, Chandrapur 27, Washim 18, and Gadchiroli 13. Total 2,56,383 patients have now recovered out of the total 2,69,479 cases. The recovery rate further improved to 95.1%, but it is still less than the state average of 95.28% and national average which is nearing 97% mark. Total 14 deaths were reported in the day from the region. These include Nagpur 6, Wardha 2, Akola 2, Buldhana 2, Chandrapur 1, and Yavatmal 1. Vidarbha’s total Covid-19 toll reached 6,920. Case fatality rate, however, remained steady at 2.56%. The number of patients under treatment has gone down significantly in the last six days. On Monday, 6,177 patients were under treatment, which is less than 2.3% of the total cases reported till date. More than 65% of these patients are recovering in home isolation, which suggests low hospitalization rate in Vidarbha, another positive indicator. Wardha: Two men died due to coronavirus, taking the toll to 303. On Monday, 12 cases were reported and 51 patients discharged. The caseload of district increased to 9,897 and the recoveries reached 9,313. Currently, 281 patients are undergoing treatment. Yavatmal: The district recorded one death on Monday, which takes the toll to 427. 77 more cases were reported. Currently, 423 patients are undergoing treatment. 13,220 patients, including 48 on Monday have recovered. Chandrapur: There were 25 new cases, while 27 patients were discharged. One death was reported, taking the toll to 386. There are 161 active cases in the district. The case tally has climbed to 22,984, while total recoveries are now 22,437. Amravati: Ninety recoveries, as against 87 new cases took the total recoveries of the district to 20,515 and caseload to 21,290, leaving 362 under treatment. Deaths remained constant at 413 for the second successive day. Akola: Two men — a 65-year-old and 71-year-old, died during Covid-19 treatment in Akola on Monday. This took the district’s Covid toll to 334. Total 18 new patients were detected while 28 recovered in the day. This took total cases to 11,409 and recoveries to 10,430. Now, 645 patients are under treatment in the district. Buldhana: The district received reports of more than 1,700 tests and 73 were positive. This took the total number of Covid-19 cases in Buldhana to 13,663. On the other hand, 98 patients recovered which increased the number of recoveries to 13,209. Buldhana reported two Covid casulties on Monday. These include an 85-year old woman and a 73-year-old man. The Covid toll of the district thus reached 166. Now, 288 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: Eight Covid patients detected, while 13 recovered in Gadchiroli on Monday. This took total cases to 9,323 and recoveries to 9,161. Recovery rate of the district surpassed 98%-mark, which made Gadchiroli a district with highest recovery rate in Vidarbha. No Covid death was reported on Monday, keeping the toll at 105. Now, only 57 patients are under treatment in the district, which is lowest in the region. Washim: The district reported 11 new Covid cases and 18 recoveries on Monday. Total cases reached 7,023 and recoveries to 6,725. Now, 147 patients are under treatment in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-tests-in-vidarbha-dists-cases-at-39-day-low-in-ngp/articleshow/80456535.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Man arrested for stabbing witness||MUMBAI: The Wagle Estate cops arrested a man, believed to be an aide of gangster Amit Bhogale, for stabbing a youth. The victim was a witness in a Navi Mumbai firing case of which Abhishek Jadhav, the arrested man and an another absconding criminal, Mandar Gawde, are accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-arrested-for-stabbing-witness/articleshow/80456543.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Lucknow||Vaccination rounds raised for more health workers||LUCKNOW: The phase one of Covid-19 vaccination drive has been expanded to cover all health workers by February 5. While two more rounds will be held next week in addition to two rounds scheduled on Thursday and Friday, the number of vaccination centres and beneficiaries to be inoculated per booth have also been increased. This was decided by the health department on Monday following the chief minister’s directions to complete vaccination of all healthcare providers by February 5. There are about 51,000 healthcare workers. The turnout was 70% and 58%, respectively, in the first two rounds held on January 16 and January 22. Together, 6,275 health workers have been vaccinated so far. There were 12 centres in the first round and 35 in the second. The third and four rounds to be held on Thursday and Friday will be done in 120 booths at 44 centres. In comparison to 100 inoculations per booth, now 125 will be done. Both the rounds will cover 15,000 beneficiaries each. These 44 centres will host two more rounds next week. While on February 4, vaccination will be done in 115 booths covering 14, 325, the remaining beneficiaries will be called at 105 booths on February 5. The remaining beneficiaries will include those who skipped vaccination or could not be inoculated for various reasons in the rounds held till then, said district Immunisation officer Dr MK Singh. “The names of the centres will be finalised soon, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vax-rounds-raised-for-more-health-workers/articleshow/80457373.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Gulf job aspirants for action against agent for duping them||HYDERABAD: Scores of job aspirants in Gulf countries have approached the Nizamabad police demanding action against Armoor-based agent Avinash, who allegedly cheated them of lakhs of rupees in the guise of sending them abroad. Avinash, who used to work for a company in Bahrain, had promised them jobs in Dubai, Bahrain and Afghanistan. The complainants said they were also given visas and flight tickets, but when they travelled to Hyderabad to fly to their destinations, the agent did not meet them there. They tried to get in touch with him on his mobile, which was switched off. The visas and air tickets also turned out to be fake. On Monday, 40 such job-seekers, who were cheated, approached the district administration and police demanding action. “All those from whom money was taken were made to believe that they would be given well-paid jobs with a salary up to Rs 80,000 a month,” Patkuri Basant Reddy, a social worker and president of Gulf Telangana Welfare and Cultural Association, told TOI. Basant Reddy said the workers first went to the Nizamabad collectorate to represent the matter to the collector. Since the collector was not available, they were asked to meet the commissioner of police. At the CP’s office, they met an IPS officer and handed over the complaint to him. Arjun Akkapalli, 27, who completed B Tech, was among the victims. “When we went to him (Avinash) to demand our money back, he gave us vague promises,” he said. The agent himself lodged a police complaint against the victims saying that they had forcibly taken away his passport. “We did ask him to handover his passport to us two months ago and he gave it as a surety saying that he would not fly out of the country. He promised to give us back our money but we have not got it so far,” 28-year-old L Nikhil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gulf-job-aspirants-for-action-against-agent-for-duping-them/articleshow/80455524.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Duo poses as BMC staff to kidnap Malad businessman's son, nabbed||MUMBAI: When a person posing as a BMC staffer called up Malad businessman Vipul Nathwani to say that his 13-year-old was going to be fined for not wearing a mask outdoors, things did not seem right. Nathwani repeatedly tried reaching his son on his phone. A short while later, a call came in and sent shivers down Nathwani’s spine. The man pretending to be a civic staffer was a kidnapper and wanted a ransom to let off the teenager. Nathwani rushed to Malad police, who tracked down the teen in two hours and nabbed two kidnappers that night. Shekhar Vishwakarma (35), a carpenter, and Divyanshu Vishwakarma (21), a collegian, later told investigators they were desperate for money as they had Rs 3 lakh in debts. Taking inspiration from crime shows on TV, the two planned to kidnap a rich child who has his own phone, which they could use for making ransom calls. The duo checked out societies in Malad (W) for five days before zeroing in on Nathwani’s son last week. “They took notes on the teen’s daily routine, his father’s occupation and the make of the family car,” said senior inspector Dhananjay Ligade. Around 4pm on Sunday, when the teen left home for football practice, they “intercepted”. Posing as BMC officers, they flagged down an auto and bundled him inside, pretending they were headed to the ward office. Shortly, Shekhar got off the auto with the teen’s phone and made two calls to his father. The plan was that Divyanshu and the teen would roam around Malad until Shekhar picked up the ransom from Nathwani. Police combed Malad with the teen’s photo and by 7pm tracked Divyanshu and the boy at Kantilal Makhija maidan. “The teen was not told about his abduction by the Vishwakarmas so he would not raise an alarm,” said inspector Sudhir Dalvi. Shekhar, unaware of his aide’s arrest, continued calling Nathwani for the ransom. Police coached Nathwani on how to deal with the kidnapper and where to summon him for handing over the money. “My wife was very hassled but police assured her our son would be unharmed. I’m very grateful to them,” said Nathwani. A trap was laid at Mith Chowky in Malad and Shekhar, who had been changing location all evening, was caught.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/duo-kidnaps-malad-bizmans-son-nabbed-within-hours/articleshow/80456175.cms||Nitasha Natu
January 26, 2021||Kanpur||Jalaun officials help poor students realise dreams||Jhansi: Even as the state government is all set to launch free coaching for competitive examinations for the poor from Basant Panchmi, the Jalaun administration is already conducting the same in the district since 2018 giving desirable results. Senior administrative officers, including DM Jalaun, SDM, DIOS along with a few teachers have been volunteering their services to shape up the career of these poor children who otherwise may not have thought of cracking the competitive exams. Started in September 2018 with 30 students from a room in the district library, the strength of students has doubled in two years with over a dozen being able to crack some or the other competitive examinations, including lower PCS. As per DM Jalaun, Dr Mannan Akhtar, who initiated the venture the idea clicked during one of his visits to a school where a girl asked him how students like her, who come from poor backgrounds and cannot afford coaching, qualify for government services. This led to a brainstorming session among the district administration and madhyamik shiksha department officials leading to the launch of ‘Jalaun career programme’. The aim was to provide free coaching and study materials to meritorious students from economically deprived families. “The programme is run by volunteer teachers and government officials who take time out of their busy schedules to teach these students and also guide them for future endeavours. We even provide them with free course material,” said DM Jalaun. With time to give better teaching, the classrooms have been converted into smart classes where the coaching continued even during lockdown due to pandemic through online classes with help of software. For this a local NGO, Bharat Vikas Parishad came forward to help. So far, 15 students have qualified in lower PCS, police, railways, and government teachers from the coaching. As per Rajnarayan Singh 26, son of a marginal farmer from village Aunta, and who has qualified for assistant teacher, the coaching came as a boon for him to get the job. He was one of the 30 students of the first batch who were selected out of 200 persons who sat for an entrance exam. “I will always be indebted to DM Sir and other officers who regularly came and taught us apart from giving us counselling. No one used to come to the library earlier but today it is filled with students. I have promised myself that I too will be teaching free of cost to such needy children in future as this will be the only way to pay back,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/jalaun-officials-help-poor-students-realise-dreams/articleshow/80455392.cms||Arindam Ghosh
January 26, 2021||Ludhiana||Transporter loses 3 lakh to fraudster||Ludhiana: A city-based transporter has lost Rs 3 lakh to a fraudster, who claimed to be the reader with a judge, on the pretext of getting his son a government job in Punjab sports department. According to the victim, the accused has duped many people in this way. He was once nabbed but the police allegedly released him. The victim has also got a picture of the accused wearing the Army uniform. The accused has been identified as Paramjit Singh (29) of Sidhwan Bet in Jagraon. An FIR has been lodged against him on the complaint of Iqbal Singh (55), a school bus transporter, of Raja Garden area, Barewal road. In his complaint to police, Iqbal Singh stated that through some dealer Paramjit Singh came in his contact as the latter was looking for a rented accommodation. In March 2020, the accused, along with his wife and a four-month-old baby, started living on the first floor of the house on rent. Paramjit introduced himself as the reader of a judge, who at that time was in Ludhiana, but now was in Jalandhar. Within a few days, the accused developed cordial relations with the entire family. The complainant added that his son Gurpreet was a football player and the accused assured them to get him a job of sports secretary in Punjab sports department with the reference of the judge. The accused demanded Rs 3 lakh for this, which the family agreed to pay. On April 28, 2020, he gave Rs 2 lakh to the accused and Rs 1 lakh on May 5, 2020. Further, the marriage of Iqbal Singh’s daughter was scheduled on August 26, 2020, and during that too Paramjit and his wife remained active in the preparations. Meanwhile, the family was occupied with the marriage preparations and the accused at the same time was shifting his household stuff to vacate the accommodation and they came to know about it later on. Iqbal said, “When the accused failed in getting my son a job, I asked him to return the money. Paramjit then gave a cheque of Rs 4 lakh, which got bounced. Thereafter, I inquired about him and found that he was not associated with any judge and was a fraudster. During this, I also came in touch with more people whom Paramjit had duped on the pretext of getting government jobs.” The victim said that when he lodged a complaint with the Ranghunath police post, the cops asked to approach the commissioner of police. Meanwhile in October, some people who had been duped by Paramjit nabbed him in division number 7 area and took him to the police station. However, the cops released him saying that the complaint was not lodged at their police station. He added that after meeting CP Rakesh Agarwal an inquiry was marked. Following that, a case was registered against the accused. ASI Rajinder Kumar of police station, Sarabha Nagar, said that an FIR had been lodged under Sections 420 of the IPC against Paramjit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/transporter-loses-3-lakh-to-fraudster/articleshow/80454626.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Dehradun||Trains affected due to construction work||Dehradun: The train route on the Dehradun-Haridwar section will remain affected for over 10 hours (from 8am to 6.30pm) on January 27 due to traffic-cum-power block for construction work between Raiwala and Kansrao stations. According to Railway board, girders will be placed along the construction site for four lanes of Dehradun-Haridwar section of NH-58 and NH-72. So, two pairs of trains New Delhi-Dehradun Shatabdi Express and Dehradun-Kathgodam Janshatabdi express will commence from Haridwar station on scheduled time, instead of Dehradun. Also, the movement of Howrah-Dehradun Upasana SF festival special will be restricted on the same day. Sitaram Sonkar, station master at Dehradun railway station, said, “Due to girder installation, the origin of two pairs of trains has been changed. Shatabdi express and Naini-Doon Janshatabdi express will start from Haridwar on its scheduled time."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/trains-affected-due-to-construction-work/articleshow/80454623.cms||Sukanta Mukherjee
January 26, 2021||Lucknow||Fugitive IPS officer files surrender plea||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court on Monday rejected a plea of absconding IPS officer Arvind Sen seeking anticipatory bail in connection with a graft case relating to animal husbandry department. Later, following the HC rejection of his plea, Sen moved the special court of Prohibition of Corruption Act for his surrender. The court fixed January 27 for hearing on his plea to surrender. Earlier, rejecting the anticipatory bail plea of Sen, Justice Alok Mathur said that on consideration of the entire evidence it cannot be said that there was no involvement of him in the scam. Opposing the bail plea, additional advocate general V K Sahi had vehemently argued that Sen had actively conspired with co-accused Ashish Rai and even Rs 10 lakhs were transferred in his own bank account to which he has no explanation. Disappointed by the HC, Sen moved the special PC Act court on Monday itself filing his surrender application through his lawyer and pleaded to fix some other date as he was sick on the day. Special Judge Sandeep Gupta then fixed January 27. A businessman MS Bhatia alias Rinku lodged an FIR in the matter with Hazratganj police on June 13, 2020. As many as 13 accused were named in the FIR. Sen’s name figured in the matter during the probe. Sen is alleged to have misused his post for getting a tender allotted illegally in the animal husbandry department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fugitive-ips-officer-files-surrender-plea/articleshow/80457377.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||‘Gall bladder cancer high in areas where people have gall stones’||Mumbai: As there is a link between incidences of gall bladder cancer known as ‘India’s disease’ as it is more common here and gall stones, one of the best ways to beat this cancer would be to develop a strategy to detect stones early, say doctors at Tata Memorial Centre (TMC) here. “Gall bladder cancer is associated with high death rates as there is no effective treatment,’’ said Prof Rajesh Dikshit of TMC’s Centre for Cancer Epidemiology, who last week published a study establishing a causal link between gall bladder cancer and gall stones. “It is hence best to look at ways to prevent it,’’ he said. The new study published in American Association for Cancer Research’s journal, ‘Cancer Epidemiology, Biomarker and Prevention’, looked at self-observations of 1,170 gall bladder cancer patients and genetic data from India and UK. It noted that ultrasound scans would be difficult to conduct in the field for identification of gallstones, especially in areas with poor health infrastructure. “A panel of genetic markers could be used to identify those likely to develop stones,’’ he said. Treatment for gall stones is simpler and cheaper, compared to cancer. Gall bladder cancer is common in India’s north and northeast regions. The Tata team also found that prevalence of gall stones is high in areas with high incidence of gall bladder cancer. In the last seven years, TMC’s centre found that the use of contaminated mustard oil, and fish fried in contaminated and re-heated mustard oil is associated with increased risk of gall bladder cancer. The team discovered that abnormality on chromosome 7 that carries genes ABCB4 and ABCB1 is responsible for increase in risk of gall bladder cancer. “The study’s findings are important as they can be used to plan preventive strategies for gall bladder cancer,”' said the doctor. TMC plans to develop a trial to prevent gall bladder cancer based on its findings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gall-bladder-cancer-high-in-areas-where-people-have-gall-stones/articleshow/80455954.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Close polluting units in Jeedimetla: Telangana high court||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Monday directed the Telangana State Pollution Control Board to order closure of errant pollutant industries playing havoc with the lives of people in Jeedimetla area. “Issue them notice, ask them to rectify and if they fail to comply, order closure,” said a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy while resuming hearing in a PIL that was taken up suo motu after coming to know about the plight of the local residents through media reports. “Take police help if you apprehend and resistance from the violators,” the bench told PCB counsel Shiv Kumar. “Complete this exercise in two months and furnish us a status report thereafter,” the bench said. The woes of the residents in the area are increasing with the illegal discharge of effluents into tanks, lakes and open spaces by the polluting industries. Even ground water was getting contaminated in the area and children are afflicted with several ailments on account of consumption of water from this area. “Deformities are now noticed even in infants indicating the danger of an emerging crippled generation, the media reports that became the basis for this PIL,” said. The bench wondered as to what the authorities were doing in the last thirty years and sought to know the details of.action the PCB took in the last five years ever since the HC took up the issue. The PCB counsel explained that they identified 45 pollutant industries and put them on notice with a warning that they would be closed if they do not keep in place adequate treatment plants and waste disposal mechanism. “So far, 16 industries rectified the problem and the rest are yet to respond,” he said. He also told the bench that a separate task force was set.upnto monitor the situation. The bench sought to know as to what this task force did in the last few years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/close-polluting-units-in-jeedimetla-hc/articleshow/80455527.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Ex-BJP neta joins NCP in Navi Mumbai||Former BJP corporator from Juinagar, Tanuja Madhavi and her husband Shridhar Madhavi, joined the NCP on Monday. BJP Navi Mumbai unit president Ramchandra Gharat said, “Tanuja Madhavi’s exit will have no impact in the forthcoming civic polls.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/ex-bjp-neta-joins-ncp-in-navi-mum/articleshow/80456555.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Varanasi||Int’l scholars to attend seminar on Nath sect||Gorakhpur: Mahayogi Gorakshnath Shodhpeeth at DDU Gorakhpur University will organize a three-day international seminar on Nath sect from March 20 to March 22 in both online and offline modes. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will be present as chief guest in the opening and closing ceremonies, said Mahendra Singh of DDU Gorakhpur media office. “Noted Nath sect scholars Yogi Hallman Nath from Austria, Bhagwan Nath from Spain, Yogini Devkinath from Brazil, Dr Madhav Deshpande of Michigan University, US, will attend the seminar. The main seminar topic is ‘Nath Panth ke Vaishwik Pradey’. There will be 35-40 technical sessions and their format is being prepared under the guidance of vice-chancellor Prof Rajesh Singh,” he added. Various educationists like Dr Vishwanand Putia of Mauritius, Dr Sri Hari Singh from MP, Gaur University vice-chancellor Dr Balwant Jani, Indian Council chairman Prof RC Sinha, Kapilnath from America, Prof Sudhir Singh of Delhi University, Yogi Vilasnath from Maharashtra, Yogi Matsyendra from Russia, Dr Kushal B Chakravarti from Bangladesh, Prof Neem Chandra Bhowmik, Prof Kapil Kapoor from JNU, Baba Mastnath from Rohtak, Prof Ram Sajan Pandey and Prof Harmendra Singh Bedi will also attend the seminar, he said. The sub topics will be Bharatiya Yog Parampara evam Nath Panth, Darshan Sadhna, Sahitya aur Nath panth, Rashtra Chintan, Rashtra Nirman evam Nath panth, Nath Panth-Samajik, Sanskritik evam Vigyani Ayam, Nath Panth ke Sanskritik sthal evam Paryatan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/intl-scholars-to-attend-seminar-on-nath-sect/articleshow/80455066.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 26, 2021||Nagpur||Rly unions protest removal of posters||Nagpur: The employees affiliated with the National Railway Mazdoor Union (NRMU) and Central Railway Mazdoor Sangh (CRMS), the two recognized railway unions, on Monday staged flash protest against removal of their posters and banners from the DRM office and station premises. According to NRMU working president Habib Khan and CRMS divisional president Virendra Singh, these banners were installed to welcome Central Railway general manager Sanjeev Mittal, who is on an annual inspection visit to Nagpur division. The posters also mentioned the achievements of the two unions. The unions alleged that while posters and banners of recognized unions were removed, similar action was not taken against unrecognized unions. “The unwarranted action was unprecedented and will spoil relations with the management. It is an anti-labour move,” said the unions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rly-unions-protest-removal-of-posters/articleshow/80456545.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Lucknow||ADG (L&O) among 8 UP cops to bag police gallantry medal||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh police has been awarded eight police medals for gallantry, seven President’s police medals for distinguished services and 72 medals of police meritorious services on the occasion of Republic Day. Congratulating the awardees, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said these officials performed their duty in an exemplary manner and hoped that other police officials would take inspiration from them. The coveted gallantry medal was awarded to additional director general (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar, for the encounter of a criminal, Shravan, in Gautam Budh Nagar on March 25, 2018. Shravan was named in 14 criminal cases and carried Rs 1 lakh cash reward from Delhi police and Rs 50,000 from UP police. Challenged by police team, Shravan had opened fire from an AK-47 rifle. One of the bullets had hit the bullet-proof jacket of Kumar, who was ADG (Meerut zone) at that time. The police fired in retaliation gunning down Shravan. Besides ADG Kumar, other cops who were awarded for gallantry for the same operation include inspector Sanjeev Kumar, two sub-inspectors and a constable. ADG Prashant Kumar holds the distinction of being awarded the gallantry medal consecutively in 2020 and 2021. Superintendent of police, Baghpat, Abhishek Singh has also been awarded gallantry medal for the encounter of criminals Narsi and Dheeraj on May 29, 2018. These two criminals were accused of killing a bride and looting six others on Meerut Highway in April 2018. Singh was then posted as SSP (Special Task Force). His other team members, who have also been awarded, are DySP Brijesh Singh and constable Rakam Singh. IG, Recruitment Board, Vijay Bhushan has been awarded President’s Police Medal for distinguished services. Vijay Bhushan has been honoured with President’s Police Medals six times in the past and this is the seventh occasion that he is being awarded for outstanding service. Likewise, ADG, UP 112, Asim Arun was awarded the President’s police medal for distinguished service along with six others. As many as 72 medals have been awarded to UP cops for meritorious service. UP police had won 23 medals for gallantry on Independence Day last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/adg-loamong-8-up-copsto-bag-police-gallantry-medal/articleshow/80457532.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Lucknow||Girl gets SP post for a day in Bijnor district||LUCKNOW: To build confidence among girls and women about police and to make them aware about the policing system, a class XII girl student was made superintendent of police for a day in Bijnor under Mission Shakti. Appointed by Bijnor SP Dharamveer Singh, Akanksha interacted with the staff to know if they were facing any issues. She also inspected the office campus and gave instructions regarding maintenance of cleanliness and managing important documents. She also assured complainants of timely action over their complaints and gave instructions to staff for quick redressal of grievances. She also took stock of the preparations for Republic Day celebrations. The SP felicitated Akanksha for actively discharging her duties for the day. In another event, the anti-Romeo team of the district created awareness among people about the campaign, women help desks and helpline numbers. Meanwhile, National PG College in Lucknow held a debate on ‘save daughter, empower girl, prohibit female foeticide’ under Mission Shakti. Student Srijal Mishra said that to empower girls both physically and mentally, they should be given equal opportunities in every field and this could become possible only after awareness among common people. Discussions on female foeticide were held at St Xavier’s College in Lucknow. A painting competition was held at Amirudaula Islamia Inter College in the state capital. Many students participated in the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/girl-gets-sp-post-for-a-day-in-bijnor-dist/articleshow/80457420.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 26, 2021||Goa||Systematic planning helped state return to normal: Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari||PORVORIM: Goa governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Monday lauded the efforts of the Pramod Sawant government in handling the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant economic setback. The governor, in his customary address before the Goa Legislative Assembly, said that despite the socio-economic setbacks, the government’s “systematic planning” and “corrective measures” helped Goa return to complete normalcy. While Koshyari was all praise for the BJP-led government, he was silent on pertinent issues that have roiled the state in the last six to eight months. His speech made no mention about coal transportation or the three linear infrastructure projects coming up in Mollem, which rankled the opposition. Congress and GFP were quick to voice their displeasure and questioned the seriousness of the governor’s address. A united opposition, including NCP’s Churchill Alemao, wore black arm bands, waved placards and protested against coal transportation as Koshyari was being escorted out of the house at the end of his address. The governor spoke for just over a minute and then tabled the rest of his speech by stating that he was not feeling too good. The only reference in the speech to the concerns raised by Goans and environmentalists was a one line statement that said “Goans are very sensitive about the environment”. Koshyari began his speech by congratulating Sawant, the cabinet, frontline Covid warriors and the government machinery for controlling the spread of the pandemic. “Though the state has suffered a lot in terms of socio-economic and infrastructure development taking a back seat in the Covid times, but due to systematic planning, regular monitoring and instantaneous corrective measures by the state administration, the state is now gaining momentum in its activities from micro to macro level and is nearing complete normalcy,” said Koshyari. Continuing to congratulate the chief minister, Koshyari praised Sawant for “fruitful discussions” with the Fifteenth Finance Commission and for Goa’s 7th rank in the Sustainable Development Goal Index. Koshyari’s speech included references to the Swayampurna Goem programme and the Zilla Panchayat Elections. “My government is very keen to continue with efforts to place the state on a faster growth track and ensure inclusive growth and sustainable development of all concerned with active support and cooperation of all stakeholders,” said Koshyari. He praised Goa Police for reducing crime and for the crackdown on drug menace. He said that the overall crime detection rate of 92% for 2020 as against 84% in 2019 shows the commitment of the police force. He said that approximately 59kg drugs worth Rs3 crore was seized, which would help make Goa a drug-free state. While Koshyari praised the state administration for ensuring smooth supply of essential food grains to the citizens without any shortage during the pandemic, he glossed over the initial shortage of basic essentials and the hardships faced by tourists and locals when the Goa government threw the state into an unprepared lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/systematic-planning-helped-state-return-to-normal-guv/articleshow/80457826.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Lucknow||UP government’s outreach to help farmers get benefit of PM Kisan||LUCKNOW: As farmers’ associations threaten to intensify their agitation against the new farm laws, the state government is set to launch an outreach programme through special camps to help farmers receive the benefits of central flagship scheme PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. The scheme envisages minimum income support of Rs 6,000 per year to farmers. In a letter to all district magistrates, additional chief secretary, agriculture, Devesh Chaturvedi said the camps would be organised from February 1-3 to address the issue of authentication of Aadhaar card data which has been made mandatory for farmers to get financial support under the scheme. “In many cases, Aadhaar number was found to be invalid or the name mentioned in Aadhaar card did not match the database. In all such cases, the transfer of grant was stopped. Though the government had made provision of data correction through open source on pmkisan.gov.in portal, still there are many farmers whose data could not be rectified,” the letter said. The department directed administrative officials of all the districts to ensure mass awareness among farmers to attend the camps proposed to be organised at state seed warehouse in their respective development blocks. The agriculture department will depute its computer operators in each block to help farmers get their details corrected. In case of farmers who have got at least one instalment, the department will seek the help of banks to authenticate their data for the remaining. Farmers can get other problems also addressed in the camps, which would be monitored by agriculture department. The ACS said the DMs could also put in place better remedial measures to resolve the issue of data rectification so that the left out farmers could get the benefit of the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govts-outreach-to-help-farmers-get-benefit-of-pm-kisan/articleshow/80457410.cms||Pankaj Shah
January 26, 2021||Lucknow||Fresh Covid-19 cases further dip to 220; 456 recoveries reported||Lucknow: The Covid-19 tally for UP reached 5,98,907 on Monday with the addition of 220 new cases in the past 24 hours. As many as 456 recoveries were also reported in the same duration, taking the total to 5,83,470. ACS, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad informed newspersons that the state’s Covid-19 recovery rate had reached 97.4%, while the total number of active infections was below 7,000. He also said that for the first time in over eight months, the number of Covid-19 cases in a single day was less than 250. Reiterating that though the cases were declining and the vaccine programme had also been rolled out, following prevention protocol was a life-saving intervention. Data recorded seven Covid-19 deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 8,624.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fresh-covid-19-cases-further-dip-to-220-456-recoveries-reported/articleshow/80457401.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Nagpur||Indian vulture sighted in Bor for first time||Nagpur: In what can be called a good news for bird watchers, the Bor forest witnessed a rare sighting of a ‘critically endangered’ bird, Indian vulture (Gyps indicus). The Indian vulture, which can be found in Pakistan and Nepal also, has been listed in ‘critically endangered’ category on the IUCN Red List since 2002 because of its declining population. The vulture was sighted by bird expert Dilip Virkhade at the backyard of Bor dam. “We found that a long-billed bird was feeding on a nilgai carcass along with some wild boars. We were curious and with a close look it turned out to be an Indian vulture,” said Virkhade, member of the Bahar Nature Foundation. In the 1990s, vultures were prominently found in the region but, according to reports, the numbers of the bird started declining after consuming animal carcasses exposed to diclofenac. Virkhade says, “In 2015, when we published the list of birds in Wardha district, it included four species of vultures including Indian vulture. This is the first record in Bor,” he said. “We are happy to record of Indian vulture in Bor. A scientific study needs to be done whether the raptor is a resident or has migrated from elsewhere. It also shows that the tiger reserve has good habitat and rich biodiversity,” said Nilesh Gawande, range forest officer (RFO), Bor. “The recorded evidence of the prey bird has thrilled bird watchers. The species went extinct due to human errors. Now its reappearance calls for scientific studies,” said former honorary wildlife warden Sanjay Ingle Teegaonkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/indian-vulture-sighted-in-bor-for-first-time/articleshow/80456559.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||‘Let police decide if there’s a case against Kangana’||Mumbai: Film casting director Munawar Ali Sayyed, in a reply to oppose actor Kangana Ranaut’s plea to quash an FIR over her “inflammatory tweets”, said the issue of whether allegations make out a case was an exercise to be done by police during investigations. Sayyed’s affidavit, submitted through counsel Rizwan Merchant, sought dismissal of a petition by Kangana and her sister Rangoli Chandel, saying interference by HC will “only embolden and allow them to continue with their process of exciting disaffection and feeling of hatred... towards government of Maharashtra’’. Annexing her tweets, he said they “are capable of creating an environment prejudicial to maintenance of law and order, public order and public tranquility.’’ Her counsel Rizwan Siddiquee said he was ready to argue the matter and . The court asked him and Merchant how much time they would take and posted the hearing next on February 15. Ranaut sought quashing of a magistrate’s October 2020 order and subsequent FIR against her and her sister. Bandra police had lodged an FIR against the sisters for offences including sedition and statements to promote communal disharmony. HC earlier expressed reservation on the invocation of ‘sedition’ as an offence against the sisters. HC had last November, in an interim order, granted protection to the sisters from coercive action and arrest by Mumbai Police in the case.Swati Deshpande||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/let-police-decide-if-theres-a-case-against-kangana/articleshow/80455957.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Word of mouth boosts confidence in vax exercise||NEW DELHI: After getting inoculated, 46-year-old Savita, an accredited social health activist (Asha) worker, clicked a picture of herself at the selfie spot outside her vaccination booth. She also took a picture of the certificate and later shared both of them on her different WhatsApp groups. Also, she shared the experience with her neighbours. Her efforts encouraged many of her acquaintances to get the Covid-19 jab. “This is the least one can do to stop the novel coronavirus from spreading. I have been telling everyone that the vaccine is safe,” said Savita who is also the vaccination officer at one of the booths in south Delhi hospitals. An official at the booth in Ambedkar Nagar Hospital added that such word-of-mouth helps them increase the number of people coming to get vaccinated. After postponing it for several days, on Monday, Satya Devi and Suman visited the vaccination centre at the hospital. “Many of my anganwadi friends, who got inoculated, told me that I should not hesitate. They told me there was no need to worry as they did not feel any sort of health issue after receiving the vaccine,” said 34-year-old Suman. Even 56-year-old Devi, who lives at A block in Ambedkar Nagar, was encouraged by one of her colony friends to go and get the jab. The nodal officer at Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya Hospital said that for the past few days, they have been achieving the 100 target. At Ambedkar Nagar, they even saw over 110 beneficiaries visiting the booth on a day. Neelam Rani, 49, who works at Maternity and Child Welfare Centre at Vivek Vihar, said that she and 17 other people visited an ESI hospital together to avail the facility. “All five nurses and 13 Asha workers have been toiling since long to control the pandemic,” said Rani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/word-of-mouth-boosts-confidence-in-vax-exercise/articleshow/80456557.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Dehradun||4k health workers inoculated, 62 fresh Covid-19 cases recorded in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand health department managed to inoculate 4,032 healthcare workers for coronavirus on Monday. Dr Saroj Naithani, director National Health Mission (NHM), said that the healthcare staffers were vaccinated in the 58 vaccination sessions organised across the state on Monday. With 14,546 healthcare workers being administered Covid-19 vaccine jab in the state so far, Uttarakhand has managed to inoculate around 18% of the healthcare staffers in the first 10 days of the nationwide vaccinaton drive that started on January 16. “On Monday, 857 people were vaccinated in Dehradun in 13 sessions, followed by 507 people in Haridwar in nine sessions, and 488 people in Nainital in six sessions,” added Naithani. Meanwhile, 62 fresh cases of Covid-19 took the state case tally to 95,702 in Uttarakhand. Also, four more deaths pushed the toll beyond 1,635. On Monday, 254 people recovered from Covid-19 infection, taking the number of cured cases to 91,221. “The recovery rate in the state reached 95.3% and the infection rate dropped to 4.6%,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid 19 control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/4k-health-workers-inoculated-62-fresh-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-ukhand/articleshow/80454657.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 26, 2021||Allahabad||Gymnast thrilled after winning award, interaction with PM||PRAYAGRAJ: City based artistic gymnast Mohammad Rafey, who has been awarded Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar-2021 for exceptional abilities and outstanding accomplishments in the fields of sports, was delighted and thrilled after a virtual interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. Rafey (17) was one among the five children from Uttar Pradesh selected for the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar-2021. After the video-conferencing at district collectorate-based National Informatics Centre (NIC), Prayagraj, Rafey, who had won a medal in junior Asian Games held in Mangolia in 2019, said, “I feel honoured on being selected for the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar. It was a great moment for me when I interacted with PM. He is the biggest leader of the world.” “PM Modi is a great leader as he is doing a lot for youngsters and offering opportunities like Khelo India, youth games, Fit India movement, Beti Padhao-Beti Bachao and is promoting sports.” Many people in our country still don’t know about gymnastics at a time when Deepa Karmakar, Mohd Anas and Ashish Kumar have participated in international events like Olympics. I also want to represent my country in 2024 Paris Olympics and want to win gold, he added. There is urgent need to encourage budding gymnasts as they are hesitant thinking there is not much scope in gymnastics, said Rafey. “Prime Minister congratulated all awardees. Interaction with him has given me fresh energy to achieve my goals,” said Rafey who has won 50 medals at national level and is undergoing training in Pune. Rafey started learning gymnastics at the age of five and got the opportunity to represent the country in Junior Asian Games in 2019 and won a bronze medal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/gymnast-thrilled-after-winning-award-interaction-with-pm/articleshow/80456605.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana HC directs cops to accord permission for farmers’ rally||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Monday amicably resolved a stalemate between protesting farmers and police authorities and directed the police to accord permission to the agitating farmers, who are demanding that the new farm laws be scrapped, to take out a rally. Justice K Lakshman heard a petition filed by Pasya Padma of Telangana Rashtra Rythu Sangham alleging that permission was denied for the vehicle rally in support of the farmers on Republic Day from Indira Park to Necklace Road. The police were apprehensive about allowing such protests within the city on Republic Day and therefore denied the permission. However, the judge asked both parties to think of alternatives. Accordingly, the petitioners changed the route of the rally from Saroornagar Stadium to Uppal cricket stadium between 2pm and 5pm and Rachakonda police commissioner was asked to accord permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-directs-cops-to-accord-permission-for-farmers-rally/articleshow/80455546.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Kanpur||Nat’l Voters Day: First-time voters get certificate||Jhansi: On the occasion of 10th National Voters Day, sixteen first-time voters, including 9 girls, who recently attained the eligibility age of 18 years, were given voter I-cards on Monday at a function held here to celebrate the occasion. On this occasion a 90-year-old woman Mann Kuwar, who is also a corona warrior, was felicitated for being a regular voter and upholding the spirit of democracy at this age. The function was held at the newly refurbished Deendayal sabhagarh and presided over by commissioner, Jhansi division, Subhash Chandra Sharma. On this occasion, the audience was administered oath to exercise the right to franchise in elections. The commissioner said that the Election Commission had been constituted on January 25, 1950, a day before the Republic Day, to make the Election Commission an independent institution. He appealed to the voters to cast their votes in every election to strengthen the democratic system of the country. He asked those who have attained 18 year of age on January 1 to get themselves enrolled in the voters list.  IG Jhansi range, Subhash Singh Baghel and district magistrate Jhansi Andra Vamsi greeted everyone and appealed to the first time voters to help the nation become strong. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/natl-voters-day-first-time-voters-get-certificate/articleshow/80455357.cms||---
January 26, 2021||India||TMC, Congress netas claim Kovind faux pas, eat crow||NEW DELHI" Trinamool Congress and Congress Twitter handles sparked a controversy on Monday alleging that a portrait of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose unveiled by President Ram Nath Kovind in Rashtrapati Bhavan was actually that of actor Prosenjit Chatterjee, who played the freedom icon in a movie, only to backtrack after the government released the original photo provided by Netaji’s family. “After donating Rs 5 lakh to the Ram temple, the President honours Netaji by unveiling a portrait of Prosenjit, the actor who played him in a biopic. God save India (because this government certainly can’t),” posted Trinamool MP Mohua Moitra, who later withdrew her tweet. Kovind had made a personal donation to the Ram temple trust. Her tweet triggered a social media chatter at a time when BJP is making a determined play to associate itself with Netaji’s legacy. Chatterjee, who had played the lead role in ‘Gumnaami’, later congratulated artist Paresh Maity for the painting. Times ViewThis was an avoidable controversy. But it holds an important lesson. There is a need to pause and think before posting anything on social media. Eagerness to score brownie points over political rivals is understandable. But it should never come at the cost of facts.Bengal Congress tweeted: “Is the portrait unveiled by the President of India that of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose or of actor Prosenjit Chatterjee who played the role of Netaji on screen? That is why education matters.” The incorrect claim seemed to have backfired as Moitra got rid of the tweet and other handles fell silent. Maity said he was honoured to do the painting. “Netaji has inspired me since my childhood. I referred to a photograph while doing this portrait. Finally, it is an artist’s impression of the great leader,” he said. Srijit Mukherji, director of ‘Gumnaami’, said, “I have uploaded the real photograph on the basis of which the painting at Rashtrapati Bhavan was done by Maity. This was one of the photographs we had based our look on when we did ‘Gumnaami’.” He added, “Any similarity with Prosenjit Chatterjee is a nod to make-up artist Somnath Kundu’s skills. Since I have uploaded the original picture... I see no reason for any controversy in this.” Chatterjee said, “Would like to congratulate Paresh Maity for the wonderful piece of art in remembrance of our national hero Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. As an actor, I’m elated that people thought that the painting resembles my character in Gumnaami.” While several prominent Twitterati endorsed the “unverified” claims about the portrait, government sources swiftly deflated the issue, putting out the original photo on which the portrait was based. “Such is the desperation of a deflated ecosystem that they will stoop to troll the office of the President and try to besmirch the legacy of Netaji — our national icon,” textiles minister Smriti Irani tweeted, sharing screenshots of several prominent people mocking Rashtrapati Bhavan. Although the President’s House did not comment on the controversy, government sources described the charge of an actor’s portrait, instead of Netaji’s, going up in Rashtrapati Bhavan as “ludicrous”. “There are multiple levels of scrutiny for decisions as serious as this, involving senior officials, ministries and even the family of the leader whose portrait was commissioned. The suggestion of a ‘mistake’, under the circumstances, is preposterous,” the source said. BJP social media in-charge Amit Malviya said, “If the neo-Bengal experts are done making a fool of themselves, outraging over portrait of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, unveiled by the President, let me remind that all their misplaced activism won’t be able to save Mamata Banerjee."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tmc-congress-netas-claim-kovind-faux-pas-eat-crow/articleshow/80459413.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Ludhiana||AAP, SAD condemn assault on Bittu; question his intentions||Ludhiana: A day after Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu was attacked when he had gone at the farmers’ protest site at Singhu border, several political parties have condemned the incident. But at the same time several leaders are questioning why in the first place Bittu went to the protest site and claimed that the attack reflected the sentiments of the farmers. Meanwhile, scores of Congress workers and leaders since Monday evening have started claiming that a leader of Aam Admi Party leader from Patti was among the attackers who manhandled Bittu. Gurdeep Singh Gosha, district president of Youth Akali Dal, Ludhiana, said, “Our party condemns any act of violence regardless of the victim being from any party. But this incident raises several questions on the intentions of Bittu as to why in the first place he went there when he knew that farmers had clearly warned leaders of all political parties from coming to the protest site. I hope that after this untoward incident MP Bittu and the Congress will realise that the farmers do not trust any of their leaders even if they try to stage drama by sitting at Jantar Mantar in front of the cameras. It is my sincere advice to Bittu that its will be better for him if he packs his bags and returns to Ludhiana and start serving Ludhianvis, who elected him as their MP. Otherwise, they too will also not allow him to enter the city.” Meanwhile, Lok Insaaf Party leader Sunny Kainth, who a few months back was manhandled outside MP Ravneet Singh Bittu’s Ludhiana home and his turban too was tossed, said, “Regardless of the fact that sometime back dozens of supporters of Bittu had beaten me up outside his house and removed my turban when I had gone to stage a peaceful protest there, I condemn the incident of tossing of Bittu’s turban as this is our sacred religious symbol given to us by our revered Gurus. So, even if its our rival’s turban, proper respect needs to be paid to it and I felt very pained after seeing what was happening to Bittu and such incidents should not take place.” According to Ahbaab Grewal, spokesperson of Aam Admi Party, “The incident of manhandling of MP Bittu is sad, but this is result of the politics that Bittu and his associates tried to play. What was the need for them to go there when they know that farmers would not like presence of political leaders who had been referring to them as Khalistanis. Whatever happened with Bittu was unfortunate, but it was he who himself made a situation like this that led to a scuffle. Why did he not leave the venue when he was constantly asked by the protesters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/aap-sad-condemn-assault-on-bittu-question-his-intentions/articleshow/80454663.cms||Mohit Behl
January 26, 2021||Lucknow||After 35 records in kitty, Lucknow kid bags PM Bal Puraskar on Republic Day||LUCKNOW: At the age when children usually play hide-and-seek, Vyom was busy mastering his skills on flute. He was just two years and two months old, when he created his first record in playing flute. Now 11, he has 35 records in his kitty in the fields of music, general knowledge and memory skills. This Republic Day, he has added another feather to his cap as he is one among the seven children who have been selected for the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puruskar. Vyom, a class 7 student of Gomtinagar-I branch of the City Montessori School, has been selected for excellence in the field of art and culture. Overall, 32 children from 21 states, including five from Uttar Pradesh, have made it to the list in different categories. On Monday, Vyom also attended a video conference in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the awardees. While Vyom didn’t get the opportunity to directly interact with the PM, but was inspired by his words. “I will always remember his (PM) advice that one should be humble and strive hard to achieve the best despite getting highest accolades,” he said. Son of a businessman father and a teacher mother, Vyom plays nine musical instruments – flute, drums, mouth organ, conch, synthesizer, doumbek, glockenspiel, tabla and guitar. “I do fluteboxing, which is an extended technique of flute where one plays a fusion of beat boxing with flute,” Vyom said. So far, he has 300 stage performances with various musical instruments to his credit. He holds 28 records in the field of music in the India Book of Records.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-35-records-in-kitty-lucknow-kidbags-pm-bal-puraskar-on-republic-day/articleshow/80457612.cms||Isha Jain
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Senior doctors in private hospitals take jab, set example||HYDERABAD: Senior doctors at private hospitals led from the front on a day the Covid-19 vaccine was rolled out for private healthcare workers in the state. Almost all heads of departments (HODs) and medical superintendents were the first to receive the vaccine on Monday, dispelling misconceptions associated with it. Answering queries of staff, Dr Rahul Medakkar, chief operating officer at CARE Hospitals, said, “As doctors, we wanted to be among the first set of healthcare workers to take the vaccine because it will build confidence among others. The vaccine will not just help you, but it will also protect the people around you who are at an increased risk for severe illness from Covid-19.” HODs of CARE Hospital in Banjara Hills, Apollo Hospital in Jubilee Hills, Medicover Hospitals and Yashoda Hospital in Somajiguda were among the senior doctors who were inoculated with the Covid-19 vaccine. Stating that the first day of the roll out for had been successful, Dr Pavan Gorukanti, director, Yashoda Hospitals, said: “Most of our beneficiaries willingly volunteered to take the vaccine and set an example for the rest. People should not miss the vaccine." Most senior doctors said the vaccine would be able to break the transmission chain of coronavirus. Dr Anil Krishna, MD Medicover Hospitals, said “I strongly encourage everyone to please take this opportunity of getting vaccinated, protecting themselves and others in society. This is the only way we can prevent a second wave.” Dr Sambit Sahu, clinical director, department of critical care, KIMS Hospitals, said, “The vaccination drive will continue for a couple more days to vaccinate around 3,500 beneficiaries. No significant adverse events was noticed on Day One.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/senior-docs-in-pvt-hosps-take-jab-set-example/articleshow/80455593.cms||Moulika.KV
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Tourism boost: MoUs worth Rs 2,905 crore inked||MUMBAI: To boost tourism in the state, the tourism department has signed several Memorandum of Understandings (MoU) worth Rs 2,905 crore. Hotels, resorts and wellness centers will be set up to generate 6,754 jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/tourism-boost-mous-worth-rs-2905cr-inked/articleshow/80456565.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Kanpur||Uttar Pradesh to levy category-wise development charges||LUCKNOW: The state cabinet on Monday gave its nod to reducing development charges in less developed areas around the cities in Uttar Pradesh. The cabinet modified the development charges clause of the UP urban planning Act of 1973 to decide the developmental charges in the areas coming under the jurisdiction of development authorities. The cabinet also authorised CM Yogi Adityanath, who also holds the charge of housing and urban planning, to take a decision vis-a-vis development charges of different categories of areas coming under the jurisdiction of development authorities. Housing officials said that the development authorities were facing problems in recovering development charges from the projects in the less developed areas having people with low paying capacity. This was because the charges were in accordance with the 2014 rules in which the less developed areas were equated with the main cities which were more developed. At the same time, development charges have been raised for areas which are more developed than the cities where development authorities are located. For instance, development charges for Loni, Modinagar and Moradnagar in Ghaziabad development area would be reduced. So would be the case with Akbarpur Mati and Bithoor, which come under Kanpur development area. The cabinet raised the category of Bareilly, Muzzaffarnagar, Firozabad and Unnao-Shuklaganj on the basis of population size and assessing the growth potential. Henceforth, the development charges levied in these regions would be higher than earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/state-to-levy-category-wise-devpt-charges/articleshow/80462377.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: No relief for Sony Music MD in social media accounts case||MUMBAI: A sessions court rejected an anticipatory bail plea filed by the managing director of Sony Music, Rajat Kakkar, in connection with fake profiles on social media. The court adjourned the matter to January 27. Investigating officer Sachin Waze said that despite sending several summons, Kakkar did not appear before the police. According to CIU, their social media platforms allegedly indulged in malicious practices to increase the number of views and likes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-relief-for-sony-music-md-in-social-media-a/cs-case/articleshow/80457805.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Three held in Telangana for poaching spotted deer||HYDERABAD: Forest officials have busted a poaching racket and arrested three persons in Jayashankar Bhupalpally district. They seized three kilos of spotted deer meat, two limbs, skin and 660 metres of binding wire used to trap the wild animals and kill them by electrocution. The officials arrested Kandela Sampath, Pulyala Poshaiah and Vankdoth Mangu Naik from Ethnaram village of Mahamutharam mandal, and sent them in 14-day remand, while four others were still at large. Officials said the poaching case was of major concern as they noticed tiger movement and found pug marks in some parts of the district recently. A team headed by forest range officer of Pegadapally in (Mahadevpur division) Sushma Rao also conducted a raid on the houses of the accused and seized electric wires weighing over 25 kg, torch lights and three antlers. “Our team rushed to the spot after receiving information that a few people had killed a spotted deer. After surrounding them from all sides and taking them into custody, we came to know that the main accused, Sampath, is a repeat offender,” Sushma said, adding that wildlife poaching was rampant in this part of the district. Efforts were on to press charges under the PD Act against the offenders, the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-held-for-poaching-spotted-deer/articleshow/80455573.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Dehradun||By 2022, forest dept to phase out plastic and non-biodegradable waste from all areas under its jurisdiction||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand forest department has decided to rid forest areas of plastic and other non-biodegradable wastes. According to officials, all areas under the jurisdiction of the forest department and the tourism spots will be cleared of such wastes by 2022. The announcement was made by head of forest force Rajeev Bhartari at the forest department headquarters on Rajpur Road, Dehradun, on Monday. The decision comes after the Centre asked all the states to ensure that all the protected areas are plastic -free. Earlier, the DFO of Kedarnath Wildlife Sanctuary had added a clause regarding littering protective areas. Recently, a 2017 video, showing a tiger sniffing a plastic bottle, resurfaced on social media. This caused uproar among the conservationists. While the Uttarakhand government has announced to check use of single-use plastic at multiple occasions, little impact can be seen on the ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/by-2022-forest-dept-to-phase-out-plastic-and-non-biodegradable-waste-from-all-areas-under-its-jurisdiction/articleshow/80454682.cms||Shivani Azad
January 26, 2021||Lucknow||Chinese man set up shop in Panipat, woman was tourist||LUCKNOW: A day after the arrest of two Chinese nationals, Xu Xunfu aka July and Li Teng Li aka Alice, Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorist Squad (UPATS) on Monday revealed that Xunfu came to India in 2017 and opened an electronics shop in Panipat, while Li had come on a tourist visa in 2017. Xunfu’s visa expired in July 2020, and that of Li in September. UPATS said cases against Xunfu had been filed by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Delhi Police. IG, ATS, GK Goswami, told TOI that some cases of financial fraud were filed against Xunfu in Delhi. “He had opened an electronics shop in Panipat. We are tracing all details and will seek his remand on January 27,” he said. ATS sleuths disclosed that action was recommended many times against Xunfu in Delhi but was turned down later. Li had visited Chennai, Kolkata and Mumbai. “We are yet to know how the two got together for financial frauds,” said ATS officials. The other 14 arrested persons will also be brought face to face with the two Chinese and questioned. The two Chinese were arrested for purchasing SIM cards through forged documents and making fraudulent transactions with the SIM through banks. It is for the first time that the ATS has arrested Chinese nationals on a blue corner notice by the Interpol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chinese-man-set-up-shop-in-panipat-woman-was-tourist/articleshow/80457485.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
January 26, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh to levy category-wise development charges||LUCKNOW: The state cabinet on Monday gave its nod to reducing development charges in less developed areas around the cities in Uttar Pradesh. The cabinet modified the development charges clause of the UP urban planning Act of 1973 to decide the developmental charges in the areas coming under the jurisdiction of development authorities. The cabinet also authorised CM Yogi Adityanath, who also holds the charge of housing and urban planning, to take a decision vis-a-vis development charges of different categories of areas coming under the jurisdiction of development authorities. Housing officials said that the development authorities were facing problems in recovering development charges from the projects in the less developed areas having people with low paying capacity. This was because the charges were in accordance with the 2014 rules in which the less developed areas were equated with the main cities which were more developed. At the same time, development charges have been raised for areas which are more developed than the cities where development authorities are located. For instance, development charges for Loni, Modinagar and Moradnagar in Ghaziabad development area would be reduced. So would be the case with Akbarpur Mati and Bithoor, which come under Kanpur development area. The cabinet raised the category of Bareilly, Muzzaffarnagar, Firozabad and Unnao-Shuklaganj on the basis of population size and assessing the growth potential. Henceforth, the development charges levied in these regions would be higher than earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/state-to-levy-category-wise-devpt-charges/articleshow/80457483.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Lucknow||No one ever honoured us like PM, says Padma awardee Dom Raja’s son||VARANASI: “No one had ever honoured us ever before like Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who recognised our services to the community by asking my father to become his proposer in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. And now this award,” said Hariom Chaudhary, immediately after coming to know that his father has been posthumously conferred Padma Shri for social service by the government of India on Monday. Dom Raja had died due to prolonged illness on August 25, 2020. The Dashashwamedh police called Hariom’s elder brother Sadhu Chawdhary to inform him about the government announcement. After Sadhu returned home and shared the news with family, all the members and locals gathered at his house to celebrate. Hariom said, “In recent decades it is for the second time when such a great moment has come for our family and fraternity. Earlier, my father was given an opportunity to become PM’s proposer in the LS polls. And now he is given us this honour, though we are missing our father at this moment.” While accompanying Modi during his nomination filing process, late Dom Raja had said: “It is a pleasant surprise to become Modi Ji’s proposer. I had voted for Modi Ji in 2014 after which he improved all ghats, including cremation grounds, sanitary conditions and worked for the development of the city and country.” Dom Raja died on August 25, 2020 at the age of 55. Soon after the news of his demise, Modi had expressed grief through Twitter. Dom Raja was one of the proposers for Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the last Lok Sabha elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-one-ever-honoured-us-like-pm-says-padma-awardee-dom-rajas-son/articleshow/80457433.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
January 26, 2021||Jaipur||SC breather for liquor shops||Jaipur: Hearing a case against the excise department for forcing government licenced shop owners to lift 10% more quantity of liquor compared to the previous quarter, the Supreme Court on Monday said that ‘no coercive steps to be taken’ against them for not paying the penalty till it completes the hearing.Raj Liquor Welfare Society had filed the petition challenging the government policy which mandates the liquor shops to sell 10% more quantity, failing which it imposes penalty on them.President of the industry body Nilesh Mewara said that during Covid-19 pandemic it was impossible to sell 10% liquor as the demand crashed. "Not only the shops remained shut for about one-and-a-half months but the demand also collapsed due to the Covid protocol. Even when the shops were opened, there were stifling norms for gathering and movement of people," said Mewara.Night curfew too acted as a dampener for demand. In the first nine months of the current financial year, the demand for IMFL has fallen by 41% compared to the same period last year. Ironically, while the demand has declined sharply, the revenue of the government increased by Rs 800 crore.The CAG in its report had also pointed out that the law mandating the shop owners to lift the enhanced quantity of liquor runs contrary to the temperance policy of the government. In the report it had said the government did not analyse "how the licensees were paying additional amount over their fixed margin on sale of liquor which was required to be sold to the consumers on fixed sale price".The accounting watchdog of the government had said that "scrutiny of cases registered at five district excise offices disclosed that 231 cases of selling liquor at higher rate than maximum retail price were registered during 2017-18. Involvement of licensees in purchase and sale of liquor illegally cannot be ruled out."Sources said that the penalty amount is estimated to be around Rs 200 crore and it is very difficult on the part of the liquor shops to pay that given the demand decline and squeezed margins. SC will hear the case on a future date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sc-breather-for-liquor-shops/articleshow/80456561.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 26, 2021||Pune||PMC earns double revenue from civic properties||Pune: The revenue from the municipal properties for Pune Municipal Corporation has increased by over two times in the ongoing financial year. Efforts for a higher recovery has helped boost the income, civic officials said. The civic body has earned Rs42 crore in the first three quarters, compared to the Rs16 crore of last fiscal’s corresponding period. PMC has around 2,700 properties which have been given on rent for commercial as well as residential purposes. The rent from the users and occupiers of these societies is charged based on the ready reckoner rates. “The civic administration has been keeping a consistent follow up of the dues. Notices were sent to the defaulters. The recovery drives were conducted frequently,” Rajendra Muthe, the head of PMC’s estate department, said. He said emphasis was given on renewing the contracts and also updating the contract terms, which also helped in quick and proper recovery. PMC offers houses to citizens, who have lost their properties due to civic projects. The lands or constructed properties are demolished for road widening, building water tanks, laying pipelines, construction of flyovers and bridges. Even the dwellers get houses as part of slum rehabilitation projects, a civic official said. All these properties are given on 30 years lease. Some old contracts have offered 99 years’ contract. But, many tenants have not adhered to the contract terms and avoided paying rents. Few tenants have gone to court against the PMC over contractual issues, which has also delayed the recovery, the civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-earns-double-revenue-from-civic-properties/articleshow/80455576.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Lucknow||Wait till appeal is finally decided: High court to DM||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow Bench of Allahabad High Court on Monday directed district magistrate of Lucknow not to take possession of surplus land of Mohammad Amir Mohammad Khan alias Raja Mahmudabad till the appeal filed by him before the commissioner against the order of prescribed authority is finally decided. The court also directed Raja Mahmudabad to co-operate in disposal of the appeal and not take unnecessary adjournments. A bench of Justice DK Upadhyay and Justice Manish Kumar passed the order on the writ petition filed by Raja against the order passed by the prescribed authority (ceiling) on December 26, 2020. The prescribed authority/ADM (administration) on December 26, 2020, had rejected the claim of Raja over 422 hectare of land spread across three districts – Sitapur, Barabanki and Lakhimpur Kheri. Against the order of prescribed authority, Raja preferred an appeal before the commissioner under Section 13 of the UP Imposition of Ceiling on Land Holdings Act 1960 on January 8, 2021, within the time limit of 30 days from the order under challenge. Raja stressed that the DM Lucknow was illegally proceeding to take possession of the surplus land. Appearing for Raja, senior advocate JN Mathur assisted by Shobhit Mohan Shukla argued that under Section 14 of the Ceiling Act 1960, the DM cannot take possession of the surplus land unless the appeal filed by the petitioner was decided finally. Hence, the proceedings being initiated by the DM to take possession of the surplus land of Raja following the order passed by the prescribed authority is unwarranted and illegal. Taking into consideration the legal position, the bench restrained the district magistrate not to proceed to take possession of Raja’s surplus land till the disposal of the appeal by the appellate authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/wait-till-appeal-is-finally-decided-high-court-to-dm/articleshow/80457384.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
January 26, 2021||Lucknow||Watch patriotic films at Rs 10 per ticket in multiplex today||LUCKNOW: To keep the patriotic ‘josh’ high, Lucknow administration has made special arrangements for citizens to watch patriotic movies for just Rs 10 per ticket on Tuesday in multiplexes. Thirteen cinemas and multiplexes, including Inox riverside mall, PVR Phoenix mall, Inox Crown mall, Inox Phoenix Palassio mall, Inox Garden Galleria, PVR Saharaganj mall, PVR Singapore mall, Inox Umaro mall, Wave Multiplex, Cinepolis One Awadh Centre, PVR Sahu, Novelty MGS and Fun multiplex will feature at least one show each on concessional rate. By late evening many among the 13 had even stated online bookings. “Following the district administration Covid-19 protocol, we have arranged 106 seats for a patriotic movie and expect a full house as 26 % of seats have already been booked online,” said Pranay Shukla, general manager of Inox Umaro. Based on the district administration selection, movies like spy thriller Raazi, Uri-Surgical strike and Mission Mangal will be showcased on Republic day. “The concessional tickets for the movies will be on a first come first serve basis. Majority of the shows are in afternoon hours,” said Anand Tiwari, joint commissioner entertainment tax. Tickets for the shows will also be available on counter since morning hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/watch-patriotic-films-at-rs-10-per-ticket-in-multiplex-today/articleshow/80457450.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Agra||UP: Man beaten by cops, dies of heart attack||AGRA: A magisterial inquiry has been ordered into the death of a 26-year-old man who apparently died of a heart attack after he was allegedly beaten up by the police which raided his house in Aligarh’s Naurangabad on Monday night on suspicion of him supplying cannabis. The deceased, Ravi Kumar, was accused of supplying drugs and was recently booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. He was out on bail, said police. Several cases were registered against him. Ravi’s family members alleged that he died because of the police’s thrashing. They placed his body in front of Naurangabad police station of Aligarh and demanded action against the policemen responsible for his death. Ravi is survived by his wife and two children— a daughter (6) and a son (4). In her complaint given to the police, Ravi’s wife Neetu alleged that 7-8 cops entered her house around 7:30 pm on Sunday and started thrashing her husband by holding his hair till he lost consciousness. They also took away cash worth Rs 2.25 lakh in the name of “search operation”. “When I objected, they abused and assaulted me sexually,” she stated in her complaint. She said that with the help of her neighbours, she took her husband to hospital where the doctors declared him dead. She demanded registration of an FIR against the guilty cops. However, the FIR was not lodged till the filing of this report. Superintendent of police (city) Kuldeep Singh Gunawat said that the matter is being probed and the allegations of the deceased’s kin will also be investigated. He said the body has been sent for postmortem to know the exact cause of death. Besides the police probe ordered by SSP Muniraj G, a magisterial inquiry has also been marked by district magistrate CB Singh. Its report will be submitted within 15 days, confirmed SP (crime) Arvind Kumar. Heavy police force has been deployed in the area as a precautionary measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-26-dies-of-suspected-heart-attack-after-being-beaten-by-police-during-raid-in-aligarh/articleshow/80453346.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 26, 2021||Agra||Samajwadi Party joins farmers’ protest, plans to hold R-Day tractor parade in districts||AGRA: Following orders of party president Akhilesh Yadav, Samajwadi Party (SP) workers swung into action on Monday morning. According to senior party leader MLC Dileep Yadav, SP workers across the state have been directed to take out tractor rally on Republic Day in districts and mark protest at sub-divisional offices in support of the farmers stir. Agra district president of SP Wajid Nisar said, “On the occasion of Republic Day, we will be organizing tractor rally in solidarity with the farmers marking protest against the three farm laws recently introduced by the Central government. Samajwadi Party workers will unfurl the national flag at sub-divisional offices in all the districts. In this regard, constituency-wise responsibilities have been assigned.” Former cabinet minister and national general secretary of Samajwadi Party Ramjilal Suman said, “The Central government is not able to understand the discontent among the farmers. The laws introduced by the BJP government are pro-corporate. They will negatively affect the interests of the farmers and lead to inflation affecting a larger population. If the laws were to benefit the farmers, then the government should have made a law for no crop purchase below the minimum support price (MSP).” “We support the farmers. Each Samajwadi Party worker will not hesitate to go behind the bars fighting for the rights of farmers. The Central government should withdraw the three farm laws and should discuss with farmers before making new laws,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/samajwadi-party-joins-farmers-protest-plans-to-hold-r-day-tractor-parade-in-districts/articleshow/80453342.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Report on employees’ issues soon, says CS||HYDERABAD: Following the directions of Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao to hold talks with employees’ unions on Pay Revision Commission (PRC), time-bound promotions, enhancement of retirement age and other benefits like trauma-free services, chief secretary Somesh Kumar along with finance principal secretary K Ramakrishna Rao held a meeting with employees on Monday. The CS said the government will speed up the process and give a report to the CM on employees’ issues. In another meeting, the CS directed the officials to prepare a blueprint for development of IT for all areas around Hyderabad under IT grid policy. He said the state cabinet had cleared the IT grid policy a few months ago. The policy was aimed at setting up IT parks and other facilities in other parts of the city in industrial parks. These parks are now in the midst of Hyderabad and it is difficult to carry out industrial activities and should be shifted to beyond outer ring road. The CS held a review meeting with various stakeholders on the development of IT Industries in the city. He directed the officials to get feedback from stakeholders by January 27 on preparation of a master plan for the development of areas with better infrastructure facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/report-on-employees-issues-soon-says-cs/articleshow/80455581.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Two KPSC confidential wing staff arrested||BENGALURU: A stenographer who was part of a five-member select group which had direct access to question papers has been suspended for her alleged role in the Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) first-division assistant question paper leak case. Police arrested two KPSC employees — stenographer Sana Bedi, 25, from Belagavi district, and Ramesh Herakal, 28, from Bagalkot district who worked as a second-division assistant — on Monday. KPSC secretary G Sathyavathi confirmed the suspension and said a department inquiry has been ordered against them. “We are taking steps to prevent a repeat of the incident,” she added. Joint commissioner of police (crime) Sandeep Patil said they have seized Rs 82 lakh, including Rs 46 lakh on Monday, in connection with the case. Police said Ramesh, an engineering graduate, and Sana, a commerce graduate, were working in the KPSC’s limited-access exam wing. KPSC confidential wing staff copied question paper to pen driveRamesh was transferred to the administrative block a couple of days after he applied for the FDA’s post. The exam, scheduled to be held on January 24, has been postponed. Question papers of recruitment exams conducted by the KPSC can be accessed only by these five authorized persons and Sana was one of them, a police officer said. Central Crime Branch (CCB) officials on Monday seized a computer and its accessories from which Sana had allegedly copied the question paper on to a pen drive. According to CCB sources, Sana allegedly passed on the question paper to Ramesh on January 18 on the latter’s request to help him clear the exam. CCB sources said they were not sure yet if Sana knew Ramesh was selling the question paper to others. Police said Ramesh took a print of the question paper in the KPSC office and handed it over to Chandra, another prime accused in the case, the next day. After handing over the question paper, Ramesh travelled to Boodihala village in Bagalkot district to meet his parents and later went to his mother’s hometown Hirepadasalagi. As soon as the news of the question paper leak broke, Ramesh switched off his phone. Police arrested him from Hirepadasalagi village on Sunday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/2-kpsc-confidential-wing-staff-arrested/articleshow/80459520.cms||Kiran Parashar
January 26, 2021||Bengaluru||Tractors head for Bengaluru; won’t let them in, say police||BENGALURU: The state capital appears set for a face-off on its roads on Republic Day as farmers said they would hold a rally of 10,000 tractor and other vehicles in solidarity with protesters in Delhi while police have barred the entry of tractors into Bengaluru. “The parade will be held from Nelamangala to Bengaluru, with farmers arriving in more than 10,000 tractors and other vehicles. The parade will begin soon after the chief minister hoists the national flag (at Republic Day event),” leader of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha Kodihalli Chandrashekhar said. Hundreds of farmers from Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Kodagu and Hassan have left for Bengaluru to take part in the tractor parade, they said. “The protesters can come in vehicles like bus and cars but not tractors. We will not allow tractors to hit city roads,” Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant said on Monday. Will allow peaceful stir: Top copAsked if any organisation has approached police for permission, Pant said, “A couple of organisations approached us saying they will hold a peace rally in Freedom Park. We are ready to permit peaceful protests. The DCPs are in touch with the outfits and will take appropriate decisions.” Farmer groups, backed by Dalit and labour organisations, said they will carry out the rally with or without permission from police. The rally is expected to reach Freedom Park through the main roads of the city via Yeshwanthpur and Malleswaram. Karnataka State Sugarcane Farmers’ Association president Kurubur Shanthakumar said the first group of farmers has already left in vehicles with 50kg of rice, 40kg of vegetables, coconuts and medicine. “The second group is expected to leave by train,” he said. “When farmers in New Delhi are given permission, why is the government is not allowing farmers in Karnataka to hold the rally? The government is using district police to stop farmers from moving towards Bengaluru. This is a matter of shame... (but) nothing can stop farmers from coming to Bengaluru,” said Gopal, a farmer leader. Another farmer union member alleged that petrol bunks are denying diesel to tractors on the direction of the state government. “If the government stops people from coming into Bengaluru, we will hold protests on roads blocking major highways leading to Bengaluru. If there is a law and order problem, it is the government’s responsibility,” said a KRRS functionary. For over two months, farmers from Punjab and Haryana and other parts of the country have been protesting at various state borders — including Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan — demanding a repeal of the three agri-marketing laws. CM BS Yediyurappa has appealed to the farmers to reconsider the rally. “Ours is a pro-farmer government and the laws being brought are in the interest of farmers. I appeal to them to drop the protest. And if they want to proceed, let them do it peacefully,” he said on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/tractors-head-for-bengaluruwont-let-them-in-say-police/articleshow/80459522.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Bengaluru||Multi-shuffle: BS Yediyurappa tweaks Karnataka cabinet fourth time in five days||BENGALURU: The cabinet expansion was completed on January 21 with seven entrants, but the reshuffle continues. On Monday, chief minister BS Yediyurappa redistributed ministerial portfolios for the fourth time in five days. Such is the push and pull for desired departments that the CM changed two ministers’ berths twice in a span of four hours on Monday alone after announcing them. As of tonight, health minister K Sudhakar has retained medical education which he was divested of on January 21. JC Madhuswamy, who has been relieved of law & parliamentary affairs, minor irrigation, medical education Kannada & culture, tourism, and ecology & environment in the last three reallocations has been finally given minor irrigation — the ministry he has been angling for since day one. ‘CM should have consulted all mins’CP Yogeshwar, who had been allotted minor irrigation has been reassigned tourism and ecology & environment. The almost daily change of portfolios, after a cabinet expansion that was deliberated over several months, has questions about Yediyurappa’s leadership. “The CM is setting an unhealthy trend. These changes are sending a message that the CM and the party bow down to pressure and he has no control over his cabinet. He should have consulted all ministers before allocating the portfolios,” said a senior party functionary. “We all know Yediyurappa is under obligation to meet demands of the migrant ministers for helping him become the CM but not at the cost of the image of the party and the government.” On January 21, Yediyurappa carried out his first reshuffle and amid discord and resentment among the ministers, reshuffled responsibilities the very next day. If that reflected badly, he was forced to reshuffle portfolios twice on Monday. Ahead of Sudhakar, Madhuswamy and Singh, ministers K Gopalaiah, MTB Nagaraj, R Shankar and KC Narayana Gowda — all new entrants to BJP — had got their portfolios changed by pressuring the CM. Even so, there is no peace yet. Anand Singh and two other ministers are said to be unhappy, and planning to meet Yediyurappa on Wednesday. Nevertheless, the decision to give back the medical education portfolio to Sudhakar has come as a huge relief for those in Covid-19 management, hamstrung as they were due to lack of coordination in the beginning when Sudhakar held sole charge of medical education and B Sriramulu was health minister. In October last year, the CM reallocated the health portfolio to Sudhakar for better coordination between the two departments and made Sriramulu the social welfare minister. The decision was well-received among health officials and doctors who are part of the pandemic fight but last week medical education was withdrawn from Sudhakar and the portfolio was reassigned to Madhuswamy, leaving both miffed. The latest move comes as the state is in the thick of the Covid vaccination drive, prompting concerns that separate commands for two closely linked departments may once again lead to lack of cohesion and political one-upmanship. Retired IAS officer Madan Gopal, who served as principal secretary of health department, had tweeted against the CM’s decision to split the two crucial departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/multi-shuffle-bsy-tweakscabinet-4th-time-in-5-days/articleshow/80459524.cms||Anil Gejji
January 26, 2021||Bengaluru||Sterilisation procedures drop 40% in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Sterilisation procedures aimed at family planning interventions have reduced by 40% in Karnataka in 2020-21 because of the pandemic. The state has conducted 1.3 lakh procedures so far this year against 2.2 lakh in 2019-20. “This means there are possibilities of unwanted pregnancies, an increase in illegal and unsafe abortions, and economic burden on many families,” says Dr BR Chandrika, state deputy director for family welfare. The situation in Karnataka mirrors the global trend due to the pandemic, she added. With district hospitals in the state turning into Covid centres, sterilisation — like several non-Covid services — took a beating. Many stayed away from sterilisation due to CovidThe turnout at the camps conducted from October 2020 has been less due to virus fears, say doctors. “Women who wanted to undergo sterilisation procedure could not reach the facilities during the pandemic period. Laparoscopic sterilisation camps, too, could not be conducted,” says Dr Chandrika. Postpartum sterilisation — a procedure that prevents a woman from becoming pregnant performed soon after the birth of a child — was done even during lockdown. Of the total procedures, 643 men underwent vasectomy in 2019-20 and the number dropped to 393 in 2020-21, officials said. “Family planning procedures are target free. In the current year, we’ve met 60% of what we achieved in 2019-20,” an official told TOI.According to BN Dhanya Kumar, project coordinator, the lockdown period was made use of to train ground staffers in soft skills, especially in counselling. EngenderHealth-Karnataka, a private organisation, has been working with the government in 15 districts in successful implementation of family planning methods. “Even during lockdown, we conducted virtual training sessions for healthcare workers. Our training sessions focus on emphasising the need of counselling couples about the options for family planning and spacing between two kids,” said Dr Dhanya Kumar. During the peak of the pandemic in June, the health and family welfare department had advised districts to ensure the availability of family-planning measures to prevent unwanted pregnancies. “There is a need to enhance provision of safeabortion services, besides postpartum and post-abortion contraception,” a note from the director of health services stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sterilisation-procedures-drop-40-in-karnataka/articleshow/80459525.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 26, 2021||Agra||Cops squat on roads in Mathura to stop tractors from reaching e-way||Agra: In a literal tit for tat agitational tactics, UP police personnel squatted on some roads leading to the Yamuna Expressway to prevent farmers from heading towards Delhi for the “Republic Day Tractor March”. Besides, a large number of police personnel was deployed to thwart attempts by the farmers to break the barricades positioned to block entry to the e-way.Several roads leading to the e-way, including Bajna toll and Govardhan-Barsana road, were fully blocked by barricades and police personnel for smooth movement of traffic on the expressway. Around two companies of PAC, 30 station house officers, 80 sub-inspectors, 275 constables and head constables were deployed for the purpose. Despite farmers breaking the barricades at several places, they could not get access to the expressway. Mathura SSP Guarav Grover said in order to maintain law and order and smooth movement of vehicles without any traffic jam on the expressway, police force was deployed. He said, “We also kept an eye on such people who attempted to vitiate the atmosphere under cover of tractor rally.” Meanwhile, district president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union Raj Kumar Tomar said police might have stopped farmers on Monday but they would make their way and reach Delhi by Tuesday. He said, “The route is being decided by the committee members.” Tomar claimed that they had broken several barricades to reach the expressway but some women officials lay down in front of the tractors, hence they decided to opt for other routes. Some farmers were arrested in Surir area but later, were released by police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cops-squat-on-roads-in-mathura-to-stop-tractors-from-reaching-e-way/articleshow/80453909.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: New agri pumps for martyrs’ kin||MUMBAI: On the eve of Republic Day, energy minister Nitin Raut expedited for the grandsons of two freedom new connections for agricultural pumps in Vadgaon village, Khatav taluka, Satara. In 1942, seven freedom fighters from this village were martyred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/new-agri-pumps-for-martyrs-kin/articleshow/80457843.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Trichy||Bike riders wearing helmets get surprise gifts in Trichy city||Trichy: As part of observing the road safety awareness month, the state highways department gave away gifts to two-wheeler riders who wore helmets in Trichy city on Monday. The officials said that the initiative was to encourage people to follow road safety rules.The officials sensitised two-wheeler riders passing through TVS tollgate and Pudukkottai Main Road about the road safety signages. They explained the significance of the signboards, accident-prone spots and speed breakers. An awareness promotion stall was set up on Pudukkottai Road near Circuit House Road. Engineers and other officials with the state highways clad in safety jackets appealed to the passers-by to avoid speeding and maintain nominal speed. “Every day, different locations will be selected to promote awareness on the usage of helmets. To appreciate people following road safety rules and wearing helmets, we gave them gifts, even tree saplings are considered as gifts,” P Vadivel, division engineer, state highways, said.The senior official said that absence of headgear was the main reason for road deaths in Trichy. On average, at least 20 casualties are reported on Trichy roads per month, a majority of them are two-wheeler riders and pedestrians. The highways department said that awareness pamphlets containing road safety instructions will be distributed at the accident-prone sites. Officials have planned to distribute 5,000 pamphlets, each containing 50 messages in Tamil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bike-riders-wearing-helmets-get-surprise-gifts-in-trichy-city/articleshow/80456566.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Ahmedabad||Power demand surpasses last Jan peak in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: In what may be hinting at a speedy recovery in industrial and economic activities, current power demand in Gujarat has surpassed the peak power requirement in January 2020. The maximum daytime power demand touched 16,600MW at around 10am on Monday, which is higher than the peak demand of 16,189MW witnessed last January, shows information available with the State Load Dispatch Centre (SLDC), a unit of Gujarat Energy Transmission Corporation Limited. Power demand in Gujarat had touched the 17,305MW mark on January 18. Demand remained a tad below 17,000MW through the week, according to the data compiled by the Western Regional Load Dispatch Centre (WRLDC), a central government entity. Ever since the Covid-19 outbreak, power demand has remained well below 17,000MW and only in October did it surge past 17,000MW for a few days. Energy experts attribute the present surge in demand to higher consumption of electricity by industrial and agricultural consumers. “The industrial category has seen additional demand of 7%-8% over and above the normal consumption seen in January last year. Back then, industrial units across the state consumed around 130-133 million units every day,” said experts. Overall power demand in the state had fallen sharply due to the steep decline in consumption by industrial units following the lockdown and subsequent slowdown. The industrial category began showing improvement in consumption since October last year. With farmers irrigating their wheat crop, electricity demand from the agricultural segment has also seen a rise, said people privy to the developments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/power-demand-surpasses-last-jan-peak/articleshow/80455602.cms||Kalpesh Damor
January 26, 2021||Nagpur||Mega recruitment to fill 50% vacancies in DMER too: Min||Nagpur: State government will make permanent appointments on 50% vacancies in health department as well as in government medical colleges run under the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said Rajendra Patil Yadravkar, minister of state for health and medical education on Monday. Yadravkar was speaking to TOI after visiting both government medical colleges in Nagpur and reviewing preparations for fire and structural audit. Health minister Rajesh Tope had announced ‘mega recruitment’ in the department last week. Written examinations for these recruitments are scheduled on February 28. “More than 8,000 vacant posts, including 50% seats in DMER, will be filled during this drive” he had said. Deputy director health services (DDHS) Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, GMCH in-charge dean Dr RP Singh, medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande, civil surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar, and district health officer Deepak Selokar were present at the review meeting held at GMCH. Yadravkar said the government will allot special funds for fire and structural audit of hospitals so as to prevent Bhandara-like incidents. Yadravkar said government cancer hospital on the GMCH premises will be a reality soon. “The government has already given administrative approval of Rs76.10 crore for this project. The hospital will benefit poor and middle class patients,” he said. Nagpur and Vidarbha have more prevalence of sickle cell disease, but we don’t have testing facility here. Yadravkar said a sickle cell testing lab will start in Nagpur soon. “I came to know that samples from Nagpur are sent to Hyderabad and Mumbai for sickle cell tests. Nagpur will have the laboratory at the GMCH,” he added. Minister speaks Sickle cell testing lab in Nagpur soon Cancer hospital will be a reality as administrative approval already granted Funds allotted for fire audit of both GMCHs in Nagpur 50% vacant seats in DMER and health department to be filled||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mega-recruitment-to-fill-50-vacancies-in-dmer-too-min/articleshow/80456570.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 26, 2021||Jaipur||Tractor rally from Shahjahanpur to reach Manesar through NH-8||JAIPUR/ALWAR: As nearly 2,000 tractors from Rajasthan are all set to join the farmers’ tractor rally in Delhi on the Republic Day (January 26), it has been decided on Monday that the farmers will start their rally at 9:30 am from Alwar’s Shahjahanpur border and will reach Manesar (Gurugram) via NH-8. Kisan Mahapanchayat leader Rampal Jat will lead a batch of 100 tractors from Gurugram in Haryana and will head towards Delhi. “We will start our rally from Shahjahanpur at 9:30 am after hoisting the national flag. Around 2,000 tractors from Rajasthan will join the tractor rally on Tuesday and it will culminate at Manesar in Gurugram,” said farmer leader Himmat Singh. Meanwhile, Samyunkt Kisan Morcha has issued guidelines for the tractor rally to be organised on the Republic Day. It states that trolleys will not be allowed in the rally, only those which are being prepared for special tableaux will be permitted. Every tractor or cart should be fitted with the national flag along with the flag of farmers’ organisations. There will be no flag of the political party, it stated. If further stated that nobody should carry weapons and the farmers should pack 24 hours of ration and drinking water with them. If somebody wishes to inform of their participation in the parade, one should give a missed call on 8448385556. The guidelines further stated that a maximum of five people including the driver can ride on one tractor. “No one will ride on the bonnet. All tractors must proceed in a line and there will be no overtaking during the rally. Please don’t overtake the vehicles of farmer leaders leading the parade,” it added. “The farmer leaders will lead the rally. No car/tractor shall overtake their vehicles. Everyone should follow the directions of the volunteers dressed in green jackets. The route for the rally has been decided and marked. Police and traffic volunteers will guide the rally and any car/tractor found deviating from the route will be acted against,” it said. It has also been instructed not to play music in the tractor. “This will ensure that all announcements are heard by everyone in the parade without any hindrance. Use of drugs before or during the parade is prohibited. Any one found in possession/consuming drugs will be reported to the traffic volunteer,” the instructions issued by the farmer body stated. The directions also states that nobody should pollute the surroundings by throwing garbage on roads and has been advised to carry a bag for disposal of waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tractor-rally-from-shahjahanpur-to-reach-manesar-through-nh-8/articleshow/80456568.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||CoWin glitch: Manual registers used in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Most private centres went ahead with manual registrations, on Monday, after the CoWin app failed to work. For some hospitals, the app was found working in one centre but not in the other.  “We weren’t able to upload beneficiary details onto the app, so went ahead with manual registration. We have to complete the vaccination drive of 3,000 people within five days,” said a corporate hospital official. Some hospitals said details were not reflecting on the app. “There were some technical glitches at our Lakdikapul unit. At other units it went on smoothly,” Dr Mervin Leo, cluster chief operating officer, Gleneagles Global Hospitals. At few places, automated SMS was not sent to beneficiaries. “This is not just in our state, glitches are being recorded in multiple states. While private hospitals could upload details in many places, it was not reflecting in the application. We are in touch with the Centre. However, hospitals have been allowed to go ahead with manual registration,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director public health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cowin-glitch-manual-registers-used/articleshow/80455606.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Rlys, MCA fail to bridge differences on rebuilding 2 FOBs||Mumbai: Reconstruction of two dangerous foot-over bridges over railway tracks, connecting Wankhede Stadium at Churchgate, is stuck as no one is ready to rebuild them. Railways and Mumbai Cricket Association are passing the buck. MCA sought the help of NCP chief and its former president Shard Pawar, who is discussing the issue with Union railway minister Piyush Goyal. In an RTI reply, the railways stated that MCA was responsible for it and despite repeated reminders they failed to execute the work. MCA sources said they were ready to share the financial cost but the work should be done by railways. During matches, thousands of cricket lovers use the FOBs to reach Wankhede’s North, Sunil Gavaskar and Vittal Divecha stands. After Himalaya FOB crashed at D N Road in March 2019, killing seven persons and injuring 30, BMC decided to audit bridges with the help of IIT expertsto check for structural stability. BMC roped in railway authorities as many FOBs are on railway premises. The audit found that several bridges were unsafe and needed reconstruction, including the two connecting the stadium. Information obtained through an RTI by activist Sharad Yadav stated that in May 2019, railways wrote to MCA to dismantle the two FOBs and rebuild them within a year. A reminder was sent to MCA last December. In a written reply to Yadav, railways stated that they have submitted the IIT report to MCA, but no action was taken over their letter, so railways closed both FOBs last August. MCA office-bearers had met Goyal on the issue. “Pawar has spoken to Goyal. We will make the bridges in collaboration and co-operation with Western Railway. We will share expenses with railways,” an MCA source said. He added, “To meet expenses, we may request few MPs to give us funds.” An MCA member said, “We are ready to spend but it has to be built by railways If we make it on our own, it will take five years as it will require permission at all levels from the railways while constructing it.” MCA had spent Rs 1.2 crore to repair the bridges, and last year again spent Rs 40 lakh to repair them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rlys-mca-fail-to-bridge-differences-on-rebuilding-2-fobs/articleshow/80455962.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Goa||Calling attentions on 3 major issues to come up on Wed||Panaji: Three major calling attention motions are set to come up for discussion on Wednesday which will reveal the state government’s stand on the issues of Mhadei diversion, coal and double tracking, and cannabis cultivation. GFP president and Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai said that all three issues are very crucial for the state. The comprehensive questions on coal and three linear projects at Mollem, among others, have been put up by Cortalim BJP MLA Alina Saldanha, Sardesai added. “If these questions are discussed, people will come to know about the conspiracy from Delhi that is behind these three linear projects. If BJP puts pressure on her not to come then that will be another racket, like what they did to the governor,” he said, referring to the short address by the governor on the first day of the assemblySardesai told reporters that the opposition had readied itself to protest when the governor’s speech would touch upon the environment topic. “We wanted to show placards. However, before he reached that subject he was asked to cut short his speech,” he said, adding that this has “exposed the government”. “It is a shame on Goa that we have one of the most corrupt governments in the state that is in the 60th year of Liberation and we have to re-liberate the state,” Sardesai further said. He said that this government is worse than the Portuguese. If they don’t want to discuss issues, then they should dissolve the government and face elections, he said. “I have a direct charge that the government cannot face people and public representatives,” the Fatorda MLA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/calling-attentions-on-3-major-issues-to-come-up-on-wed/articleshow/80457941.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Corporate hospitals in Hyderabad see impressive jab turnout||HYDERABAD: Day 1 of the vaccine rollout for private healthcare workers saw lukewarm response at privately-run centres in the city, even as corporate hospitals reported an impressive turnout, on Monday. In fact, at four private centres — each with 100 plus beneficiaries — government vaccination officers (in charge of conducting the drive) were not even allowed entry by the staff who refused to take the jab. “The level of hesitancy is surprising. Some instances of facilities not allowing our staff, also came to our notice. We will counsel them and try to vaccinate them again,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director public health, Telangana. The mop up session for government healthcare workers — last chance for those who had previously refused to take the vaccine shot — also met with poor response. Roughly 1,000 of the close to 40,000 such beneficiaries opted for the vaccine on Monday. Post the mop up, the remaining staffers will not get another chance to be vaccinated by the government. The rollout for private healthcare workers saw 47.4% beneficiaries take the vaccine. With this the total count of those vaccinated — of the 42,915 identified beneficiaries — touched 1,30,607 (including government and private sector health care staff). According to private hospital sources, some beneficiaries experienced panic attacks soon after being vaccinated on Monday, though the adverse events following immunization (AEFI) committee reported five minor cases, all of whom are now stable. No cases of serious or severe AEFI were reported on Monday as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/corporate-hospitals-see-impressive-jab-turnout/articleshow/80455625.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Ahmedabad||Topless student amid toppers at convocation||AHMEDABAD: When you hear the word ‘convocation’, what comes to mind are nattily dressed students, wearing robes, and flinging their hats in the air. At the Cept University convocation which was held virtually, things turned out a little different when participants were stunned to see a shirtless youth on screen.  Realising his naked torso was on display, the youth – who was reclining – cut short his ‘accidental’ appearance by promptly switching off the camera. The gaffe raised quite a few eyebrows and left quite a few suppressing their smiles. According to sources close to the development, officials and students were joining the online convocation ceremony on Saturday evening when a boy, resting on his side without a shirt on, was briefly spotted on screen. University officials confirmed the incident and said it happened very briefly before the official ceremony took place. “It could have been due to human error. The institute will look into the matter,” said an official. Education experts said that they are not strangers to such ‘gaffes’ during virtual classrooms and lectures. “It’s close to a year since people switched to online learning. But often, users who are not ‘digital natives’ are prone to mistakes: from keeping audio or video on to struggling to get the desired content on screen,” said a teacher, who did not wish to be named. “We have heard everything from toilet sounds to domestic squabbles. We have seen people playing with pets and even walking around in inappropriate clothes. But over time, such gaffes have reduced.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/topless-student-amid-toppers/articleshow/80455631.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Agra||A chat with PM gives Aligarh’s Bal Puruskar awardee boost to pursue his goals||Agra: For Mohammad Shadab, a Class XI student of Aligarh Muslim University’s school, a one-on-one with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday was a dream come true. A recipient of the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puruskar, 2021 for excellence in academics, Shadab is among the five children from Uttar Pradesh who have been selected for this award. Talking with mediapersons, Shadab, said, “I am elated after talking to the PM and I will follow whatever he has instructed me to do.” Wanting to do something for the country, Shadab has already mapped a career graph for himself. “I aspire to become an IAS officer and represent my country in the United Nations as a human rights officer,” he said. His mother, Zareena Begum, who was present during the interaction with the PM, said the family had taught Shadab to be upright and honest. “I want him to achieve every milestone in his life,” she added. CB Singh, Aligarh DM, said that this is a proud moment not only for the institution but the entire district. Shadab is also a recipient of the $28,000 scholarship from the US State department’s Kennedy-Lugar Youth Exchange and Study (YES) programme, wherein high school students from countries of strategic importance to the US get to spend a one academic year there. He was selected for the programme after clearing half a dozen stages.He also topped his high school exam with the score of 97.6%. “I have served over 200 community service hours and given over 50 presentations on India to promote Indian culture and values,” he said. Other winners of the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puruskar from UP are Vyom Ahuja. 10, from Lucknow, Kunwar Divyansh Singh, 15, rom Barabanki, Chirag Bhansali, 16, from Gautam Buddh Nagar and Mohammad Rafey, 17 from Allahabad. Vyom was awarded for art & culture, Divyansh for bravery, Chirag for innovation and Rafey for sports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/a-chat-with-pm-gives-aligarhs-bal-puruskar-awardee-boost-to-pursue-his-goals/articleshow/80453362.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: 17 govt employees get CM’s Excellence & Good Governance Award||DEHRADUN: Ahead of the 72nd Republic Day celebrations, the Uttarakhand government on Monday announced the names of 17 government employees who were conferred with Chief Minister’s Excellence and Good Governance Award on Monday. In the individual categories, the prizes were given to divisional forest officer (DFO) Kot Bangla Sandeep Kumar for his steps to control soil erosion and landslides; Kosturba Chandra Joshi, principal of inter-college in Pithoragarh, for constructing a new Kiran website; and Monika, who is the deputy collector of Bhanoli in Almora, for her commendable work in Jageshwar festival. While in the joint categories, transport secretary Sailesh Bagoli took the award on behalf of the transport department for the steps taken to introduce technology in public service delivery. Meanwhile, the Uttarakhand Renewable Energy Development Agency (UREDA) won the award for its role in bringing the Pirul policy of the state. Radhika Jha, head of UREDA, took the award on behalf of the organisation. The team of Dehradun district administration led by distict magistarte Ashish Kumar Srivastav was bestowed the award for its efforts to generate employment in small-scale industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/17-state-govt-employees-get-cms-excellence-good-governance-award/articleshow/80454697.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 26, 2021||Nagpur||‘Hike in budget needed to modernise armed forces’||Nagpur: Higher budget for the armed forces for modernization and combined long-term focus on national power and development of military capabilities are needed, said valedictory panel experts. They were speaking on ‘India’s National Security Scenario’ at the National Student Parliament organized by Raisoni Group on Saturday. Former army chief, General VP Malik (retd), former IAF chief Air Chief Marshal PV Naik (retd) and former navy chief Admiral Sunil Lanba were the speakers at the session. Journalist Ashish Singh moderated the panel discussion. Explaining the role of the military in nation-building, Lanba said, “Nation-building implies shaping a national identity. A national identity should be based on our core values like culture, pride, vibrancy, unity, diversity, etc. It has to be backed by a comprehensive national power consisting of economic, technological, political and military powers.” He added, “The armed forces have been a vital instrument of the state and they have established their credibility by taking up active roles to combat calamities and showed their professional competence. Today, the armed forces are considered to be the most trusted brand whether it is a matter of war or peace.” On the individual role that the young generation can play in national security, Naik said, “Many people are unaware of India’s national interests which is the foremost knowledge you must have in order to play an elemental role in ensuring national security. Guarding territory, maintaining sovereignty, good economic condition, hunger and poverty elimination, infrastructure building, political relations, etc. are all in national interests. As an individual we must aim to contribute in whichever way we can. Knowing what is not in national interests is also an important factor.” Naik pointed out that terrorism, rioting, damage to civil property, anti-national activities, crimes against the Constitution and our flag, etc do not lie in the bevy of our national interests. Speaking about the navy, Lanba said, “The armed forces is a large organization representative of the entire country. It is a totally secular organization which makes no distinction based on which part of the country one belongs to or their religion and other such aspects. Overall, the navy plays an important role as the country’s economic well-being is fundamentally linked to the oceans, especially the Indian Ocean.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hike-in-budget-needed-to-modernise-armed-forces/articleshow/80455595.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Nagpur||Truckload of liquor worth Rs37.47 lakh seized in ‘dry’ Chanda||Chandrapur: In a major crackdown against liquor mafia, local crime branch (LCB) sleuths seized a truckload of booze being smuggled into district from Washim, on Sunday. The police have arrested two smugglers and have seized booty worth Rs37.47 lakh. Production and consumption of liquor has been banned in Chandrapur district after imposition of prohibition in 2015. Following the directives of superintendent of police Arvind Salve, LCB has formed eight teams in the district to curb liquor smuggling and keep a tab on liquor mafia. One of these teams got a tip off that a large consignment of illegal liquor is being transported into Chandrapur district from Karanja Lad in Washim. Accordingly, a team led by LCB PI Balasaheb Khade laid a trap on Mul road and intercepted the truck carrying liquor. The smugglers had clandestinely hidden the liquor boxes under cattle feed. Cops recovered 70 boxes of liquor from the truck. They have arrested accused Nakib Khan and Muhammad Abdul and seized the truck. Offence in this connection has been registered at Ramnagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/truckload-of-liquor-worth-rs37-47-lakh-seized-in-dry-chanda/articleshow/80456584.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Increased seats, Covid norms cut into medical aspirants’ hostel space||MUMBAI: Umesh Jadhav, a labourer’s son from Umrad Khalsa village near Beed, secured an MBBS seat in Nair hospital’s Topiwala National Medical College and paid his tuition fees with difficulty. But now he is at his wit’s end as the college is un-able to provide hostel facilities.With classes set to begin from February 1, many first-year students are still struggling to arrange for hostel accommodation even as many civic and government medical colleges have cited inability to provide the facilities or have promised to make them available in a few months. Reason: Seats in colleges have far exceeded their hostel capacity. And the pandemic has made the situation worse as smaller rooms cannot be offered on a sharing basis as per the social distancing norms. Parents believe that the problem compounded this year after the state scrapped the 70:30 regional quota policy. Many students from Marathwada and Vidarbha have come to Mumbai, and many from the city have gone to government medical colleges (GMCs) in interior regions where getting accommodation nearby is tough, said counsellor Jasmine Gogri. Seats in GMCs have gone up by over 1,000 in 2019, but colleges have not seen a corresponding growth in infrastructure. A professor said that it is not mandatory to provide hostel rooms for first-year students. Students pay about Rs 4,000 a year for hostel facilities in GMCs, but now may have to pay Rs 1-3 lakh a year for accommodation alone. Suyash Kale, a student, said though he will share the place with three to four students, he will still have to shell out Rs 10,000 a month. The parent of a student who has secured a seat in Cooper Hospital’s college said they are considering paying guest accommodation. “Flats are available on a sharing basis for Rs 25,000 a month, inclusive of food, which is costlier than the fees,” said the parent, adding that the college has promised to make arrangements in six months. Parents’ representative Sudha Shenoy said they will request the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) to make temporary arrangements for students unable to afford independent accommodation. DMER officials were unavailable for comment. Dean of GS Medical College (KEM Hospital), Dr Hemant Deshmukh, said their intake capacity for first-year MBBS rose from 180 to 250 last year and building additional infrastructure will take time. “Students were informed in advance about the unavailability of hostel rooms. A new undergraduate hostel is under construction in Wadala, but it will take time,” he added. Dr Arum Humne, dean of GMC Chandrapur, said the over five-year-old college is running in full capacity with all batches. “There is no hostel, so we made alternative arrangements for students, but now all the rooms are full,” he said. A Nair hospital professor said due to Covid curbs, they are unable to use larger rooms for more than two students. “Medical officers appointed due to Covid are staying here and one hostel is under renovation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/increased-seats-covid-norms-cut-into-med-aspirants-hostel-space/articleshow/80456580.cms||Yogita Rao
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana records 150 new Covid cases, one death||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Monday recorded 148 new cases of Covid-19 and one death, raising the total count of cases so far in the state to 2,93,401. While the death toll has risen to 1,590, so far, 2,88,577 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection. Meanwhile, the number of active cases in the state have reduced to 3,234 currently from over 5,000 over a month back. The recovery rate on the other hand has improved to 98.35 per cent. On Monday, 19,821 samples were tested across the state for Covid-19. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 35 new cases on Monday. This was followed by 11 cases in Ranga Reddy, 10 cases in Karimnagar while all the remaining districts in the state recorded less than 10 new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-150-new-cases-one-death/articleshow/80455639.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Ahmedabad||Man dies as car plunges into canal||Ahmedabad: A 26-year-old man from Patan died after his car plunged into Narmada canal in Virochannagar village of Sanand taluka in Ahmedabad district on Monday evening. According to Sanand GIDC police, the deceased was identified as Pratik Panchal, a financier who lived in Greenpark Society in Patan town. “Panchal was returning to Patan from Ahmedabad city when he lost control of the car near Virochannagar and it nosedived into the minor canal,” said PSI KK Rathwa. Rathwa said, “The car got locked after it fell into the water. Some villagers working in a farm nearby rushed to Panchal’s rescue. However, the flow of the water was strong and the vehicle got swept away before anyone could help him.” Villagers called the police, who began rescue work with fire brigade personnel. Police recovered the body and informed the deceased’s family. “After examining tyre marks on the road, forensic experts suggest that Panchal was speeding. Due to this, he seems to have lost control of the vehicle, and it plunged into the canal which has a very low wall,” he said. Sanand GIDC police registered a case of causing death by negligence against Panchal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-dies-as-car-plunges-into-canal/articleshow/80455648.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Marathi lit world lauds Narlikar as sahitya sammelan prez||MUMBAI: The Marathi literary world has wholeheartedly welcomed the  of internationally acclaimed astrophysicist and writer Dr Jayant Narlikar as president of the 94th Marathi sahitya sammelan to be held in Nashik in March. Narlikar’s election has saved the Marathi literary meet the embarrassment of acrimony which marks the presidential election every year, especially the ideological cleavage between right-wing and Left-secular writers. The election is monitored by the Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Mahamandal, an apex body of Marathi litterateurs, said observers on Monday. Also, political patronage and rural-urban divide are the two topics that spark controversies during the meet. Writers from the heartland have been routinely accusing their counterparts from Mumbai-Pune of urban, high-brow elitism. However, Narlikar stands head and shoulder above petty quarrels in the literary arena, observers added. “Dr Narlikar is seen as symbol of the resurgent Maharashtra which celebrates spirit of inquiry and cultural diversity. He rises above caste, class and community loyalties,” said noted publisher Dilip Majgaokar, who has published some of Narlikar’s finest literary works such as ‘Akashaashi Jadle Naate’ (Ties With the Sky) and ‘Srishti Vidnyan Gatha’, which explore nature in its entirety. Narlikar is largely credited with having blended science with literature in Marathi. Through his writings and speeches, he explores scientific themes in a simple, racy style which engages readers, added Majgaokar. Narlikar’s credentials are impeccable. Son of ‘Wrangler’ Vishnu Narlikar, Jayant joined Cambridge for higher education in the 1960s, bagging the prestigious Tyson medal for astrophysics. While in England, Narlikar collaborated with Sir Fred Hoyle to unlock the mysteries of the universe. Back in Mumbai in the 1970s, he joined the Tata Institute for Fundamental Research (TIFR) to continue his tryst with astrophysics. He was in his late 20s when he was honoured with the prestigious Padma award. Narlikar is well-versed in Sanskrit too. In a brief video message after his election, Narlikar stressed the need to spread scientific temper in Maharashtra. The sahitya sammelan offers a good platform to spread awareness about science among common citizens who attend the literary conclave in large numbers. Retaining our faith in the young generation we will have to pull out all stops to promote science and scientific temper, he said. “Narlikar will help clear the air of bigotry and intolerance which has vitiated Maharashtra’s cultural eco-system for over three decades,” said a scholar. Former sammelan presidents, including Fr. Francis D’Britto, Aruna Dhere and Laxmikant Deshmukh have welcomed Narlikar’s election. The sahitya sammelan will be held in Nashik between March 26 and 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/marathi-lit-world-lauds-narlikar-as-sahitya-sammelan-prez/articleshow/80457944.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Nagpur||R-Day @RSS: Tricolour unfurled amid calls for Ram Mandir donations||Nagpur: The tricolour was hoisted at the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s (RSS) premises on the 72nd Republic Day, amid calls to donate for the Ram temple at Ayodhya. For the first time in recent years, none of the two top leaders — the sarsanghchalak (chief) Mohan Bhagwat and sarkaryavaha (general secretary) Bhaiyaji (Suresh) Joshi were in Nagpur on the day. Bhagwat is on a visit to Gujarat and Joshi is in Tripura, said an RSS official. Two separate functions were held at the RSS headquarters in Mahal as well as the Dr Hedgewar Smruti Mandir campus in Reshimbagh locality. City unit chief Rajesh Loya, who unfurled the flag at Mahal, said even as things were moving in the right direction, there was also a need to further strengthen the resolve of countrymen. Loya said the society at large should try to include marginalized classes in its progress. At the Reshimbagh event, there was a picture of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya. Manohar Sapkal, who heads the Ayodhya Nagar unit of RSS in the city, said youth needed to come forward to collect donations for the temple. A public donation drive is under way till March 15, which is supported by the RSS. Sapkal said, “When Prime Minster Narendra Modi took part in the groundbreaking ceremony of the temple, there was an impression that the temple will be built by the government. However, it’s not the government but the people at large who wanted to have the temple, and from whom the funds are being collected.” Sapkal recalled the chain of events since the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) first raised the issue, till the Supreme Court verdict. Dr Abhay Datarkar, a dentist from the city who was the chief guest, said Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin had a great demand in developing countries. It is safer as it consists of dead virus, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/r-day-rss-tricolour-unfurled-amid-calls-for-ram-mandir-donations/articleshow/80465964.cms||Shishir Arya
January 26, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: ​Rahul Gandhi accuses Modi of ‘leaking’ info on Balakot strikes to journo||KARUR/DINDIGUL: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of “leaking” prior information on India’s airstrikes on Balakot in Pakistan in February 2019 to an Indian journalist. Winding up his three-day campaign in Karur and Dindigul in poll-bound Tamil Nadu, Rahul said the only reason the PM had not ordered an inquiry was because “he is the person through whom the information was shared with the journalist. Else, he would have ordered an inquiry to identify who did it.” Though he did not name him, Rahul was referring to Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami’s leaked whatsapp chats. Sharpening his attack on Modi, Rahul brought up the Balakot airstrike issue during the last leg of his TN tour. “There was a journalist who knew about an airstrike in Balakot. Three days before the Air force bombed Pakistan, an Indian journalist was told this was going to happen by risking the lives of the Air Force pilots,” he said. “Only five people in this world knew about the Balakot airstrike -- the Prime Minister, the defence minister, the national security advisor, chief of the air force and the home minister. I want to understand why an inquiry has not started about who told this journalist about the Balakot attack. The reason is, one of these five people told this man (journalist). One of these five people betrayed our Air Force and put the lives of our pilots at risk. If the PM did not do it, why did he not order an inquiry? Think about it,” said Rahul. He alleged that “one of the five” had committed treason. “The fact that this information is on WhatsApp and this gentleman (journalist) knew it three days before, means the official secrets act has been breached by one of those five people,” Rahul said. The Congress leader was given a grand welcome at Chinna Dharapuram town bordering Tirupur district. Addressing the public, Rahul said he would serve as a soldier to protect the interest of Tamils. Taking a jibe at Modi, he said, “The Chinese army is sitting inside the Indian territory, but the PM has not got the courage to utter the word China in his recent speeches.” In Dindigul, the Congress leader spoke about Tamil identity. “I wanted to understand what Tamil spirit is, so I have started reading Thirukkural. This positive attitude, this confidence and this self-respect are not something new, these are intertwined in your (Tamil) language and culture. But the PM has not opened the book (Thirukkural),” Rahul said. In Dindigul, Rahul said, “Modi thinks he can control the TN government because he can remote control the chief minister using the IT department and CBI. We are going to remove the batteries out of that remote and throw it away.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rahul-accuses-modi-of-leaking-info-on-balakot-strikes-to-journo/articleshow/80456578.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Travel insurance to gain pace in post-Covid world, say experts||HYDERABAD: The Covid-19 pandemic has changed life as we know it and travel too. While worldwide, people got stranded during the lockdown, there were many who were forced to travel in the middle of the pandemic. People’s perception of risk has changed and this is expected to give a boost to travel insurance in the coming days, said insurance experts. The Indian travel market is one of the biggest in the world. As per reports, around 36% of Indian households take trips, both within and outside the country. While the major challenge so far has been the lack of awareness, Sanjay Datta, chief - underwriting, claims and reinsurance of ICICI Lombard General Insurance, said mandatory insurance requirements imposed by countries like Schengen group and high medical treatment costs in US and Canada have been the only key drivers of travel insurance purchases so far. “Even though there are a number of products available in the market, the safety net that travel insurance provides is not very well understood. With Covid-19, customers will understand the need for domestic travel insurance for medical as well as non-medical reasons like sudden flight cancellations, delays and this should help in the uptake of domestic travel insurance also,” he said. The opportunity lies in customising products as per customers, like products for self-drive domestic travel, he added. Stating that travel insurance is gradually growing post unlock, Gurdeep Singh Batra, head – retail underwriting, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance, said, most embassies have made travel insurance mandatory along with visa application forms. Prasun Sikdar, MD & CEO, ManipalCigna Health Insurance Company Limited, said due to the pandemic, the focus has started to shift to more customer-centered services, comprehensive policies and flexibility. Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) has issued guidelines for standard travel insurance products from April 2021. “Customers looking for a more comprehensive travel policy with additional covers and higher sum insured will be able to avail other plans offered by insurers, specifically in countries where medical treatment is costly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/travel-insurance-to-gain-pace-in-post-covid-world-say-experts/articleshow/80455644.cms||Swati Rathor
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Chhabria now booked for cheating Chennai bizman of Rs 25cr||Mumbai: After arresting car designer Dilip Chhabria in a dual registration racket and for cheating comedian Kapil Sharma, Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Mumbai Police booked him and other directors of DC company for cheating a Chennai businessman of Rs 25 crore. Chhabria is in judicial custody. Indermal Ramani, from Chennai, complained that Chhabria and his firm lured him into the spare parts business and duped him. Police booked Chhabria, wife Cherry, son Bonito, his wife Anushree and sister Kanchan and invoked IPC sections for criminal breach of trust and cheating. Ramani had in 2019 shut down his auto spare parts business in Pune, moved to Chennai and ventured into gold jewellery. Chhabria had met Ramani inbetween and proposed restarting the spare parts business. Police said Chhabria promised him high profits. Chhabria’s firm was to purchase spare parts required for designing cars from Ramani’s firm. Police said Ramani initially invested Rs 16.5 crore and supplied parts for DC Avanti. “But things did not work out. Soon, Chhabria complained of recession and sought more money. Chhabria said if he did not get aid he would be in a big loss. Ramani said he too was facing a cash crunch and offered 18% interest, and Chhabria promised to pay off everything.” said an officer. Chhabria paid few crores but later Bonita stopped payments and cheques got returned. When Chhabria started avoiding Ramani, he suspected he had been duped. Ramani and his son arranged for another Rs 4 crore through RTGS and bank transfer. In 2017-18 Ramani gave him more than Rs 20 crore and the interest touched Rs 5 crore, the officer said. Police said DCDPL would manufacture Avanti cars, register them in one state, buy the car posing as a dummy customer, take finance on it and then the car would be registered in another state and sold to a third party. Crime branch had caught Ramani in Colaba in December last year for moving around in an Avanti car registered in Tamil Nadu and Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/chhabria-now-booked-for-cheating-chennai-bizman-of-rs-25cr/articleshow/80455967.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 26, 2021||Trichy||Covid: Attendance at pvt schools drops as parents anxious||Trichy: It has been a week since schools reopened for classes X and XII, but there is already a slight decline in the number of students of private schools attending physical classes. This was after Covid-19 cases were reported in a few districts. Parents prefer to have their children at home as they have become accustomed to the online classes. There are around 75,000 students in classes X and XII across 506 schools in the district out of which about 70% are coming to schools daily. The school education department has asked the schools to make elaborate arrangement for the students to ensure that the campuses remain free from Covid-19. The district chief education office is carrying out inspections in schools for necessary arrangements. Though there have not been any confirmed cases of infections in Trichy district, S Sangeetha a parent from a private school in KK Nagar said, “We are worried after reports of Covid-19 spread in schools in other districts. Since the school is taking online classes, we find it safe having our children attend online classes at home.” G Safiullah, another parent from Woraiyur said the school education department has been making arrangements, but the vaccine is yet to be made available for general public and it is not recommended for children yet. “We wish to wait till then,” he said. Trichy district chief education officer R Arivazhagan said there is no need for any fear among parents as all the necessary arrangements have been made by the department and regular inspection is being carried out. “There are a few private CBSE schools that are yet to reopen and they will be reopening schools in the coming days which will increase the number of students coming to schools,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-attendance-at-pvt-schools-drops-as-parents-anxious/articleshow/80456585.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Trichy||DVAC seizes Rs 3.7L during distribution of free milch cows||Nagapattinam: Sleuths from the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) seized unaccounted money to the tune of Rs 3.7 lakh from four people including an assistant director of animal husbandry on Sunday. The money was seized while the accused were distributing free milch cows to beneficiaries at Thirumarugal union in Nagapattinam district. The money was allegedly received as bribe by the accused from the beneficiaries.Based on a tip-off, the DVAC authorities from Nagapattinam arrived at the old panchayat office building at Marungur where the cows were being distributed to beneficiaries from Thathechari union. The DVAC team conducted an inspection and recovered unaccounted cash from assistant director of animal husbandry, Sokkalingam, government veterinary doctor Muthukumaran, husband of Marungur panchayat president, Mahendran and panchayat secretary, Prakashkumar. The team recovered Rs 1.5 lakh from Sokkalingam, Rs 48,000 from Muthukumaran, Rs 1.5 lakh from Mahendran and Rs 25,000 from Prakashkumar. Further investigations are on, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dvac-seizes-rs-3-7l-during-distribution-of-free-milch-cows/articleshow/80456586.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Frontline worker, who tended to 100 patients, gets the shot||HYDERABAD: Adike Venkatamma, a 43-year-old housekeeping staff member, who attended to more than 100 Covid-19 positive patients last year, received her first vaccine shot on Monday. TOI caught up with the senior healthcare worker while she was waiting for her turn to receive the vaccine at a hospital where she has been working from past 12 years. “I worked in the Covid-19 ward the entire year without any fear of contracting the virus. I did not take a single leave. There were seven beds in one ward and my job was to give sponge bath to sick patients, change their linens, restock medical supplies, among other things,” said Venkatamma. Speaking about the difficulties while working during the pandemic, she said, “Although it was suffocating, I made sure that I never took off my PPE kit while I was in the hospital or in the Covid-19 ward. I took all necessary precautions because of which I did not contract the virus. I also never interacted with my children before taking a bath, after going home, to keep them safe.” Although she seemed a little apprehensive about receiving the vaccine, Venkatamma said the senior doctors in the hospital motivated the entire staff by explaining in detail about the vaccine. “I am a little anxious because it is a new vaccine. The doctors at the hospital have conducted a few awareness programmes, which encouraged us to take the vaccine,” she said, before entering the vaccination room of the hospital to get her shot. Meanwhile, Dr Parbin Moktan, medical superintendent at Care Hospitals, where Venkatamma has been working, said, “Before our beneficiaries go for vaccination, we are screening them for any medical history and telling them if they should go for the vaccine or opt out. We have also carried out sensitisation classes for all our employees and have spoken in detail about the vaccine to educate them the right way.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/frontline-worker-who-tended-to-100-patients-gets-the-shot/articleshow/80455655.cms||Moulika.KV
January 26, 2021||Dehradun||Kumbh Mela administration demands 1 lakh Covid-19 vaccines||HARIDWAR: The Kumbh Mela administration has asked for one lakh Covid-19 vaccine jabs to inoculate around 50, 000 frontline workers and employees who will be deployed during the mega religious fair, scheduled to start from the last week of February. The mela administration is also planning to make a 2000-bed prefabricated Covid-19 care centre in Kankhal. Mela health officer Dr AK Sanger told TOI, “We have sent a demand letter to the state government for providing us with around one lakh Covid-19 vaccine shots. Similarly, we have asked the AIIMS Rishikesh authorities and the other hospitals to support us in conducting Covid-19 testing as RT-PCR tests have been made compulsory for the visitors. Besides, we have also planned to make a 2000-bed prefabricated Covid-19 care centre for the mela.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumbh-mela-administration-demands-1l-covid-19-vaccines/articleshow/80454727.cms||MS Nawaz
January 26, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Most govt hospitals overshoot day’s vaccination target||KOLKATA: The seventh day of Covid vaccination witnessed the inoculation of 38,159 healthcare workers in Bengal against a target of 47,500. Monday’s number was the highest on a day, but at 80%, turnout percentage was less than that on the sixth day, which logged 85% vaccination. “The drive was carried out from 475 session sites across the state on Monday, when 3,8159 people were vaccinated. So far, 1,22,664 people have been vaccinated in seven days against a target of 1,65,872. A 74% turnout is reasonably good,” said Ajay Chakraborty, director of health services (DHS). The number of recipients overshot the day’s target at most government facilities on Monday, when more vaccination sites were added. At SSKM, more than 330 healthcare workers were inoculated by 4pm, two hours before the deadline ended. “The number has started increasing from Friday and on Monday, the response was emphatic. The back-end job, carried out by a team of 51 personnel and three vaccinators, was seamless,” said a senior official at SSKM Hospital. At Medical College and Hospital (MCH), too, more than 336 people got the shot by 4pm. “We increased the number of sites from two to three on Monday,” said a senior official at MCH. M R Bangur Hospital almost achieved its 100-recipient target by 5pm, while Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital (BSDH) inoculated 150-odd people by4pm. “Apart from the employees of our hospital, we vaccinated officials of Swasthya Bhavan and BSF Hospital in Salt Lake,” said Partha Pratim Guha, medical superintendent, BSDH. Several more private hospitals, such as INK, Ruby, CMRI, Desun, Jagannath Gupta Institute of Medical Sciences and AMRI Mukundapur, started the vaccination drive from Monday. With each passing day, recipients seem to be gaining confidence about the vaccine’s safety, resulting in a higher turnout. “The initial hesitance is gradually going,” said Sonali Khata, a nurse at MCH. The health department held an online meet on the safety and efficacy of Covishield and Covaxin. While the likes of AIIMS director Randeep Guleria attended the meet, clinical trial specialist Santnau Tripathi, the DHS and director medical education Debasis Bhattacharyya took part.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/most-govt-hosps-overshoot-days-vaccination-target/articleshow/80455658.cms||Subhojyoti Kanjilal
January 26, 2021||Trichy||Man booked in Pocso case held at airport||Trichy: A 36-year-old man, who was absconding from the Chennai police in a Pocso case since 2019, was nabbed at the Trichy International Airport on Sunday night. During interrogation, it also came to light that he had concealed gold in paste form around his ankle. Following that he was handed over to the customs authorities at the airport. Customs authorities recovered around one kg of gold and further interrogations were on. According to police he was identified as Vinodh, a native of Pattukottai in Thanjavur. While he was in Avadi in Chennai, a Pocos case was booked against him in a sexual harassment case in 2019. However, he then gone absconding. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-booked-in-pocso-case-held-at-airport/articleshow/80456581.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||HC rejects Yes Bank founder’s bail plea||Mumbai: Bombay high court on Monday rejected Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor’s plea for liberty in a money-laundering case being investigated by Enforcement Directorate (ED). The agency said it apprehended that he would sell off his properties once released, frustrating the ongoing probe. Kapoor, claiming “innocence’’, argued that bail was the norm that cannot be denied on the grounds that investigations are on. Justice P D Naik pronounced the rejection of Kapoor’s bail application. The reasoned order will be available later. Kapoor’s bail plea, filed through advocate Subhash, said no case of laundering was made out against the bank’s founder. Kapoor was arrested on March 8, 2020 and is in Taloja jail. ED said Kapoor conspired with Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan of Dewan Housing and Finance Ltd (DHFL) to illegally sanction loans and “received kickbacks” in a case where “proceeds of crime involved is to the extent of Rs 5,050 crore”. The Wadhawan brothers, Dheeraj (42) and Kapil (46), were arrested last April for alleged involvement in a case where Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) said Yes Bank had invested Rs 3,700-crore in a short-term debenture of DHFL between April and June 2018, and in lieu Kapoor allegedly gave kickbacks to Wadhawans. ED said Rs 600 crore was received by Doit Urban Ventures Pvt Ltd (DUVPL) from DHFL. Kapoor’s bail petition said “Rs 600 crore was not a kickback” nor proceeds of crime but a “genuine loan”. But ED, through counsel Hiten Venegaonkar, refuted Kapoor’s contention, saying DUVPL was a “beneficially owned by Rana Kapoor through three daughters’’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-rejects-yes-bank-founders-bail-plea/articleshow/80455974.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||40 policemen across Maharashtra awarded for their gallantry||MUMBAI: On the occasion of Republic day, 40 policemen across the state of Maharashtra were conferred with awards for their gallantry, distinguished and meritorious services in the force. The police medal is a decoration award awarded to members of law enforcement in India. Among the distinguished award recepients were additional director general of police (DGP) for the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) Prabhat Kumar, ADG for State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) Sukhvinder Singh, Nivrutti Tukaram Kadam, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) for the Thane crime branch, and the senior inspector of Sahu Nagar police in Dharavi Vilas Gangawane. Senior inspector of Panvel police station Ravindra Daudkar, police inspector (crime branch) Ajay Joshi, Pramod Sawant from the technology cell, inspector Milind Desai from scheduled tribe scrutiny committee, Dinkar Mohite from CBD Belapur, Jeevan Jadhav from the Mumbai crime branch and inspector Raja Bidkar received meritorious awards for their services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/40-policemen-across-state-awarded-for-their-gallantry/articleshow/80456600.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Trichy||Unfazed by threats, farmers in state to take out tractor rallies||Trichy: The All India Farmers’ Struggle Coordination Committee, farmers and labour unions from delta districts in the central region including Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvaur and Trichy, have decided to take out tractor rally on Republic Day on Tuesday. Various organisations and political parties in the southern districts will also take out the rally to extend their support to protesting farmers in Delhi. SP Deshmukh Shekhar Sanjay has warned of stern action against farmers holding tractor rally in Thanjavur on the Republic Day, while district police units in the southern districts have warned that vehicles will be seized and cases will be registered against political parties and those taking part in the tractor rally. Police have warned seizure of tractors for agricultural purposes and two-wheelers taking part in the protest – for which permission has been denied – and that cases will also be registered under sections 177 read with 179 and 207 of the Motor Vehicles Act. “Despite the warning, we are firm to hold the protest as planned,” farmers said. It has been planned to assemble at the collector offices or district headquarters or at a prominent locations where they will stage a protest to show their solidarity with the protesting farmers in Delhi and also demand to withdraw the three farm laws immediately. In Trichy, the rally is going to commence from 14 locations. Headed by the district coordinator of the committee and district secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam affiliated to CPI Ayilai Sivasuriyan, the tractor rally will start from MGR statue near Court and will conclude near EVR Periyar statue at Central bus stand. Similar protests will be held in Thiruverumbur, Anthanallur and Manikandam unions. The protesters from Lalgudi, Pullambadi and Mannachanallur blocks have planned to congregate at a toll plaza located on Trichy-Chennai highways near Samayapuram. In Thanjavur, the coordination committee has planned to take out the rally from Melavastha Savadi near New Bus stand and it will conclude at Tholgappiyar square, district coordinator of the committee NV Kannan said. “We heard that police officials are threatening the tractor drivers not to participate in the rally organised by the committee. This is unfair. Despite police threat, we are firm to hold the rally as decided earlier," Kannan told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/unfazed-by-threats-farmers-in-state-to-take-out-tractor-rallies/articleshow/80456588.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Trichy||Memorials for language martyrs in Trichy speak a tale of neglect||TRICHY: On the occasion of the ‘Language Martyrs Day’, which is observed across the state to commemorate those who lost their lives against Hindi imposition in the state about half-a-century ago, the neglected memorials in the city were cleaned. While several political parties organised rallies to pay tributes to the martyrs who sacrificed their lives to safeguard the significance of Tamil language, their memorials remain in utter neglect with no information about the individuals and the agitations. The city holds a significant role in anti-Hindi agitations with the active participation of the local people at the anti-Hindi conference held in Trichy in 1965. Memorials for language martyrs Keezhapaluvur Chinnasamy (1937-1964) and Viralimalai Shanmugam (1943-1965) were installed near the Uyyakondan Canal at Thennur. Similarly, the state government named the Palakkarai bridge after Chinnasamy and Shanmugam in November 2006. Except for the ‘Language Martyrs Day’ observed on January 25, the memorial and granite stone that bears the names of the two martyrs lie in neglect. “There is no piece of information either about the life history of the martyrs or about the anti-Hindi agitations. Often the granite stone on the bridge is spammed by wall posters,” K Sathish Kumar, district president, Tamil Nadu Kalai Ilakkiya Peramaippu, said. As other memorials also exist adjacent to the language martyrs, many of the residents in the city hardly visit the site and identify the language martyrs, local people said. While various political parties and pro-Tamil organisations hail the agitations of the 1960s, nothing is done so far to spread the information to the posterity, said literary organisations. However, the state highways department said that the wall posters spamming the granite plaque on the Palakkarai bridge was cleared. It said that they will maintain the facility clean. Meanwhile, on Monday, various leaders of the DMK, AIADMK, VCK and MDMK paid floral tributes at the memorial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/memorials-for-language-martyrs-in-trichy-speak-a-tale-of-neglect/articleshow/80456597.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Indore doctor arrested for forex fraud in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 37-year-old doctor from Indore has been arrested for allegedly colluding with a Chinese national and duping people in the guise of forex trade. Rachakonda police said the accused, Aditya Narayan Godbole, is from Vasudev Nagar in Indore. A few months ago, a victim from Nagole approached Rachakonda cyber crime police informing that he had noticed posts on Facebook about lucrative forex trading opportunities and responded to one of them. “The fraudsters made the complainant transfer Rs 41.98 lakh into the bank account of Aditya on the pretext of investing it in forex trading. Later, they stopped responding to messages,” cyber crime Inspector M Shankar said. Police team tracked bank account details and arrested Aditya from Indore. He was brought to the city on Monday and sent in judicial remand. Police also seized an iPhone along with a SIM card from Aditya and froze Rs 11.5 lakh in his bank account. Aditya said he went to China in 2007 and finished medicine from Zhengzhou University in 2014. Aditya also completed a diploma in Mandarin. In 2015, he met Chinese national Mao Zhibin at a restaurant and they became friends. Four years ago, Aditya returned to India and opened a clinic in Indore. “A few months ago, Mao contacted Aditya requesting him to open an office for forex trading and appointed him as marketing manager-cum-local business coordinator. Mao and his associate, Monica, lured the victim to deposit Rs 41.98 lakh in Aditya’s bank account. Mao made Aditya buy USDT crypto currency and transferred the same to his bank accounts in China. Aditya claimed he was unaware of Mao’s plans,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indore-doc-arrested-for-forex-fraud/articleshow/80455666.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Two senior police officers from Telangana awarded President's police medal||HYDERABAD: Two senior police officers — Shikha Goel, additional commissioner and N Shiva Shankar Reddy, IG, Nizamabad — from state were awarded President’s police medal for distinguished service on the occasion of Republic Day. Medals for meritorious service were given to Rajesh Kumar, IG, counter intelligence, Sharfuddin Siddiqui Mohammed, commandant, TSSP battalions, head quarters, K Narsinga Rao, DSP, Nirmal, S Suryanarayana, DSP, ACB, T Goverdhan, ACP, G Ramesh, deputy assault commander, greyhounds, M Uddav, constable, TSSP XIII battalion, B Goverdhan, SI, intelligence, K Karunakar Reddy, ASI, Rachakonda, B Mohan Raju, ARSI, TSSP XIII battalion, D Mohan Reddy, constable intelligence, Mohammed Nayeemuddin, constable, intelligence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-sr-police-officers-from-t-awarded-prez-police-medal/articleshow/80455676.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab civic elections: Unable to seek tickets due to senior leaders’ indecision, say BJP workers||MOHALI: Some BJP workers aspiring for councillor ticket in Mohali have alleged that their senior leaders are not announcing their candidature, which is preventing them from seeking party tickets to contest the civic elections. The party is yet to announce the names of candidates for the forthcoming Mohali MC election slated for February 14. A former BJP councillor and an aspirant this time as well said, “We want the party’s senior leaders to announce their names for councillor seats, after which we will do the same. In fact, they are scared of contesting elections, as they know that the BJP will not be able to win any seat this time. Last time, we had an alliance with the SAD, but this time the situation is altogether different.” The BJP had managed to win six out of 50 seats in the last MC elections, which were just 12% of the total strength of the House, and later a couple of them had joined the SAD. The BJP had been able to pull off even those six seats, as the SAD had not fielded its candidates against theirs and the fight had remained between the BJP and the Congress or the SAD and the Congress. However, contrary to the claims that the senior BJP leaders are not coming forward fearing defeat, party’s district president Sukhvinder Goldy asserted that the mayor this time would be from their party. Goldy said, “We will have our mayor this time. The list of aspirants has been sent to the party high command. The party high command will announce the final list on January 28.” The BJP leader further said he has also sent his own name as an aspirant, but the count of probables is three times the number of seats in the civic body. The final list would have names of contestants for all the MCs and councils across the state, Goldy added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/unable-to-seek-tickets-due-to-senior-leaders-indecision-bjp-workers/articleshow/80456625.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
January 26, 2021||Nashik||Schools for classes V to VIII set to begin from Jan 27||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) and the Nashik Zilla Parishad have made arrangements for the return of 3.85 lakh students to the physical classrooms as the schools for classes V to VIII are set to reopen on January 27.There are 2,651 schools across the district that are expected to reopen from Wednesday, though it is not compulsory for all the schools to reopen on the first day. “Two factors — RT-PCR tests of teachers and consent of the parents — will decide if the schools are reopened. The tests are being conducted fast,” said Rajeev Mhaskar, the Nashik ZP education officer.The RT-PCR tests for around 2,600 teachers — out of 7,000 teachers in the rural areas — have been done so far. The others too will be covered. Similarly, within the NMC limits, of the 2,729 teachers, tests of 1,900 have been carried out.The officer said each school has some teachers who have been tested. “This will ensure the some staff members are available at all the schools. But the students will not be allowed without their parents’ consent,” said MhaskarThe ZP has 1,025 schools in rural areas with 64,876 students and 3,500 teachers. There are 1,049 private, aided and unaided schools in the rural areas with 2.1 lakh students and 3,823 teachers. The NMC has 102 schools with 15,476 students and 475 teachers, while there are 303 private schools with 95,297 students and 2,127 teachers. The preparations in the NMC schools are also on.In the case of the schools that fall within the local civic body limits, the respective gram panchayats, municipal councils, municipalities have been asked to carry out the sanitisation of the premises. “While civic bodies, including the gram panchayats, have been asked to carry out the sanitization of the schools and provide all the facilities required to prevent the spread of Covid, the schools — government and aided ones — have been given Rs 5,000 each to make the necessary arrangements,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/schools-for-classes-v-to-viii-set-to-begin-from-jan-27/articleshow/80453960.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 26, 2021||Nashik||DG’s Insignia to be given to 11 personnel of Nashik city police||Nashik: As many as 11 police personnel from the Nashik city police will be honoured with the director general’s (DG’s) Insignia for their outstanding performance and for providing service for over 15 years. On the eve of the 71st Republic Day of India, the DG’s Insignia was announced for senior police inspector Prabhakar Ghadge of crime branch, police sub-inspector (PSI) Bhimrao Gaikwad of the crime branch, assistant police sub-inspector (APSI) Anil Bhalerao of the crime branch, APSI Bhagirath Handore of Deolali Camp police station, APSI Rajendra Thakre of the police headquarters, head constables— Vishnu Ugle of the economic offences wing, Suresh Malode of Mhasrool police station, Prabhakar Kolhe of Sarkarwada police station, and police naiks — Devram Surunge of city traffic branch and Bharat Patil of Mhasrool police station. The release issued by the city police said the DG’s Insignia has also been announced for senior PI Ananda Wagh of the crime branch for his outstanding work in detecting very complicated cases and filing cases against the accused concerned in the court. District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal will present the DG’s Insignia to the 11 police officials and constables at the 71st Republic Day celebration at the Police Parade Grounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dgs-insignia-to-be-given-to-11-personnel-of-nashik-city-police/articleshow/80453953.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Doctor couple who battled Covid leads by example to take shots||NEW DELHI: Gopal Jha, a 51-year-old doctor working at a mohalla clinic in Dilshad Garden, got infected with Covid-19 after attending to a woman, a resident of L-Block with symptoms of the disease, when she returned from Saudi Arabia in mid-March 2020. His wife, Dr Alpana, who works at a mohalla clinic in Jafrabad, and their children were also detected positive for the virus later. On Monday, the visibly excited doctor couple was seen at Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital in east Delhi for vaccination after receiving a call from the district magistrate’s office. “I have been working at the mohalla clinic in Dilshad Garden for a long time. Since many people with various diseases were visiting me every day, I was taking all precautions right from the start to avoid getting infected. But after the woman was found positive in the RT-PCR test at RML Hospital, I got a call from the DM’s office to get tested considering I had attended to her and recommended the test. Though I was sure nothing would happen, I was wrong. Not only me, but my entire family tested positive,” said Jha. The experience taught Jha not to take things for granted. “After recovering, I was hesitant to join the clinic again. But the expectation of my patients drove me back to work again. I came across many people with ILI symptoms, recommended 8-9 of them for tests every day and some reported positive too. I asked everyone to take precautions and immediately get tested if any symptoms arose,” he said. “The government and healthcare personnel have worked hard in these challenging times. I’m happy to get an opportunity to set an example by getting inoculated. We should trust the vaccines developed by our scientists,” added Jha. The couple appreciated the government’s efforts in giving vaccines to all healthcare personnel and frontline workers. “After receiving the vaccine, I will tell my patients about its benefits. In future, when the government starts the vaccination drive for the general public, I will surely recommend my patients,” said Alpana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/doctor-couple-who-battled-covid-leads-by-example-to-take-shots/articleshow/80456612.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 26, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra’s vaccinated 1.36 lakh of 8 lakh health workers on list till date||MUMBAI: Vaccination numbers across the state and in the city swelled on Monday with additional booths and more recipients being lined up. However, when measured against the higher targets set by both the city and the state, Mumbai and Maharashtra managed to cover 77% and 74% of the planned number, down from Saturday’s 90% and 83%. On Monday, the sixth day of the drive, the state broke into the one lakh club, having immunised 1,35,701 health workers of the targeted total of eight lakh. Eight other states in India have breached the one lakh figure, while Karnataka is the only one to have vaccinated over two lakh.  A total of 35,816 health workers were vaccinated out of the 48,331 scheduled for the day. The beneficiaries on Monday nearly doubled since Day 1 (18,328).Most centres in the city, barring JJ Hospital, saw long queues, particularly in the second half of the day. Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, said the target for Monday was raised to 6,500 in the city, of which 5,005 could be vaccinated. A total of 18,202 have been vaccinated in Mumbai of the city’s 1.23 lakh registered health workers. “We can’t say the turnout has dropped. In fact, it was the highest in six days. We simply kept a higher target as part of scaling-up plans,” she said. Around ten cases of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) were recorded from the city. Gomare said there were no hospitalisations, and everyone went home after 30 minutes of observation. State officials said Dhule saw the highest percentage of vaccination (144%), while Wardha, Bhandara, Osmanabad and Satara districts followed by recording a more than 100% turnout. Starting from Monday, the state will have vaccinations on five days. The drive on Monday was held across 477 centres, and the plan is to scale it up to 511. The state (excluding Mumbai) recorded eight instances of AEFI but no details were shared by the authorities. Raigad, Nanded and Aurangabad were the only districts that saw a below 50% turnout. Co-WIN glitches, however, persisted even on the sixth day as the software took long to check for registration of beneficiaries. Many doctors had to go away as their names were missing in Co-WIN. A senior coordinator from one of the civic centres called it a major drawback of the programme. “These are doctors we work with. We know they have done Covid duties but we cannot give them the vaccine if their names are missing from Co-WIN,” he said. Dr Gomare said that health workers whose names are missing from Co-WIN have to visit the local ward office. “We will find a way to register their names,” she said. The BMC also plans to upload the list of names that are available on Co-WIN so that doctors can check that before coming to the centres. Among districts, Mumbai city and suburbs put together have carried out the highest number of vaccinations, followed by Thane (13,109) and Pune (11,188). Meanwhile, Thane municipal corporation has now allowed two private hospitals to start vaccination of their staffers within their own premises. It has also allowed registered non-government health workers to walk into any of the centres in the city starting this week. The development comes after the initial three days of vaccination in the city, scheduled only for registered government health workers in Thane, didn’t see adequate numbers turning up for the process, thus causing an embarrassment for the administration. “To start with, Jupiter and Bethany hospitals in Thane have been allowed to conduct the vaccination for their staff within their premises as these facilities already have a huge healthcare working count,” said Dr Raju Murudkar, medical health officer at the TMC. (Inputs by Manoj Badgeri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/states-vaccinated-1-36l-of-8l-health-workers-on-list-till-date/articleshow/80460641.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 26, 2021||Agra||Defying all odds, 10,000 farmers from Agra region reach borders near Delhi||AGRA: Despite heavy police deployment and checkpoints, over 10,000 farmers from Agra region finally reached the Delhi borders on private vehicles and buses on Monday. Most of them were unable to take their tractors due to strict checks and petrol pumps refusing to refuel. Over 4,000 reached the Singhu and Chilla borders, while many others reached Ghazipur. Besides, 500 reached the protest site at Palwal. Farmers moved in small groups to avoid barricades on national highways and Yamuna expressway. They took link roads. A large number of political and social workers also moved towards Delhi on Monday. At Chilla border, Yogesh Pratap Singh, state president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu), said, “To avoid being stopped by police, we had directed our workers to leave tractors and travel in private vehicles or board buses. On Monday evening, 1,500 workers in different groups from Agra, Etah, Kasganj, Aligarh, Firozabad, Mainpuri managed to reach Chilla." Gajendra Singh Parihar, Agra region president of BKU's Tikait group, said, “Despite being stopped, thousands of workers managed to reach Ghazipur border from Agra and Aligarh division. At least 100 tractors from the Agra region have left for Delhi in the past three days." Agra district president of BKU (Tikait), Rajveer Lawaniya, also reached Ghazipur border with 100 farmers on Monday. “We were not allowed to take tractors to the Delhi border. They even stopped diesel at fuel stations. At least 50 tractors were turned away by police. But, defying all odds, over 10,000 farmers from Agra region have reached the Delhi borders,” Lawaniya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/defying-all-odds-10000-farmers-from-agra-region-reach-borders-near-delhi/articleshow/80453955.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||SC requests Telangana HC to expedite Salar Jung suits pending since 1952||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday requested the Telangana high court to speedily dispose of the longest surviving civil suits, pending since 1952, over division of assets and properties between the descendants of Salar Jung III of Hyderabad. Appearing for one such descendant, Syed Zahid Ali, senior advocate A M Singhvi told a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian that one suit was pending since 1952, three years after the death of Nawab Mir Yousuf A H Khan, popularly known as Sir Salar Jung III. Since then, the sprawling private properties and a big ‘jagir’ left behind by him have been mired in endless litigation. Justice Ramasubramanian, who had dealt with the matter while a judge of Telangana HC, described the three pending civil suits as “notorious” and said the number of descendants had probably crossed 300 by now, making it more difficult for a decision on division of property. However, the bench told Singhvi that though it would not entertain a writ petition on this issue, it would accede to his plea and request the Telangana HC chief justice to take up the pending civil suits relating to assets and properties of Salar Jung and attempt to dispose them as early as possible. Shortly after the Nawab's death in 1949, the Salar Jung Estate Administration Regulation was enacted, empowering the government to appoint a committee consisting of not more than five people to be called the Salar Jung Estate Committee for the purpose of administration of the estate. The HC had ruled that the committee was not the proper forum for adjudicating the various questions that arose from the Nawab's succession case. Meanwhile, Parliament enacted the Nawab Salar Jung Bahadur Administration of Assets Act, 1950, vesting all assets of the Nawab in the Salar Jung Estate Committee. Many suits were filed in the civil court. The HC withdrew all suits to itself in 1958 to which the Union government, the Hyderabad government and the Salar Jung Estate Committee were made parties. The suit ended in a compromise between all parties in 1959. This decree was challenged by many descendants on the ground that the parties to the suit had no manner of right or claim to the properties in the litigation and that the compromise itself was obtained in collusion. The litigation restarted and continued at a snail’s pace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sc-requests-t-hc-to-expedite-salar-jung-suits-pending-since-1952/articleshow/80455688.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad court recalls non-bailable warrant issued against Asaduddin Owaisi||Hyderabad: AIMIM supremo Asaduddin Owaisi appeared before the special sessions judge at Nampally Metropolitan criminal court on Monday and got his non-bailable warrant (NBW) against him recalled in connection with the attack case on Congress leader Mohammed Shabbir Ali. Last week the court issued an NBW against the MP after he failed to appear before the court. The trial is scheduled to commence from February 3. In October 2020, the Mirchowk police filed a supplementary charge sheet with a list of new witnesses and sought permission from the special sessions judge to delete the name of AIMIM MP from the list of accused. The judge Ch VRR Varaprasad had declined the request.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/court-recalls-nbw-issued-against-asad/articleshow/80455684.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Trichy||Solving problems in 100 days is only drama: G K Vasan||Thanjavur: Stalin’s claim that petitions received from the people will be resolved within 100 days is just political drama, Tamil Manila Congress president GK Vasan has said. He also said that Stalin's dream of winning the assembly elections by holding a 'Vel' will never come true.Addressing reporters in Thanjavur on Monday, he said, “Stalin thinks he can win the election by holding a vel in his hand. All those who carry a vel will never win. Only those who pay respect to the vel with reverence can win, he cannot deceive the people in the name of devotion,” he added.While replying to the query on Stalin's announcement on solving people's individual issues within 100 days of coming to power, GK Vasan said that Stalin's claim that petitions received from people will be resolved within 100 days is a political drama.While speaking about farmers’ protest in Delhi, he said, “Their misguidance is hampering the benefits available to the farmers across the country. Farmers who are struggling in Tamil Nadu need to realize this and should act accordingly,” he stated. He also claimed that only farmers from two states are protesting against the farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/solving-problems-in-100-days-is-only-drama-g-k-vasan/articleshow/80456599.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Bhopal||Active cases fall by more than half in MP, but rise in Betul & Dindori||Bhopal: While active cases of Covid-19 have reduced by more than half in the entire state since January 1, the tribal Betul district is the only one among 52 districts of Madhya Pradesh where active cases have nearly doubled in the same period. Overall, there were 9,222 active cases in Madhya Pradesh as on January 1, 2021, but as on January 24, it reduced by 5,051 and there were only 4,171 active cases in the state. However, only two districts -- both tribal dominated Betul and Dindori — have seen an increase in the number of active cases in the same period. Though in Dindori, it has only increased by six cases, in Betul, it has nearly doubled. On January 1, there were 93 active cases in Betul district as per the state health bulletin released by the Directorate of Health Services. On January 24, the figure of active cases increased by 93 to become 186 active cases. Officials in the district claim that there were isolated incidents where a large number of patients were found. This led to the increase in numbers, a trend which is stabilising now. Chief medical and health officer, Betul, Dr Pradeep Dhakad, said, “There is no particular reason as such. At a school in Dindori, some students tested positive after the opening of schools in Ghodadongri. Actually, we had got all students of schools tested for Covid-19. In one incident, a hospital staff in Bhimpur tehsil was found positive, which led to other staff testing positive. Thus, there were a few such incidences which led to the increase in cases.” “Most importantly, we are not hiding any facts and not shying away from testing because it is our priority to find patients, if any, so that the spread of disease is contained,” Dhakad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/active-cases-fall-by-more-than-half-in-mp-but-rise-in-betul-dindori/articleshow/80455657.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Thane||Thane: Auto driver who stole bag held||THANE: An autorickshaw driver, who fled to his hometown with a bag containing cash and valuables left behind by a passenger in Bhayander last month was arrested. Tukaram Kadam, a resident of Bhayander and his wife were heading to a wedding hall for their daughter’s marriage in an auto on December 11. When they reached the venue, the wife left behind the bag containing gold and cash. While the marriage took place, Kadam filed a complaint with the Navghar police. A search was then launched for Mohammed Maksoodali, a resident of Kashimira.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/auto-driver-who-stole-bag-held/articleshow/80458026.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s vaccinated 1.36 lakh of 8 lakh health workers on list till date||MUMBAI: Vaccination numbers across the state and in the city swelled on Monday with additional booths and more recipients being lined up. However, when measured against the higher targets set by both the city and the state, Mumbai and Maharashtra managed to cover 77% and 74% of the planned number, down from Saturday’s 90% and 83%. On Monday, the sixth day of the drive, the state broke into the one lakh club, having immunised 1,35,701 health workers of the targeted total of eight lakh. Eight other states in India have breached the one lakh figure, while Karnataka is the only one to have vaccinated over two lakh.  A total of 35,816 health workers were vaccinated out of the 48,331 scheduled for the day. The beneficiaries on Monday nearly doubled since Day 1 (18,328).Most centres in the city, barring JJ Hospital, saw long queues, particularly in the second half of the day. Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, said the target for Monday was raised to 6,500 in the city, of which 5,005 could be vaccinated. A total of 18,202 have been vaccinated in Mumbai of the city’s 1.23 lakh registered health workers. “We can’t say the turnout has dropped. In fact, it was the highest in six days. We simply kept a higher target as part of scaling-up plans,” she said. Around ten cases of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) were recorded from the city. Gomare said there were no hospitalisations, and everyone went home after 30 minutes of observation. State officials said Dhule saw the highest percentage of vaccination (144%), while Wardha, Bhandara, Osmanabad and Satara districts followed by recording a more than 100% turnout. Starting from Monday, the state will have vaccinations on five days. The drive on Monday was held across 477 centres, and the plan is to scale it up to 511. The state (excluding Mumbai) recorded eight instances of AEFI but no details were shared by the authorities. Raigad, Nanded and Aurangabad were the only districts that saw a below 50% turnout. Co-WIN glitches, however, persisted even on the sixth day as the software took long to check for registration of beneficiaries. Many doctors had to go away as their names were missing in Co-WIN. A senior coordinator from one of the civic centres called it a major drawback of the programme. “These are doctors we work with. We know they have done Covid duties but we cannot give them the vaccine if their names are missing from Co-WIN,” he said. Dr Gomare said that health workers whose names are missing from Co-WIN have to visit the local ward office. “We will find a way to register their names,” she said. The BMC also plans to upload the list of names that are available on Co-WIN so that doctors can check that before coming to the centres. Among districts, Mumbai city and suburbs put together have carried out the highest number of vaccinations, followed by Thane (13,109) and Pune (11,188). Meanwhile, Thane municipal corporation has now allowed two private hospitals to start vaccination of their staffers within their own premises. It has also allowed registered non-government health workers to walk into any of the centres in the city starting this week. The development comes after the initial three days of vaccination in the city, scheduled only for registered government health workers in Thane, didn’t see adequate numbers turning up for the process, thus causing an embarrassment for the administration. “To start with, Jupiter and Bethany hospitals in Thane have been allowed to conduct the vaccination for their staff within their premises as these facilities already have a huge healthcare working count,” said Dr Raju Murudkar, medical health officer at the TMC. (Inputs by Manoj Badgeri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/states-vaccinated-1-36l-of-8l-health-workers-on-list-till-date/articleshow/80458032.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Puncture man’s Rs 1,000 inspires locals to pool Rs 5 lakh for CCTVs||HYDERABAD: When Madan Mohan, a member of Society for Cyberabad Security Council (SCSC), heard how a Rs 1,000 contribution by Mohammed Ali — a puncture shop owner who barely earns Rs 200 a day — inspired others from his locality to pool in Rs 5 lakh in just one day for setting up CCTVs, he himself contributed Rs5 lakh for the cause. During the launch of 2,058 CCTVs on Monday, director general of police M Mahendar Reddy connected with Ali, who runs his shop in Miyapur, through video conference and heard his story. Mohan, who participated in the event and heard Ali speak during the video conference, said: “My family wanted to contribute money for the Ram temple in Ayodhya, but it still has some time. So after hearing Ali’s story, I felt I should not wait to contribute for setting up CCTVs.” Reddy said that when Telangana police started the concept of community CCTV programme, it was the hawkers and those who use pavements to do business who set up CCTVs, whereas residents in upmarket areas such as Banjara Hills or Jubilee Hills were reluctant. It was later that residents and businessmen from all areas of the city realised the benefits, and came forward to set up CCTVs. Reddy launched the CCTVs, which are set up across three zones of Cyberabad. As of now, Cyberabad police have 1.26 lakh CCTVs. Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar said they are aiming to raise the number to 2.5 lakh by 2021. Police said that in the year 2020, of the 932 footages analysed, 352 helped in investigation of various criminal cases. Officials played different footages to demonstrate how they helped not only solve cases but also get a clean chit for innocent people accused in various crimes. In one accident case in Jeedimetla, a person died in a road accident after getting crushed under the wheels of a lorry. But CCTV analysis found that it was a case of suicide, helping the lorry driver from a possible conviction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/puncture-mans-rs-1k-inspires-locals-to-pool-rs-5l-for-cctvs/articleshow/80455729.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Jaipur||Churu logs first Covid case in 11 days||JAIPUR: Two persons died, while 193 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Monday bringing its overall tally to 3,16,845. With two more deaths, the state’s toll rose to 2,760. Churu reported its first Covid-19 case in the past 11 days which is the only active case in the district. Besides, Sawai Madhopur has two active cases, Dholpur five and Karauli, Dausa and Tonk currently have only six cases each. Though the number of active cases in Jaipur has gone down over the past two months, it is currently accommodating 622 active cases, which are highest in the state, followed by Kota (396), Udaipur (338), Jodhpur (277), Nagaur (212), Alwar (105), Ajmer and Bundi have 104 active cases. “The state’s active cases have gone below 3,000 mark and it was 2,968 on Monday. The number of deaths due to Covid-19 have also decreased,” said a health department official. Two persons died in Udaipur and Sawai Madhopur due to Covid-19. Udaipur reported its 115th Covid-19 death, while Sawai Madhopur reported its 27th Covid-19 fatality. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (30), Kota (24), Nagaur (22), Alwar (21), Jodhpur (11), Bhilwara (10), Chittorgarh (8), Rajsamand (8), Pali (7), Ajmer (7), Jhalawar (6), Udaipur (5), Jhunjhunu (4), Bundi (4), Sirohi (4), Banswara (4), Barmer (4), Dungarpur (4), Pratapgarh (3), Sriganganagar (1), Hanumangarh (1), Churu (1), Sikar (1), Bharatpur (1), Jaisalmer (1) and Tonk (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/churu-logs-first-covid-case-in-11-days/articleshow/80456617.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Bhopal||Padma Bhushan for Sumitra, Tiwari & Bhuri Bai get Padma Sri||BHOPAL/INDORE: Former Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan has been conferred with Padma Bhushan award while director of MP Tribal Folk Art Academy, Kapil Tiwari, and Indian Bhil artist Bhuri Bai have been selected for Padma awards for their distinguished services. Union government announced the Padma awards late Monday evening. Expressing happiness, an ecstatic Sumitra Mahajan told reporters, “I am happy. Indore has been honoured. The love and support I have got from the workers and people of Indore and my father’s ethical upbringing, my in-laws' strong support has helped me to move forward. “The BJP also helped me.., by giving me the opportunity to work in different capacities and getting the best out of me. Prime minister and leaders of all parties supported me to become the Lok Sabha Speaker,” she said. To a query on what advice she would give to the new breed of politicians, Mahajan said, “Nobody gives anyone advice. People learn from what they see. People will get what is in their destiny. But if you do the work assigned to you with sincerity and good heart, God will help you.” Eminent speaker Kapil Tiwari has been nominated member of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) for the past 3 years. Talking to TOI, Dr Tiwari said, “For me this award is not for an individual but for everyone associated with the work that I have been doing for the past many years.” Tiwari was born in Sagar. The 68-year-old Tiwari was the director of the MP Tribal Academy for 30 years before retiring in 2011. He is also the founding editor of Chaumasa, a magazine focused on India's folk genres, started in 1982. He has the credit of editing and publishing 70 books on Indian folk dialects, arts, festivals and lectures. Asked about his best movement of his life, Dr Tiwari said, “When I decided to work for the tribal was the day which is always a satisfactory decision of my life. We need to keep on working to save the tribal. If we lose them it will be irreparable.” He also congratulated Bhura Bai for being selected for Padma award. Bhuri Bai is the first tribal woman artist who dared to take the traditional Pithora paintings beyond the walls of the huts in her village in Jhabua, Madhya Pradesh. She transferred the folk-art form from the mud walls to huge canvasses and sheets of paper. It fetched her recognition, fame, awards and money. Bhuri Bai presently works as an artist with MP Tribal Folk Art Academy, in Bhopal. Her works have been displayed in galleries and museums of Europe, Australia and the US. Her painting 'Story of the Jungle' was sold at Sotheby’s auction in 2007.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/padma-bhushan-for-sumitra-tiwari-bhuri-bai-get-padma-sri/articleshow/80455672.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Jaipur||Victory Flame reaches Jaipur||Jaipur: The Victory Flame commemorating the 1971 Bangladesh war reached Jaipur on Monday where it will remain till February 6. It had previously been taken to Alwar, Hisar and Bharatpur.The Victory Flame travelled through Mathura, Bharatpur, Alwar, Hisar and arrived at Jaipur on January 25. It was received by Commander, Tanot Brigade at Jaipur Military Station. The ceremonial event also included a victory run which was attended by a large number of troops as well as children and families of soldiers while adhering to Covid protocol. Various events are planned as part of Swarnim Vijay Varsh at Pilani, Jhunjhuhu, Sikar, Dausa, Karauli and Jaipur from January 26 to February 5. The Victory Flame will move to Bhatinda on February 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/victory-flame-reaches-jaipur/articleshow/80456606.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Vice-President inaugurates integrated weapons design centre in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu inaugurated the integrated weapons system design centre at DRDO’s Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Missile Complex in the city on Monday. He was briefed about the various ongoing projects and technological developments of missile complex laboratories namely Defence Research and Development Laboratory (DRDL) and Research Centre Imarat (RCI). He was also shown a range of indigenously developed missile systems and avionic technologies. The integrated weapon system design facility will enhance design and development of command & control systems for surface-to-air missile (SAM) systems and ballistic missile defence (BMD) systems. The centre will give a thrust to the overall system design and evaluation methodology for state-of-the-art missiles. “This will play a major role in the realization of highly complex futuristic aerospace & defence systems,” DRDO officials said. The vice president said the development of a range of indigenous defence systems by DRDO has given confidence to the government for banning import of 101 items. Naidu lauded scientists for maintaining the legacy of missile scientist and former president Abdul Kalam. He hopes that the country would become a top exporter in the field of missiles. The vice president also inaugurated a new missile technology exposition and seminar hall on the campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vice-prez-inaugurates-integrated-weapons-design-centre-in-city/articleshow/80455696.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Bhandup man held with cocaine worth Rs 19 lakh||BHANDUP: A thirty-year-old man from Bhandup was arrested by the Kashimira police with cocaine worth Rs 19 lakh. The accused, Anil Maitri had come to Hathkesh area of Mira road to sell the drug to an unidentified customer. Acting on a tipoff, the police laid a trap and nabbed him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bhandup-man-held-with-cocaine-worth-19l/articleshow/80458038.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Jaipur||Vaccination drive gathers pace as number of sites increases in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Covid-19 vaccination drive gained momentum in the city as inoculation was conducted at 87 sites where 4,425 healthcare workers got the vaccine jab. A day after the private hospitals and nursing homes had demanded to scale up the vaccination drive in private sector, the health department increased the number of vaccination sites in the city from 55 to 87 within 24 hours. State’s advisory committee on Covid-19 management member Dr Virendra Singh after receiving the vaccine said, “Even if you have sufficient Covid-19 antibodies after being infected with the virus, one should not avoid getting the Covid-19 vaccine jab which is safe.” Besides, after receiving the vaccine, Dr SS Agarwal, former president Indian Medical Association said, “Even though you have recovered from Covid-19, you need to get the Covid-19 vaccine to maintain sufficient among of Covid-19 antibodies in your body.” Dr ML Swarankar, founder chairman of a private medical university, encouraged the healthcare workers to get the vaccine. Dr Swaranakar said, “Covishield is a safe vaccine and I haven’t felt any side effects of it.” He admired the efforts of the central and state government for providing free vaccines to all healthcare workers. Jaipur is among the districts of the state which has reported lowest achievement of target set for Covid-19 vaccination. The prominent doctors have been appealing to the healthcare workers to get the vaccine without any confusion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/vaccination-drive-gathers-pace-as-no-of-sites-increases-in-city/articleshow/80456618.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Doctors want the Covaxin jab, call up JJ Hospital to ask for it||MUMBAI: JJ Hospital in Byculla, the only state-run centre in Mumbai and one of the six in Maharashtra administering Covaxin, is faced with a strange predicament. Even as it struggles to convince its own employees to take the vaccine, over a dozen private practitioners have approached the hospital for Covaxin in the last one week. The average daily turnout in Covaxin centres has remained under 40% across the state while that for Covishield has crossed 70%. On Monday, a general practitioner from Bandra walked into JJ demanding a Covaxin shot. He was turned away, for lack of clarity on whether non-JJ employees can be administered it. The agitated doctor cited the new norms which allowed doctors to walk into any centre. Civic officials told TOI that the walk-in relaxation only applied to the nine civic-run medical centres where Covishield was administered. Dr Lalit Sankhe, nodal officer at JJ, confirmed that they have received over a dozen calls from outsiders wanting to take Covaxin. “This vaccine may be under trial, but it uses an inactivated virus. This is a time-tested technology and there appears to be faith in this,” he said. In the light of so many queries and the walk-in on Monday, Dr Sankhe said he called officials to check if outsiders could be given Covaxin. “I have been told there is no directive from the Centre,” he said. But Dr Archana Patil, head of Directorate of Health Services told TOI, “If they are pre-registered, they can receive”. The dilemma cuts both ways. An increasing number of JJ employees want to know if they can take Covishield by visiting BMC-run centres. “The walk-in rule seems to have given them an impression that they can take vaccines from the Covishield centres, but we don’t know that either. I will be inquiring from the BMC ward office,” said dean Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar. Merely 145 healthcare workers from JJ have taken Covaxin out of the more than 3,000 registered. On Monday, 34 took the vaccine. A second-year student of BSc nursing who took the vaccine on Monday, said she and a friend were the first ones from her batch to be called for vaccination. “Our dean and matron have taken it, so I consider it safe,” she said. Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotech received an approval for emergency use before completing phase-III trials. Gynaecologist Dr Sudhir Naik said he and his paediatrician wife were keen on taking Covaxin and have approached JJ. “I am convinced with the safety and immunogenicity studies from phase I and II. I believe it’s safe and could protect against the newer strains too,” he said. Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC, said Covaxin and Covishield beneficiaries can’t be mixed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/doctors-want-the-covaxin-jab-call-up-jj-hospital-to-ask-for-it/articleshow/80456627.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 26, 2021||Nashik||Standing panel chief of NMC meets officials||Nashik: Chairman of the standing committee of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) Ganesh Gite on Monday directed the divisional officers to take a slew of measures to improve cleanliness in the Nashik city and improve tax collection. Gite had called a meeting of all the six divisional officers on Monday to know the difficulties they are facing and various issues of the corporators in their wards. He asked the divisional officers to look into the suggestions given by the corporators. Gite also instructed the officials to inform the corporators about the property and water tax dues so that they may help the administration in recovery of the taxes. He said the officials should start amnesty schemes for the water tax defaulters in line with the scheme offered to property tax defaulters. He spoke to the officers about ensuring cleanliness in divisional office buildings, finding out unauthorized water connections, taking measures about stray animals, stopping sale of meat in the open, providing toilets at authorized vegetable markets. Gite also asked officials to ensure that waste does no pile up at the open spaces across the city and garbage vans reach different localities regularly. During the meeting, Gite also instructed the officials about the trimming of the branches of the trees causing hurdles to the streetlights, to make defunct streetlights functional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/standing-panel-chief-of-nmc-meets-officials/articleshow/80453967.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Bhopal||Record 1,769 get vaccination shot in Bhopal, 50% target achieved||BHOPAL: Most number of coronavirus vaccinations in a day — 1760 — was accomplished in the state capital on Monday. It was backed by increase in number of sessions from 12 to 34. Overall percentage of people vaccinated against the target was however 50%. Monday began slowly with only 74 vaccination in the first hour. It took till noon to reach 600 plus vaccination coverage. The 34 session sites were spread across 24 centres. AIIMS Bhopal, JP Hospital, L N Medical College, Jawahar Lal Nehru Hospital (Gas Rahat), BMHRC, Chirayu Medical College, People’s Medical college and CHC Berasia had two session sites each. Bansal hospital also head two sessions. Confusion prevailed at day ahead of the vaccination on Monday. Institutes like AIIMS Bhopal were had requested to hold three sessions in a day to lessen the number of vaccination days per week. MP health department has announced four vaccination days per week. According to sources, health department delivered only Covishield vaccines in Bhopal session sites. The sites which receive a particular manufactures vaccine would get the same during the course of the vaccination phase, sources said. MP health department both, Covishield and Covaxin, that have been approved for emergency use. Most people number of vaccinations took place in Chirayu medical college. 157 people were vaccinated in the private medical college which is also a Covid-19 care centre. Other institutes which covered more than 100 jabs on Monday were BMHRC, Bansal, People’s Medical College, AIIMS Bhopal, CHC Berasia and LN Medical College. The least number of people who turn up for vaccination were at UPHC Ashoka Garden, KNK hospital and Sultania hospital. One session site at JP hospital reported zero vaccinations. Officials did not comment on the situation. However, on site district hospital maintained that they had only one operation session site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/record-1769-get-vac-shot-in-bhopal-50-target-achieved/articleshow/80455686.cms||Jamal Ayub
January 26, 2021||Nashik||Poor response stalls use of smart parking spaces||Nashik: The 22 smart parking spaces created over the past two years have seen little use, largely due to poor response from motorists. The Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Limited (NMSCDCL) has set up the on-road and off-road spaces in a phased manner. Smart city company CEO Prakash Thavil told TOI that “poor response from the motorists is proving to be a big stumbling block” in starting the commercial operations of these spaces. He said that recently, a private agency appointed to operate these parking spaces conducted trials for a few days to see the response. However, the response was not encouraging. “The contractor is hesitant to start the commercial operations since he is apprehensive about the generating adequate revenue through parking fees. Moreover, the private agency concerned has to pay royalty of Rs 17.5 lakh per month to the civic body,” he said. The project is a public private partnership and the private agency has spent Rs 30 crore to create infrastructure. Thavil said the private agency has approached them requesting a reduction in the royalty amount. “The issue was taken up during the recent meeting of the board of directors of NMSCDCL. It has asked us to study the issue and submit the proposal. We have asked the private agency to submit the detailed proposal on this smart parking issue, after which, further decision in the connection will be taken,” said Thavil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/poor-response-stalls-use-of-smart-parking-spaces/articleshow/80453973.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Jeevan Reddy to sit on deeksha in support of turmeric farmers||HYDERABAD: Congress MLC T Jeevan Reddy will undertake a deeksha in Armoor on January 30 to demand a turmeric board in Nizamabad. Addressing a press conference on Monday, he said the turmeric farmers are at the receiving end stuck between the TRS government in the state and the NDA government at the Centre. Neither they are getting the MSP nor the turmeric board is set up in Nizamabad. “If Nizamabad MP D Arvind is concerned about the farmers, he should get the turmeric board sanctioned for Nizamabad. Both state and central governments are passing the buck on each other and there is no improvement in the lives of the farmers,” he said. He said that in 2009-10, farmers used to get Rs 10,000-Rs 15,000 MSP per a quintal of turmeric but now they are getting only Rs 4,000 per quintal, he said. CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka said the farmers were not getting the price they need and warned of agitation if steps are not taken to give MSP to the farmers. A few days ago, turmeric farmers met Nizamabad MP D Arvind and sought MSP on turmeric. He told them that he had never promised a board, but could manage the local board of turmeric for them. “The Centre is committed to get a good price for farmers,” he told them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jeevan-reddy-to-sit-on-deeksha-in-support-of-turmeric-farmers/articleshow/80455738.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Nashik||Road widening causes snarls at Sinnar Phata||Nashik: The Nashik-Pune highway stretch near the Sinnar Phata has been witnessing utter vehicular chaos during the peak hours due to the ongoing road widening works. Regular commuters on the Sinnar-Phata have been complaining about the slow pace of the workThough the contractor has initially started work on the twin service roads near Sinnar Phata, mounds of dirt alongside the already-narrow carriageway has reduced its width further. This is leading to frequent traffic snarls.The widening work on a 2.5km stretch from Sinnar Phata to Darna river was pending for more than two years. It began only a few months back. Now, regular commuters are complaining about the slow pace — they are worried that the work will not be completed before the monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/road-widening-causes-snarls-at-sinnar-phata/articleshow/80453977.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 26, 2021||Jaipur||Kota’s Anand Kumar among five recipients of PM Bal Puraskar||JAIPUR: Kota’s Master Anand Kumar is among the five recipients who have been awarded the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar 2021 for excellence in the field of Scholastics. The award was given by PM Narendra Modi virtually to 32 students including five in the Scholastics category. Known as Jupiter among his classmates, his list of achievements goes beyond just in the country. The biggest and tallest being the spirit of Ramanujan Fellowship Award 2020, USA. This award is given to Maths wizards who display great potential and excel in Mathematics. The teenager’s achievements do not end here. His research paper on sums of polynomial type exceptional units was published in the international journal Archiv der Mathamatik (Spinger) Switzerland in December 2019. Interestingly, he co-authored the paper with two PhD scholars under the supervision of Harishchandra Research Institute, Prayagraj. His keen interest in Mathematics came to the fore in class VII. His school teacher gave him a theorem to work on for a week considering his interest in Mathematics. The teacher was shocked to read his conclusion, beating the advanced conclusions on that theorem. Since then, he never looked back and consistently making progress in his favourite subject made him bag the prestigious award. “That was a moment which made me realise that I can reach heights in the subject. Another moment which showed me the way and set my goal for life was a month-long training programme at Harishchandra Research Institute under the top-notch professors,” said Kumar, who sent his research work to the institute, who were so impressed with him that they invited him to attend a special one-month programme with them. A class XI student of Disha Delphi Public School in Kota, he is known as Jupiter in his school and at the coaching centre for the vast knowledge he possesses. Regarding his aim, he is very clear to working towards solving the most difficult open problem in number theory — 0. “This is my way of serving humanity by solving this complex hypothesis which would unearth new floodgates in the areas of cryptography and coding. It will impact the world in terms of security, healthcare and space science,” said Kumar, who is preparing for JEE-Main from Allen Career Institute. He, however, is planning to apply for MIT, Princeton and Stanford Universities to achieve his aim. Son of a bank manager Anil Kumar, he was born and brought up in Kota and the success of students in JEE and NEET has always inspired him to look beyond careers in ordinary fields.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kotas-anand-kumar-among-5-recipients-of-pm-bal-puraskar/articleshow/80456633.cms||Shoeb Khan
January 26, 2021||Jodhpur||Padma Shri for three from Rajasthan||JAIPUR/JODHPUR: Sarangi player Lakha Khan, social activist Shyam Sundar Paliwal and educationist Arjun Singh Shekhawat have been named for the prestigious Padma Shri award by the Centre on the eve of 72nd Republic Day. Lakha Khan, 75-year-old Sarangi player from Rajasthan couldn’t believe it when he was first told about his name being selected for Padma Shri. He was born in Raneri village in Jodhpur and was trained since childhood in rendering the compositions of the Multan school of Manganiyars. The Manganiyar community, which is famous for its art and culture in India, Lakha Khan has been following the legacy of his family. Before starting performing on the big stage, he used to perform in villages. “I have been playing Sarangi since I was 10-year-old and performing in village festivals. With the help of Komal Kothari, the renowned anthropologist, I was given a chance to perform in other parts of the state, country and foreign land,” said Khan. Known as father of eco feminism, Shyam Sundar Paliwal of Piplantri village has become the recipient of Padma Shri award. He has dedicated his life planting trees and encourage the wellbeing of girl child. He is famously known for his Kiran Nidhi Yojana by planting 111 trees for every girl child born in his village along with a financial scheme. His initiative resulted results and sex ratio in his village improved drastically. Soon his model started followed up several villages. Arjun Singh Shekhawat (87) selected for Padma Shri award hails from Pali. A retired principal of government college, Shekhawat is post-graduate in Rajasthani and Hindi and has written and edited over 50 books. He had started his career as a teacher of government school in Bali sub-division of Pali in 1967. Having spent his service tenure in the tribal belt of the region, he had a chance to study the lives of tribals. With burgeoning interest in their culture, he started writing on them. One such work by Shekhaat titled as”Bhakar Ra Bhomiya”, earned a wide acclaim for its immaculate peek into the lives of tribals. Other books, which earned acclaim include Sanskriti ri Vasiyat, Sanskriti ra Badera, Adawal Ardayo etc. which are completely dedicated to the life and culture of tribal people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/padma-shri-for-3-from-raj/articleshow/80461103.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Girls can kill in self-defence, says expert||HYDERABAD: Advising girls to always carry a pepper spray with them, Metropolitan Legal Services Authority (MLSA), Hyderabad, secretary M Radha Krishna Chowhan has said it is not an offence to kill a person in self-defence under provisions of law.  He said the girls were well within their rights to defend themselves and the law permits them to kill someone in self-defence. He interacted with girls at an awareness programme conducted by MLSA at Government Girls School, Golconda, on National Girl Child Day on Sunday. Chowhan also enlightened them on various laws available for girls and women. He also advised the girls to follow examples of great personalities from various fields and practise them in their day-to-day life. He said the children of government schools were no less to any student of a private institution. Mohammed Afzal, legal aid panel lawyer, appraised the students about various facilities under legal services. Wazid Hashmi, headmaster, was present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/girls-can-kill-in-self-defence-expert/articleshow/80455746.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
January 26, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: 200 new Covid cases, positivity rate below 1%||BHOPAL: Only 200 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Madhya Pradesh on Monday. With these new cases, tally of Covid-19 patients in the state reached 253857. Monday was the third consecutive day when less than 300 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in a single day. Apart from the fresh cases, 2 deaths were also reported as per the state health bulletin released by directorate of health services. With these new casualties, death toll due to Covid-19 in the state reached 3791. On Monday new cases were reported from 35 of the 52 districts of the state. On the brighter side, 861 people recovered taking the tally so far to 246558. The cumulative recovery rate as on January 25 reached 97.1%. It has improved by more than 2% in this month. On January 1, it was was 94.7%. A total of 20612 samples were tested on Monday and out of it 200 tested positive, thus positivity rate—which is number of positive cases out of every 100 samples tested—for Monday stood at 0.9%. As on January 25, there were 3508 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/200-new-covid-cases-positivity-rate-below-1/articleshow/80455692.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: GHMC corporators’ oath runs into Amavasya hurdle||HYDERABAD: The Amavasya bug seems to have bitten newly-elected corporators of the GHMC as many of them from both BJP and TRS, have refused to take oath on February 11, saying its inauspicious. In a bitterly fought GHMC election in December last year, the BJP snatched 48 out of 150 seats, leaving TRS with just 56 seats, while the AIMIM won 44 seats. Telangana authorities are now in a fix as corporators say with Amavasya (dark phase of the new moon) falling on February 11, they would skip the ceremony.  “As per Hindu traditions, on Amavasya, we don’t start any new work but the chief minister intentionally scheduled the oath-taking ceremony so that our (BJP) corporators will be unhappy,” said BJP candidate G Shanker Yadav, who won from Begum Bazar ward. “Since the time he (CM) met AIMIM, he is following their principles,” he added. On Monday, some BJP corporators even visited GHMC head office and echoed that they don’t want to take the oath. Another BJP corporator questioned why TRS ignored sentiments and pointed out that behaviour is unlikely of them. “Secretariat was demolished due to Vaastu constraints, and chief minister used to avoid the old secretariat even before it was demolished. He is aware about sentiments. Why don’t we have a choice,” said BJP candidate Mahalaxmi Raman Goud, who won from Himayatnagar. While BJP corporators lashed out at state government, TRS corporators also rued about the oath-taking ceremony being held on February 11, requesting anonymity. “In some parts of the country, people consider amavasya auspicious and in some places, it is considered as inauspicious. However, on February 11, due to the alignment of planets, the time is considered by politicians as inauspicious for taking oath,” said astrologer Mahesh Varma. AIMIM corporators said that they had no problem taking oath on February 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-corporators-oath-runs-into-amavasya-hurdle/articleshow/80455745.cms||Nabinder Bommala
January 26, 2021||Jaipur||Padma Shri for three from Rajasthan||JAIPUR/JODHPUR: Sarangi player Lakha Khan, social activist Shyam Sundar Paliwal and educationist Arjun Singh Shekhawat have been named for the prestigious Padma Shri award by the Centre on the eve of 72nd Republic Day. Lakha Khan, 75-year-old Sarangi player from Rajasthan couldn’t believe it when he was first told about his name being selected for Padma Shri. He was born in Raneri village in Jodhpur and was trained since childhood in rendering the compositions of the Multan school of Manganiyars. The Manganiyar community, which is famous for its art and culture in India, Lakha Khan has been following the legacy of his family. Before starting performing on the big stage, he used to perform in villages. “I have been playing Sarangi since I was 10-year-old and performing in village festivals. With the help of Komal Kothari, the renowned anthropologist, I was given a chance to perform in other parts of the state, country and foreign land,” said Khan. Known as father of eco feminism, Shyam Sundar Paliwal of Piplantri village has become the recipient of Padma Shri award. He has dedicated his life planting trees and encourage the wellbeing of girl child. He is famously known for his Kiran Nidhi Yojana by planting 111 trees for every girl child born in his village along with a financial scheme. His initiative resulted results and sex ratio in his village improved drastically. Soon his model started followed up several villages. Arjun Singh Shekhawat (87) selected for Padma Shri award hails from Pali. A retired principal of government college, Shekhawat is post-graduate in Rajasthani and Hindi and has written and edited over 50 books. He had started his career as a teacher of government school in Bali sub-division of Pali in 1967. Having spent his service tenure in the tribal belt of the region, he had a chance to study the lives of tribals. With burgeoning interest in their culture, he started writing on them. One such work by Shekhaat titled as”Bhakar Ra Bhomiya”, earned a wide acclaim for its immaculate peek into the lives of tribals. Other books, which earned acclaim include Sanskriti ri Vasiyat, Sanskriti ra Badera, Adawal Ardayo etc. which are completely dedicated to the life and culture of tribal people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/padma-shri-for-3-from-raj/articleshow/80456624.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Parents accuse school of not giving offline mode option for exams||CHANDIGARH: Although the UT education department has allowed government and private schools to reopen, the consent of parents continues to be mandatory, which, many of them, have alleged the educational institutions were giving a go-by. Recently, parents of classes IX and XI students of a convent school in Sector 9 wrote to the district education officer expressing concern over reopening and the school “not clearly giving option of offline mode for exam”. In a letter to department, the parents said, “All of us are extremely concerned about the school reopening to conduct exams in February. We can risk anyone but not our children. We are apprehensive to send our daughters to school under these conditions. Not only are we risking their health but also most of us have elderly parents at home. We have been taking utmost precautions to keep our children and parents safe at home during the pandemic while we work from home.” The parents requested the department to direct the school to provide the option of online or offline mode for February examinations. “It is our request to you to kindly issue instructions to the school wherein they offer children the option of taking exams online or offline. It is understood that several reputed schools in the city have already consented to hold exams in both online and offline mode.” Parents of different schools had earlier too raised similar concerns. The parents further said, “It may be noted that some schools have turned into Covid-19 hotspots after reopening. It is a fallacy to deem that the pandemic is behind us at this stage. The CBSE has also recognised this fact and postponed the board exams.” The school authorities could not be contacted for a comment. Earlier, more than 120 parents had written to the school principal in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/parents-accuse-school-of-not-giving-offline-mode-option-for-exams/articleshow/80456640.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Our son deserved highest honour: Colonel Santosh Babu’s parents||HYDERABAD: Parents of Col Bikumalla Santosh Babu who was awarded the Mahavir Chakra posthumously are unhappy with the honour. “Whatever way you look at it, my son deserved the highest honour. He should have been given the Param Veer Chakra. We, as his parents, are disappointed that he has been given the second highest honour,” Col Santosh Babu’s father, Bikumalla Upendar, said. Col B Santosh Babu of the 16 Bihar Regiment died in Galwan Valley clashes with the People Liberation Army of China in Ladakh on June 15, 2020. Nineteen other soldiers also died in the clashes. “In what way can his sacrifice be considered less when compared to the 21 awardees of Param Veer Chakra. He fought against Chinese without any weapons and resisted the attempts of Chinese and prevented them from even taking an inch of land that belongs to India. This is what Union defence minister, Rajnath Singh, has said himself. If that is how my son fought, why was he not eligible for highest award,” Upendar said. Col Santosh Babu’s mother Manjula too said they do not consider the Mahavir Chakra as an honour. “He deserved more. We sent him to join the Army thinking that if it comes to that, he should lay down his life to protect the country. He did just that,” Manjula said. “He had to keep his moral high and also that of his soldiers. By pushing the Chinese away, my son wrote a new chapter in the history of the Indian Army. The world saw that the Chinese were not invincible and this was because of the guts that my son and his team displayed,” Upendar, a retired banker, told TOI. “My son’s sacrifice has been underestimated. We are not satisfied with the honour that has been bestowed upon him by the government,” he said. “At every place the Indian Army fights, the soldiers have weapons. But in the Galwan Valley, he had to fight without weapons and my son and his soldiers dealt a blow to the Chinese army. He has not got a befitting honour for what he did for the country,” the father added. After Galwan Valley incident, Col Santosh Babu’s wife Santoshi, was given an appointment in state government as deputy collector. Residents of Suryapet in Telangana, the parents could barely control their emotions as they recollected the bavery their son displayed on the battlefield in Ladakh .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/our-son-deserved-highest-honour-col-santoshs-parents/articleshow/80455785.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Last GHMC council meet cancelled||HYDERABAD: The last council meeting of the current GHMC elected body has been cancelled due to model code of conduct(MCC) ahead of mayoral elections. The meeting was scheduled on January 27.  The plan was to discuss and approve the GHMC draft budget of Rs 5,600 crore. “The special budget meeting has been cancelled by Hyderabad mayor Bonthu Rammohan,” read a statement issued by GHMC. Some BJP corporators met GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar and requested that the budget meeting be cancelled. They urged that the meeting be held with newly elected members. “The newly elected body should discuss the budget,” said K Sarala, BJP candidate who won from Ameerpet ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/last-ghmc-council-meet-cancelled/articleshow/80455751.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Dehradun||Two Uttarakhand cadre IPS officers awarded President police medal||DEHRADUN: Two Uttarakhand cadre Indian Police Service (IPS) officers of the 1995 batch, PVK Prasad and Deepam Seth, have been chosen for the President's Police Medal for distinguished service on the eve of Republic Day 2021. PVK Prasad is currently serving as Additional Director General (ADG) CID and PAC in Uttarakhand, while Deepam Seth is presently on deputation with the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and serving as Inspector General (IG) North-West Frontier at Leh. Seth has also been conferred with police special duty medal and high altitude medal by the ITBP. Besides, Seth has been given the insignia and the commendation roll of DG ITBP for his leadership role in operations in Ladakh region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-uttarakhand-cadre-ips-officers-awarded-president-police-medal/articleshow/80454795.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 26, 2021||Jaipur||Panel to probe irregularities in giving compensation||Jaipur: The Jaipur district administration has set up a committee under ADM-1 (additional district magistrate) Iqbal Khan to probe irregularities in providing compensation to beneficiaries for the land acquired for the widening of road for NHAI’s Jaipur-Sikar highway project, said collector Antar Singh Nehra. It is believed that total irregularities could go up to over Rs 2 crore. An FIR was lodged at Bani Park police station on December 17, 2020 by ADM-III Rajender Kavia after the matter came to his notice. He said the FIR was lodged after irregularities were found in 21 cheques. “The first transaction pertaining to the irregularities started on November 2, 2018. It was found that additional names were added to RTGS, by manipulating the signatures, along with the self-cheques. It is a matter of inquiry how the amounts in the cheques were manipulated,” said Kavia. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/panel-to-probe-irregularities-in-giving-compensation/articleshow/80456641.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Chandigarh||‘People prefer farmers’ unions’ flags this R-Day, no many buying national flag’||Chandigarh: Not only the Covid-19 outbreak but also the farmers’ protest have impacted the sales of the national flag this year on Republic day. The city shopkeepers claim people want farmers’ unions’ flags to express their solidarity. Even though the city schools are open for the senior classes, no Republic Day events are taking place due to the outbreak. According to shopkeepers, flags cost anywhere between Rs 5 and Rs 1,000 and usually they do brisk sales around Republic Day. But this year sales have been negligent. On Independence Day too, the shopkeepers said they had to face loss, as there were hardly any takers and the schools were completely shut. Subhir Puri of Modern Book Shop in Sector 22, Chandigarh, said “I would say there is hardly 10% sales of flags this time. Some schools are holding online events and activities for the Republic Day, thanks to which we sold a few flags.” Some shopkeepers even claimed that they did not order any fresh stock, as they still had leftover stock from Independence Day. “And even that we were unable to sell out,” said a shopkeeper in Sector 34. Shopkeepers claimed that they used to get bulk orders for the national flags from schools as well as the coaching institutes, but this year, due to the Covid-19 outbreak these were no bulk sales.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/people-prefer-farmers-unions-flags-this-r-day-no-many-buying-national-flag/articleshow/80456653.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Jaipur||HC orders pension to temporary employee||Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court ordered the government to pay a fourth-grade employee retired after putting in 37 years as a temporary employee full pension and retirement benefits treating him as a regular employee.The single bench of Justice Sanjiv Prakash Sharma issued the order on a petition by Lala Ram Saini. Hanuman Chaudhary, the counsel for the petitioner, said Saini had retired in July last year after working him for 37 years as a temporary employee of gardener at Bansur panchayat samiti in Alwar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-orders-pension-to-temporary-employee/articleshow/80456652.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Nashik||PM Rashtriya Bal Puraskar for 14-yr-old from Jalgaon||Nashik: Archit Patil, a 14-year-old Class IX student of Kashinath Palod public school in Jalgaon, has designed a life-saving, low-cost silicon devise — post-partum haemorrhage (PPH) cup — that allows doctors to measure post-delivery blood loss in women. Impressed by his innovation, the Union government has bestowed Archit with the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puruskar (PMRBP), 2021.Archit, along with the other PMRBP awardees from across the country, interacted with Prime Minister Narendra Modi online on Monday. Later he has presented the award by district collector Abhijit Raut.“Our prime minister’s address was extremely inspiring. My aim is to undertake research that would help the society,” he said.Talking about the PPH cup, Archit said the device enables doctors to accurately measure, in real-time, the quantum of blood loss among women after delivery. “Based on the exact volume of blood loss, the doctors can decide how much blood transfusion is required and the specific type of treatment that the woman needs,” said Archit.The device has been tested at the Indian Drug Research Laboratory, Pune, and has been found to be non-toxic and safe for use. The device is inserted into the birth canal of a woman. A pipe is attached to the cup and the blood flows from the cup to the collection bag.According to Archit, three government hospitals in Aurangabad, Akola and Sevagram and five private hospitals are already using the device.Archit’s mentors are his parents, both medical profession. While his father, Rahul, is a gynaecologist, his mother, Archana, is an anaesthesiologist. His school principal, Amit Bhatya, too encouraged him in carrying out the research in making the PPH cup. “I used to hear my parents discuss the death of women after delivery due to blood loss. I felt I should make a device that could measure the exact amount of blood loss. I made the prototype last year,” said Archit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pm-rashtriya-bal-puraskar-for-14-yr-old-from-jalgaon/articleshow/80453982.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
January 26, 2021||Aurangabad||AMC competition to recreate historic gates of Aurangabad||Aurangabad: The civic administration announced a competition on the eve of Republic Day on Monday. As part of the competition, participants have to send models or replicas of any of the 52 historic gates in the city of their choice before February 15. “The recreation of gates can be done using wood, wax, fiber, cardboard, mountboard, bamboo, metal or glass among other materials. The replicas must be durable in nature and should not be taller than 15 inches,” said an official release. The top three winners will get cash prizes worth Rs 21,000, Rs 15,000 and Rs 10,000 respectively. 10 consolation prixes worth Rs 3,000 each will also be given out. The shortlisted entries will be showcased at a special exhibition that will be organised by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation. The first-of-its-kind competition organised by the civic body aims at spreading awareness about the heritage of the city. The registration fee for the competition is Rs 100. Aurangabad traditionally was known as the ‘city of 52 gates.’ Many of these gates are lying in a state of neglect or have almost become non-existent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/amc-competition-to-recreate-historic-gates-of-aurangabad/articleshow/80453985.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Railways to resume normal services from March||BHOPAL: Trains are still far from running to full capacity. Sample this: In pre-Covid time there were around 125 pairs of trains stopping at Bhopal station which has dropped to only 45 in January 2021. Owing to this the trains are running packed. Situation at Habibganj is also the same. Only 22 pairs of the trains are stopping at the station. Earlier, around 55 pairs of trains were stopping. After lockdown was imposed on March 25, the train services were also suspended. Restricted services were resumed from June 1. Afterwards, the strength of trains increased in a phased manner. However, even after 8 months of resuming the services the strength of trains is still far from the normal situation. As the passengers are directly affected by this, they have to take stop-over to reach the destination. “Majority of the trains have started for bigger cities. However, the trains connecting smaller cities are yet not normal. There is a need to resume trains on smaller routes too,” said Shashi Kumar, a passenger. Due to the low availability of trains several passengers have shifted towards road transport. “Road transport is expensive when it is compared with railways,” said Sunil Kumar, a passenger. Railway officials said that the full strength of trains is likely to start from March. “We are hoping that the full train services will start from March only. However, there is no official word in this regard,” said an official without quoting his name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/railways-to-resume-normal-services-from-march/articleshow/80455723.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Nagpur||Vidarbha literature veteran Namdeo Kamble in Padma list||Nagpur: Veteran author and teacher Namdeo Kamble is the only one from Vidarbha to get the prestigious Padma Shri honour this year. Kamble, known for his Sahitya Akademi Award winning fiction ‘Raghav Vel’, is a veteran not only in fiction and poetry, but also in the field of critical and philosophical writing. His recent two publications — ‘Mahatma Gandhi ani Dr Ambedkar’ (Mahatma Gandhi and Dr Ambedkar) and ‘Gandhi Udya sathi’ (Gandhi for tomorrow) are considered as thought-provoking analysis of the two great personalities. Kamble, who had been a teacher, journalist, orator and social worker is also a sensitive poet and a critic in Marathi literature. While speaking with TOI over phone, he expressed gratitude for the government of India for recognizing his literary contribution. “I consider this award as an appreciation to my experiments in the field of literature,” said Kamble. As mentioned in the government notification, he has been awarded not only as a littérateur but also for his contribution in the field of education. Kamble said his latest two books are dedicated to social education. “After ‘Raghav Vel’, which is a first novel in Marathi having Dalit woman as a central figure, I penned an analytical view on thoughts of Dr Ambedkar and Mahatma Gandhi which highlighted similarities in the philosophies of these two great personalities which are more discussed for the differences in their thoughts,” he said. Kamble’s novel ‘Raghav Vel’ has become identity of his six-decade-long literary journey. Not only the Marathi novel, but its Bangla translation also has won Sahitya Akademi Award in 2009. Kamble was born and brought up in Shirpur village of Malegaon tehsil in Washim district. He was youngest among six siblings. After HSC, he had got admission to MBBS and wanted to become doctor. But, within a year, he realized that his interest is in literature and teaching. Leaving MBBS, he completed B. Ed and became a teacher at Washim’s Rani Laxmi Bai Girls High School. While teaching, he continued writing lyrical essays, novels, short stories, poems and critical appreciations. Kamble is also a very well-known motivational speaker. Recently, he got ‘Kusumanil Smruti Samiksha Puraskar’ of Vidarbha Sahitya Sangh for this book on Mahatma Gandhi and Dr Ambedkar’s thoughts. The Veteran Born at Shirpur village in Washim in 1948 8 fictions, 4 poetry collections, a critical appreciation and 2 philosophical books Won Sahitya Akademi award for his fiction ‘Raghav Vel’ in 1995 Presided over 56th Vidarbha Sahitya Sammelan held in Narkhed in 2007||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbha-literature-veteran-namdeo-kamble-in-padma-list/articleshow/80456676.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 26, 2021||Bareilly||Man, 24, bludgeoned to death by tea-stall owner for Rs 120 in Uttar Pradesh||BAREILLY: A 24-year-old man was allegedly bludgeoned to death by a tea-stall owner after he refused to pay Rs 120 he owed to the shopkeeper in Dogpuri Tanda village under Azeem Nagar police station in UP’s Rampur. According to police, the victim, Danish, had gone to the tea-stall for a tea, which was refused by the stall owner, Bhura, alias, Jalees, who asked him to first clear his outstanding dues of Rs 120. In the ensuing argument, Bhura allegedly hit Danish with a baton on his head. Danish, later, succumbed to his injuries. The accused was arrested, said police. Danish — the lone breadwinner for the family — was employed at a local eatery and is survived by his parents and wife. Speaking to TOI, Azeem Nagar SHO Ravindra Kumar said, “After locals informed police, a police team was rushed to the spot. We learnt that a local man was beaten up by a tea-stall owner for not paying a small amount of Rs 120. The man sustained serious injuries in the attack.” “He was rushed to the district hospital, where doctors proclaimed him dead upon arrival. The post-mortem report confirmed that Danish died due to head injuries,” added the SHO. Rampur additional superintendent of police (ASP) Sansar Singh said, “An FIR was registered against the accused under section 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The accused was arrested.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-24-bludgeoned-to-death-by-tea-stall-owner-for-rs-120/articleshow/80453441.cms||Maria Khan
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||KCR has no plans to make KTR CM, says Revanth||HYDERABAD: Malkajgiri Congress MP, A Revanth Reddy said on Monday that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has no plans to make his son KT Rama Rao, IT minister the chief minister of Telangana. He said that those who are seeking a cabinet berth are promoting KT Rama Rao’s name. He added that the chief minister assured the Bharatiya Janata Party central leadership that he will leave the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s mayor post to the BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-has-no-plans-to-make-ktr-cm-says-revanth/articleshow/80455789.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Man killed in hit and run accident||PANCHKULA: A SUV driver got killed after he was hit by a mini-pickup truck near Marranwala on Monday. A complaint was given to the police by Ganesh Tyade, 44, a dhabha owner and a resident of Buldana district of Maharashtra. He is presently residing in Baddi, Solan, Himachal Pradesh. He told police that his friend Sulesh had come to his dhabha to meet him. After meeting him, he had gone for some work towards Pinjore. A speeding mini truck hit his SUV near Marranwala. He was rushed to the sub-civil hospital in Kalka, where he was declared brought dead by the doctors. Based on the complaint, the police registered a case under sections 279 (rash driving on public way) and 304-A (death caused due to the negligence) of the IPC at Pinjore police station and initiated the investigation in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-killed-in-hit-and-run-accident/articleshow/80456656.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Jaipur||Supreme Court to hear school fees case on February 1||JAIPUR: The Supreme Court on Monday restrained the government from taking any coercive action against private schools on fees as the court had posted the matter for hearing on February 1 clubbing all the petitions. Some of the private school managements had approached the Supreme Court challenging the high court order December 18 last year on school fees. The Supreme Court gave this instruction on the SLP of the Managing Committee Sawai Mansingh Vidyalaya and Society of Catholic Education Institutions and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sc-to-hear-school-fees-case-on-feb-1/articleshow/80456654.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Rajkot||Youth murdered, one detained||Rajkot: A youth was murdered and his younger brother was injured by four persons over a past rift in Bhavnagar on Sunday evening. Mayur Makwana (22) and his 21-year-old brother Umesh Makwana were passing by Fulsar octroi post when they were attacked by Vishal Solanki and his accomplices Jigo Solanki, Gafoor Chudasama and an unidentified man with swords and knives. In the attack, Mayur died on the spot, while Umesh was taken to a hospital for treatment. The four accused fled after the attack, but Vishal was detained on Monday after Umesh gave a complaint. Police said that Vishal was angry over heated arguments the duo had recently over the harassment of a woman whom Makwana considered his sister. “The accused used to molest the woman and when the victim learnt about it, he confronted the accused and they had a verbal duel,” said inspector R I Solanki.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/youth-murdered-one-detained/articleshow/80453999.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad techie and in-laws booked for assault||HYDERABAD: After CCTV visuals of a software engineer being attacked at his home by his brother’s in-laws went viral on social media, Vanasthalipuram police registered a case against the assailants. Meanwhile, based on the counter complaint lodged by the assailants, the software engineer was also booked for assaulting his sister-in-law. According to Vanasthalipuram inspector K Murali Mohan, on Sunday afternoon, software engineer, Rajasekhar Reddy and his mother Varalakshmi were assaulted at their home by Rajasekhar’s brother Chaitanya Reddy’s in-laws over a family dispute. “Chaitanya Reddy is a liquor businessman and his marital relationship is strained. In this regard, based on a complaint by Chaitanya Reddy’s wife, Dhana Lakshmi, three separate domestic harassment cases were registered against him and his family members in 2020 at Vanasthalipuram and Meerpet police stations,” the inspector said. Police added that for the past two months, Chaitanya has been staying separately from his wife. “As Chaitanya was staying with his joint family, on Sunday, his wife came to the house saying that she will also stay there. But Rajasekhar pushed her out of the house and she fell on the floor. Upon seeing this, her father and three brothers attacked Rajasekhar and his family members. They also damaged some furniture,” the inspector said. Based on the complaint of Rajasekhar’s family, police registered a case against his brother’s in-laws, Shyam Prasad Reddy, Gopal Reddy, Ram Narayan Reddy and Tarak Reddy. A case was registered against Rajasekhar for assaulting his sister-in-law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/techie-and-in-laws-booked-for-assault/articleshow/80455799.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Vaccination should not be so heavily centralised: Dr Subhash Salunkhe||MUMBAI: People implementing the drive are facing unique problems, then why is it so centralised, questioned Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to state government on Covid-19 and former Director General of Health Services (Maharashtra). “It is heartening to learn that vaccination numbers in the state have started to pick up, but the mammoth drive could have been better executed from the start. Why should a drive of this scale be so heavily centralised? States like Maharashtra, where over two million children are vaccinated annually, have enormous experience and expertise. Strategizing, therefore, should have been left to the state machinery. It seems like a few bureaucrats in Delhi are trying to decide for the entire country whereas those implementing on the ground are grappling with unique problems. An IT-based platform (Co-Win) is being used to implement the drive, but it has been riddled with hiccups. Healthcare workers are not getting alerts on time, people dropping into their own institutes cannot find their names on the lists. There is a lot of confusion on the ground". The state had decided to launch with 511 centres, but it was curtailed to nearly half. Why should that happen when the Centre is drumming up the drive on all media platforms? It means they are creating expectations and telling states to cut down on vaccination at the same time. This has sent out mixed signals. Everyone saw vaccine-hesitancy building up. No campaign was created to answer questions or build the confidence of healthcare workers. There was a failure to gauge the mood in the medical fraternity. The need of the hour is to rope in more private centres so that the campaign gathers momentum. However, let us strongly support vaccination as it is the topmost public health measure. We have safe and effective vaccines manufactured indigenously which is a huge plus for us. Dr Subhash Salunkhe,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/expert-vaccination-should-not-be-so-heavily-centralised/articleshow/80456694.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 26, 2021||Jaipur||Digital voter ID card facility launched||Jaipur: The e-EPIC card facility (digital voter-ID cards) was launched in the state after the card was presented to Governor Kalraj Mishra, who was the chief guest at the National Voters’ Day function on Monday. Of the total e-EPICs (nearly 10,000) generated across the country on the first day, Rajasthan topped among all states, at 2,000, informed Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) of Rajasthan Praveen Gupta. The e-EPIC cards were issued to Chief Secretary Niranjan Arya and State Election Commissioner P S Mehra as well.In the first phase, by January 31, 2021, 2.64 lakh newly registered voters will be able to download e-EPIC cards whose unique mobile numbers are available in the voter list database, said Gupta. Currently, mobile numbers of around 44 lakh voters in the state are available in the voter list database. The e-Epic card download facility will start from February 1. With the aim of increasing participation of voters in the electoral process, ‘Hello Voters Web Radio’ was also on Monday.To download e-EPIC, one has to register/login on the voter portal (www.voterportal.eci.gov.in); enter EPIC number or form reference number; verify OTP sent on the registered mobile and download it. A voter, whose mobile number is not registered with the ECI, can register his/her mobile number through the election department’s portal by clicking on the KYC link to complete the process. After updating one’s mobile number, one can generate one’s e-EPIC (electoral photo identity card).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/digital-voter-id-card-facility-launched/articleshow/80456657.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Cheers: Soon, Telangana to have 159 new bars||HYDERABAD: Soon, Telangana might sport a fresh crop of watering holes with the state deciding to grant licences to 159 new bars — including some in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) — raising the total count of bars from 5,631 to 5,790. Within the GHMC limits, the process will be rolled out by the excise director. “Because of Covid- 19 pandemic we could not increase the bars in the new municipal limits. This is being done as per the census of 2011,” said excise minister, Srinivas Goud. Of the total bars, GHMC will get 55 — in addition to its existing 2,200 — while 19 will go to the peripheries. Currently, these areas have 770 bars. The lottery in GHMC will be held on February 11 and those who win the bid will get clearance certificates on the 17. The bidders need not procure any local authority compliance certificate nor agreement of lease for the bars. For excise tax four slabs are slotted. Those with in 50,000 population area will have to pay Rs 30 lakh, those between 50,000 and 5 lakh population will pay a fee of Rs 42 lakh while those with a population of 5 lakh to 20 lakh will have to pay Rs 44 lakh in fee. Highest fees is for areas with more than 20 lakh population — i.e. Rs 49 lakh. Setting up of the new bars is expected to earn the state about Rs 50 crore. Earlier, when the government had invited applications for the 2,216 wine shops, the excise department received 45,000 applications as many people took more than one application on a different name. Just through application fee, the state earned Rs 1,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/soon-state-to-have-159-new-bars/articleshow/80455797.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 26, 2021||Jaipur||Cold wave aggravates, Mt Abu hits 0°C||JAIPUR: Cold wave conditions further aggravated in the state on Monday when majority of the places witnessed their minimum temperatures below the normal notch. There was an average dip of almost 5°C in the day and night temperatures across the state. Mount Abu in hills while Bhilwara and Churu in plains remained the coldest in the state, where a minimum temperature of 0°C and 3.4°C each respectively was recorded, the Met reports said. Attributing the continued dip in mercury to the active northerly winds and snowfall in the hilly regions, Jaipur Met office stated that similar conditions will prevail in the state for the next couple of days. “From Thursday onwards, temperatures will start rising due to active western disturbances,” said an officer with the Jaipur Met office. People in Jaipur woke up to a comparatively chilly morning with a minimum temperature of 7.7°C. It was followed by a windy and chilly afternoon with a maximum temperature of 21.4°C. Due to the continued dip in mercury, roads wore an empty look especially in the early morning and late evening hours in Jaipur. Early morning fog and mist also affected vehicular traffic as the buses and other vehicles on the highways connecting Jaipur to Agra, Jaipur to Ajmer and Jaipur to Sikar were moving at a slower pace. “In the past four days, there has been a dip of 7°C in the minimum temperature of Jaipur due to which shivering cold conditions have revived,” said an officer with the Jaipur Met office. Mount Abu, Bhilwara and Churu were followed by Pilani where a minimum temperature of 3.9°C was recorded, Sikar 4.5°C , Vanasthali (Tonk) 4.8°C , Chittorgarh 5.1°C , Alwar 6.4°C , Bikaner 6.6°C , Karauli 6.8°C , Bharatpur 7.0°C , Dholpur and Sawai Madhopur 7.3°C each, Jodhpur 7.8°C , Jaisalmer 8.0°C , Ajmer 8.1°C , Kota 8.4°C and a minimum temperature of 9.3°C was recorded in Barmer. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office stated that shivering cold conditions will further aggravate in the state especially in the western and eastern parts, in the next 24 hours. In Jaipur, the temperatures will further dip as minimum temperature on Tuesday would be on or below 7.0°C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cold-wave-aggravates-mt-abu-hits-0c/articleshow/80456669.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Pune||Vaccination should not be so heavily centralised: Dr Subhash Salunkhe||MUMBAI: People implementing the drive are facing unique problems, then why is it so centralised, questioned Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to state government on Covid-19 and former Director General of Health Services (Maharashtra). “It is heartening to learn that vaccination numbers in the state have started to pick up, but the mammoth drive could have been better executed from the start. Why should a drive of this scale be so heavily centralised? States like Maharashtra, where over two million children are vaccinated annually, have enormous experience and expertise. Strategizing, therefore, should have been left to the state machinery. It seems like a few bureaucrats in Delhi are trying to decide for the entire country whereas those implementing on the ground are grappling with unique problems. An IT-based platform (Co-Win) is being used to implement the drive, but it has been riddled with hiccups. Healthcare workers are not getting alerts on time, people dropping into their own institutes cannot find their names on the lists. There is a lot of confusion on the ground". The state had decided to launch with 511 centres, but it was curtailed to nearly half. Why should that happen when the Centre is drumming up the drive on all media platforms? It means they are creating expectations and telling states to cut down on vaccination at the same time. This has sent out mixed signals. Everyone saw vaccine-hesitancy building up. No campaign was created to answer questions or build the confidence of healthcare workers. There was a failure to gauge the mood in the medical fraternity. The need of the hour is to rope in more private centres so that the campaign gathers momentum. However, let us strongly support vaccination as it is the topmost public health measure. We have safe and effective vaccines manufactured indigenously which is a huge plus for us. Dr Subhash Salunkhe,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/expert-vaccination-should-not-be-so-heavily-centralised/articleshow/80460769.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Kishan Reddy writes to Telangana seeking land for NCDC||HYDERABAD: In continuation of his letters to Telangana government for land allotment for various projects sanctioned by the Centre, Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy on Monday wrote another letter to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao seeking allotment of land for National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The minister in his two-page letter said the Union government had proposed to set up NCDC in Hyderabad in 2019 and allotted requisite funds. “Despite allocating funds, the state government is yet to allot three acres for the NCDC. I have taken personal interest to get the centre here, which will be useful,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kishan-writes-to-t-seeking-land-for-ncdc/articleshow/80455804.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Jaipur||Girl shot at by her cousin in Jaipur still unconscious||JAIPUR: A 22-year-old woman who was shot at by her cousin on Sunday evening at Devkinandanpura village under Shivdaspura police station area of Jaipur was in critical condition on Monday. Police are awaiting a nod from the doctors to get her statements, still she was in unconscious state.  Senior police officers stated that only her statements will divulge more details on the case especially why she was shot at and what exactly took place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/girl-shot-at-by-her-cousin-still-unconscious/articleshow/80456677.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Three arrested for snatching chain, mobiles||HYDERABAD: Three thieves were arrested and a stolen gold chain and two cell phones were recovered from their possession on Monday. Banjara Hills police arrested Shiva Kumar, Mahesh, Jamal, of Qutbullapur. During a vehicle check conducted at Yousufguda checkpost on Monday morning, police intercepted the trio. On interrogation, the accused confessed to have snatched a chain and two cell phones at Banjara Hills, Jeedimetla and Sanjeeva Reddy Nagar on January 12, Banjara Hills police said. Based on the confession of the accused, police recovered the stolen gold chain and two cell phones, all worth Rs 1 lakh from their possession. Among the accused, Shiva Kumar has criminal history. In 2018, Jeedimetla police had arrested him in a cell phone theft case. The accused have been remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-arrested-for-snatching-chain-mobiles/articleshow/80455818.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||AP couple killed their daughters for rebirth the next day in ‘Satya Yug’||Tirupati: The couple who bludgeoned their two college-going daughters to death at Madanapalle in AP’s Chittoor district on Sunday did so with the belief that they would come back to life within 24 hours. They strongly believed ‘Kali Yug’ was ending and Monday would see the ‘dawn of Satya Yug’ which their ‘reborn’ daughters would be able to enjoy. V Purushotham Naidu and his wife Padmaja told cops they ‘sacrificed’ the two to bring them back to life in a purer form. “Give us time till the end of the night, we will bring them back,” they said when police reached their house after being alerted by a friend of the couple. While Purushotham is an associate professor of chemistry at government degree college for women in Madanapalle, Padmaja runs a private coaching institute for IIT aspirants. The victims have been identified as Alekya (27) and Sai Divya (22). Alekya had completed her MBA from Indian Institute of Forest Management in Bhopal and was preparing for civil services. Younger daughter Sai Divya had recently completed her BBA and was learning music. The daughters had come home during the Covid-19 lockdown and stayed back. Neighbours told police they had been hearing strange sounds from the house for the last four days, but the couple told everyone they were performing special pujas. At around 9 pm on Sunday, Naidu called up a friend and told him his daughters had been sacrificed to the Almighty. Shocked, his friend alerted Madanapalle police who rushed to the spot. The couple initially stopped the police from entering the house, stating rituals were being performed and no outsiders would be allowed inside. When police officials forcibly barged into the house, it was in disarray with objects of tantrik worship strewn everywhere. The body of one of the daughters was lying in the puja room while the second daughter’s body was found naked and in a pool of blood in a bedroom on the second floor. A ‘kalash’ had been stuffed in her mouth. Police officials said the couple believed they could receive signals from the divine force. “Many miracles have happened in our home which you will never understand. Please let us complete our pujas and we will surely bring our daughters back to life,” the couple pleaded. The younger daughter, who was the first to be killed, was bludgeoned with a dumb-bell in the puja room, while the elder daughter was killed with a trident. The bodies have been shifted to the local government hospital for post-mortem. “Naidu and Padmaja will be taken into custody once they complete the last rites of their daughters,” Madanapalle DSP Ravi Manoharachari told TOI. Chittoor SP S Senthil Kumar said, “Superstition appears to have driven the parents to kill their daughters. We will come to know if there was any other reason behind this killing during the course of our investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-couple-killed-their-daughters-for-rebirth-the-next-day-in-satya-yug/articleshow/80458066.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Do not insist on TC for govt schools’||HYDERABAD: With several schools threatening to withhold transfer certificates (TC) over fee dues, members of the Telangana Parents Association (TPA) urged the state not to insist on TC for grant of admissions in government schools for the 2021-22 academic year. They said that many lost their livelihood in the last 10 months, which in turn, is forcing them to shift their wards to government schools. “People who lost their jobs during the pandemic are unable to bear the cost of sending their children to private schools. A majority of parents are planning to put their children in government schools, but are not getting TCs from school managements as they failed to clear fee dues,” said N Narayana, president, Telangana Parents Association adding that at least for ensuing academic year, schools should allow students to join without insisting on TCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/do-not-insist-on-tc-for-govt-schools/articleshow/80455815.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Bhopal||CM Shivraj fetes 3 district collectors for good service||BHOPAL: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said on Monday that the public service management department was created in Madhya Pradesh 10 years ago with the resolve to achieve the goal of ‘good governance’ and we have largely been able to achieve the objective.If work gets done in time without people having to make rounds of the office and without ‘give and take’, it’s good governance, he said. Several other states also emulated MP in this regard, Chouhan added. He further said that ‘good governance’ safeguards peoples’ right to equalityl. He said that CM Service-181- is rendering services to people over the phone itself.Addressing a programme titled “progressing in the field of public service and good governance” at Minto Hall held to mark completion of a decade of Public Service Guarantee Act in MP, Chouhan also virtually handed over awards to officials for exemplary works in the field of public service. The chief minister said that service-oriented officials and employees change the face of an office. Such officials and employees will be appreciated but those creating hassles for the people will not be tolerated. Chouhan said that the law which was enacted with only some services under its ambit now caters to over 500 services. He commended Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) commissioner, Pratibha Pal for joining duty a few days after giving birth to her baby and she kept working till a few days ahead of delivery. Chouhan said that it's exemplary dedication to duty. He also commended chief secretary, Iqbal Singh Bains, his principal secretary, Manish Rastogi, retired IAS officer, Manohar Dubey, IAS officer Anurag Jain and executive director, M P State Public Service Authority, Nand Kumaram, for their efforts towards success of Public Service Guarantee Act and making "good governance" possible in the state. Chouhan also inaugurated new devices added to public service mechanisms like new facilities of CM helpline-181, CM dashboard portal, WhatsApp chat bot facility and four new services added under the Public Service Guarantee Scheme. Three of them relate to industries & investment promotion department and one to the science & technology department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-fetes-3-dist-collectors-for-good-service/articleshow/80455786.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Nagpur||57 yrs after getting panchayat, 7 Gadchiroli villages vote in free polls||Nagpur: The recently concluded civic elections in Maoist-affected Gadchiroli district were historic in a way, as polling took place for the first time in one of the remotest corner of the tribal district. The cluster of seven villages, under Jhaveli Khurd gram panchayat on Maharashtra-Chhattisgarh border, saw their first polling in 57 years, since the panchayat came into existence. A team of nine polling parties, guarded by layers of heavy security cordon, walked for almost 13km through the forested region along the state border. The area is known as a minefield created by the Maoists. This made the polling on January 20 all the more important in an area declared by Maoists as a liberated zone with ‘Jantana Sarkar’ or self-imposed governance. The booths in the villages saw around 58% polling, which selected representatives for seven out of nine wards. In all the earlier gram panchayat elections, the democratic process was turned into a farce by the Maoists influencing the polling to ensure their candidates won unopposed. With a plan in place this time, security forces trekked the 21km forested stretch on the state borders on foot to reach Kanhalgaon Border Security Force (BSF) camp at Kanker in Chhattisgarh. They trekked back the same way to return after the polling. The polling party was first flown from Halewada police post at Etapalli in south Gadchiroli to Kanhalgaon’s Border Security Force (BSF) camp at Kanker two days before the polling. After the security forces reached Kanhalgaon, they escorted the polling team members, mostly from education department, back into Maharashtra on foot to reach Jhaveli Khurd after covering a distance of 6.5km on foot. It is learnt that heavily armed Maoists, possibly Kasansoor Local Operational Squad (LOS) and other dalams, had reached as close as 4km to target the polling party. However, they refrained from attacking as security forces were present in huge numbers and with enough fire power to outdo any ambush. The Maoists, however, managed to stop tribals from Kundum village from reaching Jhaveli Khurd to vote. SDPO Sudarshan Patil, who worked under close supervision of SP Ankit Goyal and DIG Sandip Patil, said the security forces had to be extremely cautious about the Maoists plan of ambush or a surprise blast. Tehsildar Ajay Nashte said kotwal Rama Pungati and talathi Suresh Usendi had encouraged the tribals to vote without fear and choose their own representatives. Collector Deepak Singla said conducting elections at in the remotest part were really challenging but was made possible through close coordination between district police and administration. Prior the recently concluded gram panchayat elections, the polling process was marred by Maoist influence and threats, which did not allow anyone either to step outside for voting or conduct polls here. The panel of ward members, whoever the Maoists wanted, would be elected unopposed. Taking it up as a challenge this year, Gadchiroli police and district administration pressed heavy security forces into action to ensure the polling was made a reality. In 2019, the local tribal population voted for the first time in state assembly election. Prior to 2019, police or district administration with polling party could never enter this stretch, considered a highly sensitive Maoist bastion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/57-yrs-after-getting-panchayat-7-gadchiroli-villages-vote-in-free-polls/articleshow/80456724.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 26, 2021||Pune||Lanes linking two streets, having schools shortlisted: Agarwal||Pune: When TOI sought to know the criteria based on which the 335 roads were shortlisted for widening, additional municipal commissioner of Pune Rubal Agarwal Agarwal said, “We have shortlisted the lanes linking two roads. Also, those having schools, gardens and other such public facilities were included in the list. The carriage width of such connecting lanes often gets reduced due to on-street parking. In case of emergencies, the fire brigade personnel find it difficult to manoeuvre their vehicles in these lanes.” She said, “While some citizens from this area (Sahakarnagar) have objected to the move, we have examples from other areas wherein the citizens approached us saying how the redevelopment of their property halted as the road was not wide enough. The standing committee approved the proposal and accordingly, the notices were issued. We shall give a hearing to all who have submitted suggestions and objections and will take the call based on the merits in each case.” — Abhijit Atre||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lanes-linking-two-streets-having-schools-shortlisted-agarwal/articleshow/80456731.cms||Abhijit Atre
January 26, 2021||Pune||Additional PMC commissioner: Roads will not be widened forcibly||PUNE: Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal on Monday told the office-bearers of the Sahakarnagar bungalow societies that the civic body would not forcibly widen the roads of their colonies if most of the property owners opposed the proposal and their objections were found to be valid during the hearing. A delegation of the office-bearers of the bungalow owners in Sahakarnagar, led by Congress leader Aba Bagul, called on Agarwal and Rajendra Raut, the superintendent engineer of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s building permission department, on Monday and handed them a memorandum objecting to the civic body’s move to widen the roads to nine metres from the existing six metres in their area. Bagul sought to know how the internal roads in the plotted bungalow societies, plans for which were duly approved by the civic body five decades ago, were shortlisted for widening. Most residents argued that the lanes shortlisted were part of the sanctioned layout plans. Also, they claimed, these were meant for internal traffic and not linked to any major thoroughfares and most culminated into a dead-end. Agarwal told them, “You will be given a hearing and if there is a merit in your arguments, the road-widening will not be forced upon you. But it is very important that you file an official objection by following the process as mentioned in the notices issued.” The residents complained during the meeting that the civic body had pasted the notices inviting suggestions and objections at obscure places — some even on DP boxes on street light poles — and this delayed their response. They sought to know if responding to the notice was so important, why the society was not served an official notice, more so since the PMC’s tax collection wing had addresses of all property owners in any areas. “Just like a tax bill, it’s a basic courtesy that the person whose property is being affected is served a notice or at least it is pasted on official notice boards by enlarging the photocopies of the notices,” the residents said. Referring to a notice pasted on a wall near Santosh Bakery on Apte Road, Bagul questioned, “How you expect people from Apte Road to know that the PMC plans to widen their lane and they need to file suggestions and objections?” Raut, the superintendent engineer of the corporation’s building permission department, said the PMC had issued advertisements in most newspapers in the city and the list of the roads to be widened was available on its website. BJP leader Suhas Kulkarni on Monday requested the PMC to extend the January 29 deadline by a fortnight to enable more citizens file the objections to the road-widening proposal.  He, however, appealed to the citizens to try to meet the deadline as his request was yet to be accepted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/addl-pmc-commissioner-roads-will-not-be-widened-forcibly/articleshow/80456718.cms||Abhijit Atre
January 26, 2021||Ludhiana||Samples of 19 Covid +ve teachers, students sent for genome analysis||Ludhiana: As 19 teachers and students of Government Senior Secondary School, Ghalib Kalan, Jagraon, have tested positive for Covid-19, the health department has sent their samples to a laboratory in Delhi for genome analysis of the virus. A teacher of the school had died of Covid-19 on January 23.The health department officials said of the 38 teachers, 13 had tested positive for Covid-19. Most of them were women and residents of Jagraon.“Of the 550 students of the school, samples of 290 were collected. We have received reports of 127 of them. Six have tested positive. The reports of the remaining are pending. The samples of the teachers were sent to Gadvasu and those of the students to GMCH, Patiala,” the officials added.They said samples of 13 teachers and six students, who tested positive, have been sent to National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in Delhi for genome analysis. “This will help ascertain whether they are infected with the UK strain, which has a higher degree of infectiousness, or not,” they added. District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat said, “Nineteen samples have been sent to NCDC, Delhi, for genome analysis. We expect to receive the reports in 15 days. This is being done as a safety measure, though we know through contact tracing that none of them came in contact with any international traveller,” he added. A health department officer, on condition of anonymity, said, “The way the disease spread at the school creates suspicion that the strain which is 70% more infectious may have infected the teachers and the students. The genome analysis, however, will make things clear.” Meanwhile, Jagraon health authorities said not many of the contacts of the positive cases have disease symptoms.“Most of the teachers and students of the school who have tested positive are asymptomatic. They have been home quarantined. But we have told them to contact us if they face any health issue during the quarantine period,” said Dr Pardeep Mohindra, Jagraon senior medical officer (SMO).None of UK returnees had new strainOf the 18 passengers from Ludhiana, who had returned from the UK in December last, 17 had tested negative for Covid-19 and the report of a 35-year-old woman from Payal had come positive. In the first week of January, her genome report had stated that she was not infected with the new mutated strain that was 70% more infectious.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/samples-of-19-covid-ve-teachers-students-sent-for-genome-analysis/articleshow/80454811.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 26, 2021||Dehradun||Student of KV ONGC in Dehradun to get PM National Child Award 2021||DEHRADUN: Anurag Ramola, a Class X student of Kendriya Vidyalaya ONGC in Dehradun, has been selected for the prestigious Prime Minister National Child Award, 2021, for his achievements in the field of art and culture. He will be conferred with the award virtually by President Ram Nath Kovind on the occasion of Republic Day on Tuesday. On Monday, Ramola got an opportunity to be a part of the virtual interactive session with PM Narendra Modi. In his address to the children, PM Modi said, “I wish all the best to the students for their future and I am confident that the students will continue taking our country forward.” He asked students to read autobiographies or biographies of inspirational people in order to learn from their experiences. Notably, Ramola has already been conferred with several awards at the international, national and state level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/student-of-kv-ongc-in-doon-to-get-pm-national-child-award-2021/articleshow/80454812.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Padma Vibhushan for SPB; Padma Shri for three from AP, one in Telangana||HYDERABAD/VIJAYAWADA: Well-known singer SP Balasubrahmanyam was honoured with Padma Vibhushan posthumously while four others from two Telugu states bagged Padma Shri awards for 2021. Andhra Pradesh walked away with three Padma honours, while Telangana received one. Last year too, five personalities from both Telugu states had shared Padma awards. Though SPB got the honours under Tamil Nadu quota, he was a quintessential Telugu. Born in AP’s Nellore district, SPB became a singing sensation world over with his effervescent rendition and mellifluous singing. Raju performed for Indira, KalamHe died of Covid-19 and other health complications in September last year. Kanaka Raju from Adilabad district, who made the tribal dance form ‘Gussadi' famous, was chosen for Padma Shri from Telangana. Raju hails from Marlavai village in Jainur mandal. He performed Gussadi at several festivals and official programmes, including Republic Day, and in the presence of former prime minister Indira Gandhi and former president APJ Abdul Kalam. Gussadi dance is practised by Gonds. Interestingly, villagers celebrate Dandari-Gussadi festival in Adilabad every year, which is an important cultural affair of the tribals. Violinist Annavarapu Rama Swamy, mridangam player Nidumolu Sumathi were awarded Padma Shri in the art category, while Prakasarao Asavadi won the award under literature and education category from AP. Rama Swamy, who was born in Somavarappadu village in 1926, learned music from Jagannatham Chowdary and worked for more than 40 years in AIR Vijayawada until his retirement in 1986. Rama Swamy shared the stage with renowned musicians and singers such as Mangalampalli Balamurali Krishna, SPB and NC Krishnamacharyulu. Rama Swamy expressed happiness for the award bestowed on him. Sumathi is the wife of famous mridangam player Dhandamudi Rama Mohana Rao. She too has worked with AIR. Born in 1950 in Andhra Pradesh, she received her initial training from her father Nidumolu Raghavaiah. Sumathi has participated in several prestigious music festivals both in India and abroad accompanying a number of eminent Carnatic musicians. Prakasarao is a celebrated poet and scholar. Born in 1944 in a small village, Asavadi has dedicated his life to propagate and rejuvenate Tamil and Sanskrit literatures. Asavadi’s most significant literary contribution is his performance of Avadhana – a uniquely creative, intricate and formidable classical poetic feat. He is also a distinguished orator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/padma-vibhushan-for-spb-padma-shri-for-3-from-ap-1-in-t/articleshow/80458110.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Delhi||Delhi HC fines south corporation Rs 25,000 for vacant posts||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Monday slapped a fine of Rs 25,000 on South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) for failing to fill vacancies of over 1,100 posts of special educator. The court was unhappy that SDMC didn’t send the requisition for schools run by it to Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board (DSSSB). Justice Najmi Waziri said the authorities should show alacrity for people who need special care, but in this case, the conduct displayed callous negligence for such citizens. It underlined that on December 18, 2020, the corporation was directed to expedite the process and urgently send the requisition so that the process for recruitment could be initiated, and it was granted three weeks to do so. However, even after over four weeks, SDMC had not sent requisition, the high court noted, observing that for this “the corporation shall pay Rs 25,000 to the petitioner within two weeks. Should the requisition not be sent in two weeks, the commissioner of SDMC shall file a personal affidavit explaining the reasons and shall be present before the court on the next date of hearing on February 10.” Questioning SDMC for not recruiting special educators, the court observed that, “These children need special care and that comes from teachers who are trained.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-fines-south-corpn-rs-25k-for-vacant-posts/articleshow/80456738.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Rajkot||Seven killed in two road accidents||Rajkot: Seven persons were killed in two separate road accidents in Surendranagar and Devbhumi Dwarka districts on Sunday. At Dhrangadhra bypass road in Surendranagar district, four friends died after their car was run over by a GSRTC bus. When they were trying to overtake the bus, one of the tyres of the car bust, the vehicle swerved and was run over by the bus. Vipul Vadher (30), Ramesh Rehvar (35) and Deepak Rathod (33) died on the spot, while Dalpat Jadhav (30) succumbed while he was being taken to Surendranagar for treatment. The accident was so grueome that police had to deploy a crane to lift the bus so that the car crushed under the bus could be removed. Cops said that all four victims were residents of Dhrangadhra and were farmers.In another incident, a couple and their eight-year-old son died after they were knocked down by a car on Bhanvad Road in Khambhaliya taluka on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/seven-killed-in-two-road-accidents/articleshow/80454014.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Bareilly||SP, farm unions to take out tractor rallies in every tehsil of Pilibhit today, defying police-admin diktat||PILIBHIT: The Samajwadi Party is all set to take out Kisan Tiranga Yatra in all tehsil areas of the district, with hundreds of tractor trolleys on Republic Day. Two former state ministers, former MLAs and party officer bearers will lead the yatra in rural and urban areas. Farmers’ unions in the district will also simultaneously take out a tractor march with the Indian flag. “We’ll not allow anyone to take out a tractor march without a valid administrative permit. Appropriate legal action will be taken against whosoever takes out or participates in such tractor rallies without permission,” said superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav. “Participation in Republic Day celebration is our constitutional right, for which we don’t need to seek permission from any authority. Why are officials so rigid about obstructing us? We don’t intend to disrupt the peace in the district,” said several farmers and leaders of Rashtriya Kisan Majdoor Sangathan, Bharatiya Kisan Union and Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) in response, adding they did not want to disclose their names before the Republic Day rally, ostensibly to avert police action. They would rather “face consequences” when they are out on roads with their tractors and national flags, they added. A former minister in the SP government, Hemraj Verma, said a route no less than 50km has been assigned to each rally cohort in the district. When asked about administrative permission, SP district president Anand Singh Yadav said he was not surprised by the “dictatorial terms set by police and district administration”, as BJP always believed in “strangling democratic values and muffling every voice raised against its policies”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sp-farm-unions-to-take-out-tractor-rallies-in-every-tehsil-of-pilibhit-today-defying-police-admin-diktat/articleshow/80453453.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 26, 2021||Bhopal||Three-tier security in the city for R-Day||Bhopal: Security has been hiked up in the city for the Republic Day, especially in view of the ongoing farmers’ protest. City cops have set up 24-hours vehicle check points at more than dozen entry points. Apart from that, over 100 check points have been set up across the city for vehicle checking. More than 700 policemen will guard the R-Day programme venue in three-tier security today. Police teams intensified patrolling and special checking operations were carried out by bomb diffusion and disposal squad (BDDS) along with dog squad. ASP Rajat Saklecha said, security has been kept on high alert. Vehicle checking is being done on all the entry points. These check points are operating 24 hours since last two days. Patrolling teams are keeping an eye on financial institutions like banks and ATMs along with religious places. He said, special patrol vehicles have been allotted to police station for patrolling in their jurisdiction areas and to keep an eye on any anti-social activity. Policemen are conducting surprise checks of lodges, hotels, dharamshalas and Rain Baseras and verifying the people staying there. . Prominent spots like Vidhan Sabha, Vallabh Bhawan, railway stations, bus stands and others were checked by the bomb disposal squad. Saklecha said that six picket points have been deployed across the city in sensitive areas for monitoring any illegal activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/three-tier-security-in-the-city-for-r-day/articleshow/80455792.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Nagpur||To stem opposition, CM calls to develop Gondwana theme park at Gorewada||Nagpur: The Balasaheb Thackeray International Gorewada Zoological Park will be the stepping stone in the development of Vidarbha, said Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray while inaugurating the mega tourism project on Tuesday. To stem the opposition over the zoo’s renaming, Thackeray asked the Forest Development Corporation Of Maharashtra (FDCM) and forest minister Sanjay Rathod to develop the Gondwana Theme Park, which will showcase the culture of the tribals of Vidarbha. In Masai Mara in Kenya, tourists world over visit the park to see the culture of the Masai tribe. “There will be no going back on the development of Vidarbha region. At the same time, development should be sustainable and achieved by striking environmental balance,” said Thackeray. Maharashtra environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray said, “Gorewada is a classic example of how real development can be achieved by balancing environment, wildlife, forest and tourism.” Aaditya added the MVA government was the first state government to give the forest ministry its due, which was otherwise considered a ‘speed breaker’ in various projects by leaders and people. “We held three state wildlife board meetings in one year and notified 10 conservation reserves to strengthen Sahyadri tiger reserve corridor and Kanhargaon wildlife sanctuary to boost Tadoba. The chief minister also declared 800 hectares Aarey land in the heart of Mumbai as a reserve forest and its intention to declare 1,387 hectares of mangroves in Thane district as reserve forest,” said the junior Thackeray. Guardian minister Nitin Raut said, “It is a glorious moment that the long-pending project has seen the light of day. Since Nagpur is the country’s tiger capital, Gorewada will get the much-needed boost as thousands of tourists arrive in the city to visit Pench, Tadoba, Umred-Karhandla, and Bor. If some of the tourists visit Gorewada, it will boost direct and indirect employment.” Raut also demanded to integrate both the Gorewada jungle safari and the international zoo by constructing an underground tunnel or overpass. FDCM managing director N Vasudevan urged the government to pump in money for the second phase of the project, which consists of an African safari, a trail of senses, a bird park, biopark, night safari, and other attractions. Of the Rs450 crore project, till now the FDCM has spent Rs100 crore. “If the state gives rest of the Rs350 crore in phases, we can complete the project in two years without any private partner. The master plan of African safari has already been approved by the CZA,” said forest minister Sanjay Rathod. Rathod termed the politics over renaming of the zoo as unfortunate. “There was no proposal to declare the zoo as Gondwana park but I appeal to the tribal outfits not to fall prey to vested interests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/to-stem-opposition-cm-calls-to-develop-gondwana-theme-park-at-gorewada/articleshow/80467325.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 26, 2021||Pune||Four held for assaulting, threatening traffic cop at Koregaon Park junction||Pune: Four casual workers from Bopodi were arrested on Sunday on the charge of assaulting and threatening a traffic constable (47) at the North Main Road junction after he stopped one of them, riding a scooter, for jumping the traffic signal. A senior officer of the city police pointed out that the increase in frequency of attacks on police personnel, particularly those on traffic duty, indicated a disturbing trend of public behaviour against the law enforcers. “A total of 96 cases of assault on police personnel were reported from areas under Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerates in 2020. Of these, 55 were reported from Pune city,” he said. “From January 1, there have been four such cases in Pune city, resulting in the arrest of six persons,” the officer added. Joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve told TOI on Monday evening, “Stringent measures will be taken against people challenging the authority of the law enforcers. People are expected to cooperate when the authorities on the streets are executing their official duties. Often, it is seen that people argue with police personnel and lose their cool, which results in such attacks.” In the latest incident, the police identified the arrested four as Shashikant Panchlal Jaiswal (20), who was riding the scooter, Devendra Rampyare Jaiswal (21), riding pillion, and their aides, Deepak Rampyare Jaiswal (25) and Govinda Rampyare Jaiswal (23). Offences under relevant sections of the IPC have been registered against them. The police produced Shashikant and the three others before a judicial magistrate, first class, on Monday, who remanded them in police custody till January 27. Constable Navnath Pawar, the assault victim, stated in his FIR that around 6.30pm he was manning the junction when he spotted Shashikant jumping the signal and signalled the latter to stop. Shashikant stopped, but soon he and Devendra picked up an argument with Pawar. When the constable asked them to stand aside on the road, the duo called their aides, Deepak and Govinda, to the spot. Pawar said the four men pushed him hard on the road surface and slapped him. Shashikant and Devendra earlier argued with him and questioned the constable’s authority to stop them, the FIR stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-held-for-assaulting-threatening-traffic-cop-at-koregaon-park-junction/articleshow/80456745.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Chennai||Airlines wary of flying people from UK to Chennai||Chennai: Airlines have become cautious while boarding passengers from London to Chennai and other cities in the country as the Union government has instructed that passengers flying via transit airports should not be allowed. Checks are also high Dubai, a popular transit hub, after an airline got penalised when a Covid-19 positive passenger flew from the UAE to Chennai recently. Airlines are checking documents at Dubai to find out if all passengers to Chennai are originating from Dubai or whether they are coming from the UK. The heightened travel restrictions in London and document screening in Dubai have affected passenger confidence to travel abroad, said Basheer Ahmed of Travel Agents Federation of India (TAFI). Earlier, passengers from London were allowed to fly via transit airports such as Paris, Frankfurt, Dubai, Abu Dhabi and a few others. Now this has been stopped as the government wants to restrict the number of passengers who land in Chennai, Mumbai and Delhi from the UK. An airport official said the scrutiny of documents is high at airports abroad. “This has made travel a hassle for people, especially those who want to come from the UK because there are fewer direct flights to Chennai. Air India is flying while British Airways is resuming schedule only from next month. There is an uncertainty whether the flights will continue or not.” “A majority of the people have to land in Mumbai and Delhi. But they have to spend more to travel to Chennai by domestic flights because domestic fares have increased,” said Ahmed. A London-Chennai one-way ticket costs Rs 30,000 while London-Mumbai flight costs Rs27,000 for travel in the second week of next month because the route has more flights. However, passengers have to pay Rs 4,500 to 5,000 on the Mumbai-Chennai leg. Most of the travel is not booked much in advance as there is a need for registrations and approvals. People are hesitating to travel from Chennai to London unless they have to travel for business or work because cases are high in the UK and the country has put in a lot of restrictions. Passengers do not want to get stuck abroad if their test there turns positive. “It is going to make people wary of traveling to destinations even when they are open for leisure and business travel,” an airline official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/airlines-wary-of-flying-people-from-uk-to-chennai/articleshow/80455834.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 26, 2021||Rajkot||Officer caught taking Rs 20k bribe||Rajkot: A commercial tax officer of the state government was caught red-handed taking bribe of Rs 20,000 by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) Rajkot division on Monday. ACB officials said that the trap was laid for accused, Manoj Madani, at Bahumali Bhavan in Rajkot city. According to case details, the complainant owns a private firm and had claimed refund of Rs 9.70 lakh with interest for Value Added Tax (VAT) the assessment year 2016-17. Madani had demanded Rs 20,000 from the complainant to sign his refund order. Complainant did not want to pay the bribe and had approached the ACB’s office in Rajkot city. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/officer-caught-taking-rs-20k-bribe/articleshow/80454022.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Dehradun||More farmer groups from Terai region head towards Delhi to take part in R-day protest tractor rally||RUDRAPUR: More batches of farmers from the Terai region, on Monday, set out for Delhi to participate in the proposed tractor parade to protest against the three farm laws on the occasion of Republic Day on January 26. However, private vehicles other than tractors were used for mass mobilisation on Monday, unlike the day before when more than 7,000 farmers from the district headed towards Delhi on tractors. The farmers’ unions have announced that their tractor parade would cover the Outer Ring Road in Delhi. On Monday, two buses from Khatima with over a hundred agitators on board and a convoy of more than fifty private vehicles moved towards Delhi from Rudrapur. Sandeep Singh Cheema, former vice-president of the zila panchayat, said, “More than 200 people from the city reached the Ghazipur protest site on Monday to participate in the Republic Day tractor parade.” Talking to TOI over phone from the Ghazipur border, president of the Terai Kisan Sabha, Tejender Singh Virk, said that more than 20,000 farmers and their supporters from the Terai region have so far gathered at Ghazipur. “The women from our families are also participating in the protest and they will lead the tractor rally proposed on January 26. We have more than 5,000 tractors from the Terai region.” Jagtar Singh Bajwa, the spokesperson of the ‘Kisan Andolan Committee Ghazipur’, said, “The number of agitators are increasing at the protest site. The farmers and farm workers of the Terai region will show their strength in the ongoing protest. We would join the parade to highlight our demands and the stubborn attitude of the central government. Meanwhile, arrangements for ‘langar’ (community kitchen service) have been made at several places on the national highway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/more-farmer-groups-from-terai-region-head-towards-delhi-to-take-part-in-r-day-protest-tractor-rally/articleshow/80454818.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Ventilators to be moved from Covid centres||MUMBAI: With low occupancy at jumbo centres and hardly any patients on ventilators, BMC will shift unused ventilators to the civic hospitals where they are needed.  The BMC has around 600 ventilators at its jumbo centres and has asked deans of various jumbo centres to coordinate with civic hospitals to relocate the ventilators. “At jumbo centres, less than 10% of patients are on ventilators. So most ventilators are not in use. We have asked deans of jumbo centres to relocate the ventilators where they are required or where there could be a shortage since we have started non-Covid treatment too,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner. He said that all ventilators will not be shifted. Based on occupancy and use, those unused will be shifted so they don’t become defunct.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ventilators-to-be-moved-from-covid-centres/articleshow/80456751.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 26, 2021||Kochi||Al-Hindi module case: NIA submits supplementary chargesheet against 2 IS men||Kochi: National Investigation Agency (NIA) has filed a supplementary chargesheet against two more persons in the IS Omar Al Hindi module case on Monday. NIA filed the supplementary chargesheet in the special NIA court, Ernakulum, and as per the chargesheet, Sidhikhul Aslam, 31, of Thiruvananthapuram has been charged with sections 120B of IPC and 38 and 39 of UA (P) Act and Muhammad Polakkanni, 28, of Kozhikode has been charged with sections 120B of IPC and 18, 18B, 20, 38 and 39 of UA (P) Act. NIA said in an official statement that a case was registered suo-motu by the agency on October 1, 2016, based on credible information regarding the conspiracy and the consequent formation of the Islamic State (IS)/ Daish-inspired terrorist module, Ansarul Khilafa-KL, by some youth from south India, with the intention of furthering IS objectives in India. The agency said that further investigation established that Aslam conspired with convicted members of IS-inspired terrorist module and attempted to recruit more persons into the proscribed organization. He was arrested in this case on October 28, 2020, on his return from Saudi Arabia. NIA investigation established that Polakkanni had actively conspired with convicted persons to propagate violent extremism by actively disseminating materials supporting jihadi ideology and to effect terrorist attacks in south India. He travelled to Georgia in early-2018, with the intention of crossing over to Turkey and eventually to Syria to join IS. He was arrested by Georgian authorities while attempting to illegally cross over to Turkey, using a fake passport. He was arrested by NIA in this case on September 19, 2020, following his return from Georgia. It was alleged that Mohammed used to operate under a different name in Telegram and WhatsApp groups in which the group planned their operations. The agency tracked down his identity in 2019 and issued a lookout notice in his name. Six persons were convicted by NIA court in the case last year. According to NIA, five accused persons were arrested by NIA on October 2, 2016, from Kanakamala in Kannur district, while preparing to carry out terrorist attacks in Kerala and Tamil Nadu by targeting prominent persons including judges, police officers and politicians and places of tourist importance where foreigners, especially Jews, congregate. Six members of the IS/Daish-inspired terrorist module Manseed Muhmood, Swalih Mohammed, Rashid Ali, Ramshad N K, Safvan P and Moinudheen P K were convicted by NIA special court on November 27, 2019 for offences under the IPC and UA(P) Act. They were sentenced to rigorous imprisonment ranging from three to 14 years along with fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/al-hindi-module-case-nia-submits-supplementary-chargesheet-against-2-is-men/articleshow/80455829.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Ludhiana||No casualty; 27 more +ve, take case count to 25,556||TNNLudhiana: Twenty-seven Ludhiana residents and eight patients from outside the district tested positive for Covid-19 here on Monday. No death due to the virus was reported on the day. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said the district toll tally stood at 992 and that of outsiders at 472.So far, 5,88,732 persons have been tested.Of the 27 new cases, 18 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), four from OPD, four through tracing process, and one healthcare worker.The local health department officials said the district case count was 25,556 and that of outsiders 3,879.To date, 24,274 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.98% of the total cases.There are 287 active cases. As many as 767 persons are home quarantined.On Monday, 18 persons were quarantined and 1,620 samples collected.One patient from outside the district is on ventilator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-casualty-27-more-ve-take-case-count-to-25556/articleshow/80454817.cms||---
January 26, 2021||India||Cycle Girl who carried dad for 1,200km gets PM award||DARBHANGA: Jyoti Kumari, the “Cycle Girl” who brought her injured father Mohan Paswan on a bicycle from Gurugram to her village Sirhulli 1200km away, in Bihar’s Darbhanga district, cycling for seven days during the Covid-induced lockdown in May last, was conferred the Pradhan Mantri Bal Puraskar by PM Narendra Modi on Monday. Jyoti and 32 other children from across the country were awarded for their achievements at a virtual meeting chaired by Modi. She will get Rs 1 lakh, a citation and a medal. The Darbhanga district administration brought Jyoti and her parents from her village to the National Informatics Centre’s office at district headquarters here to participate in the virtual award ceremony. Though Jyoti did not get a chance to directly interact with the PM due to time constraints, she claimed to have learned a lot from the experience and stories of other awardees. “PM’s interaction with children has acted as encouragement for more success in life. As advised by the PM, I am determined to read the life history of one legendary figure each year,” Jyoti said. Jyoti’s father, Mohan, said her daughter learned a lot from the PM’s suggestions. “This event has glorified my family and village and people are expecting more brave actions from my daughter.” Meanwhile, Jyoti has also been chosen as a brand ambassador for the state government’s anti-drug abuse programme. “The district administration is providing all sorts of help for Jyoti’s education and will continue to do so in the future,” DM Thyagrajan SM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cycle-girl-who-carried-dad-for-1200km-gets-pm-award/articleshow/80459604.cms||Binay Kumar Jha
January 26, 2021||Delhi||Two labourers fall to death||NEW DELHI: Two labourers died after they mysteriously fell off the third floor of the factory they worked at on Saturday afternoon. Police said they were tickling each other during a game and accidentally fell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-labourers-fall-to-death/articleshow/80456748.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Kozhikode||Panchayat to shut unlicensed properties||KOZHIKODE: Meppadi panchayat decided to issue stop memos to all unlicensed tourism properties–estimated to be around 100–after Shahana, a young college lecturer from Kannur, was killed by an elephant at an unauthorized camping site in Wayanad on Saturday. The decision was taken at the emergency meeting of the panchayat on Monday. Panchayat secretary Ramesh KN said that only 16 resorts and homestays had secured license from the local body. Starting the crackdown, the panchayat closed down two illegal resorts on Monday. Panchayat president Omana Ramesh said that a team will inspect all tourism properties in the panchayat to ensure safety and regulatory compliance. A joint team of forest, police and panchayat authorities will conduct the inspections. "We have asked panchayat members to provide a list of homestays and resorts functioning in their area and we will serve stop memos to unlicensed properties including resorts and homestays which are estimated to be around 150," Ramesh said. Even district tourism promotion council was not been able to keep tabs of the fast mushrooming tourism properties, including homestays, in the district. According to DTPC officials, only 20 homestays had undergone the classification exercise. Meanwhile, district administration has also taken steps to regulate the functioning of resorts and homestays and district disaster management authority is expected to issue an order with the guidelines to be followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/panchayat-to-shut-unlicensed-properties/articleshow/80455853.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Pune||Constable hurt in bid to stop clash between criminals in Chakan||Pune: A constable from the Chakan police suffered injuries when he intervened in a clash between members of a gang of criminals on Saturday night.Constable Anil Karote, who suffered injuries to his left hand, lodged an FIR. “We have arrested three criminals on police records under relevant sections of the IPC. We have also detained their minor accomplices for questioning. Five more suspects are on the run,” sub-inspector V D Jagdale of the Chakan police said, adding that one of the members of the criminals’ gang also suffered severe head injuries.The arrested trio have been identified as Sandip Shinde (43), his son Harshal (21) and Omkar Bisnare (20), all from Medankarwadi near Chakan. “Shinde runs a criminal gang and has 12 cases to his name. His accomplice, Nikhil Kamble, suffered severe head injuries in the assault and is undergoing treatment in a hospital,” Jagdale said.He said the members of Shinde gang had a brawl among themselves over some issue at Manik Chowk in Chakan around 10pm on Saturday. “Our policemen reached the spot after getting information that one person was seriously injured in the brawl,” Jagdale said. He said when Karote tried to prevent the criminals from assaulting each other, the suspects attacked him too. “Karote suffered injuries. The other policemen overpowered the suspects,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/constable-hurt-in-bid-to-stop-clash-between-criminals-in-chakan/articleshow/80456752.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Vijayawada||SEC revises schedule for first phase of local body elections||AMARAVATI: The State Election Commission has revised the schedule for the first phase of local body elections. According to state election commissioner (SEC) Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar, nominations for the first phase would commence on January 29 and polling would be held on February 9. The second phase of polling would be held on February 13 and the third phase on February 17. The fourth phase would be conducted on February 21. The counting of votes would be held on the same day immediately after the completion of polling in the afternoon. Polling for all phases will be held from 6.30 am to 3.30 pm. “The commission has received information from several quarters that necessary arrangements were not made by district administrations to receive nominations scheduled from 25.01.2021 for phase I of gram panchayat elections awaiting instructions from the government. The State Election Commission came to a conclusion that the election process has been vitiated as the district administration has not made arrangements for receiving nominations for phase I gram panchayat elections,” said Ramesh Kumar. He, however, asked district collectors and SPs to adhere to the SEC’s instructions as the Supreme Court dismissed the special leave petition (SLP) filed by the state government seeking postponement of elections. The SEC had written a letter to the cabinet secretary to allow deployment of central government employees in case the state government employees abstained from poll duties. The commission said it has authorised district collectors to indent the services of central government employees as well as members of central public sector undertakings for election-related responsibilities as deemed appropriate and necessary by district collectors. “The commission has authorised the collectors to requisition central government employees in exercise of the plenary powers vested with it under Article 243K read with Article 324 of the Constitution,” said Ramesh Kumar. However, the commissioner wanted the collectors to undertake election work without disruption by deploying state government employees, members of state public sector units, all state government organisations and members of all state corporations and other entities in the first instance. He said central government employees and members of public sector undertakings shall only be used as a last resort if inadequacies persist with regard to poll personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sec-revises-schedule-for-first-phase-of-local-body-elections/articleshow/80460286.cms||Samdani MN
January 26, 2021||Chennai||ED attaches 1,081 properties worth Rs 207cr||Chennai: Enforcement Directorate, Chennai, provisionally attached 1,081 immovable properties spread across 3,850 acres worth Rs 207 crore in Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Chennai in a money laundering case where the accused allegedly defrauded public in the guise of investment. The attached assets are in the name of M/s Disc Assets Lead India Ltd, M/s Eagles Eye Real Estates, M/s Meadow Realtors and its key managerial personnel. The investigation was initiated by Economic Offences wing of TN police who booked a criminal conspiracy and cheating case against M/s Disc Agrotech Ltd, Disc Assets Promoters Ltd, Disc Asset Lead India Ltd and its directors V Janarthanan, N Umashankar, N Arunkumar, C Srinivasan, T Shyamchander and S Jeevalatha in 2006. They had allegedly collected money from public in various parts of Tamil Nadu and Kerala promising them land in return. The money was collected in instalments. ED initiated a case under Provision of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) based on TN police’s FIR. Investigation by the central agency revealed that the directors of the company had floated many entities like Dal Marketing Solutions Pvt Ltd and Aiyan Marketing Solutions Pvt Ltd to collect money from public on behalf of Disc Assets Lead India Ltd to circumvent legal impediments of the SEBI Act. The total money collected amounted to Rs 1,273 crore. Investigation under PMLA by ED revealed that the invested amount collected from depositors was utilised in purchase of immovable properties in Tamil Nadu in the name of the company, its directors and other unrelated entities. A major portion of the collected amount was siphoned off by the directors of the company through entities which were floated by them with their close relatives as directors or partners. The accused persons had cheated their depositors by neither allotting them land nor returning their investment. The directors and key managerial persons namely N Umashankar, N Arun Kumar, V Janarthanan and A Saravana Kumar were arrested for their involvement in the offence of money laundering, ED said. Now, the agency had provisionally attached immovable properties worth Rs 207 crore in the form of 3,850 acres of land which was bought out of proceeds of crime, ED said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ed-attaches-1081-properties-worth-rs-207cr/articleshow/80455856.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Azad Maidan rally: Few farmers, more intruders, says opposition BJP||MUMBAI: The opposition BJP criticized the Azad Maidan rally, saying there were few farmers and more intruders there. “Since when have women from Bhendi Bazaar become farmers?” asked BJP leader Praveen Darekar. He defended Governor Koshyari saying, “The Governor is very sensitive. He meets everyone. Political parties are trying to mislead farmers and fire from their shoulders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/few-farmers-more-intruders-says-oppn-bjp/articleshow/80456796.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Vijayawada||SEC revises schedule for first phase of local body elections||AMARAVATI: The State Election Commission has revised the schedule for the first phase of local body elections. According to state election commissioner (SEC) Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar, nominations for the first phase would commence on January 29 and polling would be held on February 9. The second phase of polling would be held on February 13 and the third phase on February 17. The fourth phase would be conducted on February 21. The counting of votes would be held on the same day immediately after the completion of polling in the afternoon. Polling for all phases will be held from 6.30 am to 3.30 pm. “The commission has received information from several quarters that necessary arrangements were not made by district administrations to receive nominations scheduled from 25.01.2021 for phase I of gram panchayat elections awaiting instructions from the government. The State Election Commission came to a conclusion that the election process has been vitiated as the district administration has not made arrangements for receiving nominations for phase I gram panchayat elections,” said Ramesh Kumar. He, however, asked district collectors and SPs to adhere to the SEC’s instructions as the Supreme Court dismissed the special leave petition (SLP) filed by the state government seeking postponement of elections. The SEC had written a letter to the cabinet secretary to allow deployment of central government employees in case the state government employees abstained from poll duties. The commission said it has authorised district collectors to indent the services of central government employees as well as members of central public sector undertakings for election-related responsibilities as deemed appropriate and necessary by district collectors. “The commission has authorised the collectors to requisition central government employees in exercise of the plenary powers vested with it under Article 243K read with Article 324 of the Constitution,” said Ramesh Kumar. However, the commissioner wanted the collectors to undertake election work without disruption by deploying state government employees, members of state public sector units, all state government organisations and members of all state corporations and other entities in the first instance. He said central government employees and members of public sector undertakings shall only be used as a last resort if inadequacies persist with regard to poll personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sec-revises-schedule-for-first-phase-of-local-body-elections/articleshow/80454031.cms||Samdani MN
January 26, 2021||Pune||Noted city social workers to receive Padma Shri||Pune: Social workers Sindhutai Sapkal and Girish Prabhune from the city were on Monday named among the recipients of the Padma Shri — the country’s fourth highest civilian honour. Sapkal and Prabhune were among six Padma awardees from Maharashtra. Industrialist Rajnikant Shroff would be conferred with the Padma Bhushan, while Parshuram Gangavane (art), Namdeo Kamble (literature and education) and Jaswantiben Popat (trade and industry) would receive the Padma Shri award. Sapkal, affectionately called “mai”, runs seven orphanages across the state. She said she dedicates the award to the children around her. “I live for the children around me and so dedicate this award to all of them,” she told TOI. She recalled how, as a 20-year-old with a 10-month-old baby, she was abandoned by her family. “I begged, lived on trains and even slept in cemeteries, where I felt safe. During this period, I hated the world. As I scrounged for food, I saw many like me around and would share what little I had with them. These people never left me, and that was how my journey started,” Sapkal said. She said her father would always tell her to “learn to fight, not cry”. “Those words gave me courage to live on,” Sapkal said. Her first NGO was called Savitribai Phule Girls’ Hostel, registered in Chikaldara. Her work has earned her several laurels — she has received 270-odd national and international awards till date. Her orphanages are home to over 1,400 children. Meanwhile, Prabhune, who has been working for the upliftment of nomadic and denotified tribes and is the founder of the Punarutthan Samarasta Gurukulam in Chinchwad, said he hoped this award would lend weight to his efforts. “I feel the work I have been doing for over 30 years will now get some justice. Now I can raise this topic before society in a much better manner. Now, the political and social will to bring about change will surely strengthen,” Prabhune said. Gurukulam is a residential school. Its education system is based on self-reliance, self-respect and dignity of labour, and its students are mainly from different nomadic and denotified tribes, like Pardhi, Kaikadi, and Dombari, among others. “Now there is awareness about Pardhis. The society realizes that they should be strengthened financially and given respect. There are 60-70 similar projects across Maharashtra,” Prabhune said. Prabhune said he had the constant support of his wife, Arundhati, as well as that of their children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/noted-city-social-workers-to-receive-padma-shri/articleshow/80456768.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 26, 2021||Pune||Police medals for Pune joint CP, 3 other cops||Pune: Joint commissioner of Pune police Ravindra Shisve, two senior inspectors from Pune and an assistant sub-inspector from Pimpri Chinchwad were on the list of recipients of the police medals, declared on Monday, the eve of the Republic Day. Shisve, senior inspector Meghsham Dange — who heads the Kothrud police station — and assistant sub-inspector Shakir Jinedi of the Pimpri Chinchwad police will each receive the Police Medal for Meritorious Service, while senior inspector Gajanan Pawar, in charge of the Airport police station, will receive the Police Medal for Gallantry. Two fire officers — Rajaram Kedari from PMC Corporation and Devendra Pothphode from PMRDA — will receive Fire Service Medals. “The medal is a recognition for my role in maintaining law and order and restoring peace during my earlier tenure as superintendent of police in Sangli and Sindhudurg, and as deputy commissioner and later as additional commissioner of police in Mumbai,” Shisve, a 2002 batch IPS officer, told TOI. Dange said he was being recognized for his service in containing the spread of Covid-19 during an earlier posting at Akkalkuwa police station in Nandurbar, north Maharashtra. Pawar recalled how he was injured in a shootout at Pune railway station with a criminal from Delhi, who was trying to flee after murdering a woman in Chandannagr in 2018. “One bullet grazed my ear and two pierced my jaw,” Pawar recalled. Assistant sub-inspector Jinedi is posted with the anti-extortion cell and played a role in the seizure of mephedrone worth Rs20 crore in Chakan last year. He is also an avid sportsperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-medals-for-pune-joint-cp-3-other-cops/articleshow/80456769.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Rajkot||Truck runs over sleeping labourers, kills two||Palanpur: A dumper truck ran over a group of labourers sleeping on a pavement, killing two of them and injuring one person on Mansarovar Road in Palanpur town of Banaskantha on Monday early morning.According to police, the incident took place the driver of a truck carrying sand was reversing the vehicle. The driver accidentally ran over four labourers sleeping on the pavement. One of the labourers Magan Beghdiya (23) died on the spot, while Raman Beghdiya succumbed to injuries in a private hospital. Police said that the condition of one labourer was critical, while the fourth person sustained minor injuries.The deceased are residents of Danta taluka of Banaskantha.The police have registered a case under section 304A. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/truck-runs-over-sleeping-labourers-kills-two/articleshow/80454038.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Visakhapatnam||SEC revises schedule for first phase of local body elections||AMARAVATI: The State Election Commission has revised the schedule for the first phase of local body elections. According to state election commissioner (SEC) Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar, nominations for the first phase would commence on January 29 and polling would be held on February 9. The second phase of polling would be held on February 13 and the third phase on February 17. The fourth phase would be conducted on February 21. The counting of votes would be held on the same day immediately after the completion of polling in the afternoon. Polling for all phases will be held from 6.30 am to 3.30 pm. “The commission has received information from several quarters that necessary arrangements were not made by district administrations to receive nominations scheduled from 25.01.2021 for phase I of gram panchayat elections awaiting instructions from the government. The State Election Commission came to a conclusion that the election process has been vitiated as the district administration has not made arrangements for receiving nominations for phase I gram panchayat elections,” said Ramesh Kumar. He, however, asked district collectors and SPs to adhere to the SEC’s instructions as the Supreme Court dismissed the special leave petition (SLP) filed by the state government seeking postponement of elections. The SEC had written a letter to the cabinet secretary to allow deployment of central government employees in case the state government employees abstained from poll duties. The commission said it has authorised district collectors to indent the services of central government employees as well as members of central public sector undertakings for election-related responsibilities as deemed appropriate and necessary by district collectors. “The commission has authorised the collectors to requisition central government employees in exercise of the plenary powers vested with it under Article 243K read with Article 324 of the Constitution,” said Ramesh Kumar. However, the commissioner wanted the collectors to undertake election work without disruption by deploying state government employees, members of state public sector units, all state government organisations and members of all state corporations and other entities in the first instance. He said central government employees and members of public sector undertakings shall only be used as a last resort if inadequacies persist with regard to poll personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/sec-revises-schedule-for-first-phase-of-local-body-elections/articleshow/80460285.cms||Samdani MN
January 26, 2021||Kozhikode||Nepotism alleged in CU teacher appointments||KOZHIKODE: The Save University Campaign Committee (SUCC) has petitioned the governor and chancellor Arif Mohammed Khan alleging gross illegalities including political considerations and nepotism in the ongoing teacher appointments in Calicut University. In a letter to the governor, SUCC chairman R S Sasikumar and secretary M Shajirkhan alleged that it is reliably learnt that the rank lists for two posts of assistant professors in the department of education are manipulated to appoint the wives of two prominent CPM leaders. They said that the research guide of P M Shahala, wife of MLA A N Shamseer, served as an expert in the selection process and this was a clear case of conflict of interest. “P Kelu, former professor of Calicut University, was brought in as an outside expert by the vice-chancellor with the dubious intention of selecting Shahala, as he was her research guide. Being a guide of the said candidate he was obliged to refuse while Shahala was interviewed. However, he sat in the interview board and awarded marks to facilitate her ranking as no. 3 since the candidate is automatically entitled to Muslim reservation benefit. Resultantly, she will be appointed, making it appear that her ranking is a merit-based selection,” SUCC leaders said in the letter. Reesha Karally, wife of former SFI state-level leader and currently CPM leader P K Abdulla Navas, is ranked first in the list, they said. “We request your good self to call for papers and stay the entire selection process, immediately. The vice-chancellor should be warned of serious consequences if he engages himself in such unfair practices to favour CPM favorites,” the letter said. However, syndicate member K K Haneefa strongly refuted the allegations and said that the particular rank list has not been published by the varsity. “Those making the allegations had come up with baseless charges and petitions during various stages of the selection process and all those were rejected. The faculty selection process is being carried out with the sole consideration of merit and it will become evident when the appointment orders are issued,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/nepotism-alleged-in-cu-teacher-appointments/articleshow/80455860.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Pune||Trio rob bizman of ornaments worth Rs 3.9L||Pune: Three men on a motorcycle on January 23 night intercepted a businessman’s bike in a lane in Shewkar chawl, Hadapsar and snatched his gold chain and bracelet, collectively worth Rs3.9 lakh, after threatening him with a sickle. The businessman Dilip Bhongale (52) was returning home on a bike and had entered a lane, when three men coming from the opposite direction intercepted him. Bhongale in his FIR on January 24 stated that one of the men brandished a sickle and threatened him with dire consequences, while another slapped him. The third suspect snatched his ornaments and the trio fled in the direction of Sasanenagar. The passers-by witnessed the incident, but they did not come to his rescue, police said. Assistant inspector Sanjay Chavan from Hadapsar police, who is investigating the robbery case, said, “Bhongale and some eyewitnesses have given details of the suspects. They were not wearing helmets and had covered their faces with masks.” Bhongale’s FIR was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Arms Act and the Maharashtra Police Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-rob-bizman-of-ornaments-worth-rs-3-9l/articleshow/80456788.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Pune||Woman detained for theft||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch on Sunday detained a woman for questioning in relation to the theft of gold ornaments, cellphone and cash collectively worth Rs1.5 lakh from a Chennai-based businessman after sedating him with a spiked soft drink in a hotel room at Wakad on January 17. She met the businessman via a dating app. “We are questioning the her. We suspect she may have targeted more men,” Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash said. Police said the woman stole valuables from a man on Dehu Road using same modus operandi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-detained-for-theft/articleshow/80456797.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Amaravati||Vizag girl bags PM Rashtriya Bal Puraskar||VISAKHAPATNAM: Ameya Lagudu, a class 8 student from Vizag, has got the prestigious Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar, 2021 for excellence in classical dance under the ‘Art and Culture’ category. Thirty-two children have been awarded the Puraskar this year, while Ameya is the only one to receive the award from Andhra Pradesh. Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with Ameya and her parents virtually through a video-conference on Monday. Union women and child development minister Smriti Irani was also present on the occasion. Speaking to TOI, Ameya’s father Murthulu said they noticed Ameya’s talent in her early childhood. “Considering dance as her inherent talent, we enrolled her in Bharatnatyam classes as early as four years of age. She performed her Arangetram (a debut solo performance after successful training.) at six with 14 traditional dance items in 2 hours 45 minutes. She later ventured into Kuchipudi. Social sciences and art forms, which are often overlooked, are key to society,” said Murthulu. Murthulu added, “She has several international and national awards to her name, including the Asia Book of Records, India and the Guinness World Record for the largest Kuchipudi dance that had 6,117 participants. Ameya has performed more than 100 programmes on various national and international platforms. During the video-conference, we were told that the awards will be handed over physically sometime in the next few months in New Delhi.” Ameya is currently a student at Sri Sathya Sai Vidya Vihar. Convener of Sri Sathya Sai Vidya Vihar, SG Chalam, principal A Kausalya congratulated Ameya. The Government of India has been awarding the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar every year to children with exceptional abilities and outstanding accomplishments, in the fields of innovation, scholastics, sports, arts and culture, social service and bravery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/vizag-girl-bags-pm-rashtriya-bal-puraskar/articleshow/80460227.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
January 26, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Vizag girl bags PM Rashtriya Bal Puraskar||VISAKHAPATNAM: Ameya Lagudu, a class 8 student from Vizag, has got the prestigious Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar, 2021 for excellence in classical dance under the ‘Art and Culture’ category. Thirty-two children have been awarded the Puraskar this year, while Ameya is the only one to receive the award from Andhra Pradesh. Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with Ameya and her parents virtually through a video-conference on Monday. Union women and child development minister Smriti Irani was also present on the occasion. Speaking to TOI, Ameya’s father Murthulu said they noticed Ameya’s talent in her early childhood. “Considering dance as her inherent talent, we enrolled her in Bharatnatyam classes as early as four years of age. She performed her Arangetram (a debut solo performance after successful training.) at six with 14 traditional dance items in 2 hours 45 minutes. She later ventured into Kuchipudi. Social sciences and art forms, which are often overlooked, are key to society,” said Murthulu. Murthulu added, “She has several international and national awards to her name, including the Asia Book of Records, India and the Guinness World Record for the largest Kuchipudi dance that had 6,117 participants. Ameya has performed more than 100 programmes on various national and international platforms. During the video-conference, we were told that the awards will be handed over physically sometime in the next few months in New Delhi.” Ameya is currently a student at Sri Sathya Sai Vidya Vihar. Convener of Sri Sathya Sai Vidya Vihar, SG Chalam, principal A Kausalya congratulated Ameya. The Government of India has been awarding the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar every year to children with exceptional abilities and outstanding accomplishments, in the fields of innovation, scholastics, sports, arts and culture, social service and bravery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-girl-bags-pm-rashtriya-bal-puraskar/articleshow/80454040.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
January 26, 2021||Vijayawada||Vizag girl bags PM Rashtriya Bal Puraskar||VISAKHAPATNAM: Ameya Lagudu, a class 8 student from Vizag, has got the prestigious Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar, 2021 for excellence in classical dance under the ‘Art and Culture’ category. Thirty-two children have been awarded the Puraskar this year, while Ameya is the only one to receive the award from Andhra Pradesh. Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with Ameya and her parents virtually through a video-conference on Monday. Union women and child development minister Smriti Irani was also present on the occasion. Speaking to TOI, Ameya’s father Murthulu said they noticed Ameya’s talent in her early childhood. “Considering dance as her inherent talent, we enrolled her in Bharatnatyam classes as early as four years of age. She performed her Arangetram (a debut solo performance after successful training.) at six with 14 traditional dance items in 2 hours 45 minutes. She later ventured into Kuchipudi. Social sciences and art forms, which are often overlooked, are key to society,” said Murthulu. Murthulu added, “She has several international and national awards to her name, including the Asia Book of Records, India and the Guinness World Record for the largest Kuchipudi dance that had 6,117 participants. Ameya has performed more than 100 programmes on various national and international platforms. During the video-conference, we were told that the awards will be handed over physically sometime in the next few months in New Delhi.” Ameya is currently a student at Sri Sathya Sai Vidya Vihar. Convener of Sri Sathya Sai Vidya Vihar, SG Chalam, principal A Kausalya congratulated Ameya. The Government of India has been awarding the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar every year to children with exceptional abilities and outstanding accomplishments, in the fields of innovation, scholastics, sports, arts and culture, social service and bravery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vizag-girl-bags-pm-rashtriya-bal-puraskar/articleshow/80460228.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
January 26, 2021||Pune||Objections fewer than in 2017, plan to merge 23 fringe villages on track||Pune: The merger of 23 villages in the city civic limits is likely to be a smooth exercise ahead, as only 483 suggestions and objections have been filed as against 2,900 such views received from 11 places during a similar process in 2017. The state government had in December 2020 issued the draft notification to fully merge the remaining 23 villages in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits, increasing its total area to 480sqkm and making it the biggest corporation in Maharashtra. The decision, taken three years after 11 villages were included in the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) jurisdiction, would make areas such as Wagholi, Khadakwasla and Manjri Budruk part of the civic body. “The objections and suggestions have come through different modes. Some people have submitted their views in person. Some people have emailed their views. The citizens were also provided with the postal mode option,” Prashant Khandkekar, deputy regional director, municipal administration, Pune division, said on Monday. “The objections have come from some existing PMC areas and also from villages proposed to be merged. The administration will hold a hearing on the citizens’ demands before sending the merger proposal to the state government for final approval,” he said. As per the district administration, many objections stated that the inclusion of 23 villages would put stress on the civic system. Some objections have come in bulk and raised thesimilar concern. A district administration official said most of the objections, 383, have come from Pisoli. NGOs, political leaders and common citizens participated in the drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/objections-fewer-than-in-2017-plan-to-merge-23-fringe-villages-on-track/articleshow/80456815.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Bohras to hold harmony and inter-faith meet today||Visakhapatnam: On the occasion of Republic Day, a harmony and inter-faith cultural meet has been organised by the Dawoodi Bohra community in Vizag city. The district collector had set up a communal harmony committee recently with representatives from seven religions and communities in Vizag. Committee representatives will meet on January 26 and conduct seminars and deliberations on various cultural issues to strengthen inter-faith bonds. Speakers and guests for the meet include B Ramu, zonal commissioner of Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Dr Jayaram, GVMC health officer N Ramaprasad, regional director of a risk management and insurance company and member of communal harmony committee of Vizag district KVSA Verma, chief operating officer of a company and Aamil saab of the Dawoodi Bohra community Shamoli Bhai Saheb Shehabuddin. The harmony committee comprises a representative each from the Hindu, Muslim, Christian, Buddhist, Sikh, Jain and Marwari communities appointed by the collector. As per instructions of the government, peace committees were set up recently in every district with the collector as the president, the police commissioner and superintendent of police as vice-presidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/bohras-to-hold-harmony-and-inter-faith-meet-today/articleshow/80454048.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Jaipur||Insurance official arrested in Jaipur while taking Rs 1 lakh bribe||JAIPUR: A team of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) arrested an investigator-cum-surveyor of Oriental Insurance in the city on Monday while allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh. The accused had demanded Rs 4 lakh for clearing a claim of Rs 35 lakh resulting from a bus accident. He was arrested while accepting the first instalment of the bribe. A few months ago, three passengers died in a fire in the bus after the vehicle hit a live power line near Achrol. The owner of the bus later made an insurance claim for an estimated amount of Rs 35 lakh. “The accused, identified as Mukesh Pareek, 48, demanded Rs 4 lakh for clearing the claim. He had asked the owner to pay it in instalments. The bus owner approached us and narrated his plight. After verification, our team laid a trap and arrested the accused," said BL Soni, director general, ACB, to TOI. Dinesh MN, additional director general ADG), ACB, said that the accused had promised the bus owner the full claim amount and demanded a bribe in return as his commission. Vijay was held for accepting Rs 1 lakh bribeCBI sources said Vijay was arrested for accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh in lieu of giving some rebate to a petrol pump owner from Jhalawar. “During the raids conducted at his premises, we recovered nearly 1.5kg gold, documents of immovable assets, details of four bank lockers and Rs 2.5 lakh in cash from him,” said a CBI officer. “Jail authorities had conducted the Covid test and admitted him to RUHS on January 22. He was kept at a ward on the sixth floor where undertrials and convicted persons are kept,” said a senior doctor of RUHS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/insurance-official-arrestedwhile-taking-rs-1-lakh-bribe/articleshow/80456860.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||CBI may not take up solar case||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government’s decision to hand over the sexual harassment cases registered against political leaders based on the complaint of the prime accused in the solar scam to the CBI raises questions about the probe conducted by local police and crime branch over the last four years. Furthermore, the state government’s request is likely to fall on deaf ears with the agency, in all likelihood, set to decline the case, say sources. “This is not a case that has any ingredients for an investigation by the agency. The state had contradicted itself by opposing CBI probe in legitimate cases, such as the Periya double murder, that had rocked the conscience of society. Moreover, the state fell out with the agency when it withdrew the general consent extended to it over the probe into the Life Mission scam,” a senior police official said. According to CBI, it probes cases of corruption and fraud committed by public servants of all central government departments, central public-sector undertakings and central financial institutions, economic crimes including bank and financial frauds, import-export and foreign exchange violations, large-scale smuggling of contraband, special crimes such as cases of terrorism, bomb blasts, sensational homicides, kidnapping for ransom and crimes committed by mafia, and political crimes, in addition to such cases which are directed by the high court or the Supreme Court. Even though the solar commission report originally included the letter written by the complainant on July 19, 2013, accusing several political leaders of sexually harassment, the single bench of the high court, chaired by Justice A K Jayasankaran Nambiar, expunged large portions, including the letter, from being treated as part of the report. The government separately constituted a six-member team, under then DGP (north zone) Rajesh Dewan, to probe the contents of the letter. But the team hit a dead end for want of evidence – with even the complainant contradicting herself in her statements. “In many of the instances cited, the accused or the alleged victim were not even physically present at the location of the alleged crime. Also, there were no witnesses to corroborate the allegations,” said another source in the police department. Crime branch had registered separate FIRs against A P Abdullakutty, Oommen Chandy, K C Venugopal, Hibi Eden, Adoor Prakash and A P Anil Kumar in 2018 and 2019. Except for former minister Anil Kumar, the police did not even interrogate anyone else from the list of accused. The case has made very little progress, except for the statements of the complainant. With the investigation making no progress, the probe team just ceased to be. Even though an attempt was made to revive the investigation with ADGP Anil Kant at the helm, he refused to take up the responsibility. Currently, there is a three-member team, under ADGP (law & order), overseeing the probe. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cbi-may-not-take-up-solar-case/articleshow/80455868.cms||KP Saikiran
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Car designer Dilip Chhabria now booked for cheating Chennai businessman of Rs 25 crore||MUMBAI: After arresting car designer Dilip Chhabria in a dual registration racket and for cheating comedian Kapil Sharma, Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Mumbai Police booked him and other directors of DC company for cheating a Chennai businessman of Rs 25 crore. Chhabria is in judicial custody. Indermal Ramani, from Chennai, complained that Chhabria and his firm lured him into the spare parts business and duped him. Police booked Chhabria, wife Cherry, son Bonito, his wife Anushree and sister Kanchan and invoked IPC sections for criminal breach of trust and cheating. Ramani had in 2019 shut down his auto spare parts business in Pune, moved to Chennai and ventured into gold jewellery. Chhabria had met Ramani inbetween and proposed restarting the spare parts business. Police said Chhabria promised him high profits. Chhabria’s firm was to purchase spare parts required for designing cars from Ramani’s firm. Police said Ramani initially invested Rs 16.5 crore and supplied parts for DC Avanti. “But things did not work out. Soon, Chhabria complained of recession and sought more money. Chhabria said if he did not get aid he would be in a big loss. Ramani said he too was facing a cash crunch and offered 18% interest, and Chhabria promised to pay off everything.” said an officer. Chhabria paid few crores but later Bonita stopped payments and cheques got returned. When Chhabria started avoiding Ramani, he suspected he had been duped. Ramani and his son arranged for another Rs 4 crore through RTGS and bank transfer. In 2017-18 Ramani gave him more than Rs 20 crore and the interest touched Rs 5 crore, the officer said. Police said DCDPL would manufacture Avanti cars, register them in one state, buy the car posing as a dummy customer, take finance on it and then the car would be registered in another state and sold to a third party. Crime branch had caught Ramani in Colaba in December last year for moving around in an Avanti car registered in Tamil Nadu and Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/chhabria-now-booked-for-cheating-chennai-bizman-of-rs-25cr/articleshow/80456876.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 26, 2021||Pune||No signs of additional water despite rise in civic limits||Pune: The civic administration will not get any additional water it had sought keeping in mind the expansion of its limits following the merger of 23 villages. The civic administration and the irrigation department’s meeting on Monday to take a review of the water supply to the PMC-limits remained inconclusive. The meeting was chaired by guardian minister Ajit Pawar.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had has demanded 18.58 TMC water from the irrigation department in view of the likely increase in water demand once 23 villages would be added to the PMC’s jurisdiction. On the other hand, the irrigation department said the water supplied to the civic limits from Khadakwasla dam should be reduced as the PMC was now getting water from Bhama Askhed dam. PMC officials said they were demanding more water as a sizeable increase of population was expected with the merger of the 23 villages with the civic limits. “At present, we have around 16 TMC water, but it is only sufficient for the existing population. A total of 11 villages have been merged in the civic limits, which has already increased the water demand. Now, more villages are getting included and more water will be needed. Around 2.5 TMC additional water should be provided,” a senior PMC official said. VP Patil, the executive engineer of Khadakwasla irrigation circle, said, “The PMC is already lifting water from Khadakwasla as per its daily requirements. We have urged the civic body to ensure judicious use of water, so that the city and rural areas do not face water shortage during the summer. Also, plugging water distribution losses by PMC will help save more water in the dams. Statistics reveal that PMC’s water usage is around 270 litre per capita per day (lpdc).”“We have asked for additional water after looking at the likely increase in consumption. The need for water will increase as 23 more villages will come in our limits,” Suresh Jagtap, PMC’s additional commissioner, said. PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar was not available for comment, despite repeated attempts of contacting him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-signs-of-additional-water-despite-rise-in-civic-limits/articleshow/80456870.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Bhopal||BJP to keep speaker, deputy speaker’s post in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: As the budget session of Madhya Pradesh assembly is scheduled to be held from February 22, lobbying for the post of Speaker and deputy speaker in the BJP has intensified with leaders from Mahakaushal and Vindhya regions claiming for the coveted posts. BJP state president VD Sharma has also made clear on Monday that the party would keep both the posts as Congress broke the tradition during its previous regime. "Who broke the tradition (of giving the deputy speaker's chair to opposition)? It was Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh's arrogance and haughtiness. They felt that they have attained power permanently. They broke the tradition, we never did this and always tried to take the opposition along with us. Now they (Congress) will have to bear the brunt of this," said Sharma on Monday. In January 2019, when Congress won the majority in the House with the help of Bahujan Samaj Party, Samajwadi Party and Independent MLAs, the assembly elected Narmada Prasad Prajapati as the Speaker. Congress also kept the post of deputy speaker with itself and did not offer the chair to the Opposition BJP. The party elected Hina Kavre, a second term MLA from Lanji in Balaghat district, as deputy speaker. The BJP is now following the same tradition by keeping both the posts with itself. In the by-polls held in November last year on 28 seats, the BJP attained full majority by winning 19 seats. The party has decided to keep both the seats with itself to avenge the Congress' decision. During the monsoon session of the assembly the party appointed senior MLA from Huzur (Bhopal), Rameshwar Sharma, as pro tem Speaker. He is among the front runners for the post of Speaker now. Sources in BJP disclosed that apart from Sharma, former speaker Sitasaran Sharma, senior MLAs from Vindhya region Kedar Nath Shukla and Girish Gautam, MLA from Patan, Ajay Vishnoi, and Yashpal Singh Sisodia from Mandsaur are strong claimants for the coveted post. "The name of Speaker and deputy speaker will be decided unanimously. BJP works collectively and does not take decisions without consent. Anyone can get elected to the post," said Sharma to the party's decision on probables. MLAs from Vindhya and Mahakaushal regions were demanding to elect a Speaker from their region but BJP is not ready to open its cards. Sources said that former ministers Rajendra Shukla or Nagendra Singh Nagod, who are believed to be close to CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, could emerge as the winner. Chief minister Chouhan is also touring Vindhya and Makahaushal regions since last few weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-to-keep-speaker-dy-speakers-post/articleshow/80455866.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Pune||Ornaments worth Rs 7.2 lakh stolen from four houses||Pune: Ornaments and cash, collectively worth nearly Rs7.2 lakh, were stolen from four apartments in separate burglaries in Tingrenagar, Katraj and Warje-Malwadi over the past four days. In the first incident, unidentified persons broke the locks of an apartment owned by a central government employee, Vishwas Deshpande (45) at Akshay Nest Housing Society in Tingrenagar, and stole ornaments and cash from the bedroom cupboard between January 22 and 24. “Deshpande was in Buldhana when the burglary took place. He returned to Pune on Sunday and found that the locks to his apartment were broken with sharp weapons. He went inside to search his house and realised that some ornaments and cash were missing. We are studying the CCTV footage recovered from the housing society and the surrounding area. We are also working on certain clues and hope to solve case at the earliest,” senior inspector Ajay Chandkhede from the Vishrantwadi police said on Monday. In the second incident, unidentified persons stole gold ornaments worth Rs79,000 by breaking the front door locks of the apartments owned by Akshay Kakade (28), and his neighbour Mitilesh Thorvat, at Rajas Housing Society in Katraj, sometime in the last four days. Both the flats were unoccupied at the time of the incident, police said. In the third incident, burglars stole gold ornaments and cellphone, collectively worth Rs86,000, from the flat of Anurag Kalyankar (29), sometime between January 23 and 24. Three first information reports (FIR) were registered at the Vishrantwadi, Bharti Vidyapeeth and Warje Malwadi police stations on Sunday. The crime branch unit visited the respective crime scene on Saunday and investigation is ongoing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ornaments-worth-rs-7-2-lakh-stolen-from-four-houses/articleshow/80455879.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Ludhiana||City turns into fortress for R-Day||Times News Network Ludhiana: The city police are ready with the arrangements for Republic Day celebrations. About 2,200 personnel will remain on roads and security will be beefed up around Guru Nanak Stadium, where the main programme will be organised. Along with the cops, volunteers will be present inside the stadium to guide people about social distancing and wearing masks. Those not wearing masks will not be allowed to enter.The entries towards Guru Nanak Stadium—from Durga Mata Temple Chowk, backside of railway station and Club Road—will be closed till the programme. People can take the route of Mall Road to reach Fountain Chowk and Jagraon Bridge to reach the railway station. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said entry points to the city have been sealed and special checkpoints have been set up at different areas. He said over 100 patrol parties have been deputed in the city. Railway station, bus stand and hotels would be checked, he added. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said in view of the pandemic and the government directions, no cultural function or PT show would be organised on the occasion and attendees of district-level function must wear masks and follow Covid guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-turns-into-fortress-for-r-day/articleshow/80454908.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Pune||DTE looks for more MH-CET centres||Pune: The technical education directorate has told colleges to review their online capacity in a bid to increase the number of Common Entrance Test (CET) centres for engineering and other aspirants in every taluka in the state. This decision has been taken in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic wherein travelling to far off places has become difficult. Colleges which can accommodate 100 students online at a time on their campus, and which fulfil certain hardware and software requirements, can apply. In case the institutes do not have these requirements, they can apply at the regional directorates for the fulfilment of the same, a notification issued by the DTE said. The notification issued last week by the technical education directorate states that the department is looking at the option of opening up centres at the taluka level for conducting CET for engineering, pharmacy and doctor of pharmacy aspirants in the state so that the candidates need not travel to centres located at a distance from their place of residence. “Hence, institutes have been told to review if they can accommodate at least 100 students and also have the hardware and software specifications required to conduct the CET in 2021,” D V Jadhav, joint director, technical education. The notification then further says that iLEON OS is mandatory to conduct the assessment and lists out various specifications such as 4GB RAM and above, 16 inch monitor or above, along with power, network and other requirements. It further says that finalisation of the centre is only accepted if it is approved by the exam-conducting private agency audit. Head: Centres In State, Outside At present MHT-CET 2020 is conducted in the online mode (CBT-Computer Based Test) at all the district headquarters in the state It is also conducted in the capital district of the some states outside Maharashtra like Bihar, Chattisgarh, Delhi-NCR, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh depending on the availability of candidates In case the institutes lack in some aspects, they can apply for the fulfilment of the same by applying to the CET cell before February 5||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dte-looks-for-more-mh-cet-centres/articleshow/80456885.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 26, 2021||Nagpur||9 pvt hospitals enlisted for vax drive||Nagpur: With the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) roping in 9 private hospitals, the number of vaccination centres in the city will go up from 8 to 19 from Wednesday. Existing eight centres are either in NMC or government-run hospitals. NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi told TOI that the new centres were inspected and found to be satisfactory. “Three centres were added on Monday,” he said. Joshi added that the private hospitals will have to vaccinate health care workers from other hospitals after administering their own staff. “A couple of private hospitals were left out as they were not ready to meet the stipulation,” he said. While the scheduling will by done by the NMC, the vaccine will be administered by the staff of the private hospitals. A dry run was conducted earlier. The civic body had started vaccination of doctors, nurses and technicians of private hospitals from January 21. But they were covered under on-the-spot vaccination drive and had to travel to NMC’s Pachpaoli and Daga Hospitals. Following state permission for five days, NMC will hold the vaccination drive on all days barring Tuesdays and Sundays from this week. Meanwhile, the number of health care workers in the city registered for vaccination has increased in the city from 22,500 to 27,600. Some private hospitals are sending in late registrations. With the second lot of doses arriving in the next couple of days, the NMC officials said doses will be sufficient to meet the increased number. NEW VAX CENTRES Private hospitals | Orange City, Kingsway, Wockhardt, CIIMS, Kunal, Dande, Kubde, Jafri and Bhavani Govt hospitals | Employees State Insurance Corporation and Shri Ayurvedic College||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/9-pvt-hospitals-enlisted-for-vax-drive/articleshow/80455807.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||General public will soon be allowed on local trains: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday said the general public will soon be allowed on local trains. Senior officials said time slots are being worked out and it is likely the general public will be allowed during non-peak hour. Thackeray held a review meeting regarding opening of local trains for the general public and opinions from all key departments were sought. Officials said it is likely that a final decision may be taken in the first week of February. Railway officials present at the meeting suggested that the government should consider phase-wise induction of passengers for local train services. Before 7 am, between 11 am and 4 pm and from 8 pm till the end of the day is considered off-peak hour. Thackeray has asked departments to work out a proposal that ensures crowd control on trains and on the stations as the Covid-19 pandemic is not over yet. A railway official said, “The state government asked us if we required any assistance in terms of manpower to control crowds. However, despite the presence of security personnel, crowd control will pose a challenge as footfall per hour at many stations is in lakhs.” The idea of staggered office timings has been pushed on the back-burner as authorities found implementation impractical. Currently, only those categorised by the railways as essential workers are being allowed to board trains and general women commuters are being allowed during dedicated time slots. Another official said though no time-frame was discussed, Thackeray is willing to consider the proposal to reopen services in view of the steady drop in infection rate in Mumbai and neighbouring cities. Until now, despite aggressive demands from commuters and political parties, Thackeray was not keen on opening trains to all due to the lack of a crowd control mechanism. Commuter organisations have slammed the state government and railways for the delay in opening of services. Yatri Sangh’s Subhash Gupta said, “Today’s meeting has raised our hope that trains will start soon. People’s livelihood is at stake as they are unable to go to their workplace. Hope the decision to allow general passengers is taken at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/general-public-will-soon-be-allowed-on-local-trains-cm/articleshow/80456995.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 26, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Oommen Chandy turns crisis into an opportunity||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The proposed CBI probe into allegations of sexual abuse linked to the solar scandal has come as a blessing in disguise for former chief minister Oommen Chandy, with the entire party rallying behind him. For Chandy, whose recent appointment as chairman of Congress’ election supervisory committee has given rise to disaffection among a section of leaders, the decision has afforded the perfect opportunity to launch a united campaign for the assembly election. A day after the decision of the LDF government came to light, Chandy was busy giving media interviews. In the interactions, he attacked the state government for playing politics with a case lacking substance. In what could be viewed as a clever political move, Chandy also defended Jose K Mani, who ditched the UDF recently and is among those named by the complainant. Chandy said the state government had gone all out in its efforts to nail him in the case. “If there was any proof of wrongdoing, they would have booked me by now. The LDF government quickly realized even they cannot play up a fake case. That was why they did not even appeal the high court verdict,” he said. The government’s latest decision, with the assembly election round the corner, is purely a political ploy which will boomerang, Chandy added. The Congress has decided to expose what it says is CPM’s political vendetta and most of its party leaders have been vocal in making the case. The party leadership is of the view that Chandy’s return to the helm of affairs couldn’t have been more perfectly timed. “The latest decision of the government will help the UDF. People are aware that by raking up the solar case CPM is engaging in vendetta politics,’’ said KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran. Congress is also hoping that playing the victim card will win back the Christian vote, whose erosion is one of the reasons attributed for the UDF’s poor showing in central Kerala in the recently concluded local-body election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/chandy-turns-crisis-into-an-opportunity/articleshow/80455888.cms||Rajiv G
January 26, 2021||Jaipur||1.61 lakh Rajasthan health workers get vaccinated in a week||JAIPUR: As many as 67,591 healthcare workers received the Covid-19 vaccine on Monday, taking the cumulative figure of health workers vaccinated from 93,525 to 1,61,116 in one day. The turnout percentage remained at 72%. Vaccination was conducted at 995 centres across the state on Monday or double from Sunday’s 408 sites. The health department gave the drive a much-needed push by setting up more sites across the state while encouraging health workers to take the vaccine. For Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine manufactured by Bharat Biotech, the number of sites providing the jab increased from 11 to 15 in the city. The rest have been reserved for the Covishield vaccine. A vaccination centre each for Covaxin has been set up at Amar Hospital, Neo Clinic, Dhanwantri Hospital and two sites at Narayana Hrudayalaya, Kanwatia Hospital, Shelby Hospital, Gangauri Hospital, and Dental College and Hospital, among others. Ajmer reports highest turnout, Dausa lowestThe state had recently received 1.5 lakh doses of Covaxin. “We are taking measures to administer Covid vaccine at more sites. We have a target to administer vaccine to 4.5 lakh registered healthcare workers,” said a health department official. While the beneficiary turnout for Covaxin was 57%, for Covishield, it was 72%. Ajmer reported the highest turnout at 114%, followed by Jodhpur (106%), Bundi (98%), Nagaur (91%) and Jhunjhunu (89%). The lowest was reported from Dausa (38%), Bikaner (48%) and Sriganganagar (50%). The state also reported 16 more adverse events following immunisation from different parts. With this, the tally of such cases, consiting mostly of nausea, vomiting and anxiety complaints, reached 104.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1-61l-raj-health-workersget-vaccinated-in-a-week/articleshow/80456953.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Vijayawada||Shifting high court to Kurnool priority for YSRC MPs||VIJAYAWADA: The budget session of Parliament beginning on January 29 is likely to see YSRC MPs raising several key issues with shifting of Andhra Pradesh high court to Kurnool and starting a new railway zone at Visakhapatnam being on top of their agenda. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, who addressed YSRC parliamentary party meeting at his Tadepalli residence on Monday, told MPs to take every opportunity in both houses of Parliament to raise issues concerning the state. The CM wanted MPs to do the requisite for relocating high court to Kurnool from Amaravati, a move that requires a presidential order. He said that he had already appraised Union home minister Amit Shah about the issue during his recent visit to the national capital and wanted MPs to follow it up and get the orders issued before closure of the budget session. Jagan also told party MPs to get the new railway zone announced for Visakhapatnam and have operations start by the end of current financial year. He wanted MPs to mount pressure on the central government, particularly with the railway ministry and see that the zone starts its operations. He briefed MPs on the progress of Polavaram project and told them to get more funds released by the central government. The CM told MPs that the central government has to pay close to Rs 1,570 crore to the state, besides giving approval for the project cost of Rs 55,657 crore. While stating that the central government in principle had accepted the total cost of the project, he asked MPs to get formal approval for the same during this Budget session. As the Union budget is to be tabled in the House on February 1, the chief minister wanted the MPs to ensure that the state gets due share in the budget allocation. He also told them to press for payment of revenue deficit for the state, which was agreed by the central government at the time of bifurcation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/shifting-hc-to-kurnool-priority-for-ysrc-mps/articleshow/80454351.cms||Gopi Dara
January 26, 2021||Vijayawada||Tungabhadra water aplenty for Rayalaseema farmers this rabi||AMARAVATI: The state government’s efforts in setting up telemetry system along Tungabhadra canals are reaping rich dividends as farmers of Rayalaseema region are getting their quota of water for Rabi season after several decades. Water is flowing in Tungabhadra canals as the diversion of water by farmers in the upstream villages in Karnataka has come down due to the installation of telemetry devices. The Tungabhadra board has spared 54 tmc of water for AP from the project for the current season helping farmers of nearly 6 lakh acres in Kurnool, Kadapa and Anantapur to get sufficient water. In the absence of telemetry devises, Karnataka farmers used to divert water from AP quota in the past leaving the tail-end of the canals in AP to struggle. While the High Level Canal (HLC) of TB dam had to make a journey of nearly 104km, Low-Level Canal (LLC) passes for about 131km in Karnataka territory prompting the farmers of upstream regions to tap more water than their quotas resulting in severe shortage in the downstream areas in Andhra Pradesh. Thousands of acres in three Rayalaseema districts turned into dry land due to non-availability of irrigation water. The issue of Tungabhadra water had been a bone of contention between the neighbouring states as AP had been complaining about the excessive use by Karnataka. However, Karnataka had been denying the charges saying that it had been utilizing only its quota of water from the project as the regions under Tungabhadra in Karnataka were also required water. There were instances when AP would not get its quota of water even when there was sufficient water in the Tungabhadra due to the diversion of water in the upstream. The AP government insisted on the Tungabhadra board to install the telemetry devices along the canal to detect the surplus tapping and diversion at the key points in Karnataka territory. Rayalaseema farmers have already got nearly 40tmc of water from their quota of 54 tmc for the current season. Thousands of acres in many part of Rayalaseema region looked green thanks to the sufficient flows into the HLC and LLC canals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tungabhadra-water-aplenty-for-rseema-farmers-this-rabi/articleshow/80454403.cms||Samdani MN
January 26, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: HC directs DGP to appear before court||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Monday directed DGP Gautam Sawang to appear before the court on Wednesday. A bench headed by Justice Bhattu Devanand was hearing a contempt petition filed by U Rama Rao, a sub-inspector from Krishna district. The HC had heard the case on December 29 and summoned the DGP, the home secretary and the IG to be present before the court on Monday. The DGP and other authorities had filed interlocutory applications stating they were busy with panchayat polls and could not attend court directly till February 28. The court said it was not satisfied with the reply of the DGP. “The court is aware of what is happening outside. On the one hand, the chief secretary wrote a letter to the SEC that employees are not ready to conduct elections. But the DGP says that they are busy with election duties. We are not satisfied with this,” the court said. Satyaprasad, special senior counsel for AP police, requested the court for time to file a counter-affidavit. The HC gave time till Wednesday and asked the DGP and others to be present before the court. Rama Rao had earlier moved court seeking orders to consider his name for promotion from sub-inspector to circle inspector. The HC had passed orders in his favour but the police department did not consider his name. Rama Rao moved the court again and filed a contempt petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-directs-dgp-to-appear-before-court/articleshow/80454464.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Vijayawada||CM announces Rs 50L for kin of Asha worker who died after getting vaccine||GUNTUR: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy granted Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia to the kin of Asha worker B Vijayalakshmi who died of a brain stroke after being administered the Covid-19 vaccine in Guntur district. Deputy chief minister (health and family welfare) Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Nani) said the CM had also agreed to provide a job to a family member and a house site to the woman’s family. Nani visited the family of the deceased in Penumaka village in Tadepalle mandal on Monday to offer his condolences. The minister pointed out that the exact reason behind the death of the Asha worker would be ascertained only after getting a post-mortem report. He pointed out that the chief minister had granted the ex-gratia as a humanitarian gesture. The minister said that close to 3.9 lakh had been enrolled for the vaccination programme of who around 1.5 lakh have already received the vaccine. He said that 39 recipients had complained of minor health issues like dizziness and mild fever and no major adverse reactions were reported among healthcare professionals who took the shot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-announces-rs-50l-for-kin-of-asha-worker-who-died-after-getting-vaccine/articleshow/80454441.cms||Samdani MN
January 26, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh police bag 18 Republic Day medals||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh police personnel will receive 18 medals on Republic Day. According to the list released by the Union ministry of home affairs, AP police won 15 police medals for meritorious service, one presidential medal for distinguished service and two police medals for gallantry. Assistant reserve sub-inspector Mathurthi Srinivasa Rao, currently posted with the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) in Vijayawada, is the sole winner of President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service from AP this year. Gongati Girish Kumar and Kudupudi Hari Krishna have bagged the Police Medal for Gallantry. This year’s winners of the police medal for meritorious service include one DIG-rank officer, two additional superintendents of police, one deputy superintendent of police, one superintendent of police, two sub-inspectors, five assistant sub-inspectors, two head constables and inspector. Some of the prominent achievers are former Guntur Urban SP PHD Ramakrishna who is currently director of SEB, Ravela Vijaya Paul, additional CID SP, and Sadasivuni Varada Raju, SP at Regional Vigilance and Enforcement Office (RVEO) in Eluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-police-bag-18-republic-day-medals/articleshow/80454451.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Nagpur||Gorewada goes for hi-tech fencing to save herbivores from leopards||Nagpur: Apprehending intrusion of leopards in the herbivore safari cage, the Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) has gone in for New Zealand-based pulse-monitored fence technology to guard 2,850 metres of the herbivore safari at the Balasaheb Thackeray Gorewada International Zoo. This is the first such electrified fence in Central India that will work on both solar and mains. Installed at a cost of Rs45-50 lakh by a Pune-based firm partnering with New Zealand’s Gallagher, the fence is operated with the help of software. “If any animal tries to intrude, it will get a pulse shaping shock. At the interval of 1.2 seconds, it elevates and the peak voltage lasts about 0.3 mile seconds. Even a bird can sit on the fence and it won’t die. The best part is that in case of any accident, the computerized system also detects the part of the section where the fault has occurred and will help in timely intervention,” said Sarang Bannore, managing director, Spearhead Multi Techno, which installed the project. In India, Spearhead operates in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat. “In the future, we plan to integrate the monitored pulse fence with CCTVs and floodlights. There are 14 nilgais and four deer in the herbivore safari which needs to be protected from leopards outside and inside the safari,” said FDCM officials. “We took a cue from a bizarre incident in which a leopard from the wild in Gorewada forest killed five deer, three black bucks and a four-horned antelope housed in an enclosure at the rescue centre on February 6, 2019,” added the officials. The leopard had jumped over the five-metre-high chain-link fencing despite the enclosure having a solar-powered electric fence protection system. There are at least six leopards in the wild and some of them have been frequenting near the enclosures of leopards held in captivity. It was found that the solar design was faulty and hence, the leopard entered the fence. “All the international zoos have a solar/mains-monitored pulse system. Hence, we recommended this system catering to the FDCM’s specialized requirement. The Gallagher Group, innovator in pulse-monitored fence technology, is working in more than 130 countries,” said Bannore. The fence gives a short, sharp, and safe shock to intruding animals or human beings without causing any fatal injuries. The shock in the system is generated through a controller which boosts the voltage to 7.5KV. It is a pulse-shaping shock that elevates at an interval of 1.2 seconds and the peak voltage lasts for about 0.3 mile seconds. The new technology is better than CCTVs which give evidence after the incident has occurred. But the new fence system gives an alarm in case of intrusion or on any attempt of trespassing. The entire fence is operated on software and it is easy to trace logs and events on the fence line. “The software is user-friendly and provides real-time information on fence voltage, battery voltage, the temperature of the controller, and tampering of the controllers if any. We are giving training to the FDCM staff for one year,” said Bannore. Media barred from inaugural function Citing Covid-19 protocol, FDCM has barred the media from the inaugural function of Gorewada zoo on Tuesday. However, to gain publicity, at least 100 mediamen were allowed in two buses without following any social distancing on Sunday. WHY THE FENCE IS UNIQUE * System solar and mains operated * Hardware like posts, wires & hooks galvanized up to 60 microns for the longevity of the product * One-year after-sale service given to zoo for upkeep of fence * Perimeter of herbivore safari 2,850 metres. * Divided into 12 zones of pulse-monitored fence system * System keeps close watch on each zone and its voltage. * Software delivers real-time report||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gorewada-goes-for-hi-tech-fencing-to-save-herbivores-from-leopards/articleshow/80454936.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 26, 2021||Chennai||Chitlapakkam civic body fined Rs 8L for improper waste mgmt||Chennai: Based on a National Green Tribunal (NGT) direction, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) has directed Chitlapakkam Town Panchayat to pay Rs 8lakh as compensation for improper solid waste management. News reports had repeatedly pointed out that not only domestic waste but bio-medical waste also was being dumped illegally on roadsides at Chitlapakkam and hardly any action taken by the panchayat to end this public health menace. As the situation turned worse during the lockdown, NGT Southern Zone took suo motu cognizance and constituted a joint-committee comprising officials from relevant government departments to inspect and submit its recommendations. Town panchayat officials attributed the trouble during lockdown to an administrative issue between them and a self-help group roped in temporarily. They also claimed that issue was resolved now as Ramanujam Social Service Society has been chosen through a formal tender process for collecting and disposing of waste efficiently. According to official data, the panchayat currently generates around 11 metric tonnes of solid waste from 11,220 households and 250 commercial establishments every day. Door-to-door collection of waste has resumed up to 80% with the help of a 70-member sanitation team and necessary equipment and vehicles. After source segregation, biodegradable waste is processed through windrow composting (to produce manure). Also, most of non-biodegradable waste is stored at a local site (resource recovery park) and later sold to authorised vendors, said the joint-committee’s report. As far as bio-medical waste is concerned, all 19 healthcare units have engaged private firms to dispose of waste as per TNPCB guidelines. However, based on NGT’s earlier direction, TNPCB directed the panchayat to pay Rs 8lakh as compensation for damage caused to environment already. In response, the civic body urged the tribunal to waive off the compensation as they don’t have the financial capacity and were taking enough steps to ensure 100% door-to-door waste collection, source segregation and effective disposal. Considering the fact the local body did not enforce solid waste management rules effectively and TNPCB’s direction was based on NGT principal bench’s orders, NGT Southern Zone refused to interfere. Subsequently, the case was disposed of on January 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chitlapakkam-civic-body-fined-rs-8l-for-improper-waste-mgmt/articleshow/80455885.cms||Ram Sundaram
January 26, 2021||Pune||ZP schools in Pune rural areas get ready for Wednesday reopening||Pune: The Pune zilla parishad (ZP) is all set for Wednesday’s reopening for standards V to VIII, and is expecting about 25-30% attendance in the first week. The RT-PCR reports of most teaching and non-teaching staff will be notified by Tuesday even as the sanitisation activity in schools is on full swing. Officials said the response in rural schools was good.Schools in the Pune Municipal Corporation’s limits have decided to reopen from February 1, but the Pune ZP had announced for school reopening from Wednesday onwards and had started preparation accordingly. Pune ZP chief executive officer, Ayush Prasad, said, “We are fully prepared to reopen schools for std V to VIII. All schools that are meant to open will start operations and teacher testing is also successfully being conducted."There are over 20,000 teachers in ZP schools in Pune district and the RT-PCR test for Covid which has been made mandatory by the state education department to all teaching and non-teaching staff before reopening.Since the announcement of the reopening was made by state school education minister, Varsha Gaikwad, management committee meetings were being conducted with parents in classrooms who were being explained about the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the state education department and what precautions the schools were undertaking.Education officer at Pune ZP, Sunil Kurhade, said, "We are conducting physical inspections of schools on the arrangements they have made regarding the sanitisation of premises, hand-washing arrangements, cleanliness and hygiene, seating arrangements, marking inside schools following social distancing protocols, among others."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-schools-in-pune-rural-areas-get-ready-for-wednesday-reopening/articleshow/80456905.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 26, 2021||Udaipur||1.61 lakh Rajasthan health workers get vaccinated in a week||JAIPUR: As many as 67,591 healthcare workers received the Covid-19 vaccine on Monday, taking the cumulative figure of health workers vaccinated from 93,525 to 1,61,116 in one day. The turnout percentage remained at 72%. Vaccination was conducted at 995 centres across the state on Monday or double from Sunday’s 408 sites. The health department gave the drive a much-needed push by setting up more sites across the state while encouraging health workers to take the vaccine. For Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine manufactured by Bharat Biotech, the number of sites providing the jab increased from 11 to 15 in the city. The rest have been reserved for the Covishield vaccine. A vaccination centre each for Covaxin has been set up at Amar Hospital, Neo Clinic, Dhanwantri Hospital and two sites at Narayana Hrudayalaya, Kanwatia Hospital, Shelby Hospital, Gangauri Hospital, and Dental College and Hospital, among others. Ajmer reports highest turnout, Dausa lowestThe state had recently received 1.5 lakh doses of Covaxin. “We are taking measures to administer Covid vaccine at more sites. We have a target to administer vaccine to 4.5 lakh registered healthcare workers,” said a health department official. While the beneficiary turnout for Covaxin was 57%, for Covishield, it was 72%. Ajmer reported the highest turnout at 114%, followed by Jodhpur (106%), Bundi (98%), Nagaur (91%) and Jhunjhunu (89%). The lowest was reported from Dausa (38%), Bikaner (48%) and Sriganganagar (50%). The state also reported 16 more adverse events following immunisation from different parts. With this, the tally of such cases, consiting mostly of nausea, vomiting and anxiety complaints, reached 104.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/1-61l-raj-health-workersget-vaccinated-in-a-week/articleshow/80460134.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Jodhpur||1.61 lakh Rajasthan health workers get vaccinated in a week||JAIPUR: As many as 67,591 healthcare workers received the Covid-19 vaccine on Monday, taking the cumulative figure of health workers vaccinated from 93,525 to 1,61,116 in one day. The turnout percentage remained at 72%. Vaccination was conducted at 995 centres across the state on Monday or double from Sunday’s 408 sites. The health department gave the drive a much-needed push by setting up more sites across the state while encouraging health workers to take the vaccine. For Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine manufactured by Bharat Biotech, the number of sites providing the jab increased from 11 to 15 in the city. The rest have been reserved for the Covishield vaccine. A vaccination centre each for Covaxin has been set up at Amar Hospital, Neo Clinic, Dhanwantri Hospital and two sites at Narayana Hrudayalaya, Kanwatia Hospital, Shelby Hospital, Gangauri Hospital, and Dental College and Hospital, among others. Ajmer reports highest turnout, Dausa lowestThe state had recently received 1.5 lakh doses of Covaxin. “We are taking measures to administer Covid vaccine at more sites. We have a target to administer vaccine to 4.5 lakh registered healthcare workers,” said a health department official. While the beneficiary turnout for Covaxin was 57%, for Covishield, it was 72%. Ajmer reported the highest turnout at 114%, followed by Jodhpur (106%), Bundi (98%), Nagaur (91%) and Jhunjhunu (89%). The lowest was reported from Dausa (38%), Bikaner (48%) and Sriganganagar (50%). The state also reported 16 more adverse events following immunisation from different parts. With this, the tally of such cases, consiting mostly of nausea, vomiting and anxiety complaints, reached 104.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/1-61l-raj-health-workersget-vaccinated-in-a-week/articleshow/80460135.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Ajmer||1.61 lakh Rajasthan health workers get vaccinated in a week||JAIPUR: As many as 67,591 healthcare workers received the Covid-19 vaccine on Monday, taking the cumulative figure of health workers vaccinated from 93,525 to 1,61,116 in one day. The turnout percentage remained at 72%. Vaccination was conducted at 995 centres across the state on Monday or double from Sunday’s 408 sites. The health department gave the drive a much-needed push by setting up more sites across the state while encouraging health workers to take the vaccine. For Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine manufactured by Bharat Biotech, the number of sites providing the jab increased from 11 to 15 in the city. The rest have been reserved for the Covishield vaccine. A vaccination centre each for Covaxin has been set up at Amar Hospital, Neo Clinic, Dhanwantri Hospital and two sites at Narayana Hrudayalaya, Kanwatia Hospital, Shelby Hospital, Gangauri Hospital, and Dental College and Hospital, among others. Ajmer reports highest turnout, Dausa lowestThe state had recently received 1.5 lakh doses of Covaxin. “We are taking measures to administer Covid vaccine at more sites. We have a target to administer vaccine to 4.5 lakh registered healthcare workers,” said a health department official. While the beneficiary turnout for Covaxin was 57%, for Covishield, it was 72%. Ajmer reported the highest turnout at 114%, followed by Jodhpur (106%), Bundi (98%), Nagaur (91%) and Jhunjhunu (89%). The lowest was reported from Dausa (38%), Bikaner (48%) and Sriganganagar (50%). The state also reported 16 more adverse events following immunisation from different parts. With this, the tally of such cases, consiting mostly of nausea, vomiting and anxiety complaints, reached 104.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/1-61l-raj-health-workersget-vaccinated-in-a-week/articleshow/80460137.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Pune||Pune: Day’s fatalities drop to nine-month low, recoveries least since June||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Monday recorded three deaths due to Covid-19, its least since April 29 last year when equal number of fatalities were reported. Besides, the region added 270 new cases in the last 24 hours, its lowest since June 9 last year when 270 had tested positive for the infection. Among the three fatalities, two patients died of Covid-19 in the PCMC limits, while one in the PMC areas. No deaths were reported in the rural and cantonment areas of PMR. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that 335 patients were discharged in the region on Monday. Health officials attributed the drop in cases to the reduction in sample testing during weekends. On Monday, total cases increased above 3.76 lakh in PMR, while total recoveries climbed above 3.62 lakh on Monday. As many as 5,134 samples were tested in the region on Monday as against a daily average of 7,500. Of these, the PMC conducted 2,385 tests, followed by the rural parts (1,552) and the PCMC limits (1,197). The total sample testing in the region reached 20.60 lakh on Monday evening. The tally of active patients reached 4,899 in the last 24 hours, reporting a slight drop from the Sunday’s load of 4,967. As many as 2,922 patients were in home isolation in the region till Monday evening and 1,977 admitted in various hospitals for further treatment, a report by DHO stated. Though cases are on the decline, health officials cautioned people against becoming lax. “While going out, people should continue to wear masks and they should also abide by the social distancing norm. Now is not the time to become careless, else all the gains made in the previous months will go for a waste,” a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/days-fatalities-drop-to-nine-month-low-recoveries-least-since-june/articleshow/80456937.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 26, 2021||Goa||Sparks fly in House after guv ignores coal-handling issue||PANAJI: The winter session of the state legislative assembly began on a stormy note on Monday, with the opposition strongly demanding that the coal-handling issue be discussed before taking up any business. It also sought to know why governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s speech did not have a single mention of the coal imbroglio. Terming the MLAs’ behaviour “unpresidential”, chief minister Pramod Sawant said the governor had the right to read his speech in entirety and that such a speech would not dwell on details. “When we have senior members who know the rules, whatever happened is not acceptable,” he said and urged speaker Rajesh Patnekar to take a decision in the matter. The unrelenting opposition, whose members donned black armbands and displayed placards, further demanded that the government hold a full-fledged assembly session to discuss burning issues of the state. No sooner did the governor’s speech end than opposition leader Digambar Kamat said that at the very least, a 20-day session should have been called for instead of just five days. “We have only three days left (the House will not be in session on Republic Day). There are lot of public issues and people tell us that we don’t raise public issues. After lot of discussion, the House has decided to take up only three calling attention motions, when a colleague himself has moved 14. How will these calling attention motions come up? How are we supposed to raise public issues? The speaker should take a decision on this,” Kamat said. Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai said the governor left the House without making any mention of the vexed coal-handling issue for which people of the state are agitating. “Goa is burning over the coal issue. Before conducting any business of the House, there should be discussion on coal. If we want to save future generations of the state, we don’t want coal,” Sardesai said even as he claimed that the BJP government had murdered democracy in the House. Echoing Sardesai’s view, Benaulim NCP MLA Churchill Alemao said, “We don’t want coal and we have to take a unanimous resolution.” Pointing out that he has moved 14 calling attention motions, Marcaim MLA Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar asked why there wasn’t a single mention of any of the motions in the business of the House scheduled for Wednesday. Speaker Patnekar replied that if there was no mention made, it would figure in the revised list of business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sparks-fly-in-house-after-guv-ignores-coal-handling-issue/articleshow/80456926.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh chief secretary writes to Centre on vaccination||VIJAYAWADA: Minutes after the State Election Commission took over the administration in the state to conduct gram panchayat elections following the Supreme Court directions, chief secretary Adityanath Das wrote a letter to Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, seeking directions on continuing the vaccination drive. The chief secretary said that the election process has shifted the employees from the place of their identification for vaccination to a different location. Similarly, those who were given the first dose of vaccination too have been moved from their location to other location for election duty and were not in the reach of the Covin software. The chief secretary said that the government had vaccinated 1.49 lakh people against the target of 3.8 lakh frontline health workers. He further said that the frontline workers include 73,188 police personnel who were also deployed to election duty to different locations, moving out of the Covin software and not being available for the adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) protocol. He sought to remind the Union health secretary that several fatalities have occurred including one in AP after immunisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cs-writes-to-centre-on-vaccination/articleshow/80454366.cms||Gopi Dara
January 26, 2021||Aurangabad||AMC sets a schedule for Kham river’s restoration||Aurangabad: The civic body on Monday announced that the first-phase of the Kham river restoration project — which involves putting an effective check on garbage dumping into the river-bed and removal of existing solid waste among other measures — will be accomplished in the next 15-day. Administrator of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) Astik Kumar Pandey, who visited the section of the river near the income-tax office, also announced that a large volume of the sewage water directly entering the river would be diverted to the sewage treatment plant (STP) near the city zoo. The historic city of Aurangabad has been on the banks on the Kham river since the 16th century. The river now has an unprecedented pollution level due to the direct release of wastewater at 249 points. The grim observations were made during a survey carried out by the local civic body using drones. The AMC has now decided to restore the river by using the CSR funds provided by the city-based Varroc Engineering Limited. The resource group — EcoSattva — will serve as the knowledge partner. EcoSattva director Natasha Zarine said reducing Kham river pollution and increasing the green cover along its banks were necessary steps. “As a part of the restoration plan, a pilot project to treat the wastewater at different nullahs will be executed. Around 30 barricades will be erected to stop people from throwing solid waste into the river. A massive public awareness campaign will be also launched,” she said. On Monday, the day-one of the restoration project, a large volume of solid waste piled up near the income-tax office was removed with the help of heavy machinery. Environmentalist Milind Giridhari said the ambitious project cannot be a success unless citizens participate in it. “Every river has ecological benefits. The boon can turn into a bane if the river is polluted. The ecological condition of the Kham river would offer many benefits not only to citizens but also to the local biodiversity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/amc-sets-a-schedule-for-kham-rivers-restoration/articleshow/80454068.cms||---
January 26, 2021||India||Pulwama martyr, Jharkhand ASI get Prez police medal||NEW DELHI: Pulwama attack martyr and CRPF assistant sub-inspector Mohan Lal was conferred the President’s Police Medal for Gallantry (PPMG) on Republic Day eve for being the first to spot the explosives-laden car moving alongside the CRPF convoy on February 14, 2019 and having fired to stop the vehicle before it rammed into a bus in the convoy. Mohan Lal was among the 40 CRPF personnel killed in the suicide terror attack. The attack had led the Indian Air Force to retaliate with crossborder air strikes on Jaish-e-Mohammad facilities in Balakot deep inside Pakistan. A total 946 police medals were announced on the eve of Republic Day, which include 2 PPMG, 205 Police Medal for Gallantry (PMG), 89 President’s Police Medal (PPM) for Distinguished Service and 650 Police Medal (PM) for Meritorious Service. CRPF bagged the highest number of police medals at 132, followed by UP police (97), BSF and J&K police (71 each). Among the 207 gallantry awards winners, 137 were awarded for action in J&K, 24 in Left-wing extremism-affected areas and one in the northeast. As many as 69 personnel recognised for gallantry are from CRPF, 52 from J&K police, 20 from BSF, 17 from Delhi Police, 13 from Maharashtra police and 8 each are from Chhattisgarh and UP police. Of the 69 gallantry medals that went to CRPF, 61 were for operations in J&K and 8 in Leftwing extremism-hit areas. In fact, J&K police and CRPF together bagged 113 or nearly 55% of the total 207 gallantry medals awarded this R-Day, for operations in J&K theatre. The CBI received 31 police medals for distinguished/meritorious service, IB 34, RPF 16 and NIA 6. The second PPMG, the highest category of police gallantry awards, went posthumously to Banua Oraon, ASI in Jharkhand police, who succumbed to injuries suffered during an encounter with Maoists in Seraikella district in June 2018. The Maoists had to retreat in wake of the nearly three-hour long encounter. Mohan Lal was performing the duties of picket commander of a road opening party at Lethpora, Pulwama on February 14, 2019 when he noticed a car moving alongside the convoy and trying to enter between the convoy vehicles. Sensing something suspicious, he signalled and chased the car to stop before firing at it. The car rammed into a CRPF bus of the convoy, leading to a huge explosion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pulwama-martyr-jharkhand-asi-get-prez-police-medal/articleshow/80459610.cms||Bharti Jain
January 26, 2021||Nashik||Elderly woman, son killed in accident, truck driver held||Nashik: An elderly woman and her son, who were on their way to Ghoti, were killed near Harsul village when the motorcycle they were travelling on was knocked down by a speeding truck coming from the opposite direction on the Sinnar Ghoti Road on Saturday afternoon. Head constable Gangaram Sarukte of Sinnar police station, who is investigating the case, said Shakuntala Vishwanath Pawar (58) and her son Amol Vishwanath Pawar (35) were going towards Ghoti to meet an ailing relative when the accident happened. The truck driver had fled the scene. Both of them were rushed to a nearby government hospital where they were declared brought dead. However, on reaching the incident spot, police managed to find the registration number of the truck with the help of which they traced the drive in Goregaon, Mumbai. Sarukte said a team from Sinnar police left for Mumbai and arrested the accused driver, Rahul More. A complaint against the truck driver has been registered by Avinash’s brother Prakash Pawar. More has been slapped with section 304 (A) (causing death due to negligence) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/elderly-woman-son-killed-in-accident-truck-driver-held/articleshow/80454082.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 26, 2021||Pune||Faulty rules keep seats in technical courses vacant||Pune: Changes in the Centralised Admission Process (CAP) in accepting the allotted seats, allowing freeships to non-CAP admitted students, 15 days extra time for admission after the end of CAP round and last date of cancellation to be set at least two days prior to the last date of admission, are some of the demands the Association of the Management of Unaided Institutes in Rural Areas has placed. It claims to have over 260 institutes as members.In an online meeting on Monday, the members spoke about how the delay in disbursal of the remaining scholarship amount was affecting the institutes struggling to pay teachers’ salaries on time.Ramdas Zol, president of the association, said there were 64,000 applications against 20,000 seats for pharmacy. But, during the first CAP round, only 20% students confirmed admissions because many have not accepted their seats. “Now, these students who have not taken admission nor accepted the allotted seats and tried for betterment, will keep appearing in the next round, blocking seats and not taking admission. At least 20% seats are going vacant which is a blow to the institutes, especially in the rural areas. The CAP committee should make it compulsory to take admission in the college allotted and then apply for betterment which he/she can cancel, so that any student who doesn’t do this is automatically thrown out of the process hence ensuring non-blocking of seats,” he said.Members said after the CAP round ends, at least 15 days must be given for college-based admissions. “These are also done based on the merit of students applying but sometimes, students apply to institutes which have less vacancy, realise they do not have a chance, and then apply to other institutes,” a member said, adding that non-CAP admitted students must be given scholarships and freeships.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/faulty-rules-keep-seats-in-technical-courses-vacant/articleshow/80456968.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 26, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Devi gives birth to 2 tiger cubs in Kailadevi reserve||JAIPUR: In a heartening news for wildlife enthusiasts, the Kailadevi Wildlife Sanctuary, located in Karauli district, has recorded pictures of two tiger cubs, born to T-118 aka Devi, in the camera trap. The cubs appear to be around two-and-a-half-months old. This is the second time a tiger birth is being reported from the sanctuary in three decades. Devi is around three-and-a-half-years old and is the offspring of Sultan and T-92. The duo had migrated from Ranthambore to Kailadevi. Devi mated with Toofan aka T-80 to give birth to the cubs, claimed officials. "T-118 is the offspring of Sultan and this is the first time that she has given birth to a litter. The cubs along with the mother were caught on the trap camera on Saturday. The report came to us on Monday. The young mother was spotted with the mate at various locations and regular monitoring was being done,” said T C Verma, CCF, Ranthambore National Park. Prior to this, in 2018, two cubs (including T-118), about three-and-a-half-months old, were spotted in Kailadevi. The two were born to T-92 and Sultan aka T-72. T-92 also known as Sundari has been missing since last February. ‘Tiger cubs spotted by village volunteers’While the movement of tigers from the overpopulated Ranthambore Tiger Reserve (RTR) to Kailadevi has been frequent, with several of them reportedly straying and living at the sanctuary for several months, this recent birth has shown the potential of sanctuary as a haven for tigers, claimed experts. Dharmendra Khandal, conversation biologist, told TOI, “The cubs were spotted by the village volunteers of Tiger Watch. This is the second time that the birth of cubs has been recorded in this area. Including the newborns, we have five tigers in Kailadevi now, which surprisingly still does not come under the Critical Tiger Habitat (CTH) category. It is essential that the forest department focuses on this area which is spread over approximately 770 square kilometers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/devi-gives-birthto-2-tiger-cubs-inkailadevi-reserve/articleshow/80457004.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Pune||14-year-old geology prodigy receives PM Bal Puraskar||PUNE: Sonit Sisolekar, who turns 14 on Republic Day, received his birthday present a day early when he was named among the recipients of Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar on Monday. Sonit is among the youngest volcanologists and planetary geologists in India. His research on the effects of ionizing radiations on the reddening of soil on Mars helped him win the NASA-CIS competition. A student of Class VIII, Sonit is also an accomplished tabla player, having won multiple state and national awards. He also teaches English to tribal students. Sonit says his interest in geology was sparked at a very young age. “When I was 3, I would accompany my father to nearby hills, where he would show me how lava helped form rocks in the area. I have since been interested in geology,” said Sonit. Sonit, who also loves skywatching and painting, says was a little disappointed that he could not interact with PM Narendra Modi during Monday’s video conference with the 32 recipients of the award. Archit Patil, a 14-year-old from Jalgaon, was also awarded. Sonit’s father Santosh Sisolekar said he knew his son was special very early on. “In school, he would finish the entire year’s syllabus quickly and get bored. We are constantly on our toes to provide him with whatever books he wants. My wife Madhuri, a dentist, quit her practice so that she can support our son,” Sisolekar said. Raymond Duraiswami, professor of geology at Savitribai Phule Pune University, one of Sonit’s mentors, calls Sonit a national asset. “When he met me for the first time, I realized that he was already well-versed in my papers. He is so well-read in geological topics that I sometimes ask him to talk to my students,” said Duraiswami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/14-yr-old-geology-prodigy-receives-pm-bal-puraskar/articleshow/80457003.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 26, 2021||Goa||‘Chief wildlife warden broke rules for green nod to Mollem projects’||Margao: Goa’s chief wildlife warden, who is also member secretary of the Goa state board for wildlife (GBWL), has come under fire from several independent, non-official members of the board over the issue of wildlife clearance to the three linear infrastructure projects at Mollem. In a memorandum submitted to the Supreme Court-appointed Central Empowerment Committee (CEC), they have complained that the crucial board meeting held on December 2, 2019, wherein a “unanimous” resolution was passed to recommend wildlife clearance for the projects, was convened by the member “in violation of the procedure established in law”. They have urged the CEC to recommend to the Supreme Court to direct the member secretary, GBWL, and chairman of the standing committee of the national board for wildlife (NBWL) to convene the meeting of the GBWL “to re-discuss the three linear projects on merits. They have also pointed out that during the meeting, they were not given any opportunity to contribute to the decision-making “in a reasoned way”. They also said most of the concerns raised by them about the projects in the meeting were ignored. They also pointed out that the agenda of the meeting was handed over to them only at the beginning of the meeting, “thus giving no time or opportunity to either understand the veracity of the projects on wildlife, or to form any reasoned opinion on their merits/demerits”. The members further pointed out that they weren’t provided copies of the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA)/Biological Impact Assessment studies, “thus curtailing our fundamental right to information, considering us as members of a statutory body, and obstructing us from carrying out our statutory duty under the (Wildlife Protection) Act, 1972”. The members also cast aspersions on the conduct of the member secretary at the meeting. Pointing out how the member secretary was “overly enthusiastic about getting the projects approved”, they brought to the CEC’s attention that “he took it upon himself to present the project proposals for the members instead of the project proponents”. “During the meeting, there was no scope for meaningful debate or discussion, inadequate deliberation on mitigation measures, and no opportunity provided to each member to be heard,” the letter reads. It also mentions “the haste adopted to simply get over the agenda items and put rubber recommendation on the wildlife clearance proposals concerning the three linear projects”. The letter further points out that the cumulative impact of the projects on the biodiversity doesn’t find mention in the project report. To drive home their point, they wondered whether the board was aware that “for a dragonfly species described in 2012, Idionyx gomatakensis, from Collem, ... hasn’t been sighted anywhere else in the state.” They said “the double-tracking will destroy this only known locality and we could be responsible for the fastest local extinction of a species.” The members stressed that the GBWL needs to demand an assessment of the cumulative impact of these three linear development projects impacting the entire state. Arnold Noronha, Amrut Singh, Goa bird conservation network and Vivekananda environment awareness board are signatories to the memorandum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chief-wildlife-warden-broke-rules-for-green-nod-to-mollem-projects/articleshow/80456989.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
January 26, 2021||Chennai||Metro north Chennai line to open in February||CHENNAI: After a month-long trial run and testing of the signalling systems, the 9km phase-1 extension line from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar is likely to open for commercial operations in the first half of February and commuters can travel from Wimco Nagar to Airport in a single train ride in around 60 minutes. Engineers of Chennai Metro Rail Ltd (CMRL) fine-tuned the signalling software, crucial for the automatic operation of the trains, through a series of trial runs and work on final interiors at stations is on. Last week, officials said, a round of signalling tests was completed where the signal software was fine-tuned according to the profile of the track on the 9km line that has eight stations including two underground. “We had been testing since December and the final test was done on January 18 and 19. A report has been sent to the Germany-based company which developed the signal software and which will certify that the signalling is ready for operations based on the report,” an official said. Sources said an inspection by the commissioner of railway safety (CMRS), whose team was in the city on Monday, may take place by the end of January before the line is ready for opening before the middle of February. CMRS approval is mandatory for commercial operation of the line. After operations on the extension line, which will connect major north Chennai localities like Tondiarpet, Korukkupet, Thiruvottiyur and Wimco Nagar, commuters can board a train at Wimco Nagar and head to Central railway station, arterial Anna Salai, Alandur or the Airport without switching trains. They can also go to Egmore station or CMBT by physically switching corridors at Central Metro. Many critical parameters were tested. They include the speed of the train on a straight track or curves, stop point in stations, interlocking system that prevents trains from conflicting movements in junctions or crossings, communication between the trains from the operation control centre (OCC), display of the location of trains on the screens in OCC and testing and remote controlling of point machines that guides trains switch between two tracks. “We didn’t have issues while testing because it is the same signal software we are using in phase-1 corridors. It has been updated based on our experience of operating trains in the phase. All that was needed was fine tuning the software according to the track profile to ensure it meets the expected accuracy levels,” an official said. After day trials, CMRL is conducting trial runs at night after daily operations on phase-1 lines end so that pending work in the stations and along the corridor is completed during the day. While stations are getting ready, roads along the stretch are being re-laid with footpaths and medians.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/metro-n-chennai-line-to-open-in-feb/articleshow/80455892.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Padma Bhushan for K S Chithra, four others get Padma Shri||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Five Keralites, including playback singer K S Chithra, have been decorated with Padma Awards on the eve of the Republic Day celebrations on Tuesday. While Chithra has been honoured with the Padma Bhushan award for her invaluable contribution to music, lyricist, poet and music director Kaithapram Damodaran Namboothiri was chosen for Padama Shri award. The list of the awardees was announced in New Delhi on Monday night. Apart from the five Malayalees who were honoured with Padma awards this year, Dr Dhananjay Diwakar Sagdeo, a native of Maharashtra who made Wayand his second home since decades, has also been decorated with Padma Shri for his selfless service and invaluable contributions to people, especially tribals, in Wayanad district of Kerala. Dhananjay was invited to Wayanad first by RSS leader late Bhaskar Rao when a mystery disease stalked the tribal settlement in Wayanad. The disease was later identified as Sickle Cell Anaemia. Dhananjay is one of the founders of the Swamy Vivekananda Medical Mission set up for the welfare of tribal people in Wayanad. Other Malayalees honoured include celebrity athletic coach Madhavan Nambiar (O M Nambiar), a Dronacharya award recipient. Hailing from Kozhikode, he came to the spot light by coaching none other than P T Usha, the legendary Indian sprinter. K K Ramachandra Pulavar, the leading exponent of traditional puppetry, is the another recipient chosen for the Padma Shri honour. Pulavar is often hailed for single-handedly hauling the traditional puppetry from the morass of oblivion. He is a recipient of Sangeeetha Nataka Akademi awards and fellowship. Balan Putheri, a writer who astoundingly braved his blindness by achieving the rare distinctions of printing and successfully selling all of his books on his own, is the another proud son of the soil recognised by the country with Padma Shri. A native of Malappuram, Balan had lost his eye sight during his school days and his books, mainly on Hindu dharma and rituals, are sold like hot cakes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/padma-bhushan-for-chithra-four-others-get-padma-shri/articleshow/80455903.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Nagpur||Tribal outfits to protest Gorewada renaming||Nagpur: Several tribal groups and associations will protest against the renaming of the Gorewada international safari in the name of Balasaheb Thackeray. The safari will be formally opened by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday. On Monday, former mayor and Gondwana Samaj leader Maya Iwnate said, “We are not at all opposed to Balasaheb Thackeray but the zoo should be named after some leader from Vidarbha or those who have dedicated their life to forest and wildlife conservation.” All tribal bodies will stage the BJP-supported dharna at Civil Lines near the statue of Gond King Bhakt Buland Shah, credited with creating Nagpur city over 300 years ago. “All the tribal bodies from Vidarbha will join the protests at 1pm. We expect at least 3,000 people to join the stir,” said Iwnate. On why this demand was not raised when Devendra Fadnavis was CM, Iwnate said, “We never expected this sudden renaming. No cabinet sanction was taken nor any party leaders from the region were taken into confidence, including the sitting MLA from West Nagpur Vikas Thakre. It was the ex-CM Fadnavis who took efforts to expedite the safari work, but the credit is being claimed by others.” However, FDCM officials, who countered Iwnate, said, “Two years ago, Iwnate was asked to suggest a name for Gorewada but she never came forward.” The Vidarbha Rajya Andolan Samiti (VRAS) too has decided to protest. “We don’t want the zoo to be named after a person who has always opposed separate Vidarbha state,” said Mukesh Masurkar, president of Youth Brigade, Nagpur region. To protest the government's decision, the VRAS warned to disrupt the inauguration. Forest minister Sanjay Rathod has termed the dispute unfortunate. “If the park had to be renamed Gondwana Theme Park, then why was it not done earlier,” asked Rathod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tribal-outfits-to-protest-gorewada-renaming/articleshow/80454950.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat: Drunk man chats with ‘mother figure’ crocodile||VADODARA: Seeing this man’s heroics, one would be reminded of a yesteryear hero’s emphatic words to an ailing mother wherein his dialogues would receive thunderous applause and whistles from the audience. On the banks of a pond near Juna Bazaar in Karjan town, the scenes were quite similar. Just that, the crowd witnessed our ‘hero,’ Pankaj Patel exchanging a word or two with what he thought of as his mother, a humongous crocodile. Patel was seen chatting with an eight-foot long crocodile that was basking in the winter sun in the marshes. The video of Patel, who was sitting less than a foot away from the crocodile, became viral on social media. The man addressed the reptile as his mother and was seen bowing before it and caressing its back without the fear of any harm from it. However, the audience watching Patel’s theatrics from a distance and shooting on their mobile phones was constantly shouting at him to retreat. Adamant Patel refused to budge and kept telling the crocodile: “If any person will pelt a stone at you, this son of yours will protect you.” He even went on to say to the bystanders that if anyone will disturb the crocodile, he will either give up his life or lift his ‘mother’ and move around with it. “We should put a garland of roses around you,” he was seen telling the crocodile in the video. Locals heaved a sigh of relief when Patel got up to move from there, but seconds later he again sat down and started caressing the crocodile and said, “Forgive me my mother.” He then turned around to tell the people, “She has come here to lay eggs but people break the eggs.” After this monologue which went on for almost five minutes, the crocodile finally went back into the water as if it was tired of listening to Patel. “He drinks regularly and creates a scene, but this was the first time that he put his life at risk. He may not have even realized then that the crocodile would have killed him,” said a local. Forest officials said that the lake is home to the sole female crocodile. Dhadhar River, which is a home to several crocodiles, passes from the outskirts of Karjan town. Forest officials said that over 100 crocodiles reside in some ponds in Karjan and the river. During monsoons, crocodiles often venture out of these water bodies and the forest department gets calls to rescue them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/drunk-man-chats-with-mother-figure-crocodile/articleshow/80454098.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Goa||Folklorist, priest, polyglot: Vinayak Khedekar wins Padma Shri||PANAJI: He was once a Hindu priest, then a journalist in Marathi publications. A dedicated folk researcher, he became Kala Academy’s mentor and served as its member secretary for a record 23 years. On Monday, Vinayak Khedekar, now 82, reached yet another milestone, as he was named recipient of the prestigious Padma Shri by the government of India. He was born in 1938 in a Brahmin family of priests, and in the 1950s, was initiated into his priestly duties. Here, he began witnessing the rich folk and cultural heritage of Goa, which took on a new life with every season. What he saw was enough for Khedekar to spend several decades documenting the social, cultural, religious and folk practices of rural Goa, and the unique food habits of its people. “I feel honoured on getting the recognition from the government of India for my work done over the decades," Khedekar told TOI. As a child, he lived in the hamlet of Khede in Savoi-Verem, with no road access. He didn’t attend school, and it was his elder sister who began teaching him to read and write at home. He had to undertake the study of Sanskrit for 12 years to be able to read the Hindu scriptures. Little did he know that this would take him on a long journey across the world as an ambassador of Goa’s culture. Over the years, Khedekar, with his mere zeal for learning, not only mastered Sanskrit, English, Hindi, Marathi and Konkani, but also picked up Russian while on an official sojourn. “There were a lot of shortcomings, but the appointment as Kala Academy member secretary opened a wide range of opportunities for me,” Khedekar had told TOI in an interview. “Working on the Festival of India for the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR), I travelled to South America and New York. I was in Russia for a month, studying the culture there. I am never afraid to ask. Even today, I ask my grandson if I don’t understand a word of Hindi or English. I feel that helped.” He began his career as a Goa-based journalist, working over the years for many national Marathi dailies and periodicals. He has also written several books. Later, as Kala Academy member secretary, he sowed the seeds for several of its faculties — music, Goa College of Art, folk festival, bhajani competition. An eternal optimist, Khedekar even saw an opportunity in his retirement. He travelled the length and breadth of Goa, which led to the publication of his magnum opus ‘Goa: Life, Land and Legacy’, supported — as he always has been — by his wife Kunda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/folklorist-priest-polyglot-vinayak-khedekar-wins-padma-shri/articleshow/80457010.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
January 26, 2021||Pune||Pollution board sounds alert on volume of biomedical trash from vax sessions||Pune: The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board has sent a letter to all district health coordinators to ensure proper disposal of biomedical waste during the ongoing Covid vaccination drive. The inoculation programme is expected to generate a huge volume of waste in the form of syringes, vials, cotton swabs, gloves, etc. The first phase of the drive is set to cover 8 lakh healthcare workers in the state. The pandemic has already caused an unprecedented increase in biomedical waste generation. The state’s daily volume till November last year was an estimated 50 tonnes. It dipped to 30 tonnes per day after cases started to drop. Maharashtra also generated the highest volume of Covid-linked waste in the country, a Central Pollution Control Board study said. According to data in the report, the state generated 5,367 tonnes of waste in the seven months after June last year. Kerala was second with 3,300 tonnes in the same period and Gujarat was third with 3,086 tonnes.Officials fear the large vaccination drive in the state could add to current levels. A senior MPCB official said, “The state has increased the number of vaccination sites. We have now asked all local authorities to ensure biomedical waste is properly collected and sent to processing facilities assigned to them.”Principal scientific officer, MPCB, Amar Supate said local authorities should immediately determine if they have sufficient capacity to handle waste from the inoculation drive. “Disposal of vaccination waste as per guidelines (from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare) is a must,” he said.Supate added that the MPCB is set to reach out to every local administration to ensure biomedical waste is routed to the state’s 30 processing units. Each of these facilities has the capacity to incinerate 92 tonnes of medical waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pollution-board-sounds-alert-on-volume-of-biomedical-trash-from-vax-sessions/articleshow/80457012.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 26, 2021||Pune||PCMC areas lead in PMR with 83% vaccinations on 6th day||PUNE: The total eight immunisation sites in the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas recorded highest 666 (83%) vaccinations in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Monday, the sixth day of the mega Covid-19 inoculation drive. With 921 health workers taking the vaccine at 15 sites in the Pune municipal areas, its vaccination coverage stood at 61% on Monday. With this, the PMR recorded highest 67% vaccinations at 25 centres. A total of 3,053 of the total 4,400 target beneficiaries took the Covid shot at 44 vaccination centres in the district on Monday, its highest so far. The inoculation drive conducted on Saturday (January 23) had recorded 63% vaccination in the district. District health officials said among three administrative segments of the district, Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas recorded the highest 83% target vaccination, followed by the rural parts of Pune (70%) and the Pune municipal limits (61%). On the spot vaccination of registered but unscheduled beneficiaries was considered to be the major factor behind the surge in vaccination numbers, the officials said. 11k workers vaccinated so far, most from rural partsA total of 11,319 healthcare workers have been vaccinated in the district ever since the drive began on January 16. Of these, the highest 15% vaccination has been conducted in the rural parts of the district. “We have scaled up the vaccination drive in the region from Monday with more centres offering the shots. Some big hospitals and medical colleges have been allowed to hold two vaccination sessions. On the spot vaccination of registered but unscheduled beneficiaries is seen pushing the numbers at most centres,” said district health officer Bhagwan Pawar. Glitches persist during initial hoursOn Monday, some private hospitals-cum-vaccination centres in the PMC areas faced initial log-in related troubles, which affected the vaccination numbers in the first one-and-a-half hours. Confirming, Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director, Bharati hospital, said, “We confronted issues related to logging into the application in the first one-and-a-half hours on Monday. We mainly vaccinated our own healthcare workers who had worked in Covid wards during the peak of the pandemic.” Six hospitals and medical colleges held two vaccination sessions. These included BJ Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital, Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, Noble hospital, Bharati hospital, Kamala Nehru hospital and Rajiv Gandhi hospital. Each session had a target of vaccinating 100 healthcare workers. Nine of the 38 vaccination centres achieved 100% target vaccination of the beneficiaries in the region. A separate report generated by the PCMC's health department claimed to have vaccinated 791 beneficiaries (98%) on Monday. When contacted, Pavan Salve, additional health chief, PCMC, said that he would look into the discrepancy. The rural parts of Pune have continued with their impressive numbers right since the beginning of the drive. On Monday, most of the 21 vaccination centres in the rural areas recorded a good turnout. More hospitals to be part of drive from tomorrowFour more private hospitals will be designated as vaccination centres within the limits of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) from Wednesday (January 27). They are Jehangir hospital, Inlaks and Budhrani hospital and KEM hospital. The name of another hospital is yet to be fixed, said officials of the Pune Municipal Corporation. Barring Sunday and Tuesday, the vaccination will be conducted on five fixed days - Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday from this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-areas-lead-in-pmr-with-83-vaccinations-on-6th-day/articleshow/80457009.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Starting today, FASTag on all lanes of sealink & Expressway||MUMBAI: To ensure swift movement of vehicles, all lanes on the Bandra Worli Sealink and Mumbai-Pune Expressway will have FASTag (cashless) facility from Tuesday. MSRDC joint MD Vijay Waghmare said some lanes will be kept hybrid (cashless as well as cash) for a limited period. Those paying cash will have to buy FASTags from the counters, he added. Motorists who enter FASTag-only lanes without opting for the electronic toll collection system or have a blacklisted FASTag will have to pay double the toll as fine. To encourage motorists to use FASTag, MSRDC has started 5% cashback scheme on every toll paid at the sealink and Expressway from January 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/starting-today-fastag-on-all-lanes-of-sealink-expressway/articleshow/80457037.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Pune||PG lectures at Savitribai Phule Pune University from Thursday||PUNE: Savitribai Phule Pune University will begin the academic year for first-year postgraduate courses in its departments as well as affiliated colleges and recognised institutes from Thursday, a notification released late on Monday said. The first term would be between January 28 and May 22, while the second term would be from June 15 to October 1 for courses under the faculties of science and technology, commerce and management, humanities and interdisciplinary studies. All programmes will be conducted in the online mode until further notice, the notification said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pg-lectures-at-sppu-from-thursday/articleshow/80457011.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Ludhiana||City’s 14-yr-old bags laurels for making learning a game||LOGO: Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar Ludhiana: Fourteen-year-old Namya Joshi of Class VIII of Sat Paul Mittal School would be conferred with Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar, 2021, for her outstanding innovation. She is the only recipient from the states of Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and UT Chandigarh.Namya has been leveraging technology to make learning and teaching fun, not just for herself but also for teachers by using interactive Minecraft sessions. Minecraft is a Lego-style video game, in which players are placed in various randomly generated worlds that they can manipulate. It all started three years ago when Namya was in Class V and working on her school project when she chanced upon Minecraft. She says, “I remember the software asking for a username and password. I gave my mother’s login credentials.”On using Minecraft as a teaching methodology, she says, “At school, I was exposed to Microsoft tools, like Scratch and Flipgrid. Minecraft was another tool that was used, but its potential was not fully explored. For example, if a student finds a particular topic or concept difficult to grasp, I try and create it on Minecraft in a way to make it easy to understand.”It was her IT teacher mother, Monika Joshi, who encouraged her to work on the software and find ways to use it for her academics as well. Her father Kunal Joshi is also an IT professionalNamya’s list of achievements includes honours from Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella for creating a course material in Minecraft Education Edition and STEM and Microsoft India president Anant Maheshwary for training more than 100 teachers to make their lessons interesting with the help of game-based learning. Aiming to become a social entrepreneur and create a gamified system in sync with education, she says, “After a workshop at school, I thought gaming can be taken to higher levels for creating lessons and training teachers across the globe.” On Namya’s achievement, Rakesh Bharti Mittal, director of Sat Paul Mittal School, says, “The feat is an inspiration for the young brigade. I am confident that this recognition will inspire many more students to push the boundaries and accomplish great things for society and nation.”Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma honoured Namya at the district administrative complex on Monday and said Ludhiana was proud of its daughters.PM hails Punjab ki beti During a virtual meeting with students from noon to 1pm on Monday, the PM said Punjab ki beti Namya was doing exemplary work in her field.“Rs 1 lakh have been transferred to her account, but a certificate, medal and letter citation will be given to her during the event,” said her mother, Monika Joshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/citys-14-yr-old-bags-laurels-for-making-learning-a-game/articleshow/80454955.cms||Mehak Jain
January 26, 2021||Ludhiana||Padma Shri to Rajni Bector of Cremica||Ludhiana: Eighty-year-old pioneering entrepreneur from Ludhiana, Rajni Bector has been conferred with Padma Shri for her contribution to trade and industry. Bector told TOI, “I am feeling honoured and want to thank my family, children and staff.” She credited the hard work and the support of her family for her success. Starting out from her own tiny kitchen, Bector plunged in full-time in 1978, with an investment of Rs 20,000. Bector’s biscuits, breads, spreads and sauces gained in popularity and her hold over market grew. Today Mrs Bector’s Food Company is valued at Rs 800 crore and is exporting to 64 countries.Bector was born in Karachi and after spending her early years in Lahore, she moved to India after Partition. At the age of 17, she was married into a Ludhiana-based business family. When her three sons went to boarding school, Bector enrolled for a bakery course in Punjab Agriculture University. There was no looking back for her from then on. Initially, she was entertaining her friends with her skills, but soon, with an investment of Rs 300, she turned her kitchen into a small-scale business venture dishing out ice-creams.Much later, when her family realised the potential of her small-scale business, her husband chipped in with Rs 20,000 to start an ice cream manufacturing unit. The company has since then expanded its portfolio and manufactures and sells a range of frozen and bakery items such as kulchas, cakes, pizzas and buns for cloud kitchens and quick service restaurants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/padma-shri-to-rajni-bector-of-cremica/articleshow/80454951.cms||Mehak Jain
January 26, 2021||Jaipur||Convicted I-T official hangs self at Jaipur’s RUHS Hospital||JAIPUR: A 45-year-old income tax (I-T) official convicted in a corruption case by CBI court ended his life by hanging from the ceiling of his ward at RUHS Hospital here on Monday morning. He was sentenced to five years imprisonment and fined Rs 5 lakh on January 22. He was admitted to RUHS after he tested positive for Covid-19. He used a bedsheet to hang himself from the ceiling fan. According to police, the I-T inspector, identified as Vijay Kumar Mangla, a Kota resident was seen in his bed on Monday morning at 4am by the guard of the hospital. “He was seen hanging from the ceiling fan of the ward at 5am. There was no one in the ward as the number of Covid patients had gone down this month,” said a senior police officer. According to deputy commissioner of police (east) Abhijeet Singh, the deceased was trapped by a CBI team for taking a bribe some four years ago. "On January 21, he was convicted in the case and awarded a sentence of five years and fined Rs 5 lakh,” he said. 3 passengers were killed in bus mishapSachin Sharma, deputy superintendent of police, ACB, who led the operation, said, “The complainant went to the house of his acquaintance where the money was to be paid to Pareek. When the accused arrived, he was caught red-handed with the bribe of Rs 1 lakh,” Sharma said. Sleuths added that the video coach was coming from Delhi to Jaipur when it hit a power line near Achrol on the highway and caught fire. “Three passengers were killed and five others seriously injured in the accident," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/convicted-i-t-official-hangsself-at-citys-ruhs-hospital/articleshow/80457014.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: 15 stolen bikes worth Rs 20.5 lakh seized, two held||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch on Sunday arrested two men from Jamkhed in Ahmednagar district and recovered 15 stolen motorcycles worth Rs20.5 lakh from them. The duo came to a place near Moshi toll plaza for selling a stolen Royal Enfield motorcycle when the police nabbed them acting on a tip-off. “The bikes were recovered from a farm in Jamkhed,” Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prasad said. Senior inspector Shankar Babar and his team seized a motorcycle from Vishal Magar (20) and Vishal Khaire (21) when they visited the spot near Moshi toll post. Te duo revealed the name of their Mumbai-based accomplice who they claimed had stolen 14 more motorcycles, including 12 Royal Enfield motorcycles. “The Mumbai accomplice gave the motorcycles to the duo to sell them off. The duo kept the bikes hidden in the farm,” said Prakash. “Prima facie probe revealed that Khaire and Magar’s accomplice hails from Gharkopar in Mumbai. He knew the technique of stealing Royal Enfield motorcycles as he owned a showroom in Mumbai. The Mumbai police have arrested him. We will send a team to Mumbai and seek his custody,” an officer from the crime branch told TOI. He said the suspect from Mumbai would give stolen motorcycles to Magar and Khaire. He stole bikes from Pimpri Chinchwad, Pune rural, Navi Mumbai and Thane. Krishna Prakash said, “Of 13 recovered motorcycles, seven were stolen from Pimpri Chinchwad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/15-stolen-bikes-worth-rs-20-5l-seized-two-held/articleshow/80457005.cms||Mihir Tanksale
January 26, 2021||Aurangabad||Parties oppose state power utility’s disconnection drive||Aurangabad: Banking on the dissent brewing among a section of consumers over the ongoing disconnection drive of the MSEDCL, members of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) and the BJP have raised a stink against the state power utility’s stern action. A group of citizens, led by the local unit of AIMIM, stormed into the MSEDCL office here to protest against the recovery of dues corresponding to the lockdown period. Sharek Nakshabandi, president of AIMIM’s city unit, said the state power utility must waive-off the interest charged on power dues and also facilitate payment in four instalments. “While almost every person received a blow following the Covid-19 outbreak, those not having fixed monthly income suffered a lot financially. The consumers were waiting for waiver in power bills but the government is hell-bent on disconnecting their power supply,” he said. The disconnection drive also kicked up a storm during the district planning and development council (DPDC) meeting for Latur district. Speaking on the occasion, former cabinet minister and BJP functionary Sambhaji Patil-Nilangekar demanded that a committee be formed to look into the matter of inflated bills generated for the lockdown period. “The state government must offer immediate relief to consumers by discontinuing the ongoing disconnection drive,” he said.MSEDCL authorities have stated that the complaints of the consumers regarding billing have been addressed and they have also been provided with the option of clearing the dues in three instalments. “The current average power usage has reached pre-Covid consumption levels. The MSEDCL is in dire financial straits hence, the consumers should cooperate by clearing the dues,” Bhujang Khandare, MSEDCL chief engineer for Aurangabad zone, had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/parties-oppose-state-power-utilitys-disconnection-drive/articleshow/80454095.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Goa||Arvalem comunidade members irked over ‘illegal’ sale of plots, warn of legal action||Bicholim: Twenty-six members of the Arvalem comunidade committee have raised objections against the ruling committee members of the comunidade for selling around 158 plots without their consent. The members said this sale of plots was therefore illegal. They claimed that such land deals have been taking place for the last five years. One of the members, Mahadev Malik said the ruling committee cannot undertake sale of plots without their consent, and hence demanded that the land be reverted back to the comunidade. “The plots have been sold mostly to outsiders, and we are against this. The ruling committee members have minted money by selling plots at three times the rate, sidelining other members,” said Ganesh Malik. They said the illegalities were taking place despite the appointment of an administrator. The 26 members have threatened to take legal action if the ruling committee fails to return the land ot its original owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/arvalem-comunidade-members-irked-over-illegal-sale-of-plots-warn-of-legal-action/articleshow/80457028.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Rajkot||Rajkot boy bags national award||Rajkot: Mantra Harkhani, 17, a swimmer from Rajkot has been awarded Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar 2021. He suffers from Down’s Syndrome and has overcome challenges to win a gold medal in swimming at the Special Olympics held at Abu Dhabi in 2019. Mantra is one out of total of 32 children that are conferred this award. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday interacted with all these children via video conferencing. Talking to TOI Mantra’s father Jitendra Harkhani said, “My son’s coach had promised him that if he will win an international medal he will get a chance to meet PM and his dream has come true. His talent is recognised and he got a chance to interact with the PM.” Mantra has been swimming since the age of 10. He won gold medals in 50 meter freestyle and 50 meter backstroke events held in special Olympics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-boy-bags-national-award/articleshow/80454123.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Nashik||Jalgaon coldest city in the state, followed by Nashik & Malegaon||Nashik: The mercury dipped again in north Maharashtra with Jalgaon city becoming the coldest city in the state on Monday with recorded minimum temperature of 10 degrees celsius. Close behind were Nashik city (10.4 degrees celsius) and Malegaon (12.2 degrees celsius). The minimum temperature in Nashik city on Monday dropped by 3.1 degrees celsius from Sunday’s 13.5 degrees celsius. The maximum temperature, however, increased marginally by 1.6 degrees celsius to 31.8 degrees celsius on Monday, against 30.2 degrees celsius on Sunday According to data sourced from the India Meteorological Department, skies will remain mainly clear and the minimum temperature will be at around 10 degrees celsius till January 27. Thereafter, it may increase by two-three degrees over the next two days. Niphad, a major grape-growing belt, recorded a minimum temperature of 8.5 degrees celsius on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-coldest-city-in-the-state-followed-by-nashik-malegaon/articleshow/80454111.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 26, 2021||Pune||Many more healthcare workers now want to sign up for inoculation: IMA||Pune: Scores of healthcare workers, who missed out on registrations for priority Covid vaccination, are now coming forward for the shots. The Pune branch of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has already started compiling a list of such individuals who did not — or were unable to — submit their names during registration drives that were held between October 24 and January 12. Members of the IMA said they started compiling the names after receiving several requests. “Around 300 healthcare providers have already approached us. They now want to register for the Covid shots,” said Sanjay Patil, chairman of the IMA’s Hospital Board of India, Pune branch. Registration on the CoWIN app is a must before vaccination.Patil added, “Officials said that they will find a way to get these individuals vaccinated either during the ongoing phase or phase 2.”Most who want to sign up now, Patil said, are those who were initially hesitant. “But they changed their minds after seeing the response to the vaccination drive.”Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of the state health department, said, “We will definitely try to include HCWs who couldn’t register, but are now willing to get the vaccine. We can try to include them in the priority vaccination phase.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/many-more-healthcare-workers-now-want-to-sign-up-for-inoculation-ima/articleshow/80457016.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 26, 2021||Goa||In U-turn, Monserrate backs casinos in Panaji||PANAJI: Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate, who had pledged to get the casinos out of Panaji within 100 days of getting elected, said on Monday that the city’s business community has raised concerns that if they’re shifted, they won’t have any business. “When the casinos were not functioning (during the Covid lockdown last year) there was no business,” he said. “It it felt that if they’re shifted, even after Covid, they will face a Covid-like situation.” Earlier, ports minister Michael Lobo said that offshore casinos would continue to remain in the River Mandovi. Monserrate said he would clarify with Lobo on the same. Monserrate claimed that he is of the “firm opinion” that casinos should be shifted from the Mandovi, and added that there earlier was a demand to shift them out due to traffic congestion. The former TCP and education minister said that the proposal to shift the casinos is still pending before the CCP. Monserrate said he’s yet to study the issue, and that it would be discussed with Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) chairman Dayanand Sopte. Meanwhile, speaking on the CCP election, Monserrate said that in his opinion, there is a need to bring new faces, but BJP is yet to take a stand on the issue. Monserrate has announced that he would replace 80% of the sitting corporators. He also said that last election, there were two groups — one BJP, the other his. “If BJP continues to keep their senior members and I remove my senior members, it will be an issue,” he said. “I will take the party’s opinion, and the final decision will be taken by the party.” Monserrate said that if opportunities are given to new candidates, they can perform better than existing corporators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-u-turn-monserrate-backs-casinos-in-panaji/articleshow/80457017.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||This story has been deleted||The story has been deleted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/this-story-has-been-deleted/articleshow/80455931.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: For frontline staffers, last registration date is Jan 31||PUNE: State principal secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas on Monday said deadline for registration of frontline workers — for phase 2 — had been extended till January 31. It was earlier set to January 25. On Monday, registration count was at 5.7 lakh workers across the state. Frontline workers include members of police units, armed forces, public transport employees and municipal staff. State officials said they expect the number of registrations to increase. The state has an estimated 20 lakh frontline workers. In Mumbai, data of 1.5 lakh workers has already been uploaded onto the CoWIN app, followed by Pune district’s 84,026. According to the data provided by senior health officials, the state — till January 25 — had registered 5.7 lakh frontline workers of which 8,811 are from the revenue department, 2,65,889 are from home affairs and 2,95,759 are from the urban development department. These numbers are from across the 35 districts. State officials said it would take the health machinery at least eight months to finish priority vaccinations among healthcare staffers, frontline workers and people above 50 and those with comorbid conditions. Maharashtra also plans to bring up the number of vaccination sites to the originally planned 511 locations, from the current 477.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/for-frontline-staffers-last-registration-date-is-jan-31/articleshow/80457025.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 26, 2021||Madurai||Plea to carryout ASI excavation at Tuticorin village||Madurai: The Madras high court on Monday directed the ASI and state archaeology department to inspect and submit a report on a public interest litigation (PIL) which sought to carry out archaeological excavation at Ulakudi village in Tuticorin district and to declare it a protected site.A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi observed that the petitioner had raised an issue of importance having found a standing stone in commemoration of heroes who died in war. The judges said that the petitioner had produced photographs of the stone which may be a megalithic stone.Hence, the judges directed the ASI and state archaeology department officials to inspect the site and file a report before the court during the next hearing on February 17.The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by S Kamaraj alias Muthalakurichi Kamaraj, a writer hailing from Tuticorin district who has written books on history and archaeology. The petitioner stated that menhirs, which is also known as standing stones for graves, cairns, stone circles, ruins of iron smelter workshop were found near a hill at the village. He stated that many research scholars have also published research papers about the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-carryout-asi-excavation-at-tuticorin-village/articleshow/80457023.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 26, 2021||Jaipur||Fuel on fire: In Sriganganagar, premium petrol crosses Rs 100||JAIPUR: Fuel prices in Rajasthan shot up on Monday to record high and crossed Rs 100 per litre, with the price of extra premium petrol in Sriganganagar clocking Rs 101.54 per litre and that of normal petrol hitting Rs 97.69 a litre. In Jaipur, petrol and diesel prices climbed to record highs of 93.22 and Rs 85.29, respectively. Rajasthan has the highest VAT rate on fuel in the country with petrol and diesel attracting 38% and 28% respectively. The price hike forced transporters and the retailers to appeal to the government for reducing VAT which is the highest in the country. “We met the chief secretary and urged him to reduce the taxes so that the general public doesn’t suffer,” said Sunit Bagai, president of Rajasthan Petroleum Dealers’ Association, after the meeting. During the lockdown period, the state government had increased VAT on petrol and diesel by 10% each. ‘Urge Centre, state to keep prices between ₹70-80 per litre’Bagai said that now that VAT revenues from fuels have crossed last year’s levels, the increase in taxes should be withdrawn. The high fuel prices are also making goods costlier at a time when people have suffered erosion in their income due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “We urge both the Centre and the state to reduce taxes and keep the prices between Rs 70-80 per litre. They can make tax adjustments by raising taxes when crude price is lower and vice versa” said Suresh Agarwal, president of Federation of Rajasthan Trade and Industry. While in Sriganganagar the normal petrol price is Rs 97 per litre, it is Rs 82 the same in neighbouring Punjab. “It gives incentive to people residing border areas to buy from Punjab or any other border state where the rates are lower,” said a dealer. Rates are highest in Sriganganagar compared to other cities in the state because of transportation cost as the fuel is supplied from Jodhpur and Jaipur depots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fuel-on-fire-in-sriganganagar-premium-petrol-crosses-rs-100/articleshow/80457026.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 26, 2021||Ludhiana||‘Jugaad’ helps farmers cut fuel cost as thousands of tractors head to Delhi||Ludhiana: Just as the rest of the world witnessed the resilience of the farmers, who withstood both natural and man-made challenges to stand firm on their demand, it also witnessed their ‘jugaad’ ability as they prepared for the tractor march. As thousands of tractors had to go to Delhi for today’s rally, the cost of fuel would have gone through the roof, but for the fact that the farmers found ingenious ways to cut cost. They are using different techniques to tow as many tractors as possible with one to save fuel. According to farmers’ union representatives, the average fuel cost for a round trip to Delhi with a tractor is about Rs 15,000.To reach trolleys faster to the protest venue, so that more people could be accommodated, SUVs and jeeps are being used to tow them — this means the could trolleys could reach Singhu border in almost half the time taken by tractors.Rajinder Benipal, state president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Punjab), who is sending multiple tractors to Delhi, said, “Yesterday alone, we despatched more than 2,000 tractors and trollies to Singhu border. Majority of the tractors sent were joined by “tochan” (towing support) with each other and were sent in the batches of three to four. This was done to save fuel cost. In the tractor rally alone, easily Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000 worth diesel will be spent, as the tractor will have to run in the first gear. So these kind of interventions were necessary as we cannot afford to throw away such huge amount in fuel.”According to Daljit Singh Naunhali of Khanna, who led one such batch of tractors to Delhi, this kind of cost-cutting measures are pretty normal in the rural areas. “But people outside of villages are struck with wonder at the sight of one tractor pulling three to four tractors. Many stopped us to take pictures of this jugaad,” he added.Bhupinder, who works at a tractor workshop in Mullanpur, said, “There are a variety of ways being used to connect multiple tractors with each other, the most common being use of MS pipe with holes on both ends. By using this pipe, we can easily connect the back of a tractor with the front of the second tractor and similarly three to four tractors can be connected together. Once fitted, the tractors can move around easily together only with one engine running. The tractors hiked on to other should also have drivers, but. For connecting the trolleys with other small vehicles like SUVs or jeeps, hooks are used. When we ran out hooks, we started to weld them, that worked too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jugaad-helps-farmers-cut-fuel-cost-as-thousands-of-tractors-head-to-delhi/articleshow/80454972.cms||Mohit Behl
January 26, 2021||Chennai||Girl, 5, dies after measles shot: SHRC tells govt to pay Rs 2L relief||Chennai: The State Human Rights Commission recommended a compensation of Rs 2 lakh to the father of a five-year-old girl who died a day after she was administered the Measles and Rubella (MR) vaccine at the Institute of Social Paediatrics, Stanley Medical College Hospital, in 2018. The commission had taken suo motu cognisance of the incident based on a newspaper report. D Gopi, father of D G Thanishka, had submitted that the child did not suffer from any health issues before she was administered the vaccine around 11am on May 2, 2018. Within 15 minutes, Thanishka complained of breathless, severe burning in the eyes and fainted. She was then taken to the emergency ward by hospital staff and the parents were not allowed to see her, he said. She was pronounced dead the next day. In response, Selvi, assistant professor at the Institute of Social Paediatrics, the dean and the head of the department at the institute denied allegations of medical negligence and irregularities. After the vaccination, the child had developed anaphylaxis (a severe allergic reaction) which was promptly identified and treated. The respondents denied allegations of not allowing the parents to see the child. Further, they said 20 children were administered the shot that day from the same MR vial and no other complications were reported. Based on the evidence, commission member D Jayachandran observed, “It is not in dispute that the child died due to pulmonary edema with pneumonitis and acute tubular injury of the kidneys. But the respondent has not produced any document to show that the child died due to individual immune response to the vaccine,” and ruled that the Government of Tamil Nadu pay Rs 2 lakh relief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/girl-5-dies-after-measles-shot-shrc-tells-govt-to-pay-rs-2l-relief/articleshow/80455935.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Nashik||CBD writes to collector to convert Cantt Hosp into non-Covid facility||Nashik: Owing to the drop in the number of Covid-19 patients taking treatment at the Cantonment hospital, the Cantonment Board, Deolali, (CBD) has written to the district collector seeking permission to turn the hospital into a non-Covid hospital. After the outbreak of Covid-19 in the district around May-June, the 90-bed Cantonment hospital, run by the CBD, was converted into a dedicated Covid health centre (DCHC). An out-patient department (OPD) was set up in one of the schools in the Deolali camp area for non-Covid patients.With no admission facility available for non-Covid patients, critical patients, who were in need of hospitalization, were referred to other government hospitals in Nashik Road or Nashik city — which were atleast 10-15km away from the Cantonment hospital. While hundreds of Covid-19 patients have been treated at this hospital so far, the number of patients getting admitted in this hospital for treatment of the viral infection is consistently dropping. As on Monday, there were only seven Covid-19 patients admitted to the hospital. Bhagwan Kataria, former vice president of the CBD, said since the Covid patients were reducing, the Cantonment hospital should be converted into a non-Covid facility so that non-Covid patients in need of hospitalization do not have to go all the way to Nashik Road or Nashik city. The CBD is awaiting a nod from the officials of the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cbd-writes-to-collector-to-convert-cantt-hosp-into-non-covid-facility/articleshow/80454126.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 26, 2021||Pune||Pune: Enthusiasm spreads among those listed to get Covaxin||PUNE: Response has been growing at the Aundh District Hospital, the only site in the city administering Covaxin. The hospital’s anesthesiologist Pranay Wagh said he has been feeling “completely fine” after being administered the jab last week. Experiences like his have encouraged many at the site to take the shot. On January 16, day one of the vaccine drive, the site had 60 vaccinations. The second session, on January 19, saw a dip with just 35 vaccinations. This slump was largely attributed to hesitancy among Class IV staff, but vaccinators said trends changed after district civil surgeon Ashok Nandapurkar himself took the shot last week. On Monday, despite CoWIN niggles, 40 beneficiaries were vaccinated at the site. Wagh said, “I felt weak for a few hours after the shot, but I was all normal the next morning. Many of my colleagues have now decided to get themselves vaccinated.” Nikhil Punde, an ophthalmologist at the hospital, was one of the beneficiaries on Monday. “Five sessions without any complaints of side-effects have boosted confidence here. And it’s not just the doctors. Many Class III and Class IV staff are coming forward to get the shot.” Sunil Kumbhar, ophthalmic officer, said there is no fear. “So many of our colleagues have received the shots. There have been no side-effects,” he said. A vaccination officer said the initial hesitation among junior staffers of the hospital eased after many senior officials got the jab. One junior staffer, who did not wish to be named, said, “We had apprehensions early on as most names on the first lists were of Class III and Class IV workers. But as sessions continued, feedback started to get increasingly positive. That made many of us come forward.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/enthusiasm-spreads-among-those-listed-to-get-covaxin/articleshow/80457035.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 26, 2021||Pune||Glitches & fear of side-effects impact response at Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial hospital||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Repetition of beneficiary names and concerns over vaccine among grade IV staffers have emerged primary reasons for the poor response at the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) hospital vaccination site. Rajendra Wabale, YCM hospital dean, admitted that convincing the junior grade staffers was a major challenge. “On Monday, the vaccination drive was held at the DY Patil hospital as well, where 65 beneficiaries were vaccinated. At the YCM hospital, 50 beneficiaries responded to the vaccination drive,” Wabale said. He said the repetition of names was a technical issue, which would be sorted out over time. “And for convincing staffers, we will organise some awareness sessions for them,” Wabale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/glitches-fear-of-side-effects-impact-response-at-ycm-hosp/articleshow/80457038.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 26, 2021||Pune||Rehabilitation plan nearly in place for Kamgar Putala slum pocket residents||Pune: More than 900 families from the Kamgar Putala slum pocket, near Civil Court, have completed the basic formalities needed for rehabilitation. The land they vacate would be used for the Pune Metro rail project. Nearly 300 families are holding out on completing the formalities. The authorities said they were holding talks with the families to end the deadlock. Nitin Udas, deputy commissioner, Pune Municipal Corporation, who has been handling the matter from the start, said the slum dwellers have demanded that they be rehabilitated in the same area, a demand that was not possible to meet.Udas said they have nearly completed the process of scrutinizing the paperwork. “We expect the remaining process to be completed in a few days,” Udas said. The land is crucial for the Metro project — pillars and an elevated Metro station on the Vanaz-Ramwadi corridor are planned in this location. Some portion of the land is also required for the Hinjewadi-Shivajinagar Metro corridor, being developed by Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority.“We have identified various locations for the residents’ rehabilitation. We have displayed these details in the locality. We are waiting for the residents’ response,” a PMC official said. Since the process to acquire the land started last October, a series of meetings were held at various levels, including two with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, to break the impasse. Pawar has directed PMC, the slum rehabilitation authority and Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) to work out a solution.The Metro viaduct has already been constructed till the Kamgar Putala and the Rajiv Gandhi Vasahat area. The plan is to construct 10 pillars and a portion of the elevated Metro station in the existing slum area. “We are offering the necessary assistance to the civic administration in this process. We will begin the work only after the land is formally handed over to MahaMetro,” a MahaMetro official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rehabilitation-plan-nearly-in-place-for-kamgar-putala-slum-pocket-residents/articleshow/80455934.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Goa||Govt regularises 13k illegal homes in orchard lands||PANAJI: The state cabinet on Monday approved an amendment to the Goa Regulation of Unauthorised Construction Act, 2016, which will facilitate the regularisation of unauthorised constructions in orchard and cultivable land which has now been removed from under eco-sensitive zone-II. With this decision around 13,000 houses would be regularised across the state. The bill will be introduced in the assembly session. Speaking to reporters, chief minister Pramod Sawant said that since these houses were constructed in orchard and agriculture land, and fell in the eco-sensitive zone-II areas, the government was not in a position to regularise such houses earlier. “To regularise such houses, we have removed orchard and cultivable lands from eco-senstive zone-II and we have given the green signal to regularise such houses. Around 13,000 files are pending and this will be cleared. This act would be people-friendly,” he said. Any person who carried out such unauthorised constructions before February 28, 2014 were eligible to apply for regularisation of the unauthorised structure. The government had twice extended the last date to receive applications. Earlier unauthorised constructions that fell within the limits of protected forests, wildlife sanctuaries, areas covered under the coastal regulation zone (CRZ), no-development zone, open spaces, public land, areas declared eco-sensitive zones, khazan land and those that obstructed natural water channels were not considered for legalisation. Sawant said that the second cabinet decision is to remove the fee to be paid by various government departments to obtain conversion sanads to take up development work. He also said that it has come to the government’s notice that due to the delay in paying conversion fees, projects were getting delayed and with this decision, projects now can be fast-tracked. “Without paying the conversion fee, departments will get permissions to take up projects,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-regularises-13k-illegal-homes-in-orchard-lands/articleshow/80457029.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ED raids Omkar Group in ‘money-laundering’ case||MUMBAI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday searched 10 premises of Omkar Developers in a suspected money-laundering case arising out of a Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) scheme fraud and diverting Rs 450 crore bank loan for purposes other than declared. Omkar Group denied the allegations. ED sources stated that Omkar Group misused various permissions given under the SRA schemes, diverted bank funds and defaulted on the payment. The ED is also investigating various other financial irregularities of the builder.Among the premises raided, seven are residences and three offices belonging to the group’s chairman Kamal Kishor Gupta and managing director Babulal Varma. The ED’s investigation is connected with a petition in the Bombay high court filed by a slumdweller, Imran Khan, through his advocate Tanveer Nizam, alleging fraud in development of Anand Nagar slum in Jogeshwari. Khan alleged that Omkar Group and other companies involved in the Jogeshwari project took loan of Rs 22,000 crore from various banks on the Anand Nagar plot without having letter of intent (LoI). Nizam claimed, “They borrowed thousands of crores on land without having LoI, they also inflated the numbers of slumdwellers. The HC issued notice to ED on our petition after which the investigation started.” However, the statement issued by the legal department of Omkar Developers stated that the matter related to writ petitions filed by Surana Developers and proxy litigation by Pradeep Kadam regarding clubbing/de-clubbing of Anand Nagar SRA scheme with the already approved clubbed scheme as per the rules, regulations and policy of SRA. The statement said that the HC refused any relief to petitioner Surana Developers and asked them to withdraw the same. It added that all allegations and issues raised by both petitioners were found to be baseless as Omkar Developers has acted as per rules. “The matter raised by the petitioner in regards to a Rs 450-crore loan from Yes Bank is availed under banking guidelines as project loan against sale collaterals and utilised for the stated purpose only,” said the statement. Omkar Group is among the several firms that had taken loans from Yes Bank when Rana Kapoor was heading the bank and allegedly defaulted on payment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ed-raids-omkar-group-in-money-laundering-case/articleshow/80457039.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 26, 2021||Kochi||Kerala’s EV sector revs up as registrations soar 64%||KOCHI: Despite the high initial cost, environment-conscious Kerala is switching to electric vehicles (EVs) in a big way, thanks to more brands available in the market, lower taxes and increased awareness. The state witnessed a 64% increase in EV registrations in 2020 compared with the previous year, according to data from the central road transport and highways ministry. This compares with the 29.9% drop in overall vehicle registrations in the state over the same period. As many as 1,321 EVs were registered in Kerala last year against 468 in 2019. Despite rolling out its electric vehicle policy, the state needs to cash in on the high demand for EVs by installing more charging stations. The state electricity board (KSEB), the nodal agency tasked with setting up recharge points, has been able to install only six -- one each in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Kozhikode and Kannur -- so far. According to a transport department official, KSEB is waiting for people to buy more EVs fearing it would lose money if the response is poor. “There is no delay on the part of the board in installing charging stations. Tender procedures for installing 56 stations have been completed and the tender for another 30-40 stations will be invited soon. A startup in Kozhikode has approached us with a proposal to install charging points on electric poles. As part of the proposal, the company will develop a mobile application which will provide details of charging points available in the vicinity and payment details. The board is vetting the proposal as there are some technical grey areas regarding online payment and security of charging points,” a KSEB official said. The board collects Rs 13 per unit at its charging stations, while private players charge Rs 17-20 at their stations, he said. Meanwhile Anert, the state government’s agency for non-conventional energy and rural technology, has gone ahead and installed four charging stations -- three in Thiruvananthapuram and one in Ernakulam. Another 13 of its stations are expected to go online in a few weeks. Anert also provides electric vehicles on rent to various government departments. “Currently, people charge EVs at our stations free of cost as the state government has not issued any order on fees. We have identified locations in 117 taluks in the state to install charging stations and feasibility studies are ongoing in all districts. The stations will come up in townships, where there is huge demand for EVs. But the problem is that we need government land to install them. It is good that people are buying more EVs as the expense is minimal. Those who have residential solar panels don’t need to spend even a single penny,” said Manoharan J, head of Anert’s e-mobility cell. Those interested in installing stations can approach us for technical support. We are aiming for an EV revolution, Manoharan added.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/states-ev-sector-revs-up-as-registrations-soar-64/articleshow/80455945.cms||T C Sreemol
January 26, 2021||Nashik||More than 5K vaccinated across Nashik division||Nashik: Over 5,000 registered beneficiaries received Covid-19 vaccination across Nashik division where the number of centres were increased from 40 to 70 on Monday. In all 5,090 beneficiaries out of the expected 7,000 received the shots — around 74% of the set target. The best performance was registered by Dhule district again as it topped the state-chart by achieving 144% of the set target. In Dhule, the target was 600 but as many as 864 people were inoculated. It was followed by Nandurbar 508 (73 % of 700), Jalgaon 867 (67% of 1,300), Nashik 1,517 (66 % of 2,300) and Ahmednagar 1,334 (64 % of 2,100). Except for Sakri rural hospital in Dhule that witnesseds 68% turnout, the rest of the five centres reported more than 100% achievement. The district hospital Dhule registered 300 vaccine shots. This was followed by sub-district hospital (SDH) at Niphad in Nashik district which registered 220 vaccine shots. One of the Urban Public Health Centres (UPHC) in Malegaon registered only eight beneficiaries throughout the day. In Ahmednagar district, the rural centres registered 100% turnout. In Jalgaon and Nandurbar none of the centres registered 100% turnout out, but some of them managed to achieve 90% and more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/more-than-5k-vaccinated-across-nashik-division/articleshow/80454135.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 26, 2021||Ludhiana||Class XII student’s suicide due to exam pressure, say cops; school claims she was good in studies||LUDHIANA: In the alleged suicide case of another Class XII student of Government Girls Senior Secondary School in Gill village, according to the police, the girl took the extreme step giving into pressure of the approaching exams. They said their investigation led them to believe that the girl, a resident of Sangowal village, was not good in studies. However, the school authority said the girl did well in studies. On January 16, a Class XII student of the school allegedly committed suicide in her house. However, her family, without informing police, cremated her body. Later on, a non-governmental organisation, Universal Human Rights Organisation, took up the matter with the police after which the police initiated the probe. Satnam Singh Dhaliwal, the president of the NGO, said on January 11 another Class XII student of the same school had hung herself in the school. “It is not normal that five days later another girl should also commit suicide. Police should thoroughly probe the case to know if both cases are linked or not. Also, it should be investigated why the parents did not inform police and cremated the girl without autopsy,” he added. Inspector Sukhdev Singh, station house officer of Dehlon police station, said, “The police have investigated the case and found out that the girl did not do well in studies. As the exams are approaching, she must have given into pressure and took the extreme step. Though the parents should have called the police for autopsy, nothing suspicious has come out of investigation. The probe is almost complete now.” While speaking with TOI, school principal Samriti Bhargav said, “She was a student of humanities stream and was good at it. The police have not approached us to get her academic record.” She added, “If the girl has committed suicide, I don’t believe it is due to the study pressure. Both online and offline classes are being conducted according to the convenience of the students and with the consent of the parents. Moreover, till now it is not ascertained whether the exams will be conducted online or offline. There is no way a good student of humanities stream will take her life over exam pressure.” When asked if both the girls, who have died, were friends, Bhargav said, “I came to know that they probably were friends but I don’t know how close their friendship was. In the first case though, the girl has left a suicide note.” Additional deputy commissioner of Police-2, Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said, “I have asked the ACP-South to submit a report.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/class-xii-students-suicide-due-to-exam-pressure-say-cops-school-claims-she-was-good-in-studies/articleshow/80454997.cms||Payal Dhawan
January 26, 2021||Goa||‘Over 3k land rights applications pending in Sattari’||Valpoi: Villagers under the banner Sattari Bhumiputra Sanghatna on Monday hit out at health minister and Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane saying that over 3,000 people have applied for settlement of their land rights, but, till date, these are pending without any decision. The group said that Rane is making false assurances and urged the people of Sattari not to fall for it and to participate in large numbers in the land rights agitation that kickstarts on Tuesday. The health minister on Sunday had asked villagers to apply for their ownership rights and had stated that the deputy collector would immediately process the applications and take them to their logical conclusion. “Over 3,000 cases are pending without being decided till date. Rane is misguiding the people of Sattari by stating that few groups are inciting locals. Rane has asked people to submit property documents to the deputy collector’s office, but the villagers don’t have the documents and that is the whole issue. How can people submit the documents,” villager Ganpat Gaonkar said. Just like his father Pratapsingh Rane, he is not interested in resolving the land rights issue, the local groups alleged. “When we question Rane about settlement of our land rights, he says, ‘Do not fear, I am there for you all, no one will take your land’. He has learnt this from his father, who has used the same tactic with the people of Sattari for the last 50 years,” Gaonkar said. Dasharath Mandrekar said that most residents of Sattari do not own the land on which they have been living and cultivating for generations. Also, as they do not have proper title documents they cannot even construct a house on this land. The groups said they will now only believe the Ranes if their land ownership rights are settled within a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-3k-land-rights-applications-pending-in-sattari/articleshow/80457044.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Kolhapur||More vax centres in Kolhapur, over 1,000 have got first dose||Kolhapur: The rise in the Covid vaccination centres in Kolhapur district reduced the percentage of beneficiaries receiving the vaccine on Monday, but the number of healthcare workers getting the first dose was over 1,000. From Monday, healthcare workers can take the vaccine at 20 centres. Out of the 2,000 beneficiaries target set for the day, 1,097 beneficiaries turned up to take the jab. District health officer Yogesh Sale said, “Nine centres have been added after making all arrangements such as cold storage facilities and training of the staff. All centres will cater to healthcare workers from public and private facilities.” In the rural areas, on Monday, 716 of the 1,300 beneficiaries turned up for vaccination, while in Kolhapur city, 381 of 700 expected beneficiaries took the jab. One beneficiary from Shiroli centre got mild adverse effect, officials said. In rural areas, only nine private healthcare workers took the jab, while in Kolhapur city, 313 private doctors and nurses were vaccinated. Public healthcare workers are getting the vaccine first in the rural areas. So far, 3,505 beneficiaries have been vaccinated. Of these, around 80% are public healthcare workers. The district has registered around 25,000 beneficiaries and to achieve the overall target, the number of vaccination centres may be increased further. The administration has received 38,000 doses of vaccines. Currently, first dose of Covishield vaccine is being given and the rounds for the second dose for the beneficiary will start from second week of February. The beneficiaries who have taken the jab early have started receiving the text message with details of date, time and centre of vaccination. Till the round for second dose starts, the administration is planning to get at least 50% of registered beneficiaries vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/more-vax-centres-in-kolhapur-over-1000-have-got-first-dose/articleshow/80454140.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Kochi||LDF tie: NCP to take call on February 1||KOTTAYAM: NCP national president Sharad Pawar will make one more attempt to negotiate a truce in the party state unit and explore chances for the party to continue in the Left democratic front. Pawar will hold talks with CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury and CPI general secretary D Raja to assert his party’s demand to contest in four seats where they had contested in 2016. On Feb 1, Pawar and general secretary Praful Patel will meet senior leaders from Kerala in New Delhi and the party’s stand will be announced there. NCP state president T P Peethambaran, transport minister AK Saseendran and MLA Mani C Kappan have been directed by Pawar to attend the meet on Feb 1. On Monday, Kappan met Pawar in Mumbai after the meeting, Kappan told reporters that Pawar had advised party leaders against reaching a compromise by sacrificing the seats which the party won. "Nobody in the CPM state leadership asked me to yield Pala seat to anyone," said Kappan, adding that the interest of Saseendran will also be protected by the party. He denied reports that he had raised a complaint with the national leadership against Saseendran for convening a group meeting. It is learnt that Pawar is not averse to the idea of moving to UDF in line with the party’s national policy of being part of the UPA. However, he doesn’t want a split in the party. The CPM leadership is also keen to keep NCP in the Left camp and it is learnt that the party may even offer a Rajya Sabha seat in lieu of surrendering the sitting assembly seat in Pala. The calculation of CPM is that the lure of RS seat will be irresistible for Pawar as that would be more beneficial for the party at the national level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ldf-tie-ncp-to-take-call-on-feb-1/articleshow/80455985.cms||---
January 26, 2021||India||SC seeks Centre’s view on regulator for TV channels||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday sought the Centre’s response to a PIL seeking establishment of a regulatory body or statutory tribunal to adjudicate public grievances against news broadcasters and television channels, which the petition alleged frequently crossed the line. A bench headed by CJI S A Bobde issued notices to the Centre, Press Council of India, News Broadcasters Association, News Broadcasters Federation and News Broadcasting Standards Authority after hearing senior advocate Devadatt Kamat for Punebased petitioners Nilesh Navalakha and NitinMemane. The petitioners, through advocate Rajesh Inamdar, pleaded for setting up an independent regulatory tribunal or judicial body, media tribunal, as there was no statutory or independent mechanism to adjudicate complaints and grievances against the coverage dished out by over 1,000 television channels using the airwaves which were public property. Times ViewIf the vacant posts of law panel chief, members self-regulatory body, NBA, isn’t effective, then one should find means and methods to make it more effective. That’s the best way to avoid biased and unregulated coverage.“The self-regulation theory evolved by toothless and powerless bodies like the NBA is nothing but a sham and farcical, which abuses the bona fide privilege conferred upon the media as the ‘fourth pillar’, and is in effect amyth,” the petitioners said. “Do news broadcasters/electronic media enjoy unfettered freedom of a much higher degree than those enjoyed by the citizens of the country? Can such freedom only be subject to self-regulation?” they asked. “Exercise of power by the electronic media without any accountability is severely detrimental to the due process of law, and contrary to the rule of law,” they added. “Over the last few years, media trials, hate speech, propaganda news and paid news had become the order of the day, impeding the right to fair trial of victims and right to fair and proportionate reporting,” the petitioners said. Misinformation and fake news , hate speech, propaganda, paid news, , incitement etc. could not be said to be protected under the right to freedom of press, emanating from Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-seeks-centres-view-on-regulator-for-tv-channels/articleshow/80459616.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 26, 2021||Goa||235 healthcare workers receive jab at 3 centres||Panaji: On Monday, Goa saw 235 healthcare workers (HCW) vaccinated at three centres. Since the vaccination drive started ten days ago, 1,840 HCW have received their first dose of the Covid vaccine. The three centres that conducted the vaccination drive on Monday were the community health centre, Valpoi (52), primary health centre, Bicholim (99), and Healthway hospital (84), with each given a target to vaccinate 100 beneficiaries. With Tuesday being a Republic Day holiday, the vaccination drive will resume on Wednesday. The centres that will undertake vaccination on Wednesday are primary health centre, Aldona, community health centre, Pernem, sub-district hospital, Chicalim, hospitals, Grace and Royal, and Goa Medical College (GMC). GMC will have two sessions, whereas other centres will conduct a session each with a target to inoculate 100 beneficiaries, an official of the directorate of health services said. The health services aims at giving over 18,000 registered HCW their first jab by February 12 and concluding the first vaccination phase by March 12, the officer said. To complete the first phase, vaccination will be held four days a week, and after which frontline workers will receive the jab. Meanwhile, those who failed to show up for vaccination, he said would get another chance, but they would be called last and after others on the list received their vaccine shots. Health services is yet to know how many frontline health workers need to be vaccinated and their registration process is underway. “We haven’t received data about frontline workers. Also, we have not received vaccine shots for them yet. But we expect to receive stocks any time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/235-healthcare-workers-receive-jab-at-3-centres/articleshow/80457042.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Goa||‘Road works at Barcem to be ready by April’||Poinguinim: Work on the 13mt-long Barcem culvert along NH-66, at the base of Karmalghat towards Cuncolim, has been dragging on for a quite some time, and this has been inconveniencing motorists using the road for daily commute. “Work on the culvert was delayed as shifting of the overhead high tension electricity line and underground cabling took longer than expected,” said PWD assistant engineer for Canacona, Subhash Pagi, who has now been handed over the responsibility to ensure completion of the work. The work was earlier supervised by another official posted in Margao. The existing culvert is proving dangerous to commuters as the parapet on one side is giving way. Since the width of the existing culvert is narrow, it cannot accommodate two vehicles at a time. Motorists have been struggling to negotiate this stretch for at least a year now. Pagi said that the work on the parallel mini bridge was further delayed due the pandemic. Pagi said now the work is on now in full swing. He said the work on this bridge and another two at Paddi and Gaddeval near Balli will be completed simultaneously. All the three works are expected to be ready by March-April this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/road-works-at-barcem-to-be-ready-by-april/articleshow/80457041.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Aurangabad||No adverse reaction so far, all should take vax: AMC||Aurangabad: A total of 624 healthcare workers took the Covid vaccine within municipal limits of Aurangabad on Monday even as health officials said that they had not reported a single adverse event since the launch of the drive on January 16. The beneficiaries included 52 more members of India Medical Association, Aurangabad chapter and staff of 100 from CSMSS-run Ayurvedic and Dental colleges, official data shows. The vaccination drive is underway at five centres in the city since the launch. Stating that the vaccination drive has been evoking satisfactory response, AMC health officer Neeta Padalkar said every target beneficiary must undergo the necessary immunization without any hesitation. “The vaccination drive is on since January 16 and we have not come across a single case of adverse reaction among beneficiaries so far. The vaccination is essential among the health workers, who are leading from the front in ongoing battle against Covid-19,” she said. Meanwhile, the state publicity department on Monday launched its Covid 19 awareness campaign among other target programmes in presence of Aurangabad district guardian minister Subhash Desai. The drive will also make masses aware of efforts taken by the government in containing the spread of the pandemic situation, it was said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/no-adverse-reaction-so-far-all-should-take-vax-amc/articleshow/80454145.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Chennai||Active infections in city down by 250 in a week, but streets with cases up||Chennai: Active Covid-19 cases in Chennai has continued to dip even as the test positivity rate (TPR) remained steady at 1.5%. Analysis of official data put out by Greater Chennai Corporation on zone-wise active cases shows that active infections have dropped by around 250 in the past one week. Currently, there are 1,693 active cases in the city. In most of the zones, the number has either dropped or remained constant but there is a slight increase in Teynampet and Perungudi zones. For instance, in Teynampet, active cases have gone up from 170 to 183 in the past week (January 18-25) and in the same period, Perungudi witnessed an increase of four active cases from 100 to 104. On the other hand, steepest falls were seen in Anna Nagar, where the active case count fell by 54, Valasaravakkam, where it fell by 47, and Royapuram and Kodambakkam, where it fell by 24 cases each. Across Chennai, only four zones have less than 100 cases — Tiruvottiyur, Manali, Madhavaram and Shollinganallur — all in the city’s peripheries. Street-wise data, however, shows that the number of streets with active Covid-19 cases has increased. While it was 63 last week, there are 84 now. As is the current Covid-19 trend in the city, exactly a week ago, streets with active cases in northern region of the city (zones 1-5) were only 15, while 14 streets in the southern part of the city (zones 11-15) had active cases. Central region (zones 6-10) had 34 streets. Currently, in northern region 17 streets have active covid19 cases, while Central has 38 and southern region has 30. There are 200 wards in the city and many of them don’t have a single Covid-19 case. As far as case fatality rate is concerned, Chennai, as a whole, continues to maintain fatality rate at 1.77%. The highest CFR continues to be in Teynampet and Tiruvottiyur zones (2.3%), while Thiru Vi Ka Nagar has 2.28%. Shollinganallur zone has the lowest fatality rate at 0.83%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/active-infections-in-city-down-by-250-in-a-week-but-streets-with-cases-up/articleshow/80455987.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Woman ‘insults modesty’ of neighbour, booked||MUMBAI: In an unusual instance, a 53-year-old woman from Goregaon has been booked for insulting the modesty of her 36-year-old neighbour. The accused allegedly taunted the victim repeatedly for her short hair, clothes and called her a “eunuch”. The victim, a general manager with a private company, had moved as a tenant to the apartment complex in December 2020. An FIR was registered against the accused woman, a tiffin supplier, on Saturday under IPC sections 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and 500 (defamation). “My client was subjected to gross harassment at the instance of her neighbour, a woman, by uttering words and exhibiting gestures of extremely derogatory nature that would amount to outraging and tarnishing modesty of any woman only because she’s a single woman living as a tenant independently and has a ‘bob cut’. The matter is currently under investigation,” the victim’s lawyer Siddhesh Borkar said. In her statement to the police, the victim said that for the first few days after she moved into the building, she had availed tiffin service from the accused. However, since she did not like the food, she stopped the service and settled her dues. The woman said on December 12 when the accused was not home, her son hosted a party. “The music was being loudly played till 3.30 am, so I went to the door twice and requested them to turn down the volume. After that I stopped interacting and talking to the family,” the victim said. She alleged the accused, in retaliation, started taunting her for her short hair. The victim alleged she would stand outside her house and make comments to humiliate her such as “I don’t know if she is a psycho, a girl or a boy? Her voice is like that of a dog.” She even went to the extent of slut-shaming her. The victim said this went on for a month, but she ignored her. The matter escalated on January 11 when the victim was visiting another neighbour. She said the accused first commented on her trousers and loudly questioned if she had soiled it by wetting herself. The accused even followed her to her friend’s house and started abusing her loudly. The victim alleged she called her names such ‘prostitute’ and ‘slut’, questioned her gender and even abused her parents. She accused her of inviting and soliciting men at the house. The accused told her she was a tenant and should live like one. The victim said she then contacted a policeman who lived in the building. He advised her to call up the 100 police helpline. With the harassment allegedly continuing even after that, the victim finally lodged an FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/woman-insults-modesty-of-neighbour-booked/articleshow/80457050.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 26, 2021||Kolhapur||Ichalkaranji: 58.6% of vaccination in first 5 days||Kolhapur: Ichalkaranji, which was one of the worst Covid-affected urban pockets in the Kolhapur district, has managed to vaccinate 58.6 % of healthcare workers in the first five days of the drive. As per the official figures, 293 healthcare workers were vaccinated in the first five days. In an official communication, the officials said that they found it difficult to meet the daily target of 100 beneficiaries because of several reasons including fear, reluctance and lack of awareness among the beneficiaries. On January 16, the first day of nationwide vaccination drive, 66 healthcare workers were vaccinated. The number rose to 72 on the second day, but declined over the next few days. In the past three days, 48, 54 and 53 healthcare workers were vaccinated, respectively. Ichalkaranji has 1,322 registered healthcare workers, including conservancy staff and civic employees among others. Officials said the healthcare workers were reluctant to participate in the drive mainly because the Covid impact has reduced. Officials said not a single person, who has taken the vaccine, has shown any adverse reaction to the vaccination Among the 10 urban centres in Kolhapur district, Ichalkaranji town has had the highest number of registered Covid cases — 3,960 along with 228 deaths — over the past 10 months. Hatkanangale tehsil stands second as it reported 5,317 cases till Sunday late night and 218 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ichalkaranji-58-6-of-vaccination-in-first-5-days/articleshow/80454152.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Goa||Konkani crusader De Lima dies||Panaji: A dedicated crusader of the Konkani language, professor Edward De Lima passed away on Monday, after a brief illness. Born in 1946 in Socorro, De Lima completed his education in Goa and then went on to teach English literature, communication skills and business communication at DM’s College of Arts, Science and Commerce at Assagao. He retired as reader and head of department of English after 35 years of service at the institute. But more prominently he authored books like ‘Influence of Portuguese Vocabulary on Konkani Language’, which meticulously documented words borrowed from Portuguese into Konkani and presented a linguistic and etymological study of Konkani language. Earlier in 2006, De Lima wrote ‘Spoken Konkani: A Self-Learning Guide’. De Lima’s resolve to propagate Konkani probably stemmed from the fact that he belonged to a generation that never had the opportunity to study Konkani. He learnt English, Hindi, French and Portuguese. De Lima was a member of the advisory committee appointed by the Laxmikant Parsekar government to resolve the vexed medium of instruction imbroglio||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/konkani-crusader-de-lima-dies/articleshow/80457052.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Aurangabad||Farmers take out tractor rally from Sangli to Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Thousands of farmers on hundreds of tractors participated in the “tractor morcha” organised by the Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, demanding the repeal of the farm laws passed by Parliament. The six-hour morcha, led by the outfit’s president Raju Shetti, passed through several towns and villages where farmers and local leaders greeted the protestors. At many places, the local farmers and residents provided food and water to the protestors, though most protestors were carrying their own food and water. Shetti was also felicitated. The morcha started at the Krantisinha Nana Patil statue in Vishrambaug in Sangli city and ended at the Shahu Maharaj statue at Dasara Chowk in Kolhapur city — covering around 50 km. There were other small protests against the agriculture laws that were held earlier. This, however, was the biggest one in the region so far. Raju Shetti, a former MP and the president of Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, said: “Most farmers are aware of the disadvantages of the farm laws. The Modi government got the laws passed in Parliament on sheer majority and nobody from the farmers’ community was consulted. The government is not responding despite the farmers protesting at Delhi border for the past two months. We will get the laws repealed.” Many young farmers and children of farmers joined the protest along the way. Sandhesh Mohite, a youth from Rukadi who joined the protest, said, “Our fight is to get justice for our parents’ hard work. They toil hard day and night. We believe the farm laws will take away the right to minimum support price from the farmers and they will be left at the mercy of big private investors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/farmers-take-out-tractor-rally-from-sangli-to-kolhapur/articleshow/80454153.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Goa||Televised lessons for students of Class I to VIII finally launched||Panaji: Planning for it having first begun in July 2020, televised lessons for students from Class I to VIII for mathematics, EVS and science were finally launched on Monday. The pre-recorded videos will be telecast on Goa Doordarshan and a couple of other local channels in capsules of 15 minutes every morning between 9am and 11pm. The telecast will begin from January 27 and will continue till March 31, covering the second term syllabus. “Students should take the maximum benefit of such programmes for continuous learning. The role of parents is very important to bring continuous awareness among children as the initiative is specially designed for them by incorporating stories, pictures, activities by the expert teachers,” chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday after launching the initiative. The pre-recorded teaching videos have been jointly prepared by the SCERT, the directorate of education (DoE), and Goa Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan through the help of senior teachers, block and cluster resource persons of the abhiyan, in coordination with Funminds Learning technologies. “For primary students the content is available in Marathi and Konkani and for upper primary students in English. These TV lessons include activities, games, and stories, etc. These lessons can also be viewed by students, parents and teachers on the SCERT official YouTube channel a day after the telecast,” director of the State Council for Educational Research and Training (SCERT), Nagaraj Honnekeri, said. There was a delay of several months before the programme materialised. The directorate of higher education began streaming pre-recorded teaching videos in October 2020. Sawant said the televised classes will only supplement the ongoing teaching methods for students from Class I to VII.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/televised-lessons-for-students-of-class-i-to-viii-finally-launched/articleshow/80457054.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Chennai||Govt regularisation of unapproved plots extended till Feb 28||Chennai: The state government on Monday extended the scheme for regularisation of unapproved layouts and plots till February 28, more than two years after the scheme ended. The one-time amnesty scheme, The Tamil Nadu Regularisation of Unapproved Layouts and Plots Rules, 2017, was launched in May 2017 and closed in November 2018 after three extensions. The housing and urban development department said the latest extension was to provide an opportunity to those who missed the chance to apply for regularization. This followed a letter from the director of town and country planning (DTCP) that representations had been received from various organizations to extend the scheme. The DTCP suggested the scheme be extended by another six months as many had missed applying for regularization as they did not know it had ended and some others because they expected it would be extended.  Moreover, during the housing and urban development department’s virtual interaction with real estate associations in June last year, there was a demand for extending the scheme, Monday’s order said. Subsequently, the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) also sought extension of the scheme. Accordingly, the housing and urban development department has extended the scheme till February 28, 2021. Application for regularization can only be made online, said the order signed by D Karthikeyan, secretary of housing and urban development department. Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI) Tamil Nadu chapter chairman S Sridharan said, “Extending the scheme will bring more housing plots under the bracket of regularization.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-regularisation-of-unapproved-plots-extended-till-feb-28/articleshow/80456015.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Delhi||Sero survey V: Over 50% of Delhi may have developed antibodies||NEW DELHI: The capital could be heading towards developing herd immunity from Covid-19, with the fifth serological survey indicating over 50% of Delhiites having developed antibodies, sources said. This could be a reason behind the consistent dip in the number of new cases this month, experts said. Delhi government conducted the survey between January 11 and 21, during which 28,000 samples, the highest till date, were collected from across the 11 districts. “It will take more than a week for the report to come in but seroprevalence is over 50% this time and, in one district, it is around 60%,” a source said. “This indicates that a large section of the population has developed antibodies and Delhi is moving towards attaining herd immunity.” The first serological survey, conducted between June-end and the first week of July, had revealed the presence of Covid-19 antibodies in around 24% of the 21,387 samples. The third survey in September had shown 25.1% seroprevalence while the fourth survey in October, at 25.5%, didn’t indicate much change. A population may attain herd immunity when a large section of people have been affected by a virus and have become immune by developing antibodies, and form a layer between the infected and those who are not, and break the chain of infection. “If the number is correct, it partially explains why the numbers are coming down in Delhi,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology department at Indian Council of Medical Research. “However, it is important that these antibodies should persist for a long period because if these are for only two to three months, people will become susceptible to the virus again.” Kant said the mere presence of antibodies would not mean long-term immunity but the level of antibodies would indicate their duration in the population. In many countries, he said, such antibodies remained for just four to six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sero-survey-v-over-50-of-city-may-have-developed-antibodies/articleshow/80455994.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Goa||Fire destroys 3.5ha pvt forest at Keri||Keri: A fire broke out on a hill in Keri, Sattari, burning down a large tract of private forest causing irreparable loss to the wildlife habitat. The forest situated on the hill ‘Khaddo Dongar’ has been identified and demarcated as private and is home to wild animals like gaurs and deers, among others. Round forester of the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary Abhijit Verekar said that he along with wildlife trackers rushed to the spot on receiving the information. Since it was almost midnight, it was difficult to reach the spot quickly through the dense cover, sources said. When the officials reached the spot near the Vagheri hill, they saw the fire spreading on Khaddo Dongar. “Our staff visited the area and took necessary step to extinguish the fire. The fire burnt an area of around 3.5ha,” range forest officer stationed at Keri, Vivek Gaonkar said. The area being at the top of a hill, it not only takes time to reach the spot, but no machinery can be moved to the area due to the difficult terrain. This hill has a large patch of open area that is covered with seasonal grasses and wild vegetation, where several wild animals are spotted, as this area forms part of a contiguous forest area. Assistant conservator of forest, Anand Jadhav said that forest officials are investigating the cause of the fire. Two year ago, some unknown persons had similarly set fire to the private forest areas of Khaddo Dongar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fire-destroys-3-5ha-pvt-forest-at-keri/articleshow/80457089.cms||Rajendra Kerkar
January 26, 2021||Goa||Two held in Calangute with drugs||Calangute: Two persons were arrested by Calangute police over the weekend with narcotic drugs worth more than Rs Two lakh. Acting on a tip-off that a drug peddler would be coming to Calangute market to deliver drugs to a customer, Calangute police kept a watch and nabbed Avdhut Ghode, 21, a native of Khed, Ratnagiri, red-handed with 1.2 kg ganja worth Rs 1.2 lakh. In another raid, Shabbir Ali Shah, 24, a native of West Bengal, was nabbed with one kg of ganja worth Rs One lakh when he had arrived to deliver the contraband to a customer at the Dolphin circle in Calangute. Both have been booked under the NDPS Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-held-in-calangute-with-drugs/articleshow/80457056.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||At 16.4°C, Mumbai records its lowest minimum temperature this year||MUMBAI: The city’s Santacruz weather observatory on Monday recorded a minimum temperature of 16.4C, the lowest this year. This minimum temperature was 0.4 °Cbelow normal, and lower than Sunday’s 17.4 degree Celsius. Colaba recorded a minimum temperature of 18.5 °C, which was 0.5 °C below normal. The Met had forecast temperatures in the city to dip until Thursday. “At 16.4 °C, Mumbai, Santacruz recorded the lowest minimum temperature of January this year. [Minimum temperatures] May dip further during next three days due to cold winds from north,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, meteorology and climate change, SkymetWeather, a private weather forecaster. Maximumm temperatures too were below normal. Santacruz recorded a maximum of 30.6 °C. Colaba’s recorded 28.6 °C. Meanwhile, the air quality index (AQI) improved from the ‘very poor’ category on Sunday to ‘poor’ on Monday. According to the SAFAR, Mumbai’s had overall AQI of 283 on Monday. Among the 10 locations monitored in the city, Navi Mumbai was most polluted at 369.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-16-4c-mumbai-records-its-lowest-min-temp-this-year/articleshow/80457055.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Nashik||Rural areas of Ahmednagar lag in taking vax shots||Nashik: The Covid-19 vaccination programme in rural areas of Ahmednagar district is not getting expected response due to hesitancy among the beneficiaries. “The vaccination programme is picking up in the urban areas. However, it is still lagging behind in the rural areas. The major reason here is that the people are still sceptical and the presence of the private practitioners is comparatively less,” Sanjeev Belambe, resident medical officer (Outreach) Ahmednagar said. Health officials said that the geographically large Ahmednagar district is posing a challenge for some beneficiaries to reach the vaccination centres. However, opening of more centres from January 25 is expected to give better access to vaccination. It may be noted that the vaccination at rural hospital Akole, district hospital Ahmednagar has been lower than the four centres in Ahmednagar city, which reported 100% performance on Friday and Saturday. “Beneficiaries from the private sector are taking vaccine in urban areas, but not in rural areas. Also, centres are expected to allow vaccination for people not registered for the day,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rural-areas-of-ahmednagar-lag-in-taking-vax-shots/articleshow/80454171.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 26, 2021||Kolhapur||NCP in shock as ex-mayor & husband join Shiv Sena||Kolhapur: Former mayor Sarita More and her husband Nandkumar, a former corporator, and hundreds of their supporters on Monday joined the Shiv Sena. The switching of loyalties by the two leaders has taken the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) by surprise as Sarita was made mayor despite strong opposition from the party members. Now, the NCP will have to choose a strong contender from the Shipugade Talim ward. Minister of higher and technical education Uday Samant welcomed More into the Sena and said the move will boost morale of the party workers. Sarita represented the ward twice, while Nandkumar was elected once. Now, as the ward is open Nandkumar has started preparations to contest the election. The NCP ironically had his name as their first choice candidate. “Former Sena MLA Rajesh Kshirsagar helped making my mother mayor of the city. Also, now since the ward is open, we have to deal with the election strategically. There is presence of committed Sena followers in the ward which will help us during the election,” Sarita’s son Pruthviraj said. R K Powar, city president of NCP, said, “The Mores did not speak with us regarding their decision. They have left our party without asking us which is a wrong decision and it’s like taking the party workers for granted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ncp-in-shock-as-ex-mayor-husband-join-shiv-sena/articleshow/80454169.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Kolkata||Standing in PM event was against protocol||Kolkata: People standing in the crowd were against the security protocol for programmes in which the prime minister attends, a senior official said on Monday. This is why the officers attached with the PM’s office and security made repeated attempts to make them sit on the ground. But since it was impossible to see the programme sitting on the ground, they kept standing. According to sources, according to the protocol of the PM’s programme, 1,000 cards were issued and guests were asked to carry identity cards along with the invitation cards. The envelopes had the names of the guests written on them. But sources claimed requests were made for a few hundred cards more for invitees. A fresh lot of cards were printed. These cards were not issued to particular individuals. "We suspected that extra cards led to the chaos," said an official attached with the ministry of culture. So, once the guests were let in, people holding cards without names entered. Since there were no seats available for them, they stood wherever they could.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/standing-in-pm-event-was-against-protocol/articleshow/80455039.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
January 26, 2021||Goa||Goa-London flight takes off with over 200 passengers||Panaji: The Centre granted some leeway for flights to the UK, permitting one Goa-London flight to depart on Monday morning from Dabolim airport with 217 passengers. The flight, operated by Air India, is the first flight this year to the UK under the air bubble agreement ever since the suspension of flights between the two nations due to the emergence of a new, highly infectious Covid-19 strain. Goa airport director Gagan Malik said that the flight was a one-off case with flights between Goa and London remaining grounded till the end of January. The Centre continued to restrict the arrival of passengers from the UK and has permitted flights between India and UK to operate only from five metro destinations. “The relief flight, the 94th so far, left from Goa international airport today early in the morning to the UK with 210 passengers and seven children under the Air Bubble agreement. No passengers came on the flight as only departure was permitted,” said Malik. “We assisted the passengers and ensured all health protocols were followed.” Air India flight AI 1193 to London’s Heathrow airport departed at 2:29am and the aircraft, a Boeing 787 – Dreamliner, will return with passengers from London to Delhi Indira Gandhi International airport. In December, India enforced a ban on flights coming from the UK and permitted only certain flights to resume in January this year. According to officials at Goa’s lone airport used to handle one UK bound flight every week which remain cancelled till the Union ministry of civil aviation and the Union home ministry review the decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-london-flight-takes-off-with-over-200-passengers/articleshow/80457060.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Nashik||Covid-19 fatalities drop by 40% since Jan 1 in Nashik city||Nashik: The number of Covid fatalities in the city has dropped significantly by 40% between January 1 and 24 as compared to the same period last month. The city reported 37 Covid deaths so far in January against 61 deaths reported between December 1 and 24 last year. Bapusaheb Nagargoje, medical superintending officer of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), said, “There has been a drop in new cases in the last one month. Moreover, the number of serious patients has also reduced at large. All these factors have led to a drop in Covid deaths.” “We have brought the Covid deaths under control right from the beginning due to early detection of the patients and timely treatment,” said Nagargoje.The city’s recovery rate has increased up to 97.72%, which is the highest recovery rate so far since the outbreak of Covid-19. Moreover, the Covid death rate of the city stands at 1.34%, which is the lowest since May last year. With the drop in the number of new cases and rise in recovery of Covid-19 patients, the number of active patients has also reduced by 35%. From 1,102 active patients on January 1, the active case count stood at 708 on Monday. With the drop in the number of new cases, the civic body has also temporarily shut its eight Covid care centres in the city. Now, the civic body has only two Covid hospitals — Bytco hospital and Zakir Hussain hospital. According to NMC, the number of new cases has reduced from 158 new cases per day in the first week of January to 105 new cases per day on an average in the third week of this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-19-fatalities-drop-by-40-since-jan-1-in-nashik-city/articleshow/80454190.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 26, 2021||Delhi||Lowest single-day Covid case tally in nine months in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 148 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, the lowest daily rise in nine months, even as the positivity rate stood at 0.31%. This is also the fourth instance of the number of daily cases in the city remaining below the 200-mark in January. The infection tally in the city rose to 6.34 lakh and the death toll mounted to 10,813 with five new fatalities, authorities said on Monday. The active cases tally on Monday stood at 1,694, according to the latest bulletin issued by Delhi health department. Monday’s 148 new cases were detected from the 48 ,450 tests conducted the previous day, including 32,651 RT-PCR tests and 15,799 rapid antigen tests. On January 18, the city had recorded 161 cases, which was the lowest in nearly nine months then, with a positivity rate of 0.32%. This month, 585 cases were reported on January 1 and 494 on January 2; 424 on January 3; 384 on January 4, and 442 on January 5; 654 on January 6; 486 on January 7 and 444 on January 8; 519 on January 9 and 399 on January 10; 306 on January 11 and 386 on January 12 and 357 on January 13 and 340 on January 14. From January 15-24, the daily figures stood at 295; 299; 246; 161; 231; 228; 227; 266; 197; and 185. The bulletin said that the total number of cases has climbed to 6,34,072. Death rate due to Covid-19 continues to be high despite reduction in daily cases. One of the reasons could be delayed visit to hospital despite severe symptoms, doctors said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lowest-single-day-case-tally-in-nine-months/articleshow/80456023.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Kolhapur||Higher edu minister clears 2,700 applications at SUK||Kolhapur: Over 2,700 applications pertaining to the pending demands of students, teachers, educational institutes and non-teaching staffs were processed in the first ever ‘Ministry at University Doorstep’ programme held at the Shivaji University, Kolhapur (SUK). Minister of higher and technical education Uday Samant arrived with officials from various departments of the ministry to listen to the grievances of various stakeholders in the SUK. A portal was launched on SUK’s website to file the applications that saw registration of over 3,600 applications related to scholarships, pending salaries, pensions and appointments of teaching and non-teaching staffs and administrative issues related to educational institutes mainly private ones. The SUK’s Rajmata Jijau multi-purpose hall was flooded with the applicants during the programme. Speaking after the event Samant said, “Most applicants would have to make frequent trips to Mumbai, meet the officials to get their concerns addressed. The programme was aimed to avoid such inconvenience to the students, teachers and operators of educational institutes. For long, the applications were pending and the same got resolved in just one sitting. Out of 17 applications seeking appointments, we cleared 10 on the spot.” The minister added that such programme will be organised at every higher educational universities at least once in three to six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/higher-edu-minister-clears-2700-applications-at-suk/articleshow/80454201.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||BJP is using ‘divisive tactics’ for Bengal polls: Shiv Sena||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena on Monday slammed Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), stating that the latter was using the same tactics in West Bengal that it had used in Maharashtra and Bihar. Days after Sena announced its plans to contest the West Bengal assembly polls, the party accused its former alliance partner of trying to divide the regional parties in a bid to come into power. Sena in an editorial in party mouthpiece ‘Saamna’, alleged that BJP decided to use the ‘Hindutva issue’. “Like in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, BJP has started religious division in West Bengal. However, to some extent, Mamata Banerjee is responsible for the same,” stated Saamna. The editorial also said a few BJP functionaries had had started giving hate speeches in WB, which is scheduled to go to the polls later this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sena-bjp-is-using-divisive-tactics-for-bengal-polls/articleshow/80457072.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Chennai||Coimbatore exceeds daily goal for vaccination||Chennai: The vaccination graph in Tamil Nadu is plateauing at 40% as many doctors, nurses and other healthcare providers continue to stay away. On Monday, against the targeted 17,200, 7,3037 were vaccinated until 7pm, taking TN’s total vaccine recipients to 69,027 against the targeted 1,70,100. TN remains among the poorest performers in the country, but vaccine centres in Coimbatore continued to overshoot the daily target. On Monday, 699 got vaccinated against the target of 400. In the past 10 days, the district inoculated 4,916 against the target of 4,100. Namakkal (75.8%), Tirupur (71.9%), Salem (68.9%) and the Nilgiris (67.4%) were on top. Chennai, with TN’s most healthcare providers, vaccinated 8,800 in the past 10 days including 1,381 on Monday. Madurai vaccinated 58% of the targeted 2,899 against a capacity of 5,000 and Trichy vaccinated 2,530 (42%) of target 5,900. In Tuticorin, only 309 were vaccinated against the targeted 3,000. Tenkasi (11%), Nagapattinam (21%), Tiruvarur (13%) and Tiruvallur (13%) were among the bottom five. Of the 7,307 vaccinated on Monday, 7,145 got Serum Institute of India’s Oxford vaccine Covishield and 162 received Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin from six session sites. Officials say Covaxin’s acceptance remains low, with 25% of the daily targets opting for it in the past 10 days. Until Monday, 1,513 took Covaxin against capacity to vaccinate 6,000, while 67,514 of the targeted 1,6410 people (41%) took Covishield. “The programme is voluntary. We don’t pressure anyone to take the vaccine or choose any particular vaccine,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/coimbatore-exceeds-daily-goal-for-vaccination/articleshow/80456083.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Delhi||Rapid antigen tests for Covid at Delhi's IGI airport now||NEW DELHI: The Genestrings Diagnostics Centre, which had been conducting Covid tests at Indira Gandhi International Airport, has now started offering rapid antigen tests. Officials said that the pilot test was conducted on Sunday, for KLM’s Amsterdam-bound passengers, where it is now mandatory to get a second test done four hours prior to flight in addition to a recent RTPCR report. Officials said that more than 250 passengers were tested under the supervision of KLM ground staff and Genestrings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rapid-antigen-tests-for-covid-at-igi-now/articleshow/80456075.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Aurangabad||This Marathwada-based ZP school didn’t let Covid stop it from imparting education||Aurangabad: While classrooms and campuses of primary schools across the state wear a deserted a look due to the ongoing pandemic, the zilla parishad-run school at Ramkund village in Bhoom taluka of Osmanabad district, located around 200km from here, is an exception to such blanket closure. The school, having a total of 84 students of classes I to IV, has been operating non-stop since the outbreak of Covid-19 upon the request of parents. School principal Dadasaheb Salunke said most of the parents are marginal farmers and farm workers who toil hard in the fields and cannot take care of children during the day. “A group of parents requested us to conduct the classes in order to ensure that their wards remain engaged. We accepted their demand after getting the nod from the local gram panchayat. Now, the academic activities are on by following all the Covid-prevention norms since March,” he said. At the early stages of Covid outbreak, school authorities did not allow the children to enter the campus and instead reached out to their homes. “We formed a group of students and a guardian for every group. Later, the teaching-learning process was carried out in small groups under a large banyan tree located near the school. For last few weeks, students are allowed to enter the campus and we are working in a more organized and vigorous manner,” Salunke said. Appasaheb Hake, a parent whose daughter and son are studying at the school concerned, said his children did not witness any academic loss during lockdown. “Even zilla parishad officials visited our school and lauded the uninterrupted process of teaching and learning during the pandemic by ensuring necessary safety precautions. We remain grateful towards the school authorities who extended helping hand not only to us, but also to our children,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/this-marathwada-based-zp-school-didnt-let-covid-stop-it-from-imparting-education/articleshow/80454209.cms||Prasad Joshi
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||NCB arrests Chinku Pathan's key associate Arif Bhujwala||MUMBAI: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday finally arrested Arif Bhujwala, a key associate of the late underworld don Karim Lala’s grandson Parvez alias Chinku Pathan, from Raigad district for allegedly manufacturing and selling narcotic drugs. Bhujwala was on the run since he jumped of the window and escaped when the NCB raided his Dongri residence on January 20. Along with Bhujwala, the NCB also arrested an alleged drug peddler and his driver from Raigad. NCB officials, with help from Mumbai Police, are now looking for the “criminal who gave shelter to Bhujwala despite knowing that he was wanted in the narcotics seizure case”. The agency has recovered an SUV and six phones from Bhujwala, who will be produced before court on Tuesday. Bhujwala is the sixth arrest in the drugs bust case so far; Pathan was the first to be arrested from his Ghansoli residence in Navi Mumbai on January 19. Investigations suggest that Pathan and Bhujwala were partners in the drug syndicate, said sources. The scope of the investigation into the drug syndicate has widened with the NCB now asking the Income-Tax department, Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Mumbai Police to initiate separate proceedings against the Pathan gang. “While the I-T department will probe the seizure of Rs 2.2 crore from Pathan’s house, the ED will look into the money-laundering angle as the seized money is proceeds of crime and Mumbai Police will register a case under the Arms Act as two illegal weapons were recovered from Pathan,” said an NCB official. The anti-drugs agency has also identified four properties of Pathan and Bhujwala and is in the process of freezing them as proceeds of crime. Bhujwala’s arrest seems significant as officials had seized 5.7kg of mephedrone, 1kg methamphetamine and 6.1kg ephedrine from his flat in Noor Manzil last week. They had also found a ‘laboratory’ below his house with a huge stash of packaging material, utensils, weighing machines and other apparatus used to manufacture the contraband, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pathan-aide-on-the-run-after-ncb-raid-arrested/articleshow/80457132.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 26, 2021||India||ED attaches land in laundering case||NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate has attached 3,850 acres of land in Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Chennai in Tamil Nadu worth Rs 207 crore in a money laundering case where a real estate developer had collected more than Rs 1,200 crore from people promising to allot them plots. The accused later laundered the money in acquiring personal assets. “These attached assets are registered in the names of Disc Assets Lead India Limited, Eagles Eye Real Estates, Meadow Realtors and its key managerial persons,” the ED said in its order. The directors of these firms collected money in installments from the public from various parts of Tamil Nadu and Kerala promising them lands in return.  “Investigation revealed that the directors had floated many other entities like Dal Marketing Solutions and Aiyan Marketing Solutions to collect money from the public to the tune of Rs 1,273 crore,” ED said. The agency further claimed that the amount collected was siphoned off by the directors through entities which were floated by them with their close relatives as directors and partners. “The accused persons cheated depositors by neither allotting them land, nor returning their investment,” it said. The directors included N Umashankar, N Arun Kumar, V Janarthanan and A Saravana Kumar. They have all been arrested for their involvement in the offense of money laundering, ED said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-attaches-land-in-laundering-case/articleshow/80459638.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Delhi||Ration at doorstep in Delhi from March, says Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: From March, eligible people in Delhi will start getting subsidised ration at their doorstep, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said at a flag-hoisting ceremony on Monday to mark the 72nd Republic Day at Delhi Secretariat. “By March, our dream initiative of providing door-step delivery of ration will be launched. People will not be required to go to ration shops any more. This will be a revolutionary step in changing the entire ration system,” Kejriwal said. Under the scheme, properly packed items will be sent to the beneficiaries. Referring to the challenges faced by Delhi government due to Covid-19, including the dip in tax collection, Kejriwal explained how his government had tackled them. While the pandemic had overwhelmed health infrastructure across the world, no patient was lying on the road in Delhi even when the daily case count reached 8,500, he said, adding that over three lakh patients had recovered in home isolation that was launched in Delhi. The chief minister said he hoped the country would get rid of Covid this year with the help of vaccinations. The government had provided dry ration to 1 crore people every month and fed 10 lakh people every day during the lockdown, said Kejriwal. Around 1.6 lakh auto and taxi drivers had got Rs 5,000 each and 44,000 construction workers Rs 10,000 each, he added. Despite massive slump in the tax collection, Delhi government continues to provide free electricity and water, Kejriwal said, adding that 73% of the consumers received zero electricity bill in the last billing cycle and 56% zero water bill. Delhi government will also issue health cards to the public this year for treatment, Kejriwal said. “They will have a health ID and will not be required to carry any document or medical slip because all records will be stored in the card,” he said. One will also get to book an online/telephonic appointment with a doctor. The facility will start with government health infrastructure and private hospitals will be added later, Kejriwal added. The chief minister said Delhi Jal Board was working to clean the Yamuna and all its projects were running on time. On providing flats to slum dwellers, Kejriwal said, “In some places people remain a bit hesitant about moving to flats. I want to appeal to them that you and your family cannot have a bright future in slums. Delhi government is constructing flats for you.” Chhatrasal Stadium is the usual venue for the Republic Day ceremony but it was shifted to Delhi Secretariat due to Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ration-at-doorstep-in-delhi-from-march-says-kejriwal/articleshow/80456144.cms||Alok K N Mishra
January 26, 2021||Goa||Traffic backs up on Zuari bridge for 6 hrs due to minor accidents||Vasco: Zuari bridge witnessed a huge traffic jam on Monday. There were minor accidents and vehicle breakdowns which led to vehicles queuing on either side of the bridge. Traffic was backed up from Cortalim to Verna towards Margao, Cortalim to Sancoale towards Vasco, Cortalim to Agassaim towards Panaji and Cortalim to Thana towards Ponda. The traffic jam started at 1.45pm and stopped the free flow of traffic till around 8pm. According to traffic police inspector Sudesh Narvekar, there were four minor accidents on the route leading to the Zuari bridge. Also, there were two vehicles which broke down which added to the traffic chaos. The state has seen an influx of vehicles from neighbouring Karnataka and Maharashtra over the weekend owing to Republic Day on Tuesday. This has only made the traffic situation worse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/traffic-backs-up-on-zuari-bridge-for-6-hrs-due-to-minor-accidents/articleshow/80457156.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Aurangabad||Five arrested for murder in Kabnur village||Kolhapur: Five people have been arrested for killing a man in thr Kabnur village after he had a fallout with his opponents during the recently concluded gram panchayat election. According to police, the deceased, Sandip Suresh Magade, was assaulted by the suspects with sharp weapons on Saturday. He died on the spot due to heavy bleeding. Police investigation has revealed that Magade had an altercation with his opponents during the elections. After the incident came to light, A large number of people had gathered outside the police station saying they would not accept the body unless killers were arrested. Police have registered an offence against a total of 20 people. Those held have been identified as Muddasar Ghunke, Shahrukh Shakh, Rohan Kurane, Shahrukh Attar and Rahul Shinde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/five-arrested-for-murder-in-kabnur-village/articleshow/80454220.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Nashik||Police raid gambling den, book 16||Nashik: A gambling den was raided by the Mumbai Naka police in Wadala Naka on Saturday wherein 16 people were booked under the Prevention of Gambling Act. The police also seized Rs 40,000 from the spot. The Mumbai Naka police had received information from their sources that people were gambling in an empty shop in Laxmi Complex. After verifying the information, a police team raided the shop on Saturday evening and found as many as 16 involved in gambling activities. The police have started taking action against gambling dens and last week 14 people were booked in various raids carried out in gambling dens across the city. The raids were conducted by Panchavati, Indiranagar, Upnagar and Satpur police stations. Satpur police had booked one person, while Upnagar police had booked three people. Also, one person was booked by Indiranagar police and Panchavati police had booked nine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-raid-gambling-den-book-16/articleshow/80454248.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Raid on office of channel in copyright and cheating case||MUMBAI: The Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) on Sunday carried raids on the offices of Mahamovies channel in Delhi in connection with a copyright and cheating case. With the raids and seizure of electronic equipment, the channel has shut its operation since Sunday. The raids were carried out following the arrest of Maha Movies CEO Sanjay Verma. Police have issued lookout notices for the owners of the channel — Darshan Singh and Vishwajeet Sharma. Both are accused in TRP and copyright cases, said investigating officer Sachin Waze. The case pertains to a complaint registered by late producer Prakash Mehra’s son that the channel has aired Mehra’s hits like Zanzeer, Lawaris and Mukkadar ka Sikander though they did not have any right to do so. Last year, an FIR has been registered against Narayan Sharma, owner of Box Cinema, for copyright violation, impersonation and cheating by airing an old hit movie produced & directed by the late Prakash Mehra. A case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/raid-on-office-of-channel-in-copyright-and-cheating-case/articleshow/80457187.cms||S Ahmed Ali
January 26, 2021||Chennai||City NCLAT to oversee south tribunals||Chennai: People from southern states always have this feeling that to seek justice in terms of physical access, they have to travel too far to Delhi. In this context to have a bench of NCLAT (National Company Law Appellate Tribunal) in Chennai is a major step forward, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said while inaugurating the Chennai bench of NCLAT on Monday. “In a way, I have a particular sense of satisfaction because being from a southern state myself, I have most often felt that Delhi was too far for us and therefore, the companies in these states,” Nirmala said. She added that the Chennai bench of the NCLAT will have jurisdiction over National Company Law Tribunals of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Lakshadweep and Puducherry. However, cases from the Andaman and Nicobar, which we consider to be part of the south, will be handled by the principal bench at Delhi, she clarified. Noting that the southern states have made a significant contribution to the nation’s GDP, she said, “it is a very big success story.” Therefore, they need an accessible appellate body for company related matters which would be provided by the Chennai bench, she said. Making it clear that the principal bench at Delhi would be hearing all appeals from states that are not covered by the Chennai bench, she said, “in way the NCLAT bench in Chennai does as much as what is being done by the principal bench at Delhi.” “So, the southern states can feel the power of the bench that has been established in Chennai,” she added. “Despite being in existence for only four years, NCLAT has disposed of 3,800 cases of the 5,600 filed under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) alone,” she said. The Chennai bench has been declared open ten months after the Centre notified the constitution of the bench. The inauguration comes in the wake of a series of pleas moved in the apex court and the Madras high court against the delay in setting up the bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-nclat-to-oversee-south-tribunals/articleshow/80456153.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Vadodara||CR clarifies on age bar||Vadodara: BJP state president C R Paatil on Monday said that persons above 55 years of age could also seek a ticket for the ensuing local body polls. Paatil had recently said that such persons should not ask for a ticket from the party.Paatil, who was in Godhra to inaugurate a new party office for Panchmahal district, said that he had only made a suggestion and is not a decision. But this has led to many leaders deciding to promote youngsters,” he said.When asked about the scuffle between party workers in Ahmedabad for a ticket, Paatil said that the incident was an isolated one and the party would take action. “As many as 11,000 candidates are to be selected and around two lakh persons will be seeking tickets. The party workers have been very disciplined and followed social distancing while seeking tickets,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cr-clarifies-on-age-bar/articleshow/80454265.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Coimbatore||EPS, OPS to celebrate Jaya’s birth anniv in Coimbatore||Coimbatore: The AIADMK is gearing up to make the 73rd birth anniversary of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa into a grand political extravaganza on February 24.In Coimbatore, the celebrations are expected to be a show of strength for the party as chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam are scheduled to participate along with scores of other ministers.The preparations for the celebration began on Monday with state local administration minister S P Velumani announcing that the party would organise weddings of 73 poor couples from the district to mark the 73rd birth anniversary. "Every year, when Amma was alive and after her death, we were helping poor people marry. They will be given a full set of seer varisai (wedding gifts)," he said after erecting a pole, a ritual to mark the preparations for the wedding at Perur Chettipalayam. The wedding would be performed on February 15 while events would be organised till February 24.Elsewhere in the state too, AIADMK ministers and MLAs are gearing up for making the celebrations grander this year with the assembly polls approaching. With an eye on attracting the voters, as well as to impress the party high command to get tickets to contest in the assembly elections, functionaries of the party are planning a series of events.Last year, celebrations turned into a freebie distribution programme with everything from scooters, household items, clothes and utensils being distributed to the public. It was the local body polls that got the AIADMK men to splurge on the celebrations. This year too, several functionaries have planned for freebie distribution, spending from their pockets. For AIADMK in Coimbatore, the event would be an opportunity to show its strength in the western belt."The proof of the support we enjoy was seen during the two-day visit of chief minister EPS to Coimbatore when hundreds of cadres gathered," Velumani said.The two-day tour marked the return of the cutouts, hoardings and political arches being erected all along the roads in Coimbatore. AIADMK men are planning for similar grandeur for the birth anniversary celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/eps-ops-to-celebrate-jayas-birth-anniv-in-coimbatore/articleshow/80456179.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Goa||e-EPIC for all voters from Feb 1||Panaji: The Goa election commission launched an Electronic Electors Photo Identity Card (e-EPIC) facility on the eleventh National Voters Day, on Monday. The facility will be initially available for new electors and from February 1 it will be made available to all voters simultaneously. “In the past 70 years, we have seen an evolution in the voting system in India. Attempts are being made to make the process foolproof. As a result, with each passing year, there is more enthusiasm among citizens to come forward and vote. The power is not in the hands of the representatives, but in that of voters,” governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari said. He congratulated the new and young voters and urged the election commission to make voting a smooth process. “The addition, deletion process in the electoral roll must be streamlined. The entire process must be transparent while keeping its sanctity intact,” he said. Calling the National Voters Day, “the foundation of our Constitution” chief secretary, Parimal Rai said that there must be focus on maximizing participation to make the upcoming election a success.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/e-epic-for-all-voters-from-feb-1/articleshow/80457269.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Coimbatore||Doc’s death: DMK seeks CB-CID probe||Coimbatore: DMK has sought a CB–CID probe into the death of Chennai Hospital managing director Dr Umashankar.In a statement on Monday, DMK Rajya Sabha MP R S Bharathi said that a car ran over Dr Umashankar on January 23 killing him on the spot at Kannappa Nagar in Thudiyalur. “CCTV cameras in the locality did not function on that day. Complaints seeking a thorough probe into the death have raised doubts whether it was an accident," Bharathi said. "Who ordered the arrest of Umashankar at lightning speed after a complaint of rental default was lodged? How did he die on the spot of the accident? These questions cannot be ignored.”TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/docs-death-dmk-seeks-cb-cid-probe/articleshow/80456176.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Kochi||Covid-19 caseload at private hospitals goes up in Ernakulam||KOCHI: Number of Covid patients getting admitted in private hospitals continues to rise as the district reported more than 1,000 cases for a few days last week. As many as 825 are under treatment in private hospitals in the district as on Monday as against 684 on January 18. While the number was 771 on Sunday. Meanwhile, vaccination of healthcare workers (HCWs) improved in Ernakulam. On Monday, 1,796 HCWs were inoculated at 19 centres. As many as six centres reported inoculation of 100 HCWs or above on Monday. The rising number of Covid positive cases in the district has forced Indian Medical Association, Cochin unit, to come out with an appeal to the public to avoid gatherings. The association urged people to wear face mask and protect elderly from getting infected. “Rising test positivity rate in Kerala is a cause for concern. The highest number of cases being reported in the state is in Ernakulam, which is a travel hub,” stated a press release issued by the association. Ernakulam on Monday reported 487 Covid positive cases, including 483 contact cases. Source of infection of 10 are unknown. As many as five healthcare workers tested positive for coronavirus. INHS Sanjeevani reported three cases. Most of the cases of the day were reported from Maradu with 44 followed by Thuravoor, Thrikkakara and Tripunithura (17 each), Payipra (15) and Kalamassery (10). Less than five cases were reported from 68 places. As many as 616 recovered from the disease on Monday when 100 were discharged and 130 were admitted. Ernakulam has 10,767 active Covid cases, including 8,709 home care ones. Of the total, 45 are Government Medical College, Ernakulam, and the rest in Covid first and second-line treatment centres and other government hospitals. As many as 3,507 samples were sent for testing from both government and private sectors together on Monday. A total of 26,746 people are under quarantine in Ernakulam when 1,818 contacts were asked to undergo quarantine on Monday. As many as 396 were released from quarantine. The control room received 150 calls, including 105 from the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-19-caseload-at-pvt-hospitals-goes-up/articleshow/80455099.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Police say Arnab Goswami is the main person in TRP scam: Ex-BARC CEO||MUMBAI: Former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta’s lawyer told the Bombay high court on Monday that Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami was the “main person” in the TRP manipulation scam according to the prosecution. Counsel Shardul Singh was responding to a query from Justice P D Naik as to who, according to the police, was the main person in the case and what was Dasgupta’s role. Public prosecutor Deepak Thakare said that the additional chargesheet filed in the case had mentioned Dasgupta as the “mastermind” of the scam. Dasgupta was seeking bail before the HC after two lower courts had denied him liberty. Pointing out that all the other accused, including the chief operating officer of BARC, a co-accused, were either released on bail or were granted protection from arrest by the courts, Singh sought bail for Dasgupta on grounds of parity. He also argued that Dasgupta’s health was frail and he had to be hospitalized on January 15 and was discharged last Friday. Thakare submitted a report by the medical officer from Taloja jail which said Dasgupta, 55, was “stable” and “oriented and conscious.” Thakare said he was getting all the medical attention needed in prison and if there was any emergency, he would be shifted to JJ hospital, even if a police escort was not available. The court adjourned the bail hearing by a week to enable Dasgupta’s lawyer to amend the petition and seek a copy of the supplementary chargesheet. According to the supplementary chargesheet filed in court, Dasgupta told the police in a statement that he’d received Rs 40 lakh from Goswami over a period of three years as well as US $6,000 for a holiday, in return for rigging the ratings. Dasgupta is accused of misusing his official position and conniving with ARG Outlier Media and Arnab Goswami to manipulate TRPs and boost Republic TV to No. 1 position. While rejecting his bail plea, the additional chief metropolitan magistrate at Esplanade Court had earlier on January 4 said, “The material available on record shows the involvement of the present accused in the alleged crime and played a vital role in the commission of offence.” He had moved the sessions court, which too had rejected his bail plea on January 20. “The accused is the most influential person who worked as CEO of BARC,” the magistrate had said while declining Dasgupta’s bail plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/police-say-arnabs-the-main-person-in-trp-scam-ex-barc-ceo/articleshow/80457277.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Coimbatore||Late industry captain, centenarian farmer awarded Padma Shri||Coimbatore: Two Coimbatorians will receive the Padma Shri award this year. The awardees are founder and former managing trustee of Shanthi Social Services P Subramanian and 105-year-old farmer from Thekkampatti M Pappammal. While Pappammal has won the award for agriculture, Subramanian won the award for trade and industry.Subramanian founded the trust —Shanthi Social Services. Through the trust, he provides multiple high-quality services —including medicines, petrol, scans, dialysis treatment, cremation, ambulance services and food at subsidized costs. This made lakhs of people who could not afford basic needs like food, healthcare and education access the above through the trust. The trust does not accept any donation.However, the government has decided to honour him for his work in establishing Shanthi Gears from scratch and turned the company into a third largest player in gear industry. Known as the ‘Gear Man’ of Coimbatore, Subramanian completed his diploma in PSG Polytechnic in the 1960s and taught for a few years in the college, before establishing Shanthi Engineering and Trading Co in 1969. The company was manufacturing small gears. In 1972, he converted it into a private company called Shanthi Gear Products. The company was listed in the stock exchange in 1986. After selling his company in 2012, Subramanian concentrated solely on social and philanthropic services.Pappammal is considered a legend in agriculture. While women in the 30s get a backache after tending to their gardens, 105-year-old Pappammal continues to labour at her field in Thekkampatti, a village on the banks of river Bhavani. She continues to cultivate millets, pulses and vegetables across 2.5 acres that she holds on to. She also runs a provision store and eatery. Besides her astounding fitness, she had also been politically and socially active in her early part of life. She is known to attend debates organized by the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University and was councillor of Thekkampatti panchayat in 1959.R Raveendran of RAAC says this is great news for Coimbatore. Congratulations to Shanthi Social Service family. Latha Sundaram of Aram Foundation said Subramanian deserved it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/late-industry-captain-centenarian-farmer-awarded-padma-shri/articleshow/80456174.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Delhi||Delhi government panel brainstorms with stakeholders on EV financing||NEW DELHI: The Dialogue and Development Commission (DDC) of Delhi government hosted a consultation on Monday with leading financing institutions, vehicle manufacturers, delivery service providers and fleet aggregators to discuss the various financing challenges in the adoption of electric vehicles in Delhi. The meeting was held under the umbrella of Delhi EV Forum, which held its first meeting earlier on December 18, 2020. “We are committed to accomplishing chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s vision to make Delhi the EV capital of India. Considering that lack of financing options for electric vehicles is a critical barrier for mass adoption, the discussion provided the necessary platform for leading financing institutions for a much-needed conversation among all stakeholders,” DDC’s vice-chairperson Jasmine Shah said. The meeting sought to identify various interventions that can be taken by Delhi government to encourage financing institutions to support the proliferation of electric vehicles in Delhi, a statement from the government said. The AAP government notified its ambitious electric vehicle (EV) policy on August 7, 2020 and aimed at having an EV market share of 25% across all new vehicle sales in Delhi by 2024. “Since the launch of Delhi’s EV policy, we have been committed to addressing various challenges that delayed the adoption of electric vehicles in Delhi. An important feedback that was received during our interaction with various stakeholders at the Delhi EV Forum was the higher interest rates on loans for electric vehicles due to persistent scepticism regarding EV technology coupled with issues of vehicle residual value and second-life of battery,” Shah said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-panel-brainstorms-with-stakeholders-on-ev-financing/articleshow/80456180.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Dehradun||2 years after jawan died during ops in J&K, wife set to join Army as officer, says happy to have fulfilled husband’s dying wish||Dehradun: Jyoti Nainwal, 32, wife of Naik Deepak Nainwal, who died after being shot in Army operations in J&K in 2018, is set to join as an officer in the Indian Army. It was the dying wish of her husband that she serve the country after he is no longer able to. She will soon be leaving her children, eight and five years old, for a year-long training at Officers’ Training Academy, Chennai. Nainwal, who cracked the Army SSC exam, one of the toughest physical and psychological exams, in her fourth attempt, will continue the tradition of her in-laws’ family, who have been Army men for three generations. Once commissioned, she would be the first officer in her family, as other members have served as jawans and in other non-officer ranks. Speaking to TOI, an emotional Nainwal said she was happy to at last be able to fulfil the last wish of her dying husband. “Having been grievously shot in the spine and chest, he had lost all sensation in his lower body. During the last 40 days of his life at the hospital in Delhi, he once asked me to join the Army when he is no more. I am thankful to the Indian Army for giving me the opportunity of honouring his last wish,” she said. Jyoti’s mother Guddi Khanduri said she is both happy and apprehensive. “I am happy at my daughter’s achievement but worried since the kids are too young. It’s hard to explain to them what’s going on,” said Khanduri. She will be taking care of the kids with the help of Jyoti’s younger brother Naveen.  Jyoti’s father-in-law, Honorary Captain (retd) Chakradhar Nainwal, said her determination and hard work had brought her success. “She would get up at 3:30 am just so the neighbours wouldn’t see her jogging, as a woman exercising in athletic wear is frowned upon in our area. She worked very hard on her spoken English skills. A woman taking care of two small kids after having lost her husband is hard enough. In addition to that, her managing to crack the Army exam which is commendable.” Colonel (retd) Mohinder Pal Singh, director of AMAS training academy in New Delhi, who guided Jyoti while she prepared for the exam, said, “She was sent to me by senior officers of the battalion of her husband, who was part of the Mahar Regiment. I just showed her the direction but she walked on the path and kept at it despite the failures. Her determination was rare for someone who had lost a spouse to a tragic death. Women like her set excellent examples. I salute her for her bravery and courage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-years-after-jawan-died-during-ops-in-jk-wife-set-to-join-army-as-officer-says-happy-to-have-fulfilled-husbands-dying-wish/articleshow/80454267.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 26, 2021||India||Nagaland Lokayukta sets terms for quitting||NEW DELHI: Nagaland Lokayukta Justice U N Singh on Monday offered to resign from the post but told the Supreme Court that he should be protected from posible vengeful litigation by the state and tarnishing of his reputation in the media. Justice Singh’s counsel, senior advocate Vikas Singh, handed over a note to a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde conveying willingness to resign from the post on the condition that the SC dismiss Nagaland’s writ petition expressing exasperation with the Lokayukta’s “unjust and arbitrary” personal demands. The CJI-led bench had last week told Justice Singh, “We do not think you have been or can function properly (as Lokayukta) with this kind of relation with the government. We want to tell you, we do not agree with you at all. You cannot sit somewhere and dictate terms (Justice Singh wants to function as Nagaland Lokayukta while staying in Delhi). Everyone would then sit at home, say in Tamil Nadu, and function as Lokayukta of Jammu & Kashmir." In his note to the SC, Justice Singh said he was ready to resign “upon dismissal of the petition filed by Nagaland government”. The note added, “Nagaland or any other authority or person shall not use or refer to any material or averment placed on record in the present writ petition or connected with the issue... for initiating any kind of action, complaint or proceedings or defaming him in media or any other manner whatsoever in nature which could cause any stigma in any manner to his privileges and status, professional, official or otherwise.” Justice Singh went on to link more conditions to his resignation from the statutory post. Nagaland advocate general K N Balgopal had narrated the controversies surrounding the Lokayukta’s functioning before making an unprecedented request of divesting the Lokayukta of all powers and entrusting pending cases to the Upa-Lokayukta. Trouble started almost immediately after Justice Singh was appointed Lokayukta in February 2019 as he sought permission to take up arbitration work despite clear prohibition for the Lokayukta from taking up any work other than those related to the statutory position. In May 2019, Justice Singh wrote to the government saying he would function “online” from his Delhi residence. Balgopal said Justice Singh demanded allocation of the chief minister’s old bungalow for his residence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nagaland-lokayukta-sets-terms-for-quitting/articleshow/80459651.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 26, 2021||Coimbatore||Constable loses phone to snatchers||Coimbatore: Two miscreants waylaid a police constable on Puttuvikki Road on Sunday night and snatched his mobile phone.Ashokan, attached to the 4th battalion of Tamil Nadu special police at Kovaipudur, was on the way home with his family on his motorcycle from Kovaipudur around 9.40pm, when two men on a scooter stopped them. One of them snatched Ashokan’s phone from his shirt pocket.Though police started vehicle checks across the city, they could not nab the snatchers.Usually, more cops are deployed on Saturdays and Sundays for patrolling and vehicle checks, police sources said. “But due to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s political campaign, personnel who were busy on Saturday and Sunday were given rest,” a police officer said. “Law & order and crime police personnel are working together to check phone snatching incidents.”Meanwhile, a mobile phone snatcher was caught by the public on Sungam – Ukkadam bypass on Monday. Motorists chased two men who had snatched a phone and caught one of them, police said. The Ramanathapuram police identified him as S Nizharuddin, 31, of Ukkadam. They are on the lookout for Surya of Ukkadam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/constable-loses-phone-to-snatchers/articleshow/80456183.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Delhi||CM Arvind Kejriwal unveils Ashoka Pillar at Delhi assembly||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal unveiled the Ashoka Pillar on the Delhi assembly premises on the eve of the 72nd Republic Day celebrations. Kejriwal said that it was a moment of pride for the Delhi assembly that the Ashoka Pillar, which is a symbol of national integrity, had been installed in the Vidhan Sabha. The Ashoka Chakra was adopted in the form of the national symbol of India on January 26, 1950. Now, when it is being installed in the Vidhan Sabha, it will bring back to the ministers and MLAs the values of India as a democracy and a republic, he added. “I want to congratulate all of you, especially speaker Ram Niwas Goyal Ji. Since the time he has taken the seat of the speaker, he has done some commendable work to improve the infrastructure of the Delhi legislative assembly,” he said. “For the last four years, we organised the Constitution ceremony in the park on November 26, and suddenly we realised that there was no particular sign representing the Constitution. We decided to establish the Ashoka Chakra Pillar in the Vidhan Sabha as it is our national symbol,” Goyal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kejriwal-unveils-ashoka-pillar-at-delhi-assembly/articleshow/80456184.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Coimbatore||Search on for college student washed away in PAP canal||Coimbatore: The search for Mahbub Basha, who was washed away in the Parambikulam –Aliyar project canal at Andipalayam near Pongalur on Friday, continued on Monday.By Monday evening, the Tirupur south police and fire and rescue department personnel had searched 6km from the spot where he went missing. Now, three personnel are engaged in the search operation.Basha, student of a private college on Avinashi Road, had took a dip in the canal with two friends on Friday. After he was swept away, the friends had alerted police and his parents Haseena and Thajtheen.The parents on Monday approached the Tirupur collector and requested him to continue the search. “It has been four days since my son was washed away. Police and fire department personnel came to the spot when we called them. But they never even got inside water to search for him and just kept looking,” Haseena said. “I beg them to find and save my son.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/search-on-for-college-student-washed-away-in-pap-canal/articleshow/80456185.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Coimbatore||Warrants against 3 for supplying arms to LTTE||Coimbatore: The judicial magistrate court -VI here has issued non-bailable warrants against three people, including two Sri Lankan nationals, accused of smuggling weapons for the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) in 1989.The court issued warrants against A Ravichandran of Kalikkanaickenpalayam in Coimbatore and LTTE members Kiliyan and Narendran, a press note issued by Q Branch CID on Monday said. “Ravichandran, a lathe operator, made weapon parts for LTTE and the Lankan nationals supplied arms to LTTE. Q Branch arrested Ravichandran in 1989 when he was 35 years old. He secured bail and went missing. The Lankan nationals were never arrested,” the note said.The court has directed the trio to appear on March 1. Those who have information about them can contact the Q Branch at 0422-2309000. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/warrants-against-3-for-supplying-arms-to-ltte/articleshow/80456181.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Surat||DREAM City to earn Rs 900 cr with auction of 12 ha land||Surat: With the world-class Surat Diamond Bourse (SDB) project nearing completion and Prime Minister Narendra Modi laying the foundation stone for the metro rail project, the development of the Diamond Research and Mercantile (DREAM) city project has been put on the fast track. The DREAM City Limited, an SPV formed by the state government, is planning to auction 12 hectare of land inside the DREAM city at Khajod for the development of the commercial, residential units and a hotel. Official sources said that the 12 hectare land will be auctioned to the private parties. With SDB project nearing completion, there will be a huge requirement of residential and commercial space for the diamond companies and people connected with it. Last week, the board meeting of the DREAM City Limited was held where it was decided to auction three plots at the DREAM city. The board has decided the price of the land at Rs 73,000 per square meter. The 12 hectares of land is likely to earn the revenue of about Rs 900 crore. Talking with TOI, general manager of DREAM City Limited, Dr Rajesh Pandya said, “The process will take another three months. We will auction three plots spread over 12 hectare for the commercial and residential projects and a hotel.” About 27,000 square meter lot is reserved for commercial projects, 30,000 square meter land is reserved for hotel project and 67,000 square meter is reserved for residential projects. The DREAM city project is being developed on 700 hectare of land at Khajod, which connects to the outer Ring Road and the Surat airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dream-city-to-earn-rs-900-cr-with-auction-of-12-ha-land/articleshow/80454297.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Coimbatore||City startup reaches finals of TiE Women Global Pitch||Coimbatore: City-based startup School Basix, which was one of the 26 startups selected from across five countries, represented India at the TiE Women Global Pitch Competition held earlier this month.The two-and-a-half-year old startup gives vendors of school products an online presence and helps them with sourcing, logistics, working capital and even last mile delivery to schools and parents. It was recognized for helping struggling school retailers during the pandemic.As many as 15,000 startups from 26 chapters from across six countries participated in the event. “There were three rounds — a presentation, impact on society and an online session with venture capitalists,” School Basix founder and CEO Swathy Rohit said. Of the 15,000 startups, School Basix was one of the 26 that got to travel to the final rounds in Dubai to make a pitch in front of more venture capitalists. “It definitely garnered a lot of attention to TiE Coimbatore and Coimbatore startups,” said Rohit, who had started it as a company providing school uniforms.The firm slowly began getting unorganized uniform sellers and tailors, who often had issues with schools and parents because of sizing issues and material issues among others, to join them by creating websites and helping them with sourcing and logistics.Incidentally, it was a few months before Covid-19 that the firm got school retailers selling shoes, books, textbooks and stationary to join them. “We give them a catalogue of the products we can source for them, so they get to list the products they think will sell in their region or to their customers, besides their area of speciality. We then source the products and do the last mile shipping to parents or schools,” said Rohit.This helped as many as 300 retailers, who were struggling to survive during the pandemic, which left them with massive stocks, locked in capital and no sales.School Basix has created websites for 162 vendors across 25 cities in five southern states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-startup-reaches-finals-of-tie-women-global-pitch/articleshow/80456192.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Delhi||Delhi gets the shivers, expect moderate fog on Republic Day||NEW DELHI: Parts of the city recorded “cold day” conditions with the maximum falling to 16.3 degrees Celsius at Palam — six notches below normal. Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, saw a maximum of 18.4 degrees Celsius – four degrees below normal. Track the pollution level in your cityWhile “cold day” conditions may continue this week, “cold wave” conditions are likely from January 28, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. It has also forecast “moderate” fog for the morning of Republic Day with visibility likely between 200m and 500m. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist, IMD, and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, Delhi, said the maximum was likely to stay around 18 degrees at Safdarjung over the next four days, with parts of Delhi would record “cold day” conditions. “Cold wave conditions are also expected from January 28, with a yellow alert in place for both January 28 and 29. The minimum can fall to 4 degrees and lower,” he said, adding that dense fog was not likely on Republic Day. “The current forecast for Republic Day morning is moderate fog. Dense fog and very dense fog tend to occur only when the sky has been absolutely clear the previous day,” he said. Delhi’s minimum temperature was 7.4 degrees Celsius with the coldest being Lodhi Road at 6.4 degrees, followed by Jafarpur at 6.9 degrees Celsius. The relative humidity oscillated between 59% and 100% in the past 24 hours. Delhi’s air quality remained in the “very poor” category on Monday with an Air Quality Index (AQI) of 323 against 364 (very poor) on Sunday. “The overall air quality in the city is in the ‘very poor’ category. Surface winds are west-northwesterly and moderate. The temperature is likely to dip due to cold dry northwesterly winds. No significant change in ventilation index is forecast for the next three days, and the AQI is likely to stay in the middle-end of ‘very poor’ on Tuesday until January 28,” said System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-gets-the-shivers-expect-moderate-fog-on-republic-day/articleshow/80456194.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Bareilly||HC dismisses Azam’s plea on Jauhar varsity ‘penalty’||RAMPUR: The Allahabad high court has dismissed a writ petition challenging penalty of Rs 2.72 crore and cess amounting to Rs 1.36 crore imposed on construction at Mohammad Ali Jauhar University in Rampur. Dismissing the writ petition filed by Maulana Mohammad Ali Jauhar Trust through its chairman Mohd Azam Khan, Justice JJ Munir said the petitioner has an alternative remedy of filing an appeal against the order imposing cess under The Building and Other Construction Workers' Welfare Cess Act, 1996. Earlier, appearing for the trust, senior advocate SG Hasnain had argued that the order against the University was passed in violation of the principles of natural justice as no opportunity was granted to the petitioner to present his case. It would be a case of consideration of adverse material in violation of the first principle of natural justice, Hasnain said in court. Additional advocate general Manish Goyal, representing the state government, argued the petitioner could file an appeal against the cess imposed. Rampur district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh told TOI, "The hon'ble court did not stay the recovery order issued against the Jauhar University. Now, authorities are planning to recover the cess amount from the Trust which runs the varsity."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/hc-dismisses-azams-plea-on-jauhar-varsity-penalty/articleshow/80453669.cms||Nazar Abbas
January 26, 2021||Meerut||Cops recover 44 lost smartphones worth Rs 6 lakh, hand them over to actual owners||MUZAFFARNAGAR: District police recovered as many as 44 lost smartphones worth Rs 6 lakh on Monday and handed them over to their actual owners. The phones were recovered after extensive surveillance, said police. According to a member of the surveillance team, after receiving a complaint of a stolen mobile phone, police react promptly. This time around, however, a special drive to recovered lost mobile phones was launched following an order by Muzaffarnagar SSP Abhishek Yadav. On Monday, as many as 44 people from across the district who had filed complaints about their lost mobile phones were called by police at Muzaffarnagar police line and SP (city) Arpit Vijayvargiya handed them over their smartphones. Sources said police had put a large number of lost phones on surveillance and recovered 44 phones that were found to be in use. Police contacted the people using the lost phones and asked them to return the phones. After several days of follow-up, police managed to get 44 smartphones. Speaking to TOI, the SP said, “The 44 people, who had lodged complaints about losing their mobile phones, were handed over their phones.” Shameem Ahmed, a complainant who received his lost phone after four months, said, “It was my first smartphone, and I had dropped it somewhere. I had lodged a complaint with the hope that police would recover it. Luckily, the day has arrived.” According to the SSP, “The surveillance team worked for months to trace all mobile phones. A few phones are yet to be recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cops-recover-44-lost-smartphones-worth-rs-6-lakh-hand-them-over-to-actual-owners/articleshow/80454287.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 26, 2021||Coimbatore||Founders day of PSG celebrated||Coimbatore: The 95th Founders Day celebration of PSG and Sons Charities was organised on Monday.Former chief justice of Jharkhand high court M Karpaga Vinayagam was the chief guest, while managing trustee of PSG and Sons L Gopalakrishnan presided over the function.Distinguished alumni awards were given to B Satheesh Balan, deputy inspector general of police, special task force, Mewat, Haryana, M V Ramesh Babu, director of Navamani Group of Companies, Coimbatore, P Kumaravel Pandian, Coimbatore corporation commissioner, Shanmugam Nagarajan, Co-founder of [24]7.ai, Pinky Naresh Kumar, senior executive director Goldman Sachs, London, Joy Sarojini Michael, professor and head - Microbiology at Christian Medical College, Vellore and G Nirmala, lecturer, nursing department, College of Health and Sport Sciences, University of Bahrain. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/founders-day-of-psg-celebrated/articleshow/80456186.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Reconsider no. of Covid beds reserved in pvt hospitals: Bombay high court||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Monday asked the state government to consider reducing the number of beds reserved in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients.5 The oral direction by a bench of Justices Shahrukh Kathawalla and Vinay Joshi was followed after senior advocate S U Kamdar, for Indian Medical Association (IMA), said that the Covid-19 situation in Mumbai is under control and that the cases are on the decline. “Now Covid-19 patients are very few. Some 400-500 daily,” said Kamdar, adding that there cannot be a reservation of 50% beds. The court heard a clutch of petitions by doctor-owners of hospitals in Mumbai, Panvel, Thane and Navi Mumbai, who are aggrieved by the “arbitrary fixation” of treatment rates by state notifications since the pandemic-induced lockdown began. They contend that these notifications seek to financially control the hospitals, when they have not received financial aid, free or subsidised land or any assistance from the state or Central governments. In November 2020, the state government was restrained from taking any coercive action against them. Kamdar argued that a situation has been created where beds are kept empty and hospitals are suffering losses as they are not allowed to admit regular patients. He said that the latest notification is extended till February-end, and urged that the state be directed to reduce the reservation percentage. The judges questioned whether the state government was paying private hospitals any compensation for keeping 50% beds vacant for Covid-19 patients. The state’s advocate, Jyoti Chavan, said that she would take instructions and inform if a reasonable solution could be worked out. She said that due to concerted efforts of the doctors and the state government, the Covid situation is under control. She referred to a second wave in Europe. The judges wondered why the state government was being so negative. Chavan said that there is a need for caution as “we cannot throw everything to the wind.” The judges remarked that in the event of a second wave, the government can always direct an increase of the beds reservation. Asking the state to consider reducing the number of beds reserved, the judges posted the hearing to February 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/reconsider-no-of-covid-beds-reserved-in-pvt-hospitals-hc/articleshow/80457341.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Meerut||24 days after woman SI’s suicide, UP cops book instructor for abetment; kin say she was raped, blackmailed||Meerut: An instructor at a police academy in UP’s Moradabad was on Monday booked for extortion and abetment, 24 days after a woman sub-inspector -- who was about to get married-- hanged herself in her rented accommodation in Bulandshahr. The case was registered on the basis of a complaint filed by the woman’s brother, who alleged that she was raped and blackmailed by the instructor for several months. Bulandshahr police, however, didn’t book the accused for rape, saying that he and the woman SI were “in a relationship”. Santosh Kumar, Bulandshahr’s senior superintendent of police (SSP), said, “The woman SI was about to get married. And the accused instructor did not approve of it. He was blackmailing her into calling off the wedding. She was under constant stress, which forced her to take the extreme step.” “They were in a relationship for the last seven years. The analysis of call detail records (CDR) shows that they were talking at least 25 times daily. The claims of the brother are a matter of the investigation,” SSP added. But the brother alleged that she was raped, and was being blackmailed for the last several months. “My sister had told me that he (the instructor) invited her for tea and laced it with sedatives. He made a physical relationship with my sister and made a video of it. The instructor used that video to blackmail her. He was physically and mentally harassing her,” an excerpt in the complaint read. A 2015 batch officer and a resident of Shamli district, the SI was posted at Anoopshahr Kotwali in Bulandshahar. She hanged herself on January 1. In a suicide note recovered from the spot, she had blamed herself for the extreme step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/24-days-after-woman-sis-suicide-up-cops-book-instructor-for-abetment-kin-say-she-was-raped-blackmailed/articleshow/80454285.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Goa||Goa’s GST collections back to pre-Covid levels, says Koshyari||Panaji: Goa’s tax collection, which was showing a downward trend due to the Covid-19 pandemic, returned to pre-Covid levels in December 2020, said Goa governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. The governor, in his customary address before the state legislative assembly on Monday, said that the state government is making efforts to increase revenue collection and has set a target of Rs 5,393.7 crore for GST collections in 2020-21 as against Rs 4,406.6 crore in 2019-20. Koshyari also said that the Pramod Sawant-led government is committed to increase the GST, CST and IST tax revenue collection by increasing the taxpayer base, plugging leakages and ensuring compliance in payment of tax by the existing taxpayers. The governor also said that though there was complete lockdown in Goa for more than three months, the state has collected excise revenue of Rs 292.2 crore up to December as against the target of Rs 547.9 crore for the year 2020-21. “Efforts are being made to mop-up the revenue collection,” Koshyari said. “Due to Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown, the GST tax collection which was showing downward trend has now returned to near pre-Covid levels in December 2020.” Meanwhile, the Union ministry of Finance released the 13th instalment to states to meet the GST compensation shortfall taking the total disbursement to Goa to Rs 658 crore through the special borrowing window. The Government of India had set up a special borrowing window in October to meet the estimated shortfall in revenue arising on account of implementation of GST. The Centre has borrowed Rs 78,000 crore through the special borrowing window till date at an average interest rate of 4.7%. The state government is also expected to collect approximately Rs 200 crore through the one-time settlement scheme for pending old, disputed and undisputed tax cases. On the excise front, Goa has collected excise revenue to the tune of Rs 491.8 crore for the financial year 2019-20 as compared to Rs 478 crore in 2018-19 depicting an increase of revenue by 2.87%. For the current financial year, the amount is expected to be far lower due to the closure of tourism sector in Goa. Koshyari said that the Goa Excise Management System has now been extended and certain additional modules have been included to capture data on a real-time basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-gst-collections-back-to-pre-covid-levels-says-koshyari/articleshow/80457380.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 26, 2021||Coimbatore||Extend Avinashi Road elevated highway, says consumer body||Coimbatore: The Coimbatore Consumer Cause, a consumer organisation, has sent a letter to municipal administration minister S P Velumani, requesting him to take steps to extend the Avinashi Road elevated highway for 2.5km from Goldwins to Chinniyampalayam junction.As per the existing plan, the four-lane highway begins at Uppilipalayam and ends immediately after KMCH hospital, just before Goldwins, said K Kathirmathiyon, secretary of the organisation. “Even though it would be very useful and solve traffic problems, we feel it would be more useful if it ends after Chinniyampalayam. Hence, work on the ramps after KMCH should be stopped immediately and the work in other areas on the Avinashi Road should continue,” he said.A down ramp may be provided after KMCH for Goldwins and Chinniyampalayam, said Kathirmathiyon. “The state government had altered some projects in the larger public interest. Ukkadam flyover project was extended from Karumbukadai to Athupalam junction. Western bypass was extended by 10km up to Narasimmanaickenpalayam. Hence the Avinashi Road elevated highway also needs to be extended beyond Chinniyampalayam and till a decision is taken, the work at the finishing point near Goldwins should be stopped.”The elevated corridor work was started in December 2020. Minister Velumani inaugurated the work. The state government will spend Rs 1,621.30 crore on the project. The state highways department plans to complete the work in four years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/extend-avinashi-road-elevated-highway-says-consumer-body/articleshow/80456187.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Patna||Padma Bhushan for Ram Vilas Paswan, Mridula Sinha & 3 others get Padma Shri||PATNA: Former union minister Ram Vilas Paswan has been posthumously conferred with the Padma Bhushan award in the public affairs category while four others from Bihar, including former Goa governor late Mridula Sinha, were awarded Padma Shri on the eve of Republic Day on Monday. Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) founder Paswan passed away on October 8 last year. Besides Mridula, the others who have been conferred with Padma Shri award are Dulari Devi and Ramachandra Manjhi (Art) and Dr Dilip Kumar Singh (Medicine). Mridula has been awarded Padma Shri posthumously in the literature and education category. Mridula started her political journey from Muzaffarpur as an active worker of Jan Sangh. Later, she was nominated as the national president of BJP Mahila Morcha. A product of Balika Vidyapeeth at Lakhisarai, she was very popular and widely known for her simplicity. She died on November 18 last year. Ramchandra Manjhi, who was born in Chhapra, is considered to be the last living artist of the theatre troupe of veteran Bhojpuri poet, lyricist, folk dancer and social activist Bhikhari Thakur. Ramchandra has been credited to have taken forward the famous art form of Bhojpur belt after the demise of Bhikhari Thakur in 1971. Dulari Devi, a Madhubani painting artist from Madhubani, was earlier awarded the Bihar State Award for Excellence in Art (2012-13). Elated over the Padma Bhushan award to his father, LJP chief Chirag Paswan told TOI: “On behalf of the party and my family, I would like to thank the President, PM Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah for recognizing the work done by my father for the welfare and uplift of the poor and the downtrodden. It is perhaps the proudest moment for the family, though we miss him (RVP) a lot.” Bihar CM Nitish Kumar also expressed delight over the Padma Bhushan award to late Ram Vilas as well as Padma Shri to four from Bihar. Governor Phagu Chauhan also extended greetings to the Padma awardees from state. Padma awardees from Bihar Padma Bhushan: Ram Vilas Paswan (posthumous) Padma Shri: Mridula Sinha (posthumous), Dulari Devi, Ramchandra Manjhi and Dr Dilip Kumar Singh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/padma-bhushan-for-paswan-mridula-3-others-get-padma-shri/articleshow/80456195.cms||Piyush Tripathi
January 26, 2021||Kochi||Cyber fraud: Kerala cops help youth get money back||KOCHI: Cyber cell of Ernakulam rural police intervened to assist a youth in getting the money he lost through a cyber fraud. According to a statement issued by rural police on Monday, the youth had registered his name for an online job. A person who identified himself as a representative of the company called him soon after he signed up and asked him to pay Rs 25 as registration fee to go forward with the job hunting. The representative had provided him with user id and password to login to a payment page. However, when he attempted payment the process failed and he lost some money during the procedure. Police said the man then contacted the representative who asked him to send the SMS about the payment failure to him. The youth erased the balance amount part in the message and sent it to the representative. However, the representative then insisted on getting the full message and the youth then realized that it was a scam. He soon alerted the police and the cyber cell intervened to refund the money that he had lost. Police also launched an investigation against the scamsters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cyber-fraud-cops-help-youth-get-money-back/articleshow/80455110.cms||---
January 26, 2021||India||Swiftly decide Salar Jung case, oldest civil suit: SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday requested the Telangana high court to speedily dispose of the longest surviving civil suits, pending since 1952, over division of assets and properties between the descendants of Salar Jung III of Hyderabad. Appearing for one such descendant, Syed Zahid Ali, senior advocate A M Singhvi told a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian that one suit was pending since 1952, three years after the death of Nawab Mir Yousuf A H Khan, popularly known as Sir Salar Jung III. Since then, the sprawling private properties and a big ‘jagir’ left behind by him have been mired in endless litigation. Justice Ramasubramanian, who had dealt with the matter while a judge of Telangana HC, described the three pending civil suits as “notorious” and said the number of descendants had probably crossed 300 by now, making it more difficult for a decision on division of property. However, the bench told Singhvi that though it would not entertain a writ petition on this issue, it would accede to his plea and request the Telangana HC chief justice to take up the pending civil suits relating to assets and properties of Salar Jung and attempt to dispose them as early as possible. Shortly after the Nawab’s death in 1949, the Salar Jung Estate Administration Regulation was enacted, empowering the government to appoint a committee consisting of not more than five people to be called the Salar Jung Estate Committee for the purpose of administration of the estate. The HC had ruled that the committee was not the proper forum for adjudicating the various questions that arose from the Nawab’s succession case. Meanwhile, Parliament enacted the Nawab Salar Jung Bahadur Administration of Assets Act, 1950, vesting all assets of the Nawab in the Salar Jung Estate Committee. Many suits were filed in the civil court. The HC withdrew all suits to itself in 1958 to which the Union government, the Hyderabad government and the Salar Jung Estate Committee were made parties. The suit ended in a compromise between all parties in 1959. This decree was challenged by many descendants on the ground that the parties to the suit had no manner of right or claim to the properties in the litigation and that the compromise itself was obtained in collusion. The litigation restarted and continued at a snail’s pace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/swiftly-decide-salar-jung-case-oldest-civil-suit-sc/articleshow/80459658.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Coimbatore||4 injured in bomb blast||Coimbatore: Four people suffered injuries after a country-made bomb (avuttukkai) exploded at Nandhini Colony at Jothipuram near Periyanaickenpalayam on Monday afternoon. P Manimalan, 50, K Raja, 35, S Ramarasu, 30 and S Poonthirai, 25, of Nandhini Colony at Jothipuram, were making the bombs when one exploded, police sources said.Bomb detection and disposal squad and forensic experts inspected the place. Avuttukkai is used to hunt wild boars, police said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/4-injured-in-bomb-blast/articleshow/80456199.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Routes you can take if you choose to travel today||NEW DELHI: Issuing an advisory for the Kisan Gantantra Parade, Delhi Traffic Police on Monday asked commuters to avoid taking NH-44, GT-Karnal Road, NH-10 and NH-24 as farmers have been allowed to hold their rally on three routes originating from Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders. Arrangements to manage traffic on these routes were started on Monday evening. The tractor rally will commence after the conclusion of the Republic Day parade at Rajpath around 11am following ardas (prayer) and traverse on Outer Ring Road. An estimated 15,000 tractors will take part in it. The first rally starting from Singhu border will pass through Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, Bawana, Qutabgarh, Auchandi border and Kharkhoda toll plaza, covering a distance of about 63km. The second rally will start from Tikri border on a 62km route through Nangloi, Najafgarh, Jharoda border, Rohtak bypass and Asoda toll plaza. The third one of about 68km will start from Ghazipur through Apsara border, Hapur Road and Lal Kuan. Traffic police said that traffic going towards NH-44, GT Karnal Road would be diverted from Singhu Shani Mandir, Ashok Farm, Janti Tall, Hamidpur, Sunderpur Majra, Zindopur Mukhmelpur, Kadipur, Kushak Colony, Mukarba Chowk and GTK Depot. Commuters going towards Bawana Road would be diverted from Jail Road, KNK Marg, G3S Mall, Madhuban Chowk, Rohini East Metro Station, Rithala Chowk, Pansali Chowk, Helipad T-Point, Utsav Road, DSIIDC Road Sector 4, Narela-Bawana Road, Chitra Dharam Kanta, DSIIDC roundabout and Jhanda Chowk. People have been advised to avoid NH-44, GT Karnal Road, Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, Badli Metro Station, Badli Bawana Road, Bawana Road up to Bawana Chowk, Bawana Kanjhawala Road and Kanjhawala Road up to Auchandi Border. Traffic won’t be allowed on Rohtak Road from Kirari Mor and would be diverted towards Mangolpuri, from Ghevra Mor towards Khanjawala, and from Peeragarhi Chowk towards District Centre and Mangolpuri. No commercial vehicles and buses would be allowed on NH-24 and DND Flyway from Ring Road. Traffic on NH-24 from Nizamuddin Khatta side would be diverted on Pushta Road near Akshardham and Mother Dairy Road. Similarly, no traffic would be allowed towards NH-24 from the paper market and Kondli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/routes-you-can-take-if-you-choose-to-travel-today/articleshow/80456217.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
January 26, 2021||Coimbatore||29-yr-old woman found murdered||Coimbatore: A 29-year-old woman was found murdered at her parent’s house on ABT Road behind VOC Park in Erode on Monday. The victim was identified as Rekha, a mother of two children and a resident of Panamarathupatti in Salem. She had come to her parents’ house in Erode on Sunday to attend her friend’s housewarming ceremony.Around 11.15am on Monday, a dyeing shopkeeper opposite Rekha’s parents’ house on ABT Road noticed front doors of the house opened. He had also noticed her parents leaving the house earlier in the morning. When the shopkeeper entered the house, he found Rekha murdered with a knife injury on her neck. The shopkeeper immediately informed her parents and police.“A neighbour claims she saw a strange man leaving the house. When she questioned the stranger, he had reportedly told her that he came to see Rekha,” an officer of Erode north police station said. “It also seems like the murderer knew she was alone at home. The door is also not broken,” he added. The neighbour also mentioned that the stranger was not wearing a mask.While the house was combed for fingerprints and searched with a sniffer dog hours after the murder, believed to have occurred around 11am, police began combing CCTV footage to identify the suspect. As of Monday evening, the murderer remained unidentified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/29-yr-old-woman-found-murdered/articleshow/80456197.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Coimbatore||Burglary: City police grope in the dark||Coimbatore: The city police are struggling to crack the burglary case reported from Dr Rajendra Prasad Road near Tatabad on January 17.Burglars had decamped with 100 sovereigns of gold ornaments from the house of C Karthik, a businessman. He was in Bengaluru along with his family when the burglary took place.“We questioned Karthik, his family members and his car driver Suresh, but they gave contradictory statements. We would be able to crack the case only if they cooperate with us,” a police officer said.Police have collected more than 100 CCTV footage from Tatabad. “A team is examining CCTV footage and another team is collecting information about ex-convicts who came out on bail recently,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/burglary-city-police-grope-in-the-dark/articleshow/80456196.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Meerut||It's a security challenge for cops as thousands of tractors move to Delhi||MEERUT: With thousands of tractors and other vehicles from different parts of western Uttar Pradesh descending upon the UP-Delhi border on the eve of Republic Day for the farmers' parade, the security forces face an unprecedented challenge to ensure a peaceful Tuesday. Like other places, tractors from different villages in Baghpat took to Eastern Peripheral Expressway to reach Delhi. By Monday noon, Naresh Tikait, national president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), also reached Baghpat from Muzaffarnagar. At least 250 tractors accompanied him. In Bijnor, farmers avoided highways with heavy police deployment and opted for routes along water channels and link roads. In Meerut villages, elders flagged off hundreds of tractors. Meerut SSP Ajay Sahani said, “Entry and exit points are being watched through CCTV cameras. All eight points are being manned by 24 teams with regular checking of vehicles. Apart from the tractor parade, it is Republic Day and we are committed to prevent any untoward incident." After reaching Baghpat, an upbeat Naresh Tikait said, "We have been called everything from Pakistanis to Khalistanis, but see the kind of discipline exhibited by the farmers from various states. We have not been aggressive and did not damage anything that generally results in violent agitation. We only want the government to take back the three farm laws. We have great respect for Republic Day. Every year we celebrated this day as a national festival in our villages and tomorrow we will do it in Delhi." Nevertheless, there were a few unpleasant scenes. In Baghpat, the state's border district with the national capital, police tried to stop some tractors but failed as they were heavily outnumbered. In the Baraut region, several barricades were broken as thousands of tractors made their way through. In Bulandshahr, too, cops stood as mute spectators as farmers on tractors shouted, "there are no brakes in our tractors". Muzaffarnagar was much quieter though. "There have been no major police-farmer face-offs here. We did try to persuade farm leaders to keep their numbers low. Their parade coincides with Republic Day celebrations. This will obviously throw up a major security challenge for us, and we don't want to take any chances," Muzaffarnagar SSP Abhishek Yadav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/its-a-security-challenge-for-cops-as-thousands-of-tractors-move-to-delhi/articleshow/80454288.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 26, 2021||Meerut||Two farmers shot dead over 'land dispute' in UP||BIJNOR: An 80-year-old farmer along with his younger colleague were allegedly shot dead by five men over 'land dispute' at a UP village on Sunday night. The victims were asleep when assailants pumped bullets into them. Police sources said the assailants came from Muzaffarnagar. There is an ongoing case of land dispute pending in the court, sources added. Bijnor SP Dharamveer Singh said, "The killings occurred at Sultanpur village which is quite remote. Some farmers reside there only to guard crops." The victims were identified as Azeej Ahmed, 80, from Sultanpur village in Bijnor and Shaan Mohammad, 25, from Uttarakhand. Their bodies have been sent for autopsy. Young Shaan was sleeping next to the elderly Ajeez. He wasn't involved in any rivalry, sources said. Shaan woke up to gunshots and tried to save Ajeez. Both were killed. Based on the two families' complaints, a case has been registered against five persons - Buta Singh, his father Tarna Singh, his kin Prakash, Dilbag and Manjeet Singh - under IPC sections 302 [murder], among others. Four teams have been formed to nab the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-farmers-shot-dead-over-land-dispute-in-up/articleshow/80454289.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 26, 2021||Nagpur||Down History Lane: When Lt Gen Niazienjoyed life in a POW camp at Jabalpur||Nagpur: The city is hosting the victory flame taken around the country to mark 50 years of the 1971 war with Pakistan till January 26. The event brings alive the story of the war ending with 93,000 Pakistani troops surrendering to India.The most high-profile prisoner of war (POW) Lt General AAK Niazi who signed the surrender document was hosted not too far from Nagpur, five decades ago. For over two years, Niazi, who was the commander of the Pakistani forces on the eastern front, was kept at Jabalpur, 250km from the city.During times when communication was slow, what was eventually reported in newspapers remained a less-known fact. With no social media, the word only spread by mouth and the story soon faded out of public memory.Those days there was a buzz that it was close to the same establishment, where Niazi had undergone training as a young officer in pre-partition times, was now kept as a POW.A typewritten note mentioning the administrative arrangement made for Niazi and six other senior officers’ confinement are on display at a museum maintained by the army ordnance corps (AOC). Among the other relics are the original death warrant of mutineer Mangal Pandey. The museum comes under the college of material management (CMM), a training arm of the AOC.Then called the POW camp 100, it is now the Vijayanta block named after the Vijayanta tank that was deployed in the war.The Vijayanta block, now much renovated since the POWs left, serves as an accommodation for officers coming to the CMM for training.Officials here confirmed that Niazi and the others stayed at CMM. Those coming for courses are told that it’s the same place where Niazi was put up. However, the structure has changed a lot and only precincts remain to be identified. The pictures of the block or the noting at the museum were not shared with TOI for official reasons.TOI was shown excerpts from Niazi’s own book ‘Betrayal In East Pakistan’, which an officer said matched with much of the details maintained by the army. The excerpts were also used for one of the internal presentations on the war history.Niazi wrote, “Our living accommodation was in the bachelor officer’s quarters of some unit. One set was given to each officer consisting of a bedroom with an attached bathroom, a sitting room with a front veranda. The furnishing was adequate. There was surplus accommodation and so, we converted one into a mosque and other a mess.”The area had barbed wire around with enough obstacles to prevent any escape, goes on the description. Niazi remembers getting a daily allowance of Rs140 in the form a token. He had access to books and speaks of a wall being built around the block to save him from being assassinated.In his book, Niazi also claims of having met Major General Shahbegh Singh who had trained the Mukti Bahini and later sided with Sikh militants in 1980s.TOI talked to a number of persons at random asking if they had any memories. Many only came to know from different sources only years after the POWs had left.Sujoy Banerjee, who was a civilian officer of one of defence establishments, was indirectly involved in the arrangement as a civil defence worker. “Some of the official residences of the army officers were vacated to accommodate the POWs. These officers were given alternative arrangements in other government premises,” he remembers.“Being part of the civil defence during the war, I had the opportunity to interact with the army officials too. During the course of the work I had often reached close to the camp but did not get a chance to see Niazi or anyone else,” he said.‘The fact that Niazi was there was known to only a limited number of persons. Of course at times people would gather near a hillock towards the camp to have a glimpse,” remembers Banerjee.Banerjee says he got to hear stories that Niazi had a stint of training at Jabalpur before partition. Some of his old colleagues also made attempts to contact the POWs through official protocol.There was a mention of POWs in the newspaper but to very limited extent during those days, says Banerjee, now in his eighties.The presence of POWs remained to be more or less a secret to larger part of the town. Colonel Jude Roque (retd), now in his sixties, grew up in the city. Only during his posting at Sagar in 1999 that he came to know that Niazi was kept in his hometown.Another 1971 veteran, also of a Colonel’s rank, said he was not posted in Jabalpur after the war so there was no reason for him to know that POWs were there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/down-history-lane-when-lt-gen-niazienjoyed-life-in-a-pow-camp-at-jabalpur/articleshow/80455143.cms||Shishir Arya
January 26, 2021||Delhi||24 eateries, 77 projects fined for green violations in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has imposed an environmental compensation of Rs 5 lakh on ready-mix concrete plants and Rs 7 lakh on construction sites this month for violating air pollution norms. The committee has proposed a penalty of Rs 8.4 lakh on two more units while it also found 24 restaurants flouting government guidelines. A senior official of DPCC said that their teams inspected 302 construction projects in Delhi and of these, 77 were found to be flouting norms. DPCC proposed an environmental compensation of Rs 22 lakh on them and of the total penalty amount, Rs 7 lakh had been imposed. Apart from construction projects, 11 ready-mix concrete plants were found to be violating dust-control norms. Times ViewIn a city always grappling with extreme pollution, such steps are harsh but necessary. Those who break rules must know that any violation will be dealt with strictly.Besides, out of 55 restaurants inspected, 24 were found to be violating norms. “Most of the defaulting restaurants were either using banned coal or were discharging effluents in the drains causing water pollution,” said the official. A fine of Rs 8.4 lakh has been imposed on two more units for causing air pollution and hazardous waste management. Earlier, the Commission of Air Quality Management in Delhi-NCR had directed strict enforcement of dust control measures to curb air pollution in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/24-eateries-77-projects-fined-for-green-violations/articleshow/80456207.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Today, traffic restrictions at Shivaji Park for R-Day parade||MUMBAI: The traffic police have announced restrictions for vehicular movement in Shivaji Park area on account of the Republic Day Parade on Tuesday from 6am to noon. Keluskar Road (south and north)—from the junction of NC Kelkar Road and Lady Jamshetji Road— and TH Kataria Road will be closed for traffic. Keluskar Road (south) will be one-way for traffic heading towards east, but motorists coming from SVS Road will be allowed to proceed. Keluskar Road (north) shall be one-way for traffic proceeding towards the west. SK Bole Road will be one-way from Siddhivinayak temple junction till Hanuman temple. SVS Road from Siddhivinayak junction till Hinduja Hospital shall be closed for traffic, but residents will be allowed to drive through Road No. 5. SVS Road from Mahim Junction upto Siddhivinayak temple junction shall be closed for traffic. No parking on Keluskar Road (main, south and north), Shivaji Park Road No. 2, Lt Dilip Gupte Marg from Keluskar Road (north) to Pandurang Naik Marg, eastern side of SVS Road, Tilak Bridge, NC Kelkar Marg, Dr BA Road from Dadar TT to Ruia College junction, and Lady Jehangir Road from Ruia College junction to Five Gardens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/today-traffic-restrictions-at-shivaji-park-for-r-day-parade/articleshow/80457367.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Surat||17 workers rescued following major fire at textile unit||Surat: About 17 textile workers including three women had a miraculous escape after they were trapped in the textile weaving unit following a major fire at Kadodara on Monday. According to the Kamrej ERC fire station, the incident occurred at three-storey Jhanvi textiles located at Sukhram textile park at Kadodara on the Kamrej-Kadodara road at about 2pm. The fire was reported on the first floor where the yarn material was stored along with the Jacquard machines. The workers rushed on the terrace and they were trapped. Fire officials said that the fire could have occurred due to the short circuit in the electricity line due to the increase in the voltage. About seven high speed Jacquard machines on the first floor were damaged due to the major fire.Sources said that about five fire tenders were rushed to the spot from Surat, Palsana and Kamrej. The fire fighters had to broke the windows on the second floor and rescued the workers trapped on the terrace.JA Vala, sub-fire officer of Kamrej told TOI, “We rescued all the 17 workers including three women after breaking the windows and using the ladder. The fire was immediately brought under control. Had we not have reached on time, a major casualty would have taken place.”Vala added, “The fire could have taken place due to the increase in the electricity load. The owner of the textile unit was running seven Jacquard machines in the three storey structure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/17-workers-rescued-following-major-fire-at-textile-unit/articleshow/80454336.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Surat||Surat ACP, traffic constable feted for their live-saving acts||Surat: Surat’s traffic constable Ramsinh Saamad (Rabari) has been awarded the Uttam Jivan Raksha Padak, the second-highest honour by government of India for the life-saving act. He had saved a 30-year-old woman and her niece from drowning in the weir cum causeway on river Tapi on February 4, 2020.Besides Saamad, three other cops from Surat city have been awarded Police Medal for Meritorious Services. The list of the recipients was declared on eve of Republic Day on Monday. The cops will be awarded the medals later during a state-level function. On February 4, 2020, when Saamad was returning home from work, he saw two person drownings in the causeway. He jumped into the water and saved the two.The cops who received police medal include ACP crime branch R R Sarvaiya, ASI Jitendra Patel, and Yogendrasinh Kosada, a head constable with crime branch. Sarvaiya was part of the investigation team that probed the 2008 Surat bomb planting cases in which total 29 bombs were found from different areas of the city, however, none explode. He also led the investigation in 2017 hooch tragedy that killed eight persons in Katargam. Sarvaiya is also investigation officer in May 2019 Takshashila Arcade fire case that had claimed the lives of 22 students and injured 18 others. Total 14 accused, including government officers, have been arrested in the case so far. Under his supervision crime branch had in September last year busted a drugs racket from Surat and seized Rs 1.31 crore mephedrone. This year police officers too will be awarded at a function to be held at Police Parade Ground during the Republic Day function. “Normally, cops are not awarded at these functions. So I requested the district authorities to include police personnel also and they agreed,” said the city police commissioner, Ajay Tomar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-acp-traffic-constable-feted-for-their-live-saving-acts/articleshow/80454372.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Patna||Nitish Kumar and Tejashwi Yadav want Bharat Ratna for Karpoori Thakur||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday sought Bharat Ratna, the country’s highest civilian award, for veteran socialist leader Karpoori Thakur for championing the cause of the poor and the downtrodden. “It is our ‘Khwahish’ that Bharat Ratna should be conferred on Jan Nayak Karpoori Thakur,” Nitish, a follower of the ideals of the former Bihar CM, said in a tweet on the eve of the Republic Day and a day after celebrating the birth anniversary of the socialist leader. हमने जननायक कर्पूरी ठाकुर को भारत रत्न से सम्मानित करने के लिए अपनी अनुशंसा केन्द्र सरकार को पहले ही भेज दी है। इस… https://t.co/xmfRkLOCGK— Nitish Kumar (@NitishKumar) 1611572072000Nitish in his tweet also said, “I have already sent my recommendations for conferring Bharat Ratna on Karpoori Thakur to the Centre. Similar recommendations for conferring Bharat Ratna to Karpoori Thakur were also made (to the Centre) in 2007, 2017, 2018 and 2019.” जननायक कर्पूरी जी को भारत रत्न के लिए मैंने 4:04 PM पर ट्वीट किया। CM ने 4:24 पर दिखावटी जवाब दिया। अगर वास्तव… https://t.co/aHKbMjHCwh— Tejashwi Yadav (@yadavtejashwi) 1611573807000Moreover, Nitish, almost every year while speaking on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Thakur on January 24, reiterates his demand for conferring Bharat Ratna to the veteran socialist leader. But the Centre is yet to fulfil his demand. जननायक कर्पूरी ठाकुर जी को भारत रत्न देने की हमारी पुरानी माँग है। लेकिन बिहार से NDA के 40 में से 39 सांसद होने के… https://t.co/SicRl1wcXp— Tejashwi Yadav (@yadavtejashwi) 1611570889000Nitish’s fresh demand on Monday, however, took a political colour, as his tweet came just 20 minutes after the leader of opposition in Bihar assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav tweet in Hindi. “Bharat Ratna for Jan Nayak Karpoori Thakur is our old demand. Why is the double engine government of the NDA (at the Centre) not conferring the Bharat Ratna to Thakur, despite the NDA having 39 of the total 40 Lok Sabha members from Bihar? Is it because Thakur hailed from a socially disadvantaged class? Why does the CM not meet the PM especially for this demand?” wrote Tejashwi. Tejashwi posted his first tweet demanding for Bharat Ratna for Karpoori Thakur at 4.04 PM on Monday. Nitish’s tweet was posted at 4.24 pm. Soon after the CM’s tweet, Tejashwi posted another tweet claiming that the CM has given a “Dikhawati Jabab” (an artificial reply) on the issue of Bharat Ratna for Thakur. “Nitish Ji, we understand that you are now held hostage by BJP and have been rendered incapable of even securing central status for Patna University. But, at least you should set politics aside and support our demand for Bharat Ratna to Karpoori Thakur. Would you agree to join our MPs and MLAs in a parade before the Rashtrapati to press for the demand?” Tejashwi asked the CM in a series of two tweets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-and-tejashwi-want-bharat-ratna-for-karpoori-thakur/articleshow/80456234.cms||Madan Kumar
January 26, 2021||Delhi||Three held for robbing, stabbing man to death in southwest Delhi||NEW DELHI: Three men have been arrested for allegedly robbing a man and stabbing him to death when he tried to resist the robbery in Sagarpur area of southwest Delhi last Thursday. The three accused have been identified as 30-year-old Sonu Bahadur, a native of Nepal who had been living in Delhi for more than two decades now, and his associates Harender (36) and Rakesh Rawat (29), all residents of Palam area. Bahadur was recently released from jail in a robbery case reported from Janakpuri. Deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said: “The accused first committed a mobile phone robbery and when they were roaming in the area of Nasirpur, they spotted the victim carrying a bag. Thinking that he may be carrying valuables, one of the accused grabbed him by his neck while the second one hit him with a blunt stick and the third stabbed him using a knife.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/three-held-for-robbing-stabbing-man-to-death-in-southwest-delhi/articleshow/80456239.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Two men rescued from building blaze||NEW DELHI: Two men were rescued from a building where a major fire broke out in west Delhi’s Paschim Vihar. Police said that the fire started in the office of a property dealer on the fourth floor. The two men rescued sustained 50 per cent burn wounds. According to the fire department, a call was received around 1am about a fire in Meera Bagh area in Paschim Vihar. Seven fire tenders were rushed to douse the fire on the fourth floor. The fire was in the office of a property dealer and two people were rescued by the firefighters. The injured have been identified as Desh Raj (68), who sustained 50 percent burn wounds, and Neeraj (44), who sustained 10 per cent burn wounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-men-rescued-from-building-blaze/articleshow/80456237.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 98-minute wait time at this Metro station, thanks to checks||NEW DELHI: On Monday, the average waiting time to enter Delhi Metro’s Chawri Bazar station on Yellow Line at 7.37pm was 98 minutes. The time it takes for a metro train to take you from the terminal station of the corridor in north Delhi’s Samaypur Badli to HUDA City Centre in Gurgaon on the other end, according to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s (DMRC) website, is 82 minutes. While the average waiting time of over one and a half hours to enter the busy station ‘normalised’ only at 9.26am, the waiting time at other stations on the corridor ranged between 20 minutes and 46 minutes on Monday evening. When Delhi Metro services restarted in September, 2020, the average passenger journeys were around six-seven lakh but the figure is now touching around 16-18 lakh. Even though this is much lower than the pre-Covid figure of 60 lakh. The strict social distancing norms have reduced the system’s carrying capacity drastically and regulated entry at stations are leading to huge queues. “Waiting time at some of the Metro stations has increased because of security measures ahead of Republic Day. In addition, Covid-19 prevention measures such as thermal scanning and temperature check are already being followed at all stations,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communication), DMRC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/98-minute-wait-time-at-this-metro-station-thanks-to-checks/articleshow/80456242.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Sena man set to bag Rs 9cr deal to get masks for BMC pupils||Mumbai: Despite allegations of ‘favouritism and corruption’ by the opposition, BMC has picked a firm run by a Shiv Sena office-bearer to supply reusable face masks for civic school students. It has selected Shri Bon Bon Traders run by an office- bearer of Sena’s Vyapari (Trade) Cell, Biren Limbachiya. Limbachiya had contested the 2017 BMC election on a Sena ticket and lost. The BJP has alleged that there is a conflict of interest in awarding tenders to a Sena office-bearer’s firm and that tenders worth Rs 9 crore were rigged with irregularities. In a letter to BMC chief Iqbal Chahal, BJP corporator Vinod Mishra has pointed out that BMC was buying around 79 lakh masks when BMC schools were shut and only classes 8 to 10 were expected to open in the next few days. “There are around 3 lakh students in BMC schools and BMC is buying 80 lakh masks. The specifications say that masks can be used even after 25 washes, so a mask will last a month. So BMC is assuming that the pandemic will last 25 more months and they want to give students 25 masks each for next two years. They are going to give the same size masks from KG to class 10. How will one size fit all students?” Mishra said. He said BMC’s logo was not on any mask. “All items given by BMC to students have its logo so they are not sold in the market. But there will be no logo on these masks. The company has been given the tender as it is run by a Shiv Sena office-bearer. It is conflict of interest,” Mishra said. Limbachiya said that he was attached to Sena’s Vyapari Cell, and not part of the parent body. “I am part of the trade union, not the main party... The firm that has won the contract is owned by my brother, but I handle its affairs. I have got this contract purely on merit. The masks are of high standard and their quality report has been submitted. The quantity of masks has already been reduced,” Limbachiya said. Joint municipal commissioner (education) Ashutosh Salil said BMC was not going to buy 80 lakh masks. “The firm has been picked as a stand by. We are only going to buy masks based on student strength, as and when schools open. The tender was floated on estimated numbers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sena-man-set-to-bag-rs-9cr-deal-to-get-masks-for-bmc-pupils/articleshow/80456250.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 26, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Waving flags, farmers to parade unity||NEW DELHI: Parminder Singh alias Kaka sat on a charpoy with a mirror in one hand and a brush in the other applying henna on his beard to “get ready” for Republic Day. The Ludhiana resident said over 200 people from his village were present at Singhu border and 52 tractors were ready to be a part of the parade on Tuesday morning. Singhu border was visibly more crowded on Monday with protesters gearing up for the Kisan tractor parade. From putting the national and the saffron Khalsa flags to strobe lights, hooters and speakers, the farmers were busy decorating their tractors. The tanks had been topped with fuel and the tractors were parked right near the barricades, ready to move out. “The idea is to celebrate the day and make our demands clearer in a democracy,” said Harpreet Singh from Jalandhar, who was sitting atop his year-old tractor. While parking his vehicle near the barricades, he added, “I will put the flag of India along with the Khalsa flag as that is our identity.” Komaldeep Singh from Jalandhar said, “Hundreds of tractors will have the flags of India, Khalsa and farm unions. We have been asked to raise slogans, be disciplined and not cause harm to anyone.” Even the hawkers and shopkeepers were busy supplying items to the farmers. Indresh Arora, who has been at Singhu border for over 34 days selling stickers, badges and flags, said, “I had given orders for these items in advance as I was sure their demand would be high a day before the parade.” A massive crowd was seen at a few stores on the highway selling decorative lights and other items. Amit Kashyap, one of the shop owners, said, “There is a huge demand for decorative lights, microphones, speakers and electronic horns.” Keerat Singh from Yamunanagar in Haryana was seen searching for lights, horn and a loudspeaker. Lali Lodhi Nangal from Gurdaspur said, “Personally, I want to grab the attention of people who may not have seen a tractor with multiple lights, flags and hooters,” he added. Paramjeet Singh of Jai Kisan Andolan said, “We will start at 10am and will be fully disciplined.” Many farmers felt that the large number of tractors and narrow roads could hamper movement, so they would begin to park near the barricades at dawn to avoid a traffic jam. “We will also carry food with us as it will be a long day. The tractor riders will carry makhana (fox nuts), gram, butter and bread to eat during the parade,” said Prabhjeet, a young farmer from Phillaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/waving-flags-farmers-to-parade-unity/articleshow/80456247.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
January 26, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Covid-19 pandemic has paved way for rampant antibiotic use, says experts||KOLKATA: Use of broad-spectrum antibiotics in the initial days of the Covid-19 pandemic when doctors were grappling over how to combat the virus, and its rampant use among a large section of the population that purchased the drugs without prescription may have accelerated the resistance to antibiotics, microbiologists, geneticists and physicians said at the inauguration of an exhibition on superbugs at Science City on Monday. Kamini Walia, senior scientist at the Indian Council of Medical Research, which has been guiding the medical fraternity in the country on Covid treatment protocols, admitted the pandemic had led to excessive use of antibiotics. “There has been reliance on antibiotics to treat Covid. This is not just a medical problem. There are social and economic facets to it as well. Since antibiotics are expensive, many didn’t complete the course, leading to antiobiotic resistance. Others who can afford them popped the pills when it was not required,” she pointed out. Some 7,00,000 people die across the world each year due to antibiotic-resistant bacteria. India accounts for nearly 50,000 deaths annually. “Antibiotic resistance is a pandemic in slow motion. It started in 1929, the year after Alexander Fleming had discovered penicillin. It has gained such proportions now that it needs to be categorised as a notifiable disease,” said Sanjay Bhattacharya, senior consultant in microbiology at Tata Medical Centre (TMC). TMC director Mammen Chandy recounted how children with leukaemia, who had never had the medicine, had development resistance in the gut bacteria due to widespread use of antibiotics in poultry farms. The antibiotics in the faecal matter gets into the water and soil and enters the food chain. It then takes away the immunity. Only 30% of antibiotics are consumed by humans. National Science Chair, government of India, and founder of National Institute of Biomedical Genomic Partha Pratim Majumder termed the misuse of antibiotics as the biggest man-made disaster. Calling hospitals the hotbed of antibiotic- resistant bacteria, Majumder warned the water released by hospitals needs to be tested. “People catch infections that can’t be treated at hospitals. Hospitals find it difficult to keep the spread of bacteria under control. The waste from hospitals leads to the spread of antibiotic resistance. When antibiotics stop working, lives are put at risk,” he warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-pandemic-has-paved-way-for-rampant-antibiotic-use-experts/articleshow/80455181.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Nagpur||With no traffic signals, cops shut new flyover||Nagpur: In what could be termed as an embarrassment for the public works department (PWD), the traffic police has closed one side of the Wanjari Nagar flyover, a day after it was inaugurated by Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari and guardian minister Nitin Raut. Traffic signals installed there are not functioning.The flyover was opened by the two ministers on Saturday evening. Traffic cops felt that there could be accidents and hence closed the path from Ajni to Wanjari Nagar. Traffic movement in opposite direction was allowed.A visit to the spot revealed that people had removed the filled-up gunny bags being used as barricades by the traffic police and were using the flyover. Traffic is now flowing in both directions.PWD and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) are passing the buck on to each other. Dilip Deole, PWD executive engineer of division number 3, which built the structure, said that NMC had installed the traffic signals and he would not be able to say when they would become functional. An official of NMC’s electrical department claimed on the condition of anonymity that PWD had installed the traffic signals and was yet to apply to NMC for power supply. “We will provide the supply soon after they apply. That is not a problem,” he added.The PWD has installed two speed-breakers on the flyover but is yet to get the permission of district collector and traffic police. PWD officials said that it was a mere formality, which they would complete soon.Now, if one has to go to Wanjari Nagar from Ajni, one has to take a U-turn on Ajni road. As the road is narrow the vehicles taking a U-turn get stuck and create traffic jams. Gadkari has already asked the local authorities to widen the Ajni Road.TOI, quoting experts, had reported last week how the flyover is going to create chaos at the spot as it has created a T-point with vehicles coming down the flyover heading straight into traffic moving from Medical Chowk. Gadkari had also pulled up officials for the poor lighting on the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-no-traffic-signals-cops-shut-new-flyover/articleshow/80455192.cms||Ashish Roy
January 26, 2021||Surat||108 EMT, pilot conduct normal delivery despite complications||Surat: A 23-year-old woman suffering with several pregnancy related complications delivered normally in an ambulance with help of a Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) and pilot on the 108 ambulance service in Olpad taluka of Surat on Sunday night. The woman who was having her second child was suffering from breech presentation with the umbilical cord around the neck of the baby, low blood pressure and heavy blood loss. “As soon as we received an emergency call from Balkas village, we sent an ambulance with Pilot Tejas Patel and EMT Sabbir Belim. The woman informed the EMT that during sonography a few days ago she had learnt as she had a breech presentation with cord around the baby’s neck,” said Fayaz Pathan, project manager, Surat, GVK EMRI. The woman was first taken to the Community Health Centre in Olpad, but doctors there referred her to New Civil Hospital for delivery. “While we were 10 km away from the civil hospital, the woman was in severe pain and that when we decided to conduct the delivery on the spot. Her blood pressure had dropped and she was bleeding heavily. It was a critical delivery for us,” Belim told TOI. “I have been working as an EMT for the last seven years, this was the first such delivery case I had to handle. We completed a normal delivery with online assistance from the doctor at Ahmedabad,” she added. The pregnant woman was later shifted to Surat civil hospital where both the mother and newborn were in good health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/108-emt-pilot-conduct-normal-delivery-despite-complications/articleshow/80454410.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Patna||Ex-RJD MLA Kunti Devi gets life term in murder case||GAYA: A Gaya court on Monday sentenced former RJD minister Kunti Devi to life imprisonment and also imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on her in a murder case. In case of her failure to pay the fine, the former Atri MLA shall have to undergo imprisonment for one more year. The ADJ-III court of Sangam Singh had held her guilty in connection with the murder of block level JD(U) functionary Sumirak Yadav. Advocate Amrendra Narayan Sinha said Sumirak was beaten to death at Neemchak Bathani bazaar on February 26, 2013 when he was returning home after closing the party office. “Kunti’s sons Ranjit Yadav and Vivek Yadav and Ranjit’s brother-in-law Pankaj Yadav are also named accused in the case lodged by Vijay Yadav, brother of the deceased. The trial against the other accused is pending as Vivek and Pankaj are still absconding,” he said and added: “Ranjit, who is the sitting RJD MLA from Atri, is out on bail,” he said. The prosecution established the charges against Kunti on the witness accounts that she had instigated all the attackers, including her sons, to beat Sumirak because he was responsible for her defeat in the election. Incidentally, Kunti’s husband Rajendra Yadav, also a former RJD MLA from Atri, is undergoing life imprisonment in connection with the murder of a minor girl at Dariyapur during a victory procession following the announcement of the 2005 Bihar assembly election results. Earlier, Kunti was brought to the courtroom on a wheelchair. Her lawyer Shakeel Ahmad Khan said, “She is suffering from serious health issues, including kidney ailments. After held guilty by the same court on January 19, she was undergoing treatment at Patna Medical College and Hospital. On Monday, she was brought to Gaya court from PMCH.” He added: “I will file an appeal in the Patna high court against the Gaya court order.” Additional public prosecutor Masood Manzar said: “After the court held her guilty in the case on January 19, she was forwarded to Aurangabad sub-jail, which has been made a quarantine jail for female inmates of Gaya central jail. However, the jail authorities could not produce her on January 23, the date fixed by the court to pronounce quantum of punishment. The court then fixed Monday (January 25) as the next date with strict observation that it would report the matter to the Patna high court, if the prison authorities failed to produce her again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ex-rjd-mla-kunti-gets-life-term-in-murder-case/articleshow/80456252.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Madurai||Singaporean cricketer moves Madras HC to rescue wife detained by in-laws||MADURAI: Surendran Chandramohan, a native of Thanjavur district who is presently a cricketer playing international cricket for the Republic of Singapore has filed an habeas corpus petition before the Madras high court seeking to rescue his wife, who he claimed was allegedly detained by her parents. Chandramohan stated that he had completed diploma in mechanical engineering and went to Singapore in 2010 for employment. At present, he is representing Singapore in cricket. The petitioner said that he and Sneka from Thanjavur were in love since 2018. When their relationship came to light, Sneka’s parents opposed their relationship as they belonged to different communities. In November last year, Sneka called him over phone and informed that her parents were planning to solemnise her marriage. Due to this, he came to India and went and spoke to the girl’s parents but they did not agree to their marriage. On December 13, 2020, he and Sneka solemnised their marriage in a temple at Thiruvonam without the knowledge of her parents. They had also registered their marriage on December 29 at the Thiruvonam sub-registrar office in the district. Chandramohan stated that he received a call from Sneka in January saying that her parents came to know about their marriage and were planning to marry her off to another person. Sneka had also mentioned that her parents threatened her of caste killing if she refused to marry the person of their choice. Since his wife is illegally detained by her parents and there is a threat to her life, he had filed a complaint by narrating all the facts before the Pattukottai all women police on January 21. Instead of registering a case, they had just issued a CSR. He stated that since Sneka’s father is an influential person there was no progress in the investigation and no steps were taken to rescue her. Hence, the petitioner filed the habeas corpus petition before the HC Madurai bench. When the case was taken up for hearing on Monday, a division bench of justices K Kalyanasundaram and G Ilangovan sought response from the Thanjavur superintendent of police and adjourned the case to January 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-moves-court-to-rescue-his-wife-detained-by-in-laws/articleshow/80457385.cms||Kaushik Kannan
January 26, 2021||Delhi||A cop every 5m in the heart of Delhi to thwart threats on Republic Day||NEW DELHI: The capital has been turned into a fortress with a policeman deployed every five metres in central Delhi ahead of the Republic Day parade and the tractor rally by farmers on Tuesday. While highrises in Lutyens’ Delhi will have spotters and snipers stationed there, a ground-to-air surveillance will exist in the area till 10am. On Monday afternoon, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava patrolled the entire city to take stock of the security arrangements. He started at Mukarba Chowk and proceeded to other spots. He met Union home minister Amit Shah in the evening and briefed him with the details. He spoke about threats by anti-national elements, who may try to disrupt the tractor rally and the Republic Day celebrations. “Over the past 6-7 days, we met farmer leaders and chalked out the routes. We expect them to stick to their promise. Some anti-national elements have been trying to provoke them by spreading misinformation. We hope the kisan rally passes off peacefully,” said the commissioner, adding that police won’t hesitate in taking action against miscreants. Over 50,000 personnel, including policemen, reserve police and paramilitary, will be deployed at various points along the border. Several companies of Indo-Tibetan Border Police, CRPF and Rapid Action Force will also be stationed for maintaining law and order. Over 6,000 personnel will be deployed at Rajpath alone for the parade and the award ceremonies. The Republic Day parade will start at 9.50am from Vijay Chowk. The wreath laying function at National War Memorial will take place at 9am. Around 11.45am, police will start removing the barricades and deployment at the border to facilitate the entry of farmers. After covering a distance of around 200km in different states, the farmers will return to their respective protest sites. The routes will cover a distance of over 100km in the national capital. Delhi Police is coordinating with its counterparts in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh on how the rally will be conducted and the points where officers will be stationed. Apart from this, senior police officers have instructed electricity companies to strengthen their security in view of the blackout call by the banned outfit Sikhs for Justice. Patrolling will be stepped up around their offices. A hawk-eyed vigil will be kept on markets and places of religious and historic significance. Thousands of CCTV cameras will be monitored from the central control room and other sub-control rooms formed at the four borders and other strategic places. Special Cell’s SWAT team and NSG have been kept on standby to be moved at a short notice in case of an emergency. Bomb and dog squads have been stationed at various places across the capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-cop-every-5m-in-the-heart-of-city-to-thwart-threats-on-r-day/articleshow/80456259.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Delhi||38 Delhi cops conferred with Police Medal for shining in the line of duty||NEW DELHI: Thirty-eight personnel of Delhi Police have been awarded Police Medal for their services on the eve of Republic Day. While 17 personnel were conferred with gallantry medals, three got it for distinguished service and 18 for meritorious service. The south Delhi encounter of 2018, which had ended the terror of trigger-happy gangster Rajesh Bharti and his Kranti gang, brought laurels for deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Sanjeev Yadav and six of his team members, including inspectors Prabhat and Pankaj, sub-inspectors (SI) Krishan and Neeraj Sharma, head constable Girdhar Gurjer and constable Gurdeep Singh. This is Yadav’s eighth Gallantry Medal, making him the most decorated officer of Delhi Police. Four criminals, including Bharti, were killed in this operation. DCP Pramod Kushwaha, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Hriday Bhushan and the team got Gallantry Medal for the operation that had led to the capture of an Islamic State terrorist, which not only averted a lone-wolf fidayeen attack but also led to recovery of a large amount of explosives and suicide belts. Other team members were SI Sandesh and assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Bhupender. Kushwaha’s other team comprising inspector Vinod Kumar also received Gallantry Medal for the capture of three Kerala-based IS terrorists in January last year after a high-voltage operation involving heavy exchanges of fire. The terrorists had killed a Hindu leader and a policeman in Kerala, fled to Nepal and then come to Delhi for a strike. Inspector Manish Joshi has been awarded the medal for meritorious service. DCP Ram Gopal Naik, ACP Rajesh, inspector Vinay Tyagi and constable Kuldeep from Crime Branch got Gallantry Medal for rescuing a child kidnapped for ransom, following an encounter leading to the death of a kidnapper. Special CP Neeraj Thakur, ACP Ritambra Prakash and SI Suresh got the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service. The Police Medal for Meritorious Service went to DCPs Sanjeev Yadav and Rajesh Deo, additional DCP R P Meena, ACP Anil Sharma, inspectors Jarnail Singh, Vinod Narang, Harish Bakshi, Devender Singh and Pratibha Sharma. Also on the list are ASIs Bahadur Sharma and Mahabir Singh, head constables Dinesh, Vinod and Geeta Devi, and constables Naresh and Hari Ram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/38-delhi-cops-conferred-with-police-medal-for-shining-in-the-line-of-duty/articleshow/80456323.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Nagpur||Machine defunct, GMCH referring MRI scan patients to Mayo||Nagpur: Even after more than a year of initiating the procurement process, the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) has been unable to get its new 3T MRI (3 Tesla magnetic resonance imaging) machine after its old one became outdated.The absence of machine has brought all body scans to a halt for GMCH patients. The huge public tertiary care hospital is now at the mercy of Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH), which is much smaller in terms of beds, infrastructure and staff strength as compared to GMCH.The GMCH had received MRI machine only after stringent directives from the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court in 2007. A petition in this regard was filed by citizens, including CH Sharma, K R Pandav and others, alleging lack of infrastructure and service facilities at GMCH and also diversion of its funds to other hospitals by the state government. After HC’s strictures, the government on July 11, 2007, submitted government resolution (GR) copy on purchase of MRI worth Rs6.75 crore to be installed by consumer electronics giant Phillips India Private Limited. The 1.5 Tesla model machine would be best in its category with only two such models available elsewhere in the country, the GR had claimed.The GMCH radiology department has been referring emergency MRI scan patients — like of stroke — to IGGMCH while regular ones are being asked to either wait or find their own alternative.The situation is unlikely to change for another three months as the tendering process and been re-initiated and the procurement will take time. Procuring agency Haffkine Insittute has already received Rs15crore for the advanced machine which will cater more patients after commissioning.GMCH radiology department head Dr Arti Anand said the re-tendering process is under way. “The first tender was floated in December 2019 and bidder was finalized in January 2020. By the time procurement started, Covid and lockdown stalled the process. It was revived by October. The funds of Rs15crore have been forwarded to Haffkine Institute. It includes the cost of machine and turnkey,” she said. The department had been catering to patients inflicted with all types of diseases with the MRI scan which comes at a high cost in private. Run between 8am to 8pm, the defunct machine scanned 30 patients a day for brain, chest and other body parts. The old machine served for 11 years though its lifespan was only 5 to 7 seven years.The new 3 Testla machine is expected to scan 50 patients in a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/machine-defunct-gmch-referring-mri-scan-patients-to-mayo/articleshow/80455202.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 26, 2021||Nagpur||No Monday blues: Vaccine beneficiaries gradually rise to 30,000 in Vidarbha||Nagpur: The number of health care workers administered Covid-19 vaccine increased to 29,625 in 11 districts of Vidarbha on Monday. 1,29,802 doctors, nurses, technicians, attendants and others working in government and private hospitals are remaining to be vaccinated. This is likely to happen in 14 days which is within the deadline set by the state government.The number of beneficiaries in a single day rose on Monday as the vaccination centres went up from 54 to 92. 7,548 health care staff took the jab on Monday. Nagpur and Amravati division officials from the health department have claimed an 82.04% (calculated 100 per centre) success.However, the exact turnout is likely to be below 60%. 35 centres in five districts of Amravati division had scheduled 150 per centre and 2,757 turned up for the inoculation for a 52.51% success.The exact scheduling of 57 centres located in six districts of Nagpur division could not be known. As per sources, an average of 120 per centre is being considered. Thus, the turnout will be 70.04% as 4,791 took the jab as against the scheduled 6,840. Vidarbha’s average works out to be 62.43%.The turnout is not on a dramatic rise despite the state government allowing scheduling of more health care workers and also on-the-spot vaccination of registered staff.The total registered health care workers in the region are 1,59,427. 29,625 availed the benefit in six days/sessions between January 16 and 25. 1,29,802 health care workers including those who did not turn up despite being scheduled are remaining for the vaccination in the region. The government has set a deadline of January 14 for completing the first dose of all registered health care workers.The government had allowed vaccination on five days in a week excluding Tuesdays and Sundays. With four days remaining in January and 10 days in February, Vidarbha should achieve the target earlier.Nagpur and Amravati divisions had planned to increase centres from 54 to 100 on Monday. Vaccination was done at 92 centres. Eight centres could not be opened of which five are in Chandrapur district and four in Yavatmal district. However, Amravati opened an additional centre.These nine centres are likely to start on Wednesday. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has planned to start 11 more centres. This will take the total number in Vidarbha to 112.With a target of 100 per centre, vaccination of remaining health care workers can be completed within the deadline.The second lot of doses for covering all registered staff is expected to reach the region on Tuesday or Wednesday.As per data of deputy director of health services, Nagpur division and Amravati division, not a single case of Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI) was registered on Monday. No major case of AEFI has been recorded in the region since launch of the vaccination programme.The wastage of doses has continued due to lack of 100% turnout at the centres. 97 doses have gone waste in Nagpur district which was 6.74% with total utilized doses at 1,440. In city, wastage was 30 (5.45%) of total 550 doses and 67 (7.53%) of total 890 doses in Nagpur rural. The government had permitted wastage up to 10%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-monday-blues-vaccine-beneficiaries-gradually-rise-to-30000-in-vidarbha/articleshow/80455200.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||At opening of Kalyan ROB, Congress upset with CM Uddhav Thackeray’s party||KALYAN: In a major relief to Kalyan residents, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday inaugurated the Patripul rail over-bridge (ROB) and a city command control room which has been set up at the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation headquarters building in Kalyan via video-conferencing on Monday. He also laid the foundation stone, paving the way for work to begin on improving the area around Kalyan railway station. This project is called Station Area Traffic Traffic Improvement Scheme, or Satis in short. The overall cost of these projects works up to around Rs 700 crore. The Patripul bridge, thrown open for public use, a crucial connector between Kalyan and Navi Mumbai as well as the eastern and western sides of the city. Work on this bridge had been going on for more than two years, during which time people had complained of much hardship due to heavy traffic on an alternative old bridge where two lanes were open for use. Next, Thackeray inaugurated laid the foundation stone for the Satis project, also through video-conferencing. This work is part of the Smart City project which is estimated to cost Rs 490 crore. It is expected to take three years to complete. KDMC chief Dr Vijay Surywanshi said that this project aims to ease the congestion around the station area to facilitate smooth movement of people and traffic. Finally, Thackeray inaugurated a Command and Control room for the city — a project that costs Rs 125 crore. It is be the nerve centre to supervise the city with 950 CCTV cameras set up at main junctions of the twin city to help the police and civic body to monitor goings-on including keeping an eye on traffic violators. During the online inauguration, state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray and urban development department minister Eknath Shinde, who handles MSRDC, were physically present in Kalyan. As the ruling Shiv Sena had invited the local parliamentarian and legislator, both of whom are from Bhartiya Janta Party, leaders from Congress and Nationalist Congress Party from the city were upset. Sources said that those from the opposition party had been called but their own allies had not been called. Congress’s Kalyan district chief, Sachin Pote, express his dissatisfaction over the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-opening-of-kalyan-rob-cong-upset-with-cms-party/articleshow/80457403.cms||Pradeep Gupta
January 26, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Overcrowding led to Covid surge in prison||LUCKNOW: Overcrowding and poor adherence to Covid-19 protocol at individual level are being seen as reasons for the surge in novel coronavirus patients in the Basti district jail. At least 150 inmates tested positive to the infection in the jail, according to data from the district and state surveillance units. As on date, 103 persons belong to the ‘active infection category’ and are under supervision of a five-member health team deputed specially to monitor them. Jail superintendent Sant Lal Yadav admitted that the problem of overcrowding could be the reason for this massive spread. “Jail barracks are full beyond capacity. Since all patients are asymptomatic we can only blame failure to follow Covid-9 prevention protocol,” Yadav told TOI. There are 1,275 inmates and 50 staff members in Basti jail. Insiders revealed that the jail’s capacity is about 600 persons. This means that the jail is holding people twice its capacity. However, senior health officials at the headquarters maintained a stoic silence on the issue. District health officials said that exposure to the outer world could have affected one or two persons who could have taken the infection inside the walls of the jail. “The inmates are being sent for their court hearings on regular basis. The possibility of any asymptomatic person passing on the infection cannot be denied,” said a government doctor overseeing the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/overcrowding-led-to-covid-surge-in-prison/articleshow/80457392.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Nagpur||Punish Bhandara docs with extended stay in district: IMA||Nagpur: Suggesting that transfer is an escape route which even otherwise all government officers seek, Bhandara district IMA president Dr Nitin Turaskar has demanded that all the four permanent officials against whom action has been taken must be made to compulsorily serve at the district general hospital for five years. Dr Turaskar said Bhandara being a backward place, no top officer wish to get posted there. “The government has only facilitated their exit. Instead, they must be posted at the Bhandara district hospital for five years as punishment,” he wrote, in his letter to the state governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari.Dr Turaskar also demanded that the state government must deduct two month’s salaries of all the hospital and public health department staff to compensate the parents who lost their 10 premature babies in the January 9 fire at the SNCU.Bhandara district general hospital civil surgeon Dr Pramod Khandate, medical officer Dr Archana Meshram and in-charge sister Jyoti Haraskar have been suspended. Additional civil surgeon Dr Sunita Badhe transferred to a non-functional post. Contractual staff paediatrician Dr Sushil Ambade and incharge sisters Smita Ambilduke and Shubhangi Satawane were terminated.Dr Khandate has now been posted at Wardha district hospital where a departmental inquiry would be initiated against him under suspension as per norms. Dr Badhe is yet to get a posting.Dr Turaskar also cited the response by the hospital regarding fire safety to RTI filed by Vikas Madankar, a local activist. “In 2018, it had become clear the hospital lacked fire hydrants, smoke alarm, sprinklers, while it claimed to have escape route and ladders. In June 2020, Madankar again filed an RTI asking what measures were taken to remove the deficiencies seen in 2020. But the authorities didn’t wake up from slumber even then,” he said.The Bhandara IMA president also stated that Rs1.52 crore were required for fire compliance. “Costly ventilators, injections and PPE kits were purchased for Covid. But the department never cared for fire safety in its SNCU,” said Dr Turaskar. Meanwhile, more support poured in for the district general hospital’s staff. Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) also submitted a representation to the district collector seeking a probe investigation into the technical flaws in equipments. The association questioned the government’s action on doctors and nurses. “Allegations were put on health care workers ask if they were solely responsible for the tragedy,” MARD stated in its letter to the collector.BJP STAGE PROTESTThe BJP raised the issue Bhandara District General Hospital fire incident during its massive rally from Shastri Chowk to the collector’s office on Monday. Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis, former energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, MLC Parinay Fuke and other local leader took part in the morcha. Fadnavis slammed the state government over its alleged reluctance to file an FIR in the case. The BJP also demanded a judicial probe into the January 9 fire, indicating it wasn’t happy with the divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar panel probe following five hospital staffers were either suspended, transferred and terminated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/punish-bhandara-docs-with-extended-stay-in-district-ima/articleshow/80455221.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 26, 2021||Surat||Duplicate ghee making unit busted||Surat: Police busted a duplicate ghee manufacturing and distribution racket in Sarthana area on Monday and seized ghee and vehicles worth Rs 19 lakh. Five persons were also arrested for running the racket. They were identified as Haresh Bodra, Alpesh Asodariya, Nrupesh Savaliya, Nilesh Savaliya, and Paresh Savaliya. Puna police station sources said one Ravi Patoliya, who used to supply raw material for manufacturing the ghee, is on the run. Bodra and Asodariya were carrying around 300 pouches of Sumul ghee in a mini van when police stopped them for checking in Punagam area. They could not produce bills or any other document for the product after which they were questioned in detail. Police seized the ghee and sent some samples for testing in a laboratory. “After tests found that the ghee was duplicate, police raided the manufacturing facility with a team of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC),” said an official.Police nabbed Nrupesh, Nilesh and Paresh from the facility in Vraj Chowk at Sarthana. Earlier on January 5, police had raided two places in Rander and seized duplicate ghee and edible oil of top brands from warehouses. Investigation revealed that the products being distributed from these warehouses were manufactured in Sarthana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/duplicate-ghee-making-unit-busted/articleshow/80454439.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Madurai||HC: Remove water hyacinth from Vaigai||Madurai: The Madras high court on Monday directed the authorities to completely remove water hyacinth from the Vaigai river in Madurai district. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by M Muthuselvam, a resident of Madurai who sought for a direction to remove water hyacinth from the Vaigai river and other waterbodies in the state. The petitioner also sought for a direction to ascertain the cause of formation of froth inside the Sellur tank in Madurai and to take action against those responsible for the formation of froth. Pursuant to the order of this court, the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board submitted a report before the court on Monday stating that after the formation of froth in the Sellur tank, samples were collected from the inlet and outlet of the tank. After analysis, the samples were found to be neutral. Formation of froth might be due to human reasons such as use of soaps, detergents or due to decay of water hyacinth or other vegetations present in the tank. The PWD officials were requested to remove the water hyacinth from the tank and the Madurai Corporation had also been asked to take steps to repair the pipeline connecting the sewage treatment plant in Government Rajaji Hospital. The corporation was also requested to stop the discharge of sewage into Vaigai river, said the report. The special government pleader K P Krishnadoss submitted that water hyacinth has been removed from Vaigai river and from Sellur tank. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-remove-water-hyacinth-from-vaigai/articleshow/80457395.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 26, 2021||Surat||Gujarat: Alert cops save man boarding moving train||SURAT: Alertness of police personnel from the Rapid Action Force (RPF) and Gujarat Railway Police (GRP) saved the life of a man who slipped while trying to board a moving train at the Vapi railway station on Monday evening. CCTV footage showed the alert constables of RPF and GRP pulling the man to safety after he slipped from the moving train and was about to fell into the gap between the train and the platform. Watch: Alert cops save man boarding moving train in #Gujarathttps://t.co/27WQcdB7Ao https://t.co/pntDts6EYf— TOI Surat (@TOISurat) 1611632867000Sources in the Vapi RPF said that the incident took place at about 6.30 pm. A Covid special train from Pune to Gwalior chugged into the Vapi railway station at about 6.17pm. A passenger identified as Raj Bihari, who was travelling from Boisar to Gwalior got down from the train to fetch a cup of tea. He took some time at the tea stall while the train started moving. Realising that he may miss the train, the man ran towards his coach and grabbed the railing. In the ensuing melee, he slipped and was almost going to fall in the gap of the platform, when a couple of RPF and GRP constables rushed to his rescue and safely pulled him on the platform. RPF constable, Ghasi Ram said, “We were standing right at the spot where the passenger slipped from the moving train. In a split of a second, we rushed towards him and pulled him up. Later, the train was stopped and the man boarded the train. He was very much thankful for saving his life.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/alert-cops-save-man-boarding-moving-train/articleshow/80454457.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Chennai||Rahul accuses Modi of ‘leaking’ info on Balakot strikes to journo||Karur/Dindigul: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of “leaking” prior information on India’s airstrikes on Balakot in Pakistan in February 2019 to an Indian journalist. Winding up his three-day campaign in Karur and Dindigul in poll-bound Tamil Nadu, Rahul said the only reason the PM had not ordered an inquiry was because “he is the person through whom the information was shared with the journalist. Else, he would have ordered an inquiry to identify who did it.” Though he did not name him, Rahul was referring to Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami’s leaked whatsapp chats. Sharpening his attack on Modi, Rahul brought up the Balakot airstrike issue during the last leg of his TN tour. “There was a journalist who knew about an airstrike in Balakot. Three days before the Air force bombed Pakistan, an Indian journalist was told this was going to happen by risking the lives of the Air Force pilots,” he said.“Only five people in this world knew about the Balakot airstrike -- the Prime Minister, the defence minister, the national security advisor, chief of the air force and the home minister. I want to understand why an inquiry has not started about who told this journalist about the Balakot attack. The reason is, one of these five people told this man (journalist). One of these five people betrayed our Air Force and put the lives of our pilots at risk. If the PM did not do it, why did he not order an inquiry? Think about it,” said Rahul.He alleged that “one of the five” had committed treason. “The fact that this information is on WhatsApp and this gentleman (journalist) knew it three days before, means the official secrets act has been breached by one of those five people,” Rahul said.The Congress leader was given a grand welcome at Chinna Dharapuram town bordering Tirupur district. Addressing the public, Rahul said he would serve as a soldier to protect the interest of Tamils. Taking a jibe at Modi, he said, “The Chinese army is sitting inside the Indian territory, but the PM has not got the courage to utter the word China in his recent speeches.”In Dindigul, the Congress leader spoke about Tamil identity. “I wanted to understand what Tamil spirit is, so I have started reading Thirukkural. This positive attitude, this confidence and this self-respect are not something new, these are intertwined in your (Tamil) language and culture. But the PM has not opened the book (Thirukkural),” Rahul said.In Dindigul, Rahul said, “Modi thinks he can control the TN government because he can remote control the chief minister using the IT department and CBI. We are going to remove the batteries out of that remote and throw it away.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rahul-accuses-modi-of-leaking-info-on-balakot-strikes-to-journo/articleshow/80456273.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Madurai||Victorius jallikattu bulls get warm welcome in Dindigul||Madurai: Villagers of Ayyankottai village near Pattiveeranpatti in Dindigul district gave a grand welcome to their village bulls which returned with hoards of prizes after participating in the jallikattu games in Avaniapuram and Alanganallur.Manikavel of Ayyankottai village, a retired police officer had taken up rearing of jallikattu bulls after his retirement. He has three game bulls, which are the cynosure of the villagers. Most of them try to witness their training programme before the games. These bulls proved to be elusive to the bull tamers in the jallikattu games in Madurai this season, and won many prizes.All these animals were brought back to their village on Monday, where the people gathered on the streets to welcome them. Musicians took out a procession in front of the victorious bulls and led them into the village. Women stood on the sides of the roads and offered fruits and also performed the ‘arathi’ for these bulls to ward off the evil eye. Floral garments were also adorned on the bulls on behalf of the villagers.The animals were then taken to the Bhagawathi Amman and Ayyanar temples in the village and special pujan performed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/victorius-jallikattu-bulls-get-warm-welcome-in-dindigul/articleshow/80457400.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 26, 2021||Madurai||Cases drop: 62 in south, 41 in central||Madurai/Trichy:The ten southern districts of the state reported on Monday 62 fresh Covid-19 cases as all the districts recorded less than 20 cases each. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 41 new cases taking the tally to 75,621, which include 412 active cases. According to the health department bulletin no deaths were reported in both the regions. Kanyakumari (16) recorded the highest number of fresh cases, followed by Madurai (11). The other districts recorded less than 10 cases each. Theni and Virudhunagar recorded one case each, followed by Ramanathapuram (3), Tirunelveli (5), Tuticorin (5), Sivagangai (6), Tenkasi (6) and Dindigul (8). The number of active cases dropped to 570 with Madurai (124) being the only district with more than 100 cases. It is followed by Kanyakumari (96), Dindigul (65) and Tirunelveli (61). The number of districts with less than 50 active cases each climbed to six with Theni (46) coming below the mark. Ramanathapuram (19) has the least number of active cases, followed by Sivagangai (33), Virudhunagar (35), Tuticorin (43), Theni (46) and Tenkasi (48). Trichy reported 13 new positive cases, the highest in the central region pushing the tally to 14,599. Tiruvarur district reported nine fresh cases taking the tally to 11,155. Nagapattinam and Thanjavur districts reported five new cases each. Karur and Pudukottai reported four fresh cases each. Ariyalur reported one positive case and Perambalur recorded zero positive cases. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cases-drop-62-in-south-41-in-central/articleshow/80457408.cms||---
January 26, 2021||India||Govt: Take penal action against those spreading rumours about vaccine safety||NEW DELHI: Home secretary Ajay Bhalla has asked states to take appropriate measures to counter the spread of “unfounded and misleading rumours” regarding safety and immunogenicity of the two Covid-19 vaccines being administered in the country, and suggested penal action under the Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code against people or organisations found to spreading such rumours. Emphasising that both Covishield, manufactured by Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech, were approved for inoculation after they were found to be safe and immunogenic by the National Regulatory Authority, Bhalla drew attention to reports of rumours circulating on social and other media, “creating doubts about the safety and efficacy of these vaccines”. “Such kind of rumour-mongering, particularly by vested interests, can create unwarranted doubts among people at large, and there is, therefore, a need to check all kinds of unfounded scare-mongering relating to the safety and immunogenicity of the vaccines,” he said in a letter sent to state chief secretaries on January 19. The home secretary urged states to put in place an appropriate mechanism to check the spread of rumours and directed all authorities under the state government to take appropriate measures to counter the spread of all false information about the vaccines as well as promptly disseminate factual messages. “Further, penal action may be taken against the person/s or organisation/s who is/are found to have indulged in such activities, under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code, 1860,” he said. The Centre, in collaboration with states and Union Territories, launched the countrywide inoculation drive on January 16. Healthcare and frontline workers are currently being inoculated in phase 1 as per the priority decided by the national expert group on vaccine administration for Covid-19 (Negvac). Thereafter, vaccination for priority rounds 2 and 3 will be taken up. Bhalla said the government was taking all steps to ensure that the vaccination drive was successful and the pandemic was eventually eradicated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-take-penal-action-against-those-spreading-rumours-about-vaccine-safety/articleshow/80459665.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Chennai||Cash for jab: Tamil Nadu private hospitals open ‘regn’ to jump vaccine queue||CHENNAI: Private hospitals inviting ‘registrations’ for Covid-19 vaccination or trying to monetise the government-sponsored programme will have their licences cancelled besides facing action under the Clinical Establishment Act, health secretary J Radhakrishnan said on Monday. Priority for vaccines should be given strictly to eligible healthcare workers, he said. Fewer than 40% of the daily targeted population have received the vaccine since January 16 and many private hospitals are opening “registrations”, sometimes with a fee, for those interested. On Sunday, one hospital sent text messages to multiple clients seeking details such as name, date of birth, PAN card/passport and contact details to register for the vaccine. Hospital volunteers will upload and register names when the government portal opens, it said. “Charges, if any, will be based on the government’s direction as on that date the vaccine is administered,” the message added. The public health department has also received complaints that some healthcare providers were demanding a “fee” to put people on the “priority list.”“The Union health ministry has approved two vaccines for emergency use. It gives every state the quota of vaccines and has released the operational guidelines. As of now, vaccinations can be done only for healthcare workers. We have allowed some private hospitals to offer vaccine strictly to healthcare workers. The process of registering frontline workers is undertaken by the government. No one else is allowed to register names of people for free or for a fee,” Radhakrishnan said. Joint director (immunisation) Dr K Vinay Kumar said names of the healthcare workers were uploaded on the Cowin portal. “These people are given the vaccine. If names are not uploaded on the portal, the healthcare worker can prove the identity and take the vaccine. Their names will be uploaded into the portal later. No one can get the vaccine without their names being uploaded on the portal.” After healthcare workers, frontline workers such as uniformed services personnel, police and revenue officials will be given the vaccine. “After this, priority will be for people above 50 years. We have written to the state election commission for the names of citizens above 50 as on January 1,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cash-for-jab-tn-pvt-hosps-open-regn-to-jump-vaccine-queue/articleshow/80456314.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Delhi||Six from Delhi among this year’s Padma awardees||NEW DELHI: Well-known archaeologist Professor Braj Basi Lal and renowned Islamic scholar Maulana Wahiduddin Khan from Delhi have been awarded the country’s second-highest civilian award, Padma Vibhushan, this year. Among the Padma Shri recipients are Dr Chandrakant Sambhaji Pandav of AIIMS and Late Dr JN Pande, who passed away last year because of Covid-19 complications.  Veteran archaeologist and former director general of Archaeological Survey of India, Lal said, “In my autobiography, I had written that through god’s grace, I had come to realise that I was only a typist and the dictation giver was someone else.” The 99-year-old archaeologist began his career as a trainee under Sir Mortimer Wheeler in 1943. Wheeler had put forward the Aryan Invasion Theory, which Lal had contested. Lal believes the 1950s were the best time for Indian archaeology when he started exploring sites associated with the Mahabharata. “Encouraged by the success, I started exploring the Ramayana sites (mid-1970s),” he added. However, he wasn’t happy with the current situation of Indian archaeology. Khan, who established Centre for Peace and Spirituality and is known for his Gandhian views, said, “The love for India has been in my heart right from childhood. My family is of freedom fighters. My only message to the country is that we should all work unitedly to take India to the height of greatness it deserves. It is my dream to see India as a spiritual superpower,” said the 96-year-old, who is also the recipient of Demiurgus Peace International Award (2002) and Rajiv Gandhi National Sadbhavana Award (2009). He has authored over 200 books on Islam. Dr Pandav retired as professor and head of community medicine at AIIMS in 2018. Currently, he is a member of National Council on India’s Nutritional Challenges under Poshan Abhiyaan. The council aims to provide policy directions to address the issue of malnutrition in the country. His work on iodine deficiency has won him several awards and recognition from global organisations, including World Health Organisation. Dr Pande was an eminent pulmonologist and former head of the department of medicine at AIIMS. He died at the age of 79 in May 2020 due to Covid-19. He had authored hundreds of papers on respiratory medicine, treated famous personalities, including the President of India. After retirement from AIIMS, he started practising at Sitaram Bhartia Institute. AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria told TOI that Dr Pande treated patients even during the pandemic. “He was an excellent human being and an epitome of the coexistence of knowledge and humility,” he added. Jitender Singh Shunty (59), who was awarded Padma Shri for social work, said his life changed after he saw a man trying to gather half-burnt logs from funeral pyres at Nigambodh Ghat in 1995. “The helpless person told me that he didn’t have any money for organising the last rites of his relative. He was the first person I helped in carrying out the last rites free of cost,” said Shunty, who runs Shaheed Bhagat Singh Sewa Dal, which runs ambulances and helps the poor and needy in organising the last rites of relatives. Another Padma Shri recipient from Delhi included Niru Kumar in the field of social work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/6-from-delhi-among-this-yrs-padma-awardees/articleshow/80456859.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Madurai||Min Bhaskaran made empty promises: MP||Sivaganga: DMK women’s wing secretary Kanimozhi, also the MP of Tuticorin, has said that DMK will come into power in the next election while alleging that khadi and village industries minister G Baskaran has only made empty promises and not done anything for Sivaganga. Campaigning in the district on Monday, she said that the minister had said that the announcement for the construction of a new bus stand would be made in a week, after DMK staged a protest demanding the same two months ago, but nothing has happened in the last two months. Kanimozhi visited Kallal village, where consuming liquor had been banned for over a century. She inaugurated a community hall constructed with Rs 20 lakh under her MP fund on Monday. Panchayat president Pandi Alagu Vadivel, DMK Sivaganga district secretary K R Periyakaruppan among others were present. She said that AIADMK had denied elderly people their rightful old-age pension. “Government tenders are being given only to the relatives of ministers and that continued even during the Covid-19 crisis in purchase of bleaching powder, face masks and brooms,” she said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/min-bhaskaran-made-empty-promises-mp/articleshow/80457419.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 26, 2021||Surat||Safai workers take off shirts to protest SMC’s decision||Surat: In an unique protest, the safai workers sat on dharna on Monday, taking off their shirts at the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) headquarters to protest the decision of demolishing the Valmiki Nagar chawl at Rampura and demanded a new building at the same location . About 90 families of the Valmiki Samaj, who are employed as the safai workers with the SMC, have been living in the Valmiki Nagar chawl at Rampura since last many years. Recently, the SMC decided to demolish the houses provided to the safai workers and shift them to the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) houses in different parts of the city. The safai workers, including men and women, joined the protest and sat on dharna inside the SMC headquarters under the aegis of Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar Safai Kamdar Union and Akhil Bharatiya Safai Kamdar Sangathan. The safai workers removed their shirts inside the SMC headquarters and chanted ‘Ram Dhun’ to protest the SMC’s decision. Dr Ashish Naik, deputy commissioner (health and hospital) told TOI, “The houses of safai workers are dilapidated and we had served them notices to vacate the houses. A structural stability report was done by Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT) in this regard. We are yet to take any decision to construct new building on the same location.” The drama went on for more than three hours and that the police were called to disperse the protesting workers. After a two-hour long discussion with the police and senior SMC officers, the workers agreed to end their dharna. “These safai workers are employed with the SMC and they were allotted houses in the Valmiki Nagar chawl. They are working in the nearby municipal zones and now the SMC wants to demolish their houses and shift them to EWS quarters. We have demanded that SMC should construct new building at the same location,” said Kiritsinh Vaghela, president of the Akhil Bharatiya Safai Kamdar Sangathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/safai-workers-take-off-shirts-to-protest-smcs-decision/articleshow/80454501.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Kanpur||Oppn parties controlling farmers’ agitation : Singh||Jhansi: UP BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh accused the opposition of hijacking the farmers’ agitation and reiterated that the new farm laws are for the welfare of farmers. “The farmer agitation has gone into the wrong hands. It is being led by political parties who do not want it to end because of their vested interests,” said Singh during his visit to Jhansi on Monday to meet party workers. Talking to reporters, he said the BJP government is committed for the welfare of farmers and the new laws are for the betterment of farmers. The new laws will enable the farmers to sell their produce at the best price they get and will therefore increase their earnings, Singh added. “We are still ready to discuss the problems of farmers, but the political parties which are controlling the agitation do not want a solution,” he said. Praising the law and order in the state, the state BJP chief said there was a time when people used to roam around with AK47 guns in their hands, but now the Yogi Adityanath government is running bulldozers on their properties. “Surveys show that Yogi is the most popular CM in the country, while Narendra Modi is the most popular PM. I congratulate them for their excellent work. In UP, people are happy with the Yogi government as all the welfare schemes of centre and state governments are being implemented properly and the poor and needy are getting the benefits,” Singh added. Replying to a query on the political scenario in Bengal, Singh said no political party should resort to violence in a democracy. “The way Trinamool Congress is suppressing BJP workers in Bengal by unleashing violence manner is not justifiable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/oppn-parties-controlling-farmers-agitation-singh/articleshow/80455338.cms||Arindam Ghosh
January 26, 2021||Nagpur||Amravati SP Balaji completes 72-km ‘Go green’ Marathon||Nagpur: Amravati SP Hari Balaji, an IPS officer of 2013 batch, completed a 72-km full ‘Go green’ marathon organized by district police to mark the 72nd Republic Day, on Sunday. Collector Shailesh Nawal too had completed 72km cycling in the event. It was double the joy for Balaji who was one of the recipients of President Police Medal for gallantry on the R-Day for his efforts as Addl SP (Operations) in Gadchiroli in 2018. He had also headed the operations at Kasnasoor and Nainer in which 40 Maoists were killed in the same year. Balaji had organized the ‘Go green’ marathon to spread awareness regarding ‘Saving mother Earth’ and ‘Environment friendly living with minimum carbon footprint’. Apart from Amravati city, similar marathon of different distances were also held across the district by local police. More than 3,000 participants from different places including Mumbai and Pune had participated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amravati-sp-balaji-completes-72-km-go-green-marathon/articleshow/80454481.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 26, 2021||Madurai||Missing jewellery returned to woman||Tirunelveli: In a coordinated effort, the Tirunelveli city and district police units returned jewellery worth Rs 3 lakh to a passenger who accidentally left it behind in a bus on Monday. The passenger Sundari from Veeravanallur in rural Tirunelveli travelled in a private bus from Chennai to Tirunelveli on Sunday night. On Monday morning she left behind the bag and got down at the Tirunelveli bus stand. After realising that she had left the bag, she approached the city police who coordinated with the district police unit. The bus was intercepted by the Panagudi police and the bag recovered. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/missing-jewellery-returned-to-woman/articleshow/80457429.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 26, 2021||Delhi||Courage under fire: Four officers get President’s gallantry medal||New Delhi: Fire operator Amit Kumar who died while firefighting at a factory in Peeragarhi in last January will be awarded the President’s Fire Service Medal for Gallantry on Republic Day. Fire officer Mahavir Singh who had led the rescue operation during the Anaj Mandi fire, which claimed the lives of 45 people, will also be awarded the gallantry medal. Fire operator Manjeet Rana and station officer Satyawan are the two other recipients of the medal. Kumar was among a team of fire officials who were part of a rescue operation during a massive blaze at a factory in Peeragarhi in January last year. The fire broke out during the wee hours but the firefighting continued for over 12 hours. The factory had batteries stored in it and due to a blast, the rear portion of the building collapsed and Kumar got stuck under the debris for around three hours. His colleagues tried their best to save him; but by the time Kumar was pulled out, he was no more. Kumar’s father Babu Ram, who works with Delhi Police and is currently posted with Government Railway Police, said, “I got a call from his office informing me about his gallantry medal. Our soldiers fight at the border and I am happy that my son passed away in the service of the nation. His medal means that his sacrifice did not go waste.” Ram added, “He was my support in old age and my younger son is still pursuing his studies. The government had said they would offer him a job but nothing has happened so far.” Besides these, two President’s fire service medals for distinguished service and four fire service medals for meritorious service have also been awarded. Deputy chief fire officer Sanjay Kumar Tomar, who has played a pivotal role in major fire operations, has been awarded the President’s Fire Service Medal for Distinguished Service. “It’s a matter of pride that our men have been recognised for their daredevil approach, extraordinary firefighting spirit, high degree of commitment and dedication in saving lives and property of citizens of Delhi,” Atul Garg, director of Delhi Fire Services, said. “Not just human beings, fire officials have also been involved in various animal rescue operations, apart from combating pollution,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/courage-under-fire-four-officers-get-presidents-gallantry-medal/articleshow/80456378.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Dehradun||'Don't spoil character of Rajpur-Jharipani bridle path; develop it aesthetically'||Mussoorie: The old bridle path – which in the days of the Raj was the main route on which travellers used to go from Rajpur, on the outskirts of Dehradun, till Jharipani, a suburb of Mussoorie, on palki, dandi and horseback– is proposed to be developed as a trekking route by the Uttarakhand tourism department. The tourism department’s plans to construct toilets and shops on this route—which is currently unspoiled and is often used by nature lovers for walks - has however raised concerns among residents and environmentalists many of whom had raised objections at the manner in which the tourism department has ‘renovated’ another historic landmark – the house in Mussoorie where legendary surveyor Sir George Everest lived. Reenu Paul, president of the Rajpur Community Initiative, a citizen’s group, said, "We do not want wanton construction on the old bridle bath. Its historicity and character should be maintained.” She added that residents are fearful that wanton and unaesthetic construction work by the tourism department would despoil the heritage and charm of this bridle path. “Although originally a bridle path, the path was made pucca a few years ago resulting in large-scale movement of two-wheelers on this track which should have been avoided,” she told TOI. Residents of Mussoorie, too, cautioned against unplanned development of the path. “This is a historic trail which was the old route to Mussoorie before motor road was developed. We do not want the rustic charm and beauty of this trail to be affected,” said Commander Prakash Mehrotra (retired), a resident of Mussoorie. Meanwhile, district tourism officer Jaspal Chauhan, when queried, said that the aesthetics of the route will not be affected. “We want to improve the condition of this route but we want to ensure that its heritage value and aesthetics are maintained. We have invited suggestions from the public in this regard and we shall plan accordingly.” He added that “a toilet is proposed to be built on the route but its construction would be in keeping with the aesthetics and the serene surroundings.” “Also, we are not making shops, just one souvenir shop near the toilet complex. The revenues from the souvenir shop shall help maintain the toilets,” Chauhan said. The around 5km route which passes through scenic landscapes, is rarely used nowadays after the new road connecting Doon with Mussoorie came up. Famous English author and poet Rudyard Kipling also travelled on this route while visiting Mussoorie in 1888 and incorporated the experience in his novel ‘Kim.’ It is also referred to as the ‘Kipling trail’ as a result. Renowned author Ruskin Bond has also penned a poem about the trail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dont-spoil-character-of-rajpur-jharipani-bridle-path-develop-it-aesthetically/articleshow/80454487.cms||Anmol Jain
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||BEST official who cracked whip on staff relieved of post||Mumbai: Additional general manager of BEST Rajendra Madne has been relieved of his post and sent back to the state government. This was following a hue and cry at the committee meeting lately that he was on the post for four months ‘illegally’ despite his tenure ending in September. Madne was instrumental in ‘cracking the whip’ on employees who shirked responsibilities during the pandemic. BEST panel member Sunil Ganacharya said: “How can the management forget that his tenure had expired and he should be deputed back to the state government?” Fellow member Ravi Raja from Congress sought a probe and said he should not be paid for past four months . Sources close to Madne said he had not taken salary from BEST for these four months. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/best-official-who-cracked-whip-on-staff-relieved-of-post/articleshow/80456379.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Bareilly||Tiger kills villager in Pilibhit, first this year||Pilibhit: A 50-year-old villager was mauled to death by a tiger at Hajara village in Pilibhit's Puranpur tehsil on Monday morning. This is the first instance of a man being killed by a tiger this year. The victim, Qasim alias Kallu of Mailani village in Lakhimpur Kheri district, was harvesting sugarcane in the field of one Ram Lakhan, when the tiger attacked him. Pramod Kumar, CO of Puranpur circle, and OPS Rautela, range officer of Sampurna Nagar forest range in North Kheri forest division, rushed to the spot to take stock of the situation. Pugmarks confirmed that the tiger was a male. Anil Patel, divisional forest officer of North Kheri forest division, said three labourers were harvesting cane when the tiger attacked Qasim. The other two labourers managed to flee. The tiger dragged Qasim's body inside the cane field but before it could devour it, villagers rushed to the spot and took the body out. The spot where the man was killed was hardly 1 km from the buffer forest area of Sampurna Nagar range. “Tiger attacks in this area are rare," said Patel. As the man was killed outside the forest area, his family would get Rs 5 lakh as compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/tiger-kills-villager-in-pilibhit-first-this-year/articleshow/80453233.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 26, 2021||Mumbai||Opposition impeding public welfare work, blaming state govt: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday urged the Centre to help the state in the Kanjurmarg metro car shed project. While inaugurating Patripul road over-bridge, he said that the way the railways had helped MSRDC construct the bridge in record time, the Centre should, help the state with other projects pending for public welfare. He alleged that the opposition was throwing a spanner in development work and accusing the state government of non-performance. Minister Aaditya Thackeray, who was in Kalyan, targeted former CM Devendra Fadnavis saying, “The earlier government was distributing gajar (dangling carrot) in the name of development work but our government is really working for the people.” BJP MLA Ravindra Chavan countered that: “All projects inaugurated today had been passed and funds sanctioned by the earlier state government and the Centre and this government is only implementing them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-opposition-impeding-public-welfare-work-blaming-state-govt/articleshow/80457477.cms||Pradeep Gupta
January 26, 2021||Madurai||Elected presidents cry foul at cancellation of grama sabha meetings||Madurai: Several panchayat presidents have expressed disappointment over the cancellation of grama sabha meetings scheduled to be held on January 26. It is for the third consecutive time that meetings are being cancelled. They said said these meetings are essential for the development of the local bodies.Advisor to the forum for strengthening local governments in Tamil Nadu, N Chitra said that they had prepared an agenda on the rules and regulations to be followed in grama panchayats, and were in the process of sharing the document with the local body representatives in the state. “It is very important that these meetings are conducted for the development of the villages,” she said adding that many of the new panchayat presidents who had completed a year in office were unaware of the grama panchayat development plan (GPDP), which was important for strengthening the system.Panchayat president of Kallanthiri village in Madurai M Asaithambi said that they had not received any funds last year, and it would have been helpful if the meeting was conducted. “We have been instructed to only hoist the national flag, and refrain from gathering crowds, but a grama sabha is like a court, where people can seek relief and justice from their elected representatives. It is sad that it cannot be conducted,” he said. Velliankundram panchayat president E K Pulikesi said that this has clearly been the worst year in terms of administration. The state finance commission has not done anything for us. Instead, the government has siphoned off Rs 12 lakh given by the Union government to pay off the electricity bill of the panchayats,” he said. Pulikesi says that he took a lot of efforts to conduct grama sabhas in letter and spirit and not less than 300 people attended them earlier in his panchayat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/elected-presidents-cry-foul-at-cancellation-of-grama-sabha-meetings/articleshow/80457451.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Bareilly||Man, 34, killed in stray bull attack||PILIBHIT: A 34-year-old man was killed in a stray bull attack in Barramau village under Barkhera police station early Monday morning. The victim, identified as Radha Krishna, a farmer, was shifted to a nearby community health centre, where doctors proclaimed him dead upon arrival. Police have sent the body for autopsy. Barkhera SHO Kamal Kumar said the bull gored the farmer repeatedly. Bisalpur tehsildar Ashutosh Kumar said upon receiving the autopsy report, the revenue department would refer the case for compensation of Rs 5 lakh to the bereaved family under Kisan Durghatna Bima Yojana. Chief veterinary officer Dr Akhilesh Garg said the district had around 10,000 stray cattle, of which 5,000 were shifted to different shelter homes, while the remaining 5,000 were still straying.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-34-killed-in-stray-bull-attack/articleshow/80453243.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 26, 2021||Hyderabad||11th National Voters’ Day: e-EPIC launched||HYDERABAD: On the occasion of 11th National Voters’ Day, electronic electors photo identity card (e-EPIC) facility was launched at Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) head office on Monday. Voters were informed by officials of state election commission and GHMC that they can download the e-EPIC through https://nvsp.in or voterportal.eci.gov.in .They need to register or login on the portal and from the menu they need to click on the option ‘download e-EPIC’. User needs to enter the EPIC number and verify with OTP sent on registered mobile number. Once the OTP is verified, he can download the e-EPIC card . If mobile number is not registered he needs to click on e- KYC to complete the process.  The e-EPIC is PDF version of the EPIC which can be verified using authentic and secure QR code reader application. Newly-enrolled electors who registered their mobile number during summary revision of electoral rolls can download e-EPIC using the sms sent to their mobile from January 25 to January 31 . All electors can download e-EPIC from February 1 onwards. “A pledge was administered by staff and officers with a theme, making our voters empowered, vigilant, safe and informed,” read a statement issued by the GHMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/11th-national-voters-day-e-epic-launched/articleshow/80457457.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Madurai||Security tightened across south TN in view of R-Day||Madurai: The southern districts have come under a security blanket in view of the Republic Day on January 26.More than 15,000 police personnel have been deployed at important places including bus stands, railway stations and tourist spots. Security has been tightened at the Madurai airport and railway junction where sniffer dogs are also being used to screen passengers and baggage. Railway police are also checking railway tracks and other important places in stations. Public gathering in large numbers has been discouraged in view of the Covid-19 crisis and people will be monitored at temples including the Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple in Madurai, Palani Dandhayudhapani temple in Dindigul district, and other places of worship in the southern districts of Madurai, Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram, Theni, Dindigul, Sivaganga, Tuticorin, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Kanyakumari. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/security-tightened-across-south-tn-in-view-of-r-day/articleshow/80457475.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Chennai||No action on IIT-Madras professor found guilty of harassment||CHENNAI: An associate professor in the civil engineering department at IIT Madras, found guilty more than two months ago of sexually harassing a research scholar, continues in the post though he was to be demoted. IIT’s internal complaints committee against sexual harassment (CCASH) recommended that Mathava Kumar be demoted to assistant professor and that he be barred from guiding women research scholars for five years. IIT-M officials, including director Bhaskar Ramamurthi and CCASH chairperson professor Hema A Murthy, refused to comment, while the institute’s media cell said CCASH proceedings were confidential. Even on Monday night, Kumar’s name figured on the IIT website as associate professor. “It is very clear that Mathava Kumar misused his position as guide, and the research scholar’s vulnerability as a single parent, and did made sexual advances to her, for a temporary relationship,” the committee had said. The committee met in August and September last year and studied the various depositions and the WhatsApp messages presented as evidence by the woman research scholar, which Mathava Kumar admitted he sent. TOI has seen the WhatsApp messages and has a copy of the committee’s recommendations made in October 2020 In her complaint, the research scholar said Mathava Kumar asked her to cook at his quarters during lockdown and wanted to have a temporary relationship with her. When she refused, he resorted to character assassination, the research scholar said in her complaint. The CCASH committee headed by professor Hema A Murthy conducted inquiries with both parties. Following the inquiry, the committee cited some samples of abuse including asking the student to visit his home for thesis correction while google meet is possible during lockdown, asking her to cook for him and steering WhatsApp conversations away from work to her personal issues and commenting on her mannerisms, which he did found sensual. "Being a single mother, the victim had to persevere [sic] the perverse attitude of her guide for more than three years as she wanted to complete her PhD that will help her pursue a good career. She did not report earlier as she had already asked for a change of guide," the meeting minutes of the committee said. The meeting minutes were signed by all five committee members and the director of the institute Bhaskar Ramamurthi. The committee also recommended behavior remedial training for Mathava Kumar. It said he should not be permitted to guide any PhD student for two years and any girl students for five years. Sources said Mathava Kumar still has nine PhD scholars, including women, as his students. On a further complaint of character assassination, the committee said, "This violates every issue of privacy, and personal space. Such acts are detrimental to the institute where gender equality is given. Based on the recent violation, the committee does feel that it must be pointed out that a repeat act again can lead to termination." When TOI contacted Mathava Kumar, he cut the call and did not pick up further calls. He also did not respond to messages and email. IIT Madras director Bhaskar Ramamurthi said he cannot comment. "If at all anything is going on, it's going on by a properly constituted committee," he said.Hema A Murthy, chairperson of the CCASH, also refused to comment. Earlier, the institute, in response to a mail from TOI, said "Sexual harassment complaints are handled as per the law by the duly constituted CCASH (Complaints Committee Against Sexual Harassment) and its proceedings are confidential." IIT's media cell said: “CCASH processes are confidential, as are any disciplinary procedures flowing from them. Hence, no one will be able to respond to you on phone calls on matters of confidentiality. If there is any official statement from the institute Media Cell shall share it.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-action-on-iit-m-professor-found-guilty-of-harassment/articleshow/80456354.cms||A Ragu Raman
January 26, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: No end in sight to civic staff strike as talks fail||NEW DELHI: Even as the strike of municipal employees entered its 19th day on Monday, the sanitation condition in many North Delhi Municipal Corporation areas worsened further. An emergency meeting held by the mayor, Jai Prakash, with protesting unions in the wake of Republic Day celebrations also yielded no results. Members of the unions left the meeting midway, warning that the stir would be intensified in the coming days. Municipal Safai Kamgar Congress general secretary Raj Kumar said, though two-month salary was released after protests, their demands of pending arrears, benefits and regularisation were yet to be met. The mayor said that emergency measures and resources were being deployed to clear the garbage from the Republic Day parade route and key places like Red Fort. “I have urged the unions to resume work and not to dump garbage ahead of the national holiday. If they want to continue with their strike, it can be held after two days,” he added. “Pending salaries of all sanitation workers were credited in their accounts on Monday. I have assured the unions that their other demands will be met as soon as we recover from the financial crisis,” said Prakash. “I have agreed to compensatory ground appointments of relatives of employees who died on duty till 2010. We will also expedite the regularisation of employees working from before 2006,” he added. Ramniwas Solanki from Nagar Nigam Shikshak Sangh said that teachers were worst-hit. “All the 42 unions boycotted the meeting as the mayor was asking us to resume work just on the assurance of releasing two-month salary. The confederation has decided to continue the strike, however, no protest will be held on Republic Day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-end-in-sight-to-civic-staff-strike-as-talks-fail/articleshow/80456380.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Ranchi||Slain by rebels, ASI Oraon to be awarded with Prez medal||Ranchi: Former assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Banua Oraon will be awarded with the President’s Police Medal for Gallantry posthumously on Republic Day while assistant superintendent of police Kunal and sub-inspector Prakash Kumar Rajak have been selected for the Police Medal for Gallantry, according the list of awardees issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on Monday. A total of 12 police personnel will be honoured by the Centre on Republic Day. ASI Oraon was killed during an anti-Maoist operation in the foothills of Sukrilkuil mountain along the Seraikela-Khunti border in June, 2018 when some rebels opened fire. Meanwhile, additional director general of police Murari Lal Meena has been selected for the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Services. The award is given to those who have served the police force for more than 25 years and have performed exceptionally well. An elated Meena said, “It is a nice feeling to be selected for this award. One has to keep on working to the best of his/her abilities in order to get such a recognition.” Inspector general (IG) Saket Kumar Singh, ASIs Sunil Kumar Rai and Manoj Kumar Das , havildars Kailash Prasad, Satyendra Nath, Til Prasad Jaishi and Nandji Yadav and constable Ram Janam Prasad have been selected for Police Medal for Meritorious Services. IG Singh said, “It is an honour to be chosen for this prestigious award. I would like to congratulate all the personnel of Jharkhand police who have been chosen for the award.” Singh has been selected on the basis of his overall performance, which includes the crucial role he played in establishing forward camps in LWE-affected areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/slain-by-rebels-asi-oraon-to-be-awarded-with-prez-medal/articleshow/80455645.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 26, 2021||Ranchi||Security intensified across state for R-Day||Ranchi: Security forces are on alert across the state to prevent untoward incidents during the Republic day celebrations on Tuesday. Police said anti-extremists operations are being taken up as a pre-emptive move to thwart any untoward incidents planned by the ultras. Inspector general (operations) Saket Singh said, “All 24 districts have been put on alert for the Republic Day. Forces have been deployed at maximum strength. Police have been asked to carry out operations against the Left-wing extremists while exercising caution.” Singh said police are also on vigil to prevent the ultras from hoisting back flags at public buildings. In Ranchi, police carried out searches in hotels, vacant buildings and bus stands in a bid to trace anti-social elements. SP (city) Saurav said, “There is a high alert across the city. We have brought in additional force for increased security. We are working in coordination with the anti-terrorist squad. We are ready to face any exigency.” Security around the Birsa Munda International airport has also been intensified. Airport director Vinod Sharma said an additional vehicle has been provided to the CISF for patrolling areas near the airport. He said security personnel along with sniffer dogs are keeping vigil. The railway protection force (RPF) has also increased staff strength and deployed sniffer dogs at various points at the Ranchi railway station. The force is also working in coordination with the government railway police to ensure the safety of the passengers during the R-Day celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/security-intensified-across-state-for-r-day/articleshow/80456238.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 26, 2021||Ranchi||Cov vaccine coverage improves with hike in inoculation centres||Ranchi: The increase in the number of session sites from 48 to 69 in the state has led to a corresponding jump in the number of persons vaccinated. Whereas 3,153 persons were administered the vaccine on January 22, the number rose to 3,616 on Monday. However, the percentage of those vaccinated against the overall target dipped slightly to 54%. State capital Ranchi, however, reported a major hike with more than 90% coverage on Monday. Talking to TOI, the nodal officer for the vaccination drive in the state, Dr Ajit Prasad, said: “We have recorded a dip in the overall percentage as the vaccination coverage stands at 54% for Monday. But, on the other hand, we have recorded an increase in the number of beneficiaries getting inoculated. This was possible owing to the addition of new centres.” The top three districts in terms of coverage percentage on Monday were Ranchi (91%), Giridih (78%) and Palamu (76%). “A total of 3,616 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Monday out of 6,740 identified for the day. Ranchi inoculated 362 out of 400 people listed for Monday, while Giridih inoculated 313 out of 400 and Palamu got 227 out of 300 healthcare workers vaccinated,” Prasad added. Notably, the state capital was also number one in reporting the maximum number of AEFIs. However, all of them were of mild category and included symptoms like pain at the site of injection, mild fever and malaise (a general feeling of discomfort or unease whose exact cause is difficult to identify). Out of the total 129 AEFIs reported on Monday, 126 came from Ranchi. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad said: “We have reported the maximum number of AEFIs as we have followed every protocol laid down in the vaccination manual. There is nothing to worry as all were of mild category. The AEFIs are part and parcel of any vaccination programme and none of those vaccinated experienced anything serious and all are stable, which goes to show that the vaccine is safe.” The other three AEFIs included two from Chatra and one from Dumka, and all were of mild category. A public health expert and a professor of community medicine at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Dr Dewesh Kumar, said: “Most of the AEFIs in Ranchi were reported from Rims and none of the beneficiaries experienced anything out of the ordinary. The AEFIs instead are a proof that the vaccine is working and there are no risks associated in getting vaccinated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cov-vaccine-coverage-improves-with-hike-in-inoculation-centres/articleshow/80456224.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 26, 2021||Ranchi||PM encouraged me to bag more medals for India: National child award winner||Ranchi: It was a proud moment for Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Purushkar winner Savita Kumari when Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with her on Monday and appreciated her for her achievements in both international and national archery competitions. A student of Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya Sonhatu in Ranchi district, Savita had won gold in the senior category of South Asian Archery competition in 2018 apart from winning several medals at the national level. Speaking to TOI, she said, “It was inspiriting to talk to the Prime Minister. He encouraged me to practice hard and win a medal at the Olympics.” Savita said she was enticed by archery when since she was in Class VIII after the Birsa Munda Archery Academy, Silli, held a demonstration in her school in 2016. After undergoing the skill test, she was admitted to the academy where she is training ever since. She said her father, who has a modest earning as a security guard, encouraged her to take up the sport with dedication. “I practice for eight hours daily. Besides, I also take private tuition as I have not been able to attend my classes in school. I have to perform well in Class XII examination scheduled later this year.” Savita’s coach Sishir Mahato said, “She is hardworking and spend a lot of time practising in the field. Such dedication made her perform well in the competitions. She had won gold in South Asian competition held in Bangladesh in the senior category though her age was still in the sub-junior group.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pm-encouraged-me-to-bag-more-medals-for-india-national-child-award-winner/articleshow/80455427.cms||Sanjay Sahay
January 26, 2021||Ranchi||1 Cov death, 74 new infections in Jharkhand||Ranchi: Jharkhand reported one Covid death, 74 new infections and 122 recoveries on Monday, taking the number of active cases in Jharkhand to 772. As per government data, as many as 1,18,360 people have been infected by the virus till date, of which 1,16,524 have recovered while 1,064 have died. Only 14 out of 24 reported fresh infections on Sunday with state capital Ranchi accounting for 43. While 10 districts, including Chatra, Deoghar, Dumka, Sahebganj, Garhwa, Giridih, Godda, Gumla, Khunti, Pakur and Lohardaga reported zero new cases, 13 posted fresh cases in single digit. The state’s recovery rate stand at 98.44% while the casualty rate is 0.89%. The seven-day growth rate in Jharkhand is 0.06% against the national average of 0.12%. The doubling rate of the virus in stood at 1211.70 days in Jharkhand against the national figure of 599.29 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/1-cov-death-74-new-infections-in-jharkhand/articleshow/80456241.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 26, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand Guv lauds EC for smooth polls during pandemic||Ranchi: Governor Droupadi Murmu on Monday appreciated the efforts of the Election Commission (EC) on National Voters’ Day and said when normal life was crippled by the Covid-19 pandemic, the commission ensured that elections were conducted across the country smoothly. Speaking on the occasion, the governor said, “EC has reflected an exemplary work culture in safeguarding the principles of democracy by holding smooth assembly polls in Bihar as well as other parts of the country amid the pandemic.” Murmu also appreciated the efforts of EC which digitized the voter ID data across the country and made them available to each voter on their phones. “The accessibility of one’s voter ID has been simplified even more with the launch of e-EPIC (Electronic Electoral Photo Identity Card) portal by EC which provides the voters with the freedom to download his or her voter ID card on a smartphone. This will not only make the accessibility of the card easier for everyone but will also encourage the young voters,” she said. On the occasion, the governor felicitated 14 government officials for their exemplary work during the elections and also met physically challenged and elderly voters who have participated in the franchise. She gave credit to the staff of the state’s chief electoral office (CEO) for the increase in turnout of elderly and specially-abled voters in the last assembly election by providing them facilities to visit their respective polling stations. The officials felicitated by Murmu included deputy commissioners of Simdega (Sushant Gaurav), West Singhbhum (Arwa Rajkamal) and Ranchi (Chhavi Ranjan). Besides, 11 other officials from the CEO and different districts were also felicitated. It may be noted that National Voters’ Day is part of the pan-India celebrations organized by EC, which was established on January 25, 1950, to mark its foundation day. The celebrations started in 2011. This year, the day was celebrated on the theme ‘Making our voters empowered, vigilant, safe and informed’. State chief electoral officer K Ravi Kumar said, “We have completed the review and publication of the voters’ list for 2021 and added a total of 6.47 lakh new voters. We recorded a 2.7% increase in male voters and around 2.9% for female voters. The overall increase in new voters stood at 2.85%, which is the highest in the last five years.” Munna Kachhap, a specially-abled voter who was also felicitated during the programme, said he was very satisfied with the arrangements made by EC during the last assembly election in 2020. “I was ferried to the polling booth by the polling officials and got a drop home after casting my vote,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-guv-lauds-ec-for-smooth-polls-during-pandemic/articleshow/80455583.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 26, 2021||Ranchi||Pradeep plans Jan 31 tractor rally across Santhal Pargana||Ranchi: In a show of solidarity with the farmers protesting against the new farm laws along the borders of Delhi, Congress’s Poriyahat MLA Pradeep Yadav is mobilising farmers in his constituency to organise a tractor rally in three districts of Santhal Pargana on January 31. The rally will follow the footsteps of a rally planned by the protesting farmers in the national capital on Republic Day. Talking to TOI from Godda on Monday, Yadav, who joined Congress last year after winning the 2019 assembly election on a JVM-P ticket, said, “At least 1,500 tractors will hit the streets on January 31 and cover a distance of around 80km. We will start from Kargil Chowk in Godda, pass through Dumka and make stop at Rohini Shahid Sthal in Deoghar district.” He added, “Congress has been fighting for the cause of farmers ever since these unconstitutional farm laws were enacted last year. The tractor rally will be one of the biggest rallies ever organised for the farmers.” This isn’t the first time that Yadav will be organising a major agitation against BJP. During the saffron party’s rule in Jharkhand from 2014-2019, Yadav was at the forefront of another massive agitation against Adani Power Project’s plant in Godda. Around 900 acres of land was acquired for the proposed 1,600 megawatt plant, which, Yadav claimed, was done forcefully by the BJP regime as many landowners were not willing to give up their land for the project. In 2017, Yadav was jailed for allegedly fanning violence during a protest march against the project. In July last year, when the Union government called for a boycott of Chinese items and banned several apps in the aftermath of the Galwan Valley clash in eastern Ladakh in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed, Yadav wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding removal of all the contractors belonging to Chinese firms engaged in construction of the plant in Godda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pradeep-plans-jan-31-tractor-rally-across-santhal-pargana/articleshow/80455525.cms||ASRP Mukesh
January 26, 2021||Ranchi||Palash brand products to hit e-tail shelves||Ranchi: Products prepared by women self-help groups in the state under the brand name — Palash — are set to debut on e-tail platforms like Flipkart, Reliance Mart and Amazon. Officials said the Jharkhand State Livelihood Promotion Society (JSLPS), an arm of the state rural development department, which owns the brand has signed an MoU with Flipkart and Reliance and the modalities for the same are being worked out with Amazon. The JSLPS also launched its maiden mart — Palash Mart — in Ranchi on Monday, while it has already set up more than a dozen such centres across the state. The state government had launched the ‘Palash’ brand covering 37 items in September last year to boost village entrepreneurship and employment. The secretary of the rural development department, Aradhana Patnaik, on Monday said the initiative could prove to be the biggest game-changer for Jharkhand in terms of eradicating unemployment and empowering women in the coming years. “Jharkhand is already making the right moves to realise the goal of an Atmanirbhar Bharat,” Patnaik said while launching a 16X17 feet-sized mart at the JSLPS building in Hehal. She added that the department is constantly working out ways to improve the reach and promotion of Palash products. “In that respect, our products are soon going to be available on online platforms such as Flipkart, Reliance Mart and Amazon,” she said. About 32 lakh women self-help groups operate in the state. At present, 37 items, including edibles, soaps, sanitizers and essential oils, among others, are available under the Palash brand. Officials said they have plans to introduce tribal fabric under the brand. Asked about quality control, an official said on the condition of anonymity that they were working out plans to set up a dedicated quality control cell at JSLPS and the three e-tailers have also agreed to provide hand-holding for free for a year on various aspects of quality control. “Right from the start of this project, we have been working on the concept of end-to-end value chain system. For instance, we only procure raw materials from farms cultivated by our trained SHGs to main product quality. Similarly, for packaging and sorting, too, we have an army of trained women self-help groups,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/palash-brand-products-to-hit-e-tail-shelves/articleshow/80455539.cms||ASRP Mukesh
January 26, 2021||Goa||GoaMiles problem created by Parrikar: Lobo||Panaji: Former chief minister Manohar Parrikar had not taken anyone into confidence before starting GoaMiles in the state, ports minister Michael Lobo said on Monday. Goans are facing problems due to the confusion created by Parrikar over the app-based taxi service, he said. “I have taken personal interest in the taxi issue and it will be resolved,” Lobo told reporters. Parrikar who had given permission to GoaMiles is not between us, he said and added, “The idea which was given to him is not workable in the state. If GoaMiles is an app-based taxi then they should not call customers in the hotel.” The app-based taxi service was launched by Parrikar in August 2018 following severe criticism from the tourists as well as locals of the government’s failure to get app-based taxi aggregators to Goa as an alternative to the local tourists operators whose fares had been exorbitantly high. The service was started by Goa Tourism Development Corporation around six months after the local taxi operators had gone a strike opposing installation of speed governors and digital meters, among other issues. The minister said that if GoaMiles was good then all the taxi owners would have supported GoaMiles and joined them. “Please check if GoaMiles drivers have a badge,” he said. “Someone from Uttar Pradesh comes to Goa and starts driving a taxi without having a badge. Chief minister Pramod Sawant will rectify this and a decision will be taken in the interest of Goa and Goans,” Lobo, who is an MLA from the tourist belt of Calangute, said. The minister said that he is not calling for scrapping of GoaMiles, but the right decision should be taken in the interest of Goan taxi owners and drivers and it will be done within the framework of law. He said that customers are calling GoaMiles cabs from hotels and local taxi operators are facing problems because of it. “If GoaMiles is an app-based taxi service then why do they have a counter at the airport,” Lobo said. The minister said that GoaMiles had cheated the state government. This issue is not being resolved for the last two years and this is injustice to the local taxi operators, he said. Sawant has started discussions with taxi associations to take a “balanced decision” in the interest of tourism and taxi operators who are demanding the scrapping of GoaMiles. During the past few months, clashes have been reported between taxi operators and GoaMiles drivers over the picking up of passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goamiles-problem-created-by-parrikar-lobo/articleshow/80456381.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Ranchi||No Jharkhand farmer at tractor parade in Delhi today||RANCHI: Farmers from Jharkhand will not take part in the tractor rally taken out by their counterparts from across the country on the Outer Ring Road in Delhi on Republic Day despite an appeal from the agitators. However, political parties and their affiliated farm bodies have decided to hold tractor and motorcycle rallies in the city on Tuesday. Farmers, particularly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have made an appealed to take part in the voluntary show of strength to revoke the three farm laws of the Centre. Jharkhand convener of NREGA Watch, James Henrej, who closely works with farmers and farm labourers, said the farmers of the state are never organised and not impacted by the laws. He said, “Jharkhand farmers never got the benefit of the minimum support price (MSP) and when the Centre made the laws, they never have the fear of being impacted.” Political parties in Jharkhand, which have criticised the ruling BJP, have failed to foresee the agitation but they are now planning to send representations on later dates. Farmers’ bodies affiliated to Left parties, including Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sabha, have been staging agitation in the state for the past several months but said no farmer will be participating in the rally in New Delhi. CPM state secretariat member Prakash Viplav said, “The Samyukta Kisan Morcha is playing the lead role in the agitation at New Delhi and has said that those who are unable to take part in the rally could hold a similar programme in their respective states. So, we are staging tractor and bike rallies in the state on Tuesday. A group of people from Sahibganj had visited New Delhi about 10 days ago and we are planning to send a large group of farmers in February.” He added that the Left parties and its affiliated organisations had already planned their protests from January 21 to 30. Meanwhile, Congress maintained that Delhi’s tractor rally will be a slap on the Union government’s face and claimed the event will mark the gradual downfall of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government. Although no party worker from the state will be present during Tuesday’s rally in Delhi, state party spokesperson Alok Dubey said between December last year and early January this year, Jharkhand agriculture minister Badal Patralekh and ex-MLA of Daltonganj, K N Tripathy, had spent a few days at the camps of the protesting farmers along the Delhi borders to show solidarity. In a statement, Dubey and Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo, also a spokesperson, said, “The Union government’s actions and intentions don’t match and as a result, the agitating farmers are not convinced despite 12 rounds of talks. Congress, both at national and state levels, will continue to fight for their cause.” Ruling JMM has also decided to join the protest on Tuesday but it is planning to join the agitation on a later date. “This is the time of Tusu and other festivals and we thought of sending our representation on a later date,” JMM central general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-jkhand-farmer-at-tractor-parade-in-national-capital-today/articleshow/80456200.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
January 26, 2021||Jamshedpur||No Jharkhand farmer at tractor parade in Delhi today||RANCHI: Farmers from Jharkhand will not take part in the tractor rally taken out by their counterparts from across the country on the Outer Ring Road in Delhi on Republic Day despite an appeal from the agitators. However, political parties and their affiliated farm bodies have decided to hold tractor and motorcycle rallies in the city on Tuesday. Farmers, particularly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have made an appealed to take part in the voluntary show of strength to revoke the three farm laws of the Centre. Jharkhand convener of NREGA Watch, James Henrej, who closely works with farmers and farm labourers, said the farmers of the state are never organised and not impacted by the laws. He said, “Jharkhand farmers never got the benefit of the minimum support price (MSP) and when the Centre made the laws, they never have the fear of being impacted.” Political parties in Jharkhand, which have criticised the ruling BJP, have failed to foresee the agitation but they are now planning to send representations on later dates. Farmers’ bodies affiliated to Left parties, including Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sabha, have been staging agitation in the state for the past several months but said no farmer will be participating in the rally in New Delhi. CPM state secretariat member Prakash Viplav said, “The Samyukta Kisan Morcha is playing the lead role in the agitation at New Delhi and has said that those who are unable to take part in the rally could hold a similar programme in their respective states. So, we are staging tractor and bike rallies in the state on Tuesday. A group of people from Sahibganj had visited New Delhi about 10 days ago and we are planning to send a large group of farmers in February.” He added that the Left parties and its affiliated organisations had already planned their protests from January 21 to 30. Meanwhile, Congress maintained that Delhi’s tractor rally will be a slap on the Union government’s face and claimed the event will mark the gradual downfall of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government. Although no party worker from the state will be present during Tuesday’s rally in Delhi, state party spokesperson Alok Dubey said between December last year and early January this year, Jharkhand agriculture minister Badal Patralekh and ex-MLA of Daltonganj, K N Tripathy, had spent a few days at the camps of the protesting farmers along the Delhi borders to show solidarity. In a statement, Dubey and Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo, also a spokesperson, said, “The Union government’s actions and intentions don’t match and as a result, the agitating farmers are not convinced despite 12 rounds of talks. Congress, both at national and state levels, will continue to fight for their cause.” Ruling JMM has also decided to join the protest on Tuesday but it is planning to join the agitation on a later date. “This is the time of Tusu and other festivals and we thought of sending our representation on a later date,” JMM central general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/no-jkhand-farmer-at-tractor-parade-in-national-capital-today/articleshow/80463162.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
January 26, 2021||Goa||Parrikar asked Lobo if he had issues before giving us nod: GoaMiles||Panaji: Countering ports minister Michael Lobo’s statement that former chief minister Manohar Parrikar did not take anyone into confidence before starting app-based taxi service GoaMiles in the state, an official of GoaMiles said that at that time, Parrikar had specially asked Lobo if he had any problems with the service. “Lobo was called for the meeting and asked if he had any issues with GoaMiles before we were awarded the tender. The minister said that the government could go ahead,” Goa Miles director operations Parashar Khot told reporters on Monday, a few hours after Lobo’s statement outside the state legislative assembly. GoaMiles started its operations in August 2018. Parashar said besides Lobo the meeting was attended by then Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) chairman Nilesh Cabral and senior officers of Goa Tourism, which he said, was held three-four days before the tender was awarded. “He (Lobo) stated that he had no problem,” Parashar said. “By making such statements now, Lobo is taking the advantage of the fact that Parrikar is no more to counter him. He shouldn’t do it,” the GoaMiles director said. The GoaMiles is doing business in Goa legally, it will not quit, he said. Appreciating the transport department’s initiative to allow only those having a badge issued by it can be hired to drive taxis in Goa commercially, he said, GoaMiles sacked about 1,000 drivers when the rule came into force. “Lobo can show if any GoaMiles driver is operating without a badge, and I assure him that the driver will be immediately shown a door. But we are aware there are many taxi owners in Calangute and Candolim who have hired drivers from outside Goa without badge,” he alleged. During the last few days, the tourist taxi issue has resurfaced with taxi operators demanding that the government should suspend GoaMiles operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parrikar-asked-lobo-if-he-had-issues-before-giving-us-nod-goamiles/articleshow/80456409.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 26, 2021||India||Drive picks up pace, 19.5 lakh vaccinated in the last 10 days||NEW DELHI: India vaccinated over 19.5 lakh healthcare workers against Covid-19 in the last 10 days, with 3,34,679 recipients receiving the jabs on Monday, the highest number of inoculations in a day since the nationwide rollout on January 16. With this, India is now barely a step away from crossing the benchmark of two million people getting the vaccine. Officials said the drive picked up pace in many states following the awareness drive launched by the government early last week which helped allay fear and apprehensions about safety of the vaccines. Besides, the glitches in Co-Win software were also addressed by the Centre as many additional vaccinators were trained alongside. The Centre also made enhancements on the Co-WIN platform to allow pre-registered recipients to be vaccinated at a site even if they were not scheduled for the day. While Karnataka tops the list with over 2.3 lakh people getting the jabs, Odisha is the second highest with nearly 1.8 lakh inoculated so far. Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Telangana and Haryana are the other seven states to have vaccinated more than one lakh people in the last 10 days. A total of 348 adverse events after immunisation were reported on Monday, most of which were minor, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/drive-picks-up-pace-19-5-lakh-vaccinated-in-the-last-10-days/articleshow/80459669.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Nagpur||Hatched: Idea of Egg Park to crack chicken or egg mystery||Nagpur: As work continues on Rs150 crore project to beautify Futala Lake and build an amphitheatre on its embankment, a theme park based on eggs has been mooted on a site a few metres away — poultry training centre of Maharashtra Animal and Fisheries Sciences University (Mafsu). The egg park, mooted by a Mafsu official Mukund Kadam, is estimated to cost Rs6 crore. Kadam is head of the department for poultry in Mafsu.When the state’s animal husbandry minister Sunil Kedar visited Mafsu last week, Kadam had made a presentation before him. Kedar told TOI he will look into the project in detail. “It is too early to comment,” said the minister.The poultry training centre is on the right turn after driving along the Futala embankment from Amravati Road side. Since 1953, there was a poultry shed for training veterinary college students. In 2016, it was changed into a training centre for farmers too. Kadam, who took over in 2016, claims no tree will be cut for the park. Entry fee will bring funds for Mafsu, he said.Kadam says, “I got the idea around March when there were rumours that eating chicken can lead to Covid. Now again, poultry industry is facing crisis due to bird flu scare. I thought there has to be some means to dispel myths about both chicken and the egg.”As per Kadam’s plan, visitors will be able to know everything they want about the egg and chicken. Apart from regular poultry breeds — hen, quail, turkey, ducks and geese — some fancy birds may also be put on display.Information starting from how long it takes for a hen to develop an egg to facts whether it is vegetation or non-veg food will be explained, he said.“It must be understood that almost 99% of the eggs available in market are vegetarian. Eggs in organic poultry are not fertilized, so there is no question of life in it. It’s just ovum of the bird. The eggs can be fertilized if there is presence of a rooster in the flock, which generally happens in the free range poultry or desi egg as it is called in common terms,” Kadam explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hatched-idea-of-egg-park-to-crack-chicken-or-egg-mystery/articleshow/80455482.cms||Shishir Arya
January 26, 2021||Nagpur||Fadnavis charges Cong, NCP with double standards||Nagpur: Referring to the support given by Congress and NCP to the farmers’ agitation in Mumbai on Monday, former state chief minister Devendra Fadnavis accused the two parties of double standards over farm policies. The Mumbai stir was staged to protest the three farm laws passed by the Centre last year. “The two political parties are doing drama and spreading wrong information over the issue on farmers' protest against the Centre's farm laws,” Fadnavis said here. Fadnavis, who is the leader of opposition in the state assembly, pointed out that it was the Congress-NCP government in the state, which allowed contract farming and direct purchase of farm products. He said so much time had passed since the farm bills were passed by the BJP-led central government last year but the state did not witness any protest against it. “I have a question for the parties supporting these morchas. Why Congress in its 2019 election manifesto said it would abolish market committees if it comes to power? The Congress and NCP should answer why they had approved the contract farming in 2006. They are okay with this such policies in the state, but do not want all over the country. Why these double standards,” Fadnavis asked. Fadnavis claimed 29 licences for direct purchase of farmers' produce were issued during the 15-year Congress-NCP regime. “It was the Congress-NCP government which started giving licences to corporates to purchase outside market committees in Maharashtra. The current central government is not doing it,” he said. “This is all drama and it has no support of farmers. On the contrary, the Shetkari Sanghatna led by late Sharad Joshi has welcomed all the three farm laws,” he said. Fadnavis along with several BJP workers staged a demonstration in Bhandara over various issues. He alleged that huge corruption has taken place in the purchase of paddy in Bhandara. “We never stopped paddy purchase during our tenure. Now, this government is demanding money from traders for issuing them license to purchase paddy,” he added. “The money, which farmers were to receive, has gone to others. Substandard material is being given to the Food Corporation of India (FCI). A huge crop scam has taken place in connivance with ruling party leaders,” he claimed. Fadnavis said they were also agitating against the state government for going back on its assurance of bearing the excess amount of inflated power bills of consumers. He claimed that most people were not in a position to pay the inflated bills due to the economic slowdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fadnavis-charges-cong-ncp-with-double-standards/articleshow/80455507.cms||Ashish Roy
January 26, 2021||Nagpur||Denied bike by dad, teen steals 2-wheelers||Nagpur: Miffed by father’s refusal to allow him ride family-owned scooter, a 16-year-old boy started stealing bikes to avenge the denial and also to fulfil his desire for fun rides. The minor had also roped in another friend. Police have recovered three stolen bikes from the duo. Pachpaoli police had on January 23 rounded up two friends, both aged 16 and students of Standard X, for their alleged involvement in stealing three bikes. The investigating team of senior inspector Kishor Nagrale led by sub-inspector Arvind Shinde had managed to zero down on the teenagers following CCTV footage. The team comprising head constables Santoshsingh Thakur, Amit Satpute, Nitin Shirshat and others had spotted the two minors in CCTV footage from cameras installed at different places in Pachpaoli, Kadbi Chowk, Gondwana Chowk, Sadar and Mangalwari Market. According to police, the teenagers would target bikes which would be left without locking the handle by the owners. The two had first stolen a bike. Later, they used the stolen bike to tow the second one they had spotted without handle locked. The cops had started scanning CCTV footage in Vaishali Nagar after a spate of two-wheeler thefts in the locality. It was during the scanning of the footage, the cops had come across the two towing away a stolen bike while riding another one. After zeroing down on their whereabouts, the cops had brought them to police station for questioning and subsequently recovered the three stolen two-wheelers. Pachpaoli police are now further investigating the matter under Zonal DCP Lohit Matani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/denied-bike-by-dad-teen-steals-2-wheelers/articleshow/80455519.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 26, 2021||Nagpur||Nagargoje saved drowning man, daughter from well||Chandrapur: President of India has conferred the coveted Uttam Jeewan Raksha Pawad to police constable Purshottam Nagargoje from remote Bhisi police station for his exemplary bravery for saving the lives of a two-year-old girl and his father who were drowning in a well. Jeevan Raksha Padak is a series of award given to a person for meritorious act of human nature in saving lives of a person by the Union government. The incident dates back to May 29, 2020. One Prabhakar Barekar was playing with his daughter Shvannya sitting on the parapet wall of a well near his house in Shankarpur village. Suddenly, the girl lost her balance and fell into the 35 feet deep well. Her father, who did not know how to swim, jumped to save her and both started drowning. Neighbours rushed to the spot on hearing their cries but none tried to rescue them. “We were close by on patrolling and saw an agitated crowd around the well and went to inquire. Seeing that none was ready to go down into the well to save the drowning duo, I jumped into the well even as it was pitch dark inside. I took the girl over my shoulder and held her father above the water, who was exhausted and drowsy,” Nagargoje told TOI. There was lots of chaos and din due to large crowd around the well and it was difficult to communicate with those above. “It was more than half-an-hour in the well when I was able to explain them to lower a rope. The girl was fished out first and then her father and I came out clinging to the rope one after the other,” Nagargoje said. Then superintendent of police, Maheshwar Reddy took note of his exemplary bravery. He not only awarded him at department level, but also recommended his name for Jeevan Raksha Padak award. Nagargoje is one among eight people in the country who will receive the coveted award.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagargoje-saved-drowning-man-daughter-from-well/articleshow/80455653.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 26, 2021||India||Threats not best way to fight vaccine hesitancy: Experts||A letter by the Union home secretary to state governments urging them to take action under the Disaster Management Act and IPC against those spreading “unfounded and misleading rumours” about the safety and efficacy of Covid vaccines being used in India has caused unease among many doctors and public health experts. They expressed the view that threats of penal action against those raising doubts is not the best way to tackle vaccine hesitancy and could even be counter-productive. With no data from phase-III trial of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin nor data from the Indian bridge trial of Serum’s Covishield being put in the public domain or published in any peer reviewed journal, many have been sceptical of claims of the two vaccines’ efficacy. Reports of serious adverse events including deaths of eight beneficiaries, which have been declared as “not related to the vaccine”, have added to people’s reluctance to take the vaccination even as lakhs have already been vaccinated. Health workers and doctors have expressed unhappiness with the way the deaths were investigated and have demanded that more information be put out on it. “It is important for the scientific community and health professionals to engage with the evidence and for them to understand the rationale for regulatory decisions, especially those which have been taken through expedited mechanisms during the pandemic. We should encourage such discussions and respond to any concerns they might have. This is also relevant because they are the first recipients of these interventions (vaccines) as per the priority list. More transparency, engagement and discussion is in public interest, and should be encouraged, not penalised,” said Dr Anant Bhan, former president of the International Association of Bioethics. “Vaccine hesitancy is an umbrella term that covers a spectrum. It is a challenge to deal with, and an approach which is very different from this letter (home secretary’s letter) was outlined in the government’s communication strategy published just a few weeks ago,” pointed out Dr Gagandeep Kang, one of the foremost vaccine scientists in India and vice-chair of the board of Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI). Dr Kang was referring to a detailed 88-page, “Covid-19 vaccine communication strategy” put out by the health ministry at the beginning of the year, which included various measures “to build trust and enable greater confidence” in the vaccines among all people “by employing transparency in communication, while also managing any mis/disinformation and rumours around it”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/threats-not-best-way-to-fight-vaccine-hesitancy-experts/articleshow/80459675.cms||Rema Nagarajan
January 26, 2021||India||Don’t share Aarogya Setu data without consent: HC||BENGALURU: The Karnataka HC on Monday restrained the central government and National Informatics Centre (NIC) from sharing data obtained from users of Aarogya Setu app unless express consent has been obtained from users to share the same. A division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, in an interim order on a PIL filed by Bengaluru-based Anivar A Aravind, found there was no informed consent from users of the app to share their response data as provided in the Aarogya Setu Data Access and Knowledge Sharing Protocol 2020. “Prima facie, we find sharing and use of response data will infringe on the right to privacy guaranteed by the Constitution,” the bench said. Response data includes, among others, information shared by users. Aarogya Setu Data Access and Knowledge Sharing Protocol, 2020, issued vide order dated May 11, 2020, will be in force till May 10, 2021. The court, however, left the door open for the Centre and NIC to file an affidavit proving to the court otherwise. The court also accepted assurances given by the Centre that no individual will be denied benefits of any services provided by governments, its agencies and instrumentalities on the ground that she has not downloaded or installed the app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dont-share-aarogya-setu-data-without-consent-hc/articleshow/80459682.cms||Vasantha Kumar
January 26, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: VMRDA master plan for 2041 to be ready by June||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority is fast working on preparing Master Plan-2041. The Covid-19 pandemic had affected its progress last year. The existing Master Plan-2006 will expire in June 2021. The consultant hired by VMRDA for the master plan preparation has recently submitted the draft plan and zonal development plans. The VMRDA is scrutinising both the plans. Preparation of the master plan and zonal development plans will be completed by June, 2021 to replace the existing master plan. Speaking to ToI, VMRDA metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara Rao said that the VMRDA is scrutinising the draft master plan and zonal development plans to check the minutest details before finalising them. “The final draft master plan would be placed in the public domain for about a month. All the inputs received from the public during this one month would be referred to an expert committee to check their validity and incorporate the worthwhile in the master plan. We will complete all this process by June,” said Koteswara Rao. Out of 13 deliverables, the consultant has so far submitted 10 deliverables. These include inception report, interim report, field survey report, existing situation assessment report, traffic survey, analysis report, consultation report, base map, vision & strategy formulation report, draft perspective plan, preliminary draft master plan & draft master plan, and zonal development plans. The VMRDA is spread over two districts, including Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam. This covers 36 mandals and 936 villages. Even though several mandals of Srikakulam were excluded from the VMRDA in 2019 to float Srikakulam Urban Development Authority, the VMRDA’s master plan also included these mandals from Srikakulam. VMRDA metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara Rao said that the master plan prepared for these mandals would be handed over to the SUDA. The master plan outlines a development vision of the VMRDA and its planning framework for the future, including housing strategies, conservation zones, industrial development plans, transportation plan, environmental sustainable plan, public amenities and service plans, integration of erstwhile Vuda master plans, business plans, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vmrda-master-plan-for-2041-to-be-ready-by-june/articleshow/80454701.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
January 26, 2021||Vijayawada||Three from Andhra Pradesh get Padma Shri||VIJAYAWADA: Three people from Andhra Pradesh were awarded the Padma Shri by the Union government on Monday. The three recipients of the honour are: noted violinist Annavarapu Rama Swamy, mrindangam player Nidumolu Sumathi and Prakasarao Asavadi. While Annavarapu Rama Swamy and Nidumolu Sumathi received the Padma Shri in the ‘art’ category, Prakasarao Asavadi received the award under the ‘literature and education’ category. Violinist Rama Swamy was born in Somavarappadu village in 1926. He learned music from Jaganatham Chowdary and worked for more than 40 years in AIR Vijayawada until he retired in 1986. Rama Swamy has shared the stage with renowned musicians and singers including Mangalampalli Balamurali Krishna, SP Bala Subramanyam and NC Krishnamacharyulu. Nidumolu Sumathi, a noted mridangam player, is the wife of famous mridangam player Dhandamudi Rama Mohana Rao. She too has worked with AIR. Born in 1950 in Andhra Pradesh, she received her initial training from her father Nidumolu Raghavaiah. Sumathi has participated in several prestigious music festivals both in India and abroad accompanying a number of eminent Carnatic musicians. Prakasarao Asavadi is a celebrated poet and scholar. Born in 1944 in a small village, Asavadi has dedicated his life to propagate and rejuvenate Tamil and Sanskrit literatures. Asavadi’s most significant literary contribution is his performance of Avadhana – a uniquely creative, intricate and formidable classical poetic feat. Legendary singer SP Bala Subramanyam was honoured with the Padma Vibhushan (posthumous). Although from Tamil Nadu, the celebrated artist was born in Nellore district and was immensely popular in the two Telugu states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/three-from-ap-get-padma-shri/articleshow/80454719.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Amaravati||Three from Andhra Pradesh get Padma Shri||VIJAYAWADA: Three people from Andhra Pradesh were awarded the Padma Shri by the Union government on Monday. The three recipients of the honour are: noted violinist Annavarapu Rama Swamy, mrindangam player Nidumolu Sumathi and Prakasarao Asavadi. While Annavarapu Rama Swamy and Nidumolu Sumathi received the Padma Shri in the ‘art’ category, Prakasarao Asavadi received the award under the ‘literature and education’ category. Violinist Rama Swamy was born in Somavarappadu village in 1926. He learned music from Jaganatham Chowdary and worked for more than 40 years in AIR Vijayawada until he retired in 1986. Rama Swamy has shared the stage with renowned musicians and singers including Mangalampalli Balamurali Krishna, SP Bala Subramanyam and NC Krishnamacharyulu. Nidumolu Sumathi, a noted mridangam player, is the wife of famous mridangam player Dhandamudi Rama Mohana Rao. She too has worked with AIR. Born in 1950 in Andhra Pradesh, she received her initial training from her father Nidumolu Raghavaiah. Sumathi has participated in several prestigious music festivals both in India and abroad accompanying a number of eminent Carnatic musicians. Prakasarao Asavadi is a celebrated poet and scholar. Born in 1944 in a small village, Asavadi has dedicated his life to propagate and rejuvenate Tamil and Sanskrit literatures. Asavadi’s most significant literary contribution is his performance of Avadhana – a uniquely creative, intricate and formidable classical poetic feat. Legendary singer SP Bala Subramanyam was honoured with the Padma Vibhushan (posthumous). Although from Tamil Nadu, the celebrated artist was born in Nellore district and was immensely popular in the two Telugu states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/three-from-ap-get-padma-shri/articleshow/80460354.cms||---
January 26, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Three from Andhra Pradesh get Padma Shri||VIJAYAWADA: Three people from Andhra Pradesh were awarded the Padma Shri by the Union government on Monday. The three recipients of the honour are: noted violinist Annavarapu Rama Swamy, mrindangam player Nidumolu Sumathi and Prakasarao Asavadi. While Annavarapu Rama Swamy and Nidumolu Sumathi received the Padma Shri in the ‘art’ category, Prakasarao Asavadi received the award under the ‘literature and education’ category. Violinist Rama Swamy was born in Somavarappadu village in 1926. He learned music from Jaganatham Chowdary and worked for more than 40 years in AIR Vijayawada until he retired in 1986. Rama Swamy has shared the stage with renowned musicians and singers including Mangalampalli Balamurali Krishna, SP Bala Subramanyam and NC Krishnamacharyulu. Nidumolu Sumathi, a noted mridangam player, is the wife of famous mridangam player Dhandamudi Rama Mohana Rao. She too has worked with AIR. Born in 1950 in Andhra Pradesh, she received her initial training from her father Nidumolu Raghavaiah. Sumathi has participated in several prestigious music festivals both in India and abroad accompanying a number of eminent Carnatic musicians. Prakasarao Asavadi is a celebrated poet and scholar. Born in 1944 in a small village, Asavadi has dedicated his life to propagate and rejuvenate Tamil and Sanskrit literatures. Asavadi’s most significant literary contribution is his performance of Avadhana – a uniquely creative, intricate and formidable classical poetic feat. Legendary singer SP Bala Subramanyam was honoured with the Padma Vibhushan (posthumous). Although from Tamil Nadu, the celebrated artist was born in Nellore district and was immensely popular in the two Telugu states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/three-from-ap-get-padma-shri/articleshow/80460353.cms||---
