January 27, 2021||Bengaluru||Dancers and martial artists steal the show on Day 2 of the auditions of Times Fresh Face Season 13 in Bengaluru||If Day 1 of the first-ever digital auditions of Everyuth Times Fresh Face Season 13 was all about high-octane power-packed performances, Day 2 was just as exciting, if not more, with quite a few surprises. The auditions began with a video message from actor Siddhant Chaturvedi, who was the Fresh Face 2012 winner, and often credits the platform as a major contributor to his journey and success as an actor. Celebrity judge for the day, actress Adhvithi Shetty had her work cut out right from the word go, as the students took over the stage, each one putting up a scintillating display of talent. Pratipade Sharma artistry and technical finesse was on point for her graceful piece of aerial dance, while Kushal L impressed with her martial arts skills. As Tejaswi Devang showcased his dancing skills, Sreeja Chakraborty brought in an element of surprise with her performance. “It was my first time at Times Fresh Face and I was surprised with the talent that Bengaluru has to offer. It reminded me of my college days. I loved how confident students were and some of them were such fantastic performers. I could see how passionate they were while they performed,” says Adhvithi, who also offered advice to the dancers. The shortlisted participants will now compete at the city semi-finale. Semi Finalists  Kesar Suvedi Swarna Vinod Kushi Badarinath Serene Saleel Swara Seshan Gershem Sunder Vishwa Omkar Sneha M Chandana U Mohammed Ishaq Nikitha Anand Hiteshi Soni Vivaksha Gangadhar Tejaswi Devang Indira Sinha Amshula Puri Hrithika Srinivas Sreeja Chakraborty Manasa Vijay Sanjana Patil Chandana Gowda Vaishnavi Anand Hemanth HR Roshith Saran Unmana Chakraverty Anirudh Kusanur Shriraksha Padaki Pratipade Sharma Sanjana Burli Sharan Yajman Simran Mendiratta Bhoomika CN Tejaswini S Shrey Bothra Kushal L Aaliya Nadaf Apoorv Shukla Ashwathi Jayakrishnan Goutham P Harshitha S  Moksha Sanghvi Roopashree Maruthiraj Vibha S Smruthi Raghavendra||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/dancers-and-martial-artists-steal-the-show-on-day-2-of-the-auditions-of-times-fresh-face-season-13-in-bengaluru/articleshow/80469111.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
January 27, 2021||Business||Budget 2021: Make in India boost, oil cess may be halved||NEW DELHI: The government may give a 'Make in India' push to oil and gas explorers, as it is considering a proposal to almost halve cess on domestic crude oil to encourage exploration activity and allow Covid-hit oil producers to protect their margins. The glut in the oil market and deep suppression of demand during the peak of pandemic in 2020 had pushed down crude oil prices to unprecedented levels. Though crude prices have recovered over the vaccination drive against Covid and a pick in demand coupled with unilateral production cut announced by Saudi Arabia, cess puts domestic crude at a disadvantage against imported oil. Cess on domestic crude is currently levied at the rate of 20 per cent of the value of oil. Official sources said the proposal by the Union oil ministry is to reduce it to 10 per cent. If this is accepted by the finance ministry, the changes may be announced as part of Budget 2021-22 proposals, sources said. Though the larger view is in favour of halving the cess, the exact quantum would be worked out later. The reduction in the levy has huge revenue implications as ONGC alone pays cess in excess of Rs 10,000 crore annually. The changes would also provide a level playing field to domestic companies as imported crude does not attract cess. "Cess is levied only on crude oil produced domestically. Thus, it places domestic crude oil production vis-a-vis imported crude oil at a significant disadvantage as imported crude does not attract such duty. This levy is against the spirit of 'Make in India'," industry chamber FICCI had said in a memorandum given to the finance ministry earlier. "Abolition of the OID (Oil Industry Development) cess for pre-NELP and nomination blocks, reduction in rates of royalty and greater marketing freedom are some measures that will help revive investments and fast-track growth in the sector. Greater support to exploration in the form of faster approvals and self-certification will boost investor sentiment and send a strong message to international investors on the ease of doing business in India and attract further capital," said Sunil Duggal, Group CEO & chief safety officer, Vedanta Ltd. The finance ministry had revised oil cess in the FY17 Union Budget, shifting it from a specific charge of Rs 4,500 per tonne of crude to an ad valorem rate of 20 per cent. This was done to help the exploration firms from higher cess burden at a time when crude oil prices were falling. Though oil prices are moving at over $50 a barrel for some time now, fluctuations in pricing always puts domestic crude producers at a disadvantage. The problem is magnified as cess incurred by producers is not recoverable from refineries and forms part of cost of production of crude oil. The Oil Industry (Development) Act, 1974, provides for collection of cess as a duty of excise on indigenous crude oil. This adds to the loss of revenue for exploration companies. The government is looking to reduce the tax burden on oil companies to push up domestic production that has stagnated for past several years at around 30-35 million tonne. The reduction in oil cess would benefit upstream companies such as ONGC and Cairn India whose production is subjected to the oil industry development cess levied on an ad valorem basis. But under the new open acreage licensing policy (OALP), which provides pricing and marketing freedom to operators along with the power to select the block for exploration, does not attract oil cess. This puts the older oil and gas blocks at a disadvantage to any new hydrocarbon finds. Currently, state-owned ONGC and OIL pay a cess on crude oil they produce from their allotted fields on a nomination basis. Cairn Oil and Gas has to pay the same cess for oil from the Rajasthan block. Most of crude oil produced in India comes from pre-NELP and nomination blocks and is liable for payment of cess. NELP blocks like Reliance Industries' KG-D6 are exempt from payment of cess while pre-NELP discovered blocks like Panna/Mukta and Tapti and Ravva pay a fixed rate of cess of Rs 900 per tonne. The cess was levied at Rs 60 per tonne in July 1974 and subsequently revised from time to time. In 2005-06, when the crude oil prices had increased from an average of $40 per barrel to $60, the OID cess was raised from Rs 1,800 to Rs 2,500 per tonne from March 1, 2006. Again, when the crude prices climbed to over $100, the rate of cess went up to Rs 4,500 ($12 per barrel) with effect from March 17, 2012.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/budget-2021-make-in-india-boost-oil-cess-may-be-halved/articleshow/80470260.cms||---
January 27, 2021||World||UK crosses grim Covid-19 death toll of 100,000, Boris Johson says hard to compute sorrow||LONDON: The UK on Tuesday hit another grim Covid-19 milestone as the country's death toll from the deadly virus crossed 100,000 since the peak of the pandemic last year, with another 1,631 daily deaths. The total number of fatalities in the country has reached 100,162. "It's hard to compute the sorrow contained in that grim statistic, the years of life lost, the family gatherings not attended and for many relatives not even the chance to say goodbye," said UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, as he unveiled the latest figures at a briefing from 10 Downing Street in London. “It's an appalling and tragic loss of life. All we can do now is work together with the tolls that we have with the stay at home principle, plus the vaccines, to defeat the virus," he said. Johnson promised that the country will commemorate the lives lost together at a future date and also the "immense national effort" to tackle the pandemic – from health workers to scientists developing vaccines and key workers. England's Chief Medical Officer, Professor Chris Whitty, joined Johnson at the briefing on the "very sad day” and went through health data to note that the number of people testing positive for Covid-19 in the UK peaked at an extremely high number but it is coming down. "We need to be realistic that that number will come down relatively slowly over the next two weeks… We need to be careful we do not relax (lockdown restrictions) too early,” he said. The government's latest data now coincides with earlier Office for National Statistics (ONS) assessment of death certificate data, which had revealed that there have been nearly 104,000 deaths since last year. The UK government's daily death toll figures rely on positive coronavirus tests in the past 28 days and are therefore slightly behind on the death certificate figures. The ONS figures showed that a total of 7,245 registered deaths in England and Wales mentioned Covid-19 on the death certificate in the week ending January 15, which is up from 6,057 deaths the week before and is the highest weekly number since April 24, 2020. "It is a tragedy that we have now seen more than 100,000 deaths from Covid-19. This is a dreadful milestone to have reached, and behind each death will be a story of sorrow and grief,” said Chris Hopson, Chief Executive of NHS Providers, a membership organisation for the state-funded National Health Service (NHS). "We won't know the true impact of Covid-19 for a long time to come because of its long-term effects – but, as well as the high death rate, it's particularly concerning that this virus has widened health inequalities and affected Black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME) communities disproportionately,” he said, urging continued “vigilance” among all communities and strictly following the rules of social distancing. “The vaccine offers hope for the future. This is a key phase in the fight to end Covid-19 but we must stay the course until the end is truly in sight,” he added. The latest figures come as the UK government is considering further measures in its fight against a high rate of infections, including the possibility of imposing compulsory 10-day hospital quarantine for travellers entering Britain from regions believed to be at a high risk of spreading new variants of coronavirus. “The NHS is still under intense pressure across all parts of the country with 37,899 people in UK hospitals with Covid-19 – and that includes 4,076 on ventilators,” said UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock, as he reiterated the message for people to continue following lockdown restrictions. The minister highlighted that his department-led vaccination programme remains on track to meet the government-set target of covering all those under the top priority groups by mid-February, despite vaccine supply pressures. “The rate limiting factor to this vaccination programme remains supply. As we know, supply is tight. We've had a very strong performance in this past week. And I'm confident that the NHS will deliver every shot that's made available to it,” he said, adding that 78.7 per cent of all over 80s have now been vaccinated as of Monday. The government has also rolled out a new Community Champions scheme through local councils, with popular celebrities including British Indian actors Meera Syal and Sanjeev Bhaskar also launching independent efforts, to help combat reluctance among minority communities towards being vaccinated. “It is vital that everyone has access to accurate and up to date information about Covid-19. False information about Covid-19 vaccines could cost lives,” said Communities Secretary Robert Jenrick. Over 23 million pounds funding has been allocated to 60 councils and voluntary groups across England to expand work to support those most at risk from Covid-19 and boost vaccine take up. “We want all communities to take up the offer of a free vaccine and I have been working closely with faith and community leaders to ensure those who may be at higher risk of harm from this virus know how they can benefit from a vaccine,” said Vaccine Deployment Minister Nadhim Zahawi. “The expansion of the Community Champions scheme will help everyone get the advice and information they need about Covid-19 vaccines,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-crosses-grim-covid-19-death-toll-of-100000-boris-johson-says-hard-to-compute-sorrow/articleshow/80470269.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Business||Budget: Tough balancing act for government, says report||NEW DELHI: The Budget 2021-22 may see the trade-off to become more acute between stimulating growth, and maintaining fiscal rectitude, Kotak Institutional Equities said in a pre-budget note. The Covid-19 pandemic disruptions has pushed down the country GDP growth into the negative zone in two successive quarters and projections are that GDP may contract over 7 per cent in FY21. This contraction has come on the the back of increased spending by the government on Covid relief measures that has already taken up the country's fiscal deficit several notches with expectations that deficit may run at a high of 7.5 per cent of GDP in FY21 as against budget target of 3.5 per cent. "The government needs to aim at increasing stable incomes for large parts of the population in the middle and bottom of the pyramid which have been the worst hit from the pandemic. "We expect the budget to strengthen the Atmanibhar Bharat vision and focus on health, physical infrastructure, and financial sector along with rural India," said Suvodeep Rakshit, Vice President and Senior Economist at Kotak Institutional Equities. The brokerage also expects budget announcements around DFI for infrastructure financing or 'bad' bank to take centrestage as the government aims to finance long term growth. It, however, does not expect expect the government to announce any major changes in taxes though some changes to custom duty, especially on finished/near-finished items could be increased in line with the PLI scheme for select sectors. According to Rakshit there is a need for the government to maintain an easy fiscal. The brokerage expects fiscal deficit of 5.5 per cent of GDP in FY22. "We expect a slightly lower market borrowing to finance the deficit which will maintain the upward pressure on long term rates. We continue to expect the yield curve to flatten given that the pace of policy normalization would weigh more on the shorter end of the curve," the brokerage said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/budget-tough-balancing-act-for-government-says-report/articleshow/80470337.cms||---
January 27, 2021||India||Anti-social elements were behind violence during tractor parade: Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait||GHAZIABAD: Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said that some antisocial elements were behind the violence during the farmers' tractor parade in the national capital on Tuesday. It was due to the Delhi Police's “actions” that some anti-social elements entered the parade and caused the violence, he said. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesman in a statement also alleged that the Delhi Police had wrongly placed barricades at some places of the pre-decided routes of the parade. "This was done intentionally to misguide farmers," Tikait said, adding that because of this, farmers on tractors went astray. This gave anti-social elements the opportunity to enter the tractor rally, he claimed. BKU believes in peaceful demonstration and will identify the miscreants behind the violence. Tikait urged protesting farmers to keep themselves away from violence. The coordination committee members of the parade will look into the reasons behind the violence, he said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting against the Centre's new agri laws at various Delhi border points since November last year and on Tuesday, they took out tractor parades in the national capital. Ghaziabad District Information Officer (DIO) Rakesh Chauhan said in a statement that the tractor rally culminated peacefully in Ghaziabad and no untoward incident occurred. The administration had made adequate arrangements and senior police and civil officials interacted with farmer leaders every day, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/antisocial-elements-were-behind-violence-during-tractor-parade-farmer-leader-rakesh-tikait/articleshow/80470331.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Quarry owner denied anticipatory bail in explosives case||BENGALURU: A city civil and sessions court on Monday denied anticipatory bail to a 36-year-old quarry businessman in connection with a case of sale and delivery of explosives registered against him by Internal Security Division (ISD) officers. Nagendra BR, a resident of Bidadi, had approached the 67th additional city civil and sessions court recently. ISD officers had arrested his driver Naveen and seized a tempo in which he was transporting explosives near Peenya on January 13. Investigation revealed Nagendra was behind the incident. Nagendra contended he had taken a quarry in Bidadi on contract from Grand Aggregates, JP Nagar. He claimed he had purchased 70 cases of high energy cap-sensitive emulsion explosives used in blasting, and had permission and licence for blasting and storing of explosives. The explosives were being transported to Malavalli when ISD officers seized the vehicle. His counsel argued Nagendra’s vehicle broke down and he sent another one, which was seized. The prosecution alleged Nagendra should have informed police or the district administration if such an incident took place. Transporting and shifting explosives from one vehicle to another, that too in a busy area, is very dangerous. Considering the prosecution’s argument, the court denied Nagendra bail. “Ghastly and horrifying incidents are occurring in and around the state and across the nation due to illegal quarrying and transportation of explosives and gelatin sticks...,” judge K Subramanya stated. “Under the pretext of licence, one cannot be permitted to store explosives in an unsafe place without nod from environment authorities,” the order read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/quarry-owner-denied-anticipatory-bail-in-explosives-case/articleshow/80470396.cms||Santosh kumar.B
January 27, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Law school to train students in basics||BENGALURU: In a move to groom youngsters for law schools, the National Law School of India University (NLSIU) is launching a one-month intensive certificate course for students of class 10 and above. Named Foundations for a Legal Education, the course is aimed at assisting students acquire skills that will help them once they enter law schools. This includes reading critically, analysing complex materials, understanding quantitative information, writing and arguing. In short, it will train students to think like lawyers, said the institute. Since youngsters generally do not receive training in specific skill sets a law aspirant requires, the law school wants to introduce them to it in order to make their transition easier. “Currently, very few students receive a structured introduction to legal education and the legal profession. Through this certificate course, NLSIU is committed to encouraging motivated high school students to pursue a career in legal education. It is a foundation programme for anyone interested in the field. NLSIU is committed to deepening and broadening the pool of students interested in pursuing legal education...” said the university. The course is open for students class 10 onwards who aspires to do a law programme. There are three variants for the programme: Students have the option to only access the content, they can attend live classes and interact with NLSIU faculty or they can access content, interact with staff and also get a certificate after clearing their assessments. The course will be online and will follow a hybrid model. The fee is Rs 1,875, Rs 3,250 and Rs 7,500, depending on the variant. The university will offer scholarships to 26 deserving students. “Keeping in mind their examination schedules and academic obligations, students may choose the timing and schedule that suits them and is compatible with their studies. We will announce a detailed schedule for classes shortly,” NLSIU said. Students will be divided into sub-groups based on the total number of applications received.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/law-school-to-train-students-in-basics/articleshow/80470423.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Bengaluru||Saudi national living illegally in Bengaluru held||BENGALURU: Acting on a tipoff, Sampigehalli police arrested a Saudi national living illegally in the city and recovered three passports, including an Indian one, and other government documents like Aadhaar card, voter ID and driving licence from him. The accused is Osama Mohammed Dheeb, presently living alone in Hegdenagar in Sampigehalli. As per the accused’s statement, he came to the city in 2006 on a student visa and worked with different private companies under different names. Police said they need to question him more on his activities. According to police, local residents passed information, saying that the accused was behaving suspiciously. “Not mingling with neighbours, not opening door for locals and improper answers to BBMP staff during Covid-19 visits got the locals to alert us. We raided his house and were shocked to see that he had three passports. Two of them were issued by Saudi Arabia and one Indian passport with an address in Chennai, Tamil Nadu. On searching more, we found an Aadhaar card, a voter ID and a driving licence issued at Yelahanka RTO and other fake documents,” an investigating officer said.  Dheeb arrived in the city from Riyadh on January 9, 2006 on a student visa, which expired on January 8, 2007. “We have taken him into custody. We will check his mobile phone and other gadgets for possible clues on his illegal activities, if any,” an investigating officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/saudi-national-living-illegally-in-bluru-held/articleshow/80470581.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Probe into stolen wallet reveals misuse of official car by staffer||BENGALURU: An official working at the excise commissioner’s office in BMTC’s Traffic and Transit Management Centre (TTMC), Shantinagar, recently found his wallet missing during office hours. An inquiry into what looked like a petty incident ended up unravelling a bigger crime: a Group D employee in possession of the duplicate key of another official had been driving away the vehicle from a parking lot every day and giving it to his friend to run it as a cab for over five months. The probe into the missing wallet began with a quick look at CCTV footage the same day. A footage showed Shashidhar, in his late 40s, had sneaked into the officer’s chamber in the latter’s absence. Immediately, Shashidhar was summoned and he confessed to stealing the wallet. A detailed search of his table drawer and bag revealed the duplicate key of an official car allotted to the joint director of the excise department. The Maruti Swift Dzire, along with other vehicles of the department, used to be parked on the 1st floor of the TTMC. Shashidhar had used the car between August 2020 and January 2021 and it had covered 3,166 kilometres. He took out the car every morning and brought it back before night. A police complaint was lodged on January 22. M Shankar, the driver of the car, said: “I was driving another official car during that period. In July, I had entered the meter reading. When Shashidhar’s activity came to light, I went to the car and found that it had run 3,166km more,” Shankar told Wilson Garden police. “Shashidhar claims that he had given the car to another person who drove it and earned money. We’ll question both of them to get a better picture on the issue,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/probe-into-stolen-wallet-reveals-misuse-of-official-car-by-staffer/articleshow/80470585.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
January 27, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: India’s 1st centralised AC railway terminal at Byappanahalli to be ready in February||BENGALURU: The country’s first centralised AC railway terminal is all set to come up in Bengaluru. South Western Railway (SWR) officials said Sir M Visvesvaraya Terminal Bengaluru (Byappanahalli Third Coaching Terminal) will be ready by the end of February. “At present, only a few spaces like retiring rooms at railway stations are air-conditioned, but this terminal will have centralised AC system. This will offer an airport-like experience for rail passengers,” said E Vijaya, chief public relations officer, SWR. The Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC) is planning centralised AC system in stations like Habibganj in Madhya Pradesh and Gandhinagar in Gujarat under the public-private-partnership model. The Byappanahalli terminal’s facade is designed on the lines of Bengaluru airport. Currently, 164 pairs of express trains and 109 pairs of passenger trains are being operated from KSR Bengaluru City and Yeshwantpur terminals. The new terminal, which was sanctioned in 2015-16, is expected to help SWR operate more trains from Bengaluru. Work on the terminal, which was supposed to be completed in December 2018, missed several deadlines. The Rs 314-crore station building of 4,200sqm will cater to a daily footfall of 50,000. The terminal has seven platforms apart from eight stabling lines and three pit lines. Every day, 50 trains can be operated from the terminal. Better amenities The terminal will have parking facilities for 250 cars, 900 two-wheelers, 50 autorickshaws, five BMTC buses and 20 cabs. “The terminal will have upper-class waiting hall, VIP lounge with digital real-time passenger information system and food court. The escalators and lifts will connect seven platforms to facilitate passenger movement. Foot over-bridge along with two subways will link all platforms,” said an official. A water recycling plant of 4 lakh-litre capacity will be installed. However, poor accessibility to the terminal might inconvenience passengers. “We are excited about a new terminal with airport-like facilities. This will decongest KSR Bengaluru and Yeshwantpur railway station. But major concerns are poor road and public transport connectivity,” said rail enthusiast Abhishek R.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/byappanahalli-ac-rly-terminal-to-be-ready-in-feb/articleshow/80470587.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
January 27, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Retired sub-inspector booked for running over stray dog||BENGALURU: A retired police sub-inspector has been booked for allegedly running his car over a stray dog at Doddakammanahalli near Hulimavu on Sunday. Nageshaiah, 65, of Doddakammanahalli was heading towards his house and noticed a stray dog sleeping on the road. But he didn’t stop the vehicle. The car’s front wheel ran over the dog and he sped away. Passersby rushed the dog to a hospital. The incident has been captured on a CCTV camera. Hulimavu police have booked Nageshaiah under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and IPC sections based on a complaint filed by BBMP veterinary doctor Ramesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rtd-si-booked-for-running-over-stray-dog/articleshow/80470590.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: PU paper leak kingpin gets bail 2nd time||BENGALURU: Ten days after framing charges against 18 persons in connection with the second PU question paper leak case registered in 2016, the sessions court granted bail to Shivakumaraiah alias Guruji, one of the main accused, on January 15. Guruji, 66, of Nandini Layout was arrested by police second time in the case. He was nabbed when the racket came to light in April, 2016. The high court granted him conditional bail on October 17, 2017. Guruji was supposed to attend court hearings regularly as per one of the conditions imposed for the bail. The Principal City Civil and Session Court had posted the case for November 17, 2020 for framing of charges. However, Guruji was the only accused who could not appear before the court on that day and it led to the postponement of framing of charges. The court cancelled his bail and issued a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against him. Police arrested Guruji on December 2, 2020 and the court remanded him in judicial custody. The prosecution opposed the bail petition and contended that he was involved in similar offences when he was released earlier. The sessions court did not consider this contention as it was already submitted before the HC when the state had sought cancellation of his bail petition. The HC had dismissed the state’s plea. “The accused by this time must have understood the consequences of non-appearance before the court. Now that the charges have also been framed, further detention of the accused in custody is totally unwarranted,” judge Anil B Katti stated.  He has been asked to attend the court on all hearing dates, unless exempted for genuine reasons. He shall not threaten the prosecution witnesses, not indulge in any illegal activities and not leave the jurisdiction of the court without prior permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pu-paper-leak-kingpin-gets-bail-2nd-time/articleshow/80470591.cms||Santosh kumar.B
January 27, 2021||Bengaluru||Exam question paper leak case: Prime accused in police custody in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A local court has handed over two prime accused in the Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) First Division Assistant (FDA) exam question paper leak case to police custody till February 2. The prime accused— stenographer Sana Bedi, 25, from Belagavi district and Ramesh Herakal, 28, from Bagalkot district, who worked as a second-division assistant — were arrested on charges of leaking the question paper. Joint commissioner of police (crime) Sandeep Patil said the accused have been taken into police custody till February 2 for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/prime-accused-in-police-custody/articleshow/80470598.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Bengaluru||Mutation entries don’t confer property title: SC||BENGALURU: Reiterating that mutation entries don’t confer the title of a property on anyone and the same has to be established independently in a declaratory suit, the Supreme Court has declined to entertain a special leave petition filed by Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike. A bench comprising Justices DY Chandrachud, Indira Banerjee and Sanjiv Khanna also declined to grant any interim order injuncting Faraulla Khan and others from creating any third-party interest with regards to a property, which is the subject matter of a pending civil suit. The court opined that Karnataka high court had clarified in its June 26, 2019 order that the direction to BBMP for mutation is subject to any other remedies available under the law and it is open to BBMP to establish its title by following due process of law. The controversy relates to certain properties situated on Thimmaiah Road and Miller’s Tank Bund area in Bengaluru. BBMP had issued endorsements declining to register khata in the name of those who claimed to be subsequent purchasers. The government claimed the genuineness of the grant vis-a-vis the lands in question is under probe. The subsequent purchasers approached the high court. Both the single as well as division bench ruled in their favour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mutation-entries-dont-confer-property-title-sc/articleshow/80470602.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Bengaluru||10,000 farmers protest in Bengaluru, traffic hit||BENGALURU: Protests by farmers in Karnataka, in solidarity with the agitators in Delhi, went off peacefully on Tuesday in Bengaluru and other districts. About 125 tractors and hundreds of vehicles converged for a rally in Bengaluru. Traffic was hit in and around Majestic and a handful of agitators were stopped from heading to Raj Bhavan and Vidhana Soudha. Police closed off Ananda Rao Circle, Sheshadri Road and part of Palace Road as protesters gathered with their vehicles. Around 10,000 farmers gathered in and around Freedom Park, and threatened to step up their stir if the Centre failed to repeal the recently passed agri maketing laws. Farmers hold rallies across state, warn of Delhi-like sit-inFarmers took out rallies of varying sizes across Karnataka on Tuesday to show support for their counterparts protesting the new central policies in Delhi. In Bengaluru, members of some 50 organisations, including Dalit, women and workers’ groups, participated in a huge demonstration involving 125 tractors and several other vehicles under the aegis of Aikhya (United) Forum. By and large, the protests were peaceful in the state, with only a few reports of skirmishes between the marchers and police. But some farmers’ groups threatened to intensify the agitation on the lines of the Delhi stir if the Centre failed to withdraw the three new laws. “As seen in Delhi, we will surround Bengaluru and create a difficult environment if the Centre doesn’t repeal the farm laws,” Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, the president of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, told protesters at Freedom Park, the main assembly point. He criticised BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and also said that farmers would oppose the new state law against cow slaughter. Freedom fighter HS Doreswamy, who attended the gathering at Freedom Park, described the Delhi tractor rally as a historic event, saying the movement should spread across the country. “I congratulate them. They did what they had vowed. Their resilience is commendable. I hope this fight will inspire farmers across India,” he added. Kurubur Shanthkumar, the president of the Federation of Farmers’ Associations, warned of a bigger agitation if the new laws were not scrapped. “This is a fight for survival, and we must win this. Else, the government and corporate companies will crush us,” he alleged. Authorities used a different approach in every district, restricting the size of the tractor rally depending on the ground conditions. While Bengaluru police allowed 125 tractors, other districts permitted 30 or none. More than 5,000 tractors that were headed towards the tech capital were stopped. Social media was flooded with videos of various organisations raising slogans after they were prevented from entering Bengaluru. Later, these protesters gathered at specific points before marching into the city. Protest organisers had the rally from the Majestic railway station to Freedom Park, a distance of around 3km. In Mysuru, many university students held a silent protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/10k-farmers-protest-in-bluru-traffic-hit/articleshow/80471144.cms||---
January 27, 2021||World||Biden, in first call with Putin, presses on Navalny, treaty||WASHINGTON: President Joe Biden had his first call with Vladimir Putin on Tuesday, the White House and Kremlin said. US officials said Biden raised concerns about the arrest of opposition figure Alexei Navalny while pressing the Russian president on his nation's involvement in a massive cyberespionage campaign and bounties on American troops in Afghanistan. On a positive note, the two presidents agreed to have their teams work urgently to complete an extension of New START, the last remaining US-Russian arms control treaty, before it expires next month. "In the nearest days, the parties will complete the necessary procedures that will ensure further functioning'' of the pact, the Kremlin said in its readout of the call. Biden has looked to establish a break from the warm rhetoric often displayed toward Putin by his predecessor, Donald Trump. But the new president also is looking to preserve room for diplomacy. Unlike his immediate predecessors, Biden has not held out hope for a "reset'' in relations with Russia but has instead indicated he wants to manage differences with the former Cold War foe without necessarily resolving them or improving ties. And, with a heavy domestic agenda and looming decisions needed on Iran and China, a direct confrontation with Russia is not something he seeks. Moscow reached out last week to request the call, according to the US officials, who were familiar with the call but not authorized to discuss it publicly. Biden agreed but wanted first to prepare with his staff and speak with European allies, including the leaders of Britain, France and Germany. On Tuesday before his call with Putin, Biden spoke to NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg, pledging the United States' commitment to the decades-old alliance founded as a bulwark against Russian aggression. Biden told Putin that his administration was assessing the SolarWinds breach and the reports that Russia offered the Taliban bounties to kill American troops in Afghanistan,. Biden said the United States is willing to defend itself and will take action, which could include further sanctions, to ensure that Moscow does not act with impunity, according to the administration officials. The Kremlin's readout did not address the most contentious issues between the countries, though it said the leaders also discussed other "acute issues on the bilateral and international agenda.'' It described the talk as "frank and businesslike'' - often a diplomatic way of referring to tense discussions. It also said Putin congratulated Biden on becoming president and "noted that normalization of ties between Russia and the United States would serve the interests of both countries." Among the issues it said were discussed were the coronavirus pandemic, the Iran nuclear agreement, Ukraine and issues related to trade and the economy. The call came as Putin considers the aftermath of pro-Navalny protests that took place in more than 100 Russian cities over the weekend. Biden's team has already reacted strongly to the crackdown on the protests, in which more than 3,700 people were arrested across Russia, including more than 1,400 in Moscow. More protests are planned for the coming weekend. Navalny, an anti-corruption campaigner and Putin's best-known critic, was arrested Jan. 17 as he returned to Russia from Germany, where he had spent nearly five months recovering from nerve-agent poisoning that he blames on the Kremlin. Biden has previously condemned the use of chemical weapons. Russian authorities deny the accusations. Trump seemed to seek Putin's approval, frequently casting doubt on Russian interference in the 2016 elections, including when he stood next to Putin at their 2018 summit in Helsinki. He also downplayed Russia's involvement in the hack of federal government agencies last year and the allegations that Russia offered the Taliban bounties. Despite this conciliatory approach, Trump's administration toed a tough line against Moscow, imposing sanctions on the country, Russian companies and business leaders for issues ranging from Ukraine to energy supplies and attacks on dissidents. Biden, in his call with Putin, broke sharply with Trump by declaring that he knew that Russia attempted to interfere with both the 2016 and 2020 elections. Biden on Monday told reporters he hoped the US and Russia could cooperate in areas where both see benefit. "I find that we can both operate in the mutual self-interest of our countries as a New START agreement and make it clear to Russia that we are very concerned about their behavior, whether it's Navalny, whether it's SolarWinds or reports of bounties on heads of Americans in Afghanistan,'' Biden said. Biden's approach has met with approval from some former US diplomats who have dealt with Russia and are looking forward to seeing how Biden's team, including national security adviser Jake Sullivan and his nominee to be the No. 3 at the State Department, Victoria Nuland, delineates the contours of Russia policy. Nuland, who held the Europe portfolio at the State Department in President Barack Obama's second term, is reviled by Putin and his aides in particular for her support of pro-Western politicians in Ukraine. She and Sullivan are said to share opinions about how to deal with Moscow, taking a tough line on human rights and Russia's intentions in eastern and central Europe while keeping an open channel to the Kremlin on other matters. But their starting position is complicated, they say, particularly given Putin's experience in dealing with Trump, who frequently undercut his own administration's hawkish stance on Russia by privately trying to cozy up to the Russian leader. Trump also was frequently ill-prepared for foreign leader calls, ignoring warnings from staff, limiting those who could listen on the calls and, especially after calls with Putin, telling very few aides what was discussed. "It's hard but it's doable,'' said Daniel Fried, a US ambassador to Poland and assistant secretary of state for European affairs in the George W. Bush administration. "They're going to have to figure this out on the fly, but it's important to pursue New START without hesitation and push back on the Navalny arrest and other issues without guilt.'' "They need to do both and not let Putin tell them he won't accept New START unless they drop Navalny, SolarWinds or Afghanistan,'' said Fried, who is now with the Atlantic Council. "You have to push back and you can't let Putin set the terms.''||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-in-first-call-with-putin-presses-on-navalny-treaty/articleshow/80471196.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Kochi||Kerala state lottery Akshaya AK-482 results today; first prize Rs 70 lakh||NEW DELHI: The Kerala lottery department will announce the results of Akshaya AK-482 lottery on Wednesday. The results will be available on Kerala lottery department's official website. The live results will be out at 3pm while the full results will be available from 4pm onwards. The first prize is of Rs 70 lakh, the second prize is of Rs 5 lakh while the third is of Rs 1 lakh. There is a consolation prize of Rs 8,000. The lottery draw will be conducted by Kerala lottery department at Gorky Bhavan. The price of a single lottery ticket is Rs 30. The prize winners are advised to verify the winning numbers with the Kerala lottery results, published in the Kerala Government Gazette, and surrender the winning tickets within 30 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-lottery-results-27-01-2021-ak-482-results-today-first-prize-rs-70-lakh/articleshow/80475884.cms||---
January 27, 2021||India||Deep Sidhu & government agencies behind rampage: Farm netas||BATHINDA: Farm leaders on Tuesday evening blamed the Majha-based Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and Deep Sidhu - who had led a group to Red Fort - for the violence in the national capital and termed the entire episode as “the handiwork of some central agencies” to defame the farmers’ struggle. Sources in the Samyukt Kisan Morcha said that the foundation for the unruly scenes was laid late on Monday evening when ruckus was created at the Samyukt Morcha stage and some youngsters along with gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana had taken command of the stage from where it was openly announced that they would go on the route as planned earlier as some were talking about heading towards Red Fort. BKU-Rajewal leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said: “I had said that if we remain peaceful we will win, but if we go for violence we may not win. Now those who took farmers to wrong routes are responsible for all this. We will introspect as to why and how it all happened.” Farm leader Rajinder Singh blamed central agencies and said, “Deep Sidhu too did not play a positive role.” BKU Ekta Ugrahan president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said, “What happened is unfortunate and we will look into all this and see what went wrong as it seemed central agencies succeeded in making their scheme work.” BKU Haryana leader Gurnam Singh Charuni criticised Deep Sidhu for misleading youth to Red Fort and described him as a “dalal (agent)” of the Union government. He made it clear that the farmers’ agitation was not religious and it would remain the same in future. In a video released on Tuesday evening, Charuni cautioned people to beware of Deep Sidhu and said, “It is condemnable to give it a religious colour, whatever incident has happened today at Lal Qila (Red Fort). Our andolan (protest) is of the farmers only and a mass movement, which is not at all a religious one. And whatever Deep Sidhu has done, we condemn it in strong words and we feel that he is a dalal (agent) of the government who is messing up from many days. Every time, he speaks against the farm leaders and misleads against them. Whatever he did today is highly condemnable as we had not given any such call of going to Lal Qila.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/deep-sidhu-government-agencies-behind-rampage-farm-netas/articleshow/80471625.cms||Neel Kamal
January 27, 2021||India||Red Fort raider Deep Sidhu has been quoting Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale||BATHINDA: Punjabi actor-singer-activist Deep Sidhu, who farmer unions allege was responsible for taking youths towards Red Fort on Tuesday, has been making news from the beginning of the agitation since September last year. Famous for his role as a gangster in the Punjabi film ‘Jora Das Numberia’ in 2018, the 36-year-old was one of the first celebrities to support farmers when they took to the roads against the three laws. Before moving to the protest site at Singhu border, Deep Sidhu, who belongs to Muktsar in Punjab, had held a prolonged protest at Shambhu border between Punjab and Haryana, where accusations of Khalistani elements running the protests had been made. Actor Deep Sidhu addresses farmers at Ghazipur during their 'Delhi Chalo' protest against the Centre's farm reform laws, in New Delhi. (PTI)Farmers protest: Live updatesDuring the Lok Sabha elections in May 2019, Deep Sidhu was in the news for being close to Bollywood actor-politician Sunny Deol, who contested from Gurdaspur as a BJP candidate. Deep Sidhu was seen participating in his campaign. However, Deol distanced himself from Sidhu in a tweet, saying he or his family had no relationship with him. Read AlsoRaid Fort: When rampaging mob took ramparts by stormChaos reigned at Red Fort on the 72nd Republic Day as the tractor rally by farmers went off the designated course and rolled into the iconic Mughal-era monument. Not only was the Nishan Sahib hoisted atop a minaret, but a mob vandalised the fort and pushed away from the cops on duty. As a result, 41A video clip featuring Deep Sidhu raising slogans at the Red Fort has also gone viral since Tuesday afternoon. Later, in a video on his Facebook account, Deep Sidhu said when genuine rights or concerns are not addressed, anger is bound to flare up in any protest. “We cannot accuse any individual for whatever happened. Protests as big as this are not dependent on an individual. We reached Red Fort to symbolically register our protest, to exercise our democratic right and not to challenge the unity and diversity of the country. We have put up Nishan Sahib and Kisan flag on an empty post. The Tricolour was not removed. No one should see it in a communal light. It was part of unity in diversity. Nishan Sahib symbolises the fight against injustice,” it said. Read AlsoDeep Sidhu &amp; government agencies behind rampage: Farm netasFarm leaders on Tuesday evening blamed the Majha-based Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and Deep Sidhu - who had led a group to Red Fort - for the violence in the national capital and termed the entire episode as “the handiwork of some central agencies” to defame the farmers’ struggle.He was till recently close to gangster-turned activist Lakha Sidhana who was seen trying to pacify protesting youths on Monday at Singhu border and objected to the route of the rally allowed by the police. Sidhu, who claims to be a supporter of the idea of strengthening the federal structure to give more rights to states, has long been openly quoting Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale. The NIA had last month registered a case against Sikhs for Justice and had also issued notices to Sidhu and his brother Mandeep Singh. Considered close to Sikh ideologue Ajmer Singh, Sidhu practised as a lawyer before he joined the show business in 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/red-fort-raider-has-been-quoting-jarnail-singh-bhindranwale/articleshow/80471651.cms||Neel Kamal
January 27, 2021||India||Farm leaders have no control, are opposition puppets: BJP netas||NEW DELHI: While there was no official statement from BJP, several party leaders reacted angrily to the violent protests by farmers in the national Capital even as they maintained that the violence had showed that farm leaders had no control over their followers and that they were acting as “puppets” of opposition parties. BJP leaders said the government trusted the assurance given by farmers that the tractor rally would be on specified routes, trolleys would not be taken out and that they would be unarmed. “The protesting farmers have violated all promises they made to the government, which shows the ulterior motive of the farmers, who are working on the directions of a desperate opposition,” a senior BJP functionary said. The leader said Delhi Police had showed utmost restraint even as they were beaten otherwise things could have been far worse. “BJP has maintained right from the beginning that it is committed to the welfare of farmers. However, the way Red Fort was desecrated, the whole nation has watched it and there is nothing left to say about the hidden agenda of the farm union leaders, who are acting as per the dictation of opposition parties,” the BJP leader said. “Common farmers should understand that the ongoing agitation is the handiwork of a few middlemen, who are fearing that the hefty money they were fleecing from farmers will come to an end,” he added. “While we are saluting the national flag, some elements supported by so-called ‘progressives’ are relishing insulting the same, and remember in the name of Constitution,” BJP Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Sahasrabuddhe tweeted. “Can farmers of the country do what was witnessed in Delhi today?” asked party general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya. BJP spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi recalled sacrifices made by several icons of the country to protect and preserve freedom and sovereignty of the nation, which was attacked by a group of “shameless” vandals. “Those being perceived as ‘annadata’ have turned out to be terrorists. Don’t defame our farmers and terrorists must be called terrorists,” he added. Lok Sabha MP Nishikant Dubey equated the farm leaders with Hurriyat leaders and demanded that farmers chiefs like Yogendra Yadav, Rakesh Tikait and Hannan Mollah be booked on charges of sedition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farm-leaders-have-no-control-are-opposition-puppets-bjp-netas/articleshow/80471690.cms||---
January 27, 2021||India||'Genuine farmers' not involved: Capt Amarinder Singh||NEW DELHI: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said violence was not the solution to any problem even as he called for the new farm laws to be withdrawn, reflecting the party's determination to back the agitation and the farm organisations protesting the legislations. Congress's position was, however, modified in a late evening statement that seemed to take into account the negative fallout of the violence, including a raid on the Red Fort on Republic Day. "The protesters should keep their objective in mind. Non-violence and satyagraha have been the biggest success of this protest led by farmers and workers. We strongly hope that this coalition of farmers, workers and the poor will continue on its path of non-violence and peaceful protest and stay firm for the repeal of the three farm laws,” the party said. The worry in Congress ranks was that violence on Republic Day would undercut any sympathy gained over the last four months by peaceful protests. There was nervousness over a religious flag hoisted on the Red Fort ramparts by some protesters. Rahul, in a tweet early in the day, said, “Violence is not the solution to any problem. If anyone gets hurt, the damage will happen to our country. Take back the anti-agricultural law for the benefit of the country.” Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh voiced concern over the violence most directly when he called the development “shocking scenes in Delhi”. He suggested the violence was carried out by “some elements” who were not “genuine farmers”, and that farmers’ leaders had disassociated themselves from it. “It will negate the goodwill generated by peacefully protesting farmers. I urge all genuine farmers to vacate Delhi and return to the borders,” he added. Hours earlier, in his R-Day address, Singh had lashed out at the Modi government for the farm laws, lack of consultation and sidelining of Punjab when the laws were framed. Others who voiced their worry included former minister Shashi Tharoor who said, "Most unfortunate. I have supported the farmers’ protests from the start but I cannot condone lawlessness. And on Republic Day, no flag but the sacred tiranga must fly on Red Fort." Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Gill said, "There is place for only one flag at the Red Fort and that is our tricolour, tiranga. Hoisting/putting any other flag irrespective of demands is unacceptable. We all serve the nation and nothing else is above that. People resorting to such tactics are hurting the cause of farmers." But Congress chose to remind that the provocation was the three farm laws and the procrastination on the part of the government through “endless talks”. Party spokesman Randeep Surjewala called it an attempt to “tire out” the farmers and said 175 farmers had died during the last 61 days of protest, but without succeeding in moving prime minister Narendra Modi into showing some sympathy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/genuine-farmers-not-involved-capt-amarinder-singh/articleshow/80471700.cms||---
January 27, 2021||India||Pawar, opposition netas condemn violence but blame Centre for farm impasse||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: NCP president Sharad Pawar on Tuesday said he would appeal to the agitating farmers to go back to their respective villages peacefully so that there was no scope for the Narendra Modi government to blame them in the wake of mishandling of the situation in the Capital. Pawar reacted sharply to the handling of the agitation and said, “The Centre is determined to ignore the agitation and hence there was no dialogue between the agitating farmers and nominees of the government. Whatever happened in New Delhi today, no one will endorse, but it was high time to study why such a situation arose. All out efforts were made to crush the agitation by using massive force. It will have massive repercussions. We have seen Punjab disturbed, now it is the responsibility of the Modi government to ensure that Punjab remains peaceful.” The veteran pointed out that ever since the farmers’ agitation began in New Delhi, it had remained apolitical and it was expected that the government would initiate dialogue and find an amicable solution, but the government was determined to crush the agitation. “In Mumbai, thousands of farmers had gathered to support agitating farmers in New Delhi, but the law-enforcing agencies in Maharashtra observed restraint. As a result, it was a peaceful agitation,” he added. Launching a frontal attack on the Modi government, Pawar said the Centre introduced the three legislations in Parliament without adequate consultations. “Proper procedure should have been followed, all sections should have been taken into confidence,” he said. Other opposition parties too condemned the clashes but said the Centre was squarely responsible for allowing the protests to fester. Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee condemned the clashes with similar caveats. “Centre’s insensitive attitude and indifference towards our farmer brothers and sisters has to be blamed. First, three laws were passed without taking farmers in confidence. And then, despite protests across India and farmers camping near Delhi for two months, they’ve been extremely casual in dealing with them,” she said. Left members, who have backed the protests, also joined the march on Tuesday. CPM’s Sitaram Yechury condemned all violence but demanded that the PM announce immediate repeal of the laws. “The republic is of the public. The tantra in ‘ganatantra’ has no meaning without the ‘gana’. The protests are for a legitimate demand of millions of farmers, that remains the issue at hand and must be resolved.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pawar-opposition-netas-condemn-violence-but-blame-centre-for-farm-impasse/articleshow/80471712.cms||---
January 27, 2021||India||Missed salute exposes imposter at Mhow cantt||MHOW: A missed salute alerted Army intelligence to an imposter, dressed in the uniform of a Bihar Regiment jawan, in Mhow cantonment on Republic Day. The suspect, 24-year-old Mithun Verma, was taking pictures of different areas of the cantonment in Indore district when he was nabbed, said Mhow sub-divisional police officer Vinod Sharma. When Mithun was clicking photos of the Infantry Museum on Mall Road, an officer was passing by and noticed that the ‘sepoy’ did not salute him, said sources. His suspicions aroused, the officer checked Mithun and began asking questions. The Bihar Regiment badge on the imposter’s beret was inverted and he wasn’t able to answer where he was posted at present. The officer alerted intelligence officials and an Army quick reaction team swiftly took him into custody. Mithun carried colour photographs of a fake identity card and the CSD canteen card of a soldier on his mobile phone, Sharma said. “Army and police found that he had three sets of brand new Army uniforms and his mobile had pictures of soldiers posted at Mhow. Our investigation is on,” he added. Upon interrogation, he confessed that he worked as a private security guard in an aluminum factory in Pithampur industrial area, police said. He is a native of Kodiakhedi village in Rajgarh district, some 200km from Mhow. Sources said that Mithun had tried to join the armed forces but couldn’t make it past the selection stage. Then, he started posing as a soldier with the 10 Bihar Regiment before villagers and his own family. Army officers are interrogating Mithun to trace the source of the forged IDs. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/missed-salute-exposes-imposter-at-mhow-cantt/articleshow/80471776.cms||---
January 27, 2021||India||Tricolour unfurled on R-Day to launch Ayodhya mosque||AYODHYA: Unfurling of the tricolour and tree plantation on India’s 72nd Republic Day marked the formal launch of the Ayodhya mosque project at Dhannipur village, 25km off Ramjanmabhoomi, exactly six months after the Sunni Waqf Board constituted the mosque trust — Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation — following the 2019 Supreme Court verdict that mandated construction of a temple at Ramjanmabhoomi and a mosqut in the district in lieu of the Babri Masjid. The tricolour was hoisted by trust chairman Zufar Ahmad Farooqui, and nine saplings were planted at the site by its members amid cheer from villagers of Dhannipur, a nondescript hamlet which catapulted into fame after a 5-acre plot adjacent to a century-old Sufi shrine was allotted for the mosque. Holding afloat Ayodhya’s secular and syncretic moorings, three members of the Hindu community, including a prominent RSS functionary made generous donations for mosque construction on the occasion. While professor RK Singh of Awadh University and his wife Dr Sunita Sengar donated Rs 22,000, RSS member Dr Anil Singh, who is also president of Ayodhya’s Muslim Rashtriya Manch, donated Rs 2,100. To recall, the first donation of Rs 21,000 for the mosque project came from a Hindu academic from Lucknow University, Rohit Srivastava, last year. Talking to TOI, Singh said, “Majority Hindus will support construction of this mosque in Ayodhya along with the temple at Ramjanmabhoomi and this is the best example of communal harmony.” Talking to TOI, trust secretary Athar Hussain, said, “The trust chose January 26 for laying the foundation of the mosque as on this day the Constitution came into effect more than seven decades ago.” The new mosque will be bigger than Babri masjid, but won’t be a lookalike of the structure which once stood in Ramjanmabhoomi premises. “The hospital will hold centrestage and will serve humanity in the true spirit of Islam as taught by the prophet 1,400 years ago,” Farooqui said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tricolour-unfurled-on-r-day-to-launch-ayodhya-mosque/articleshow/80471779.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
January 27, 2021||India||DD expanding footprint to the Americas||NEW DELHI: India is reaching out to the Caribbean, in tune with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s focused outreach to the Indian diaspora across the globe. India’s public broadcaster has now signed an agreement with International Television Broadcasting LLC (ITV) of the US, which has a strong presence in the territories of North America, South America and the Caribbean (namely, Guyana, Trinidad & Tobago, Suriname and Jamaica and Barbados, among others). “Dissemination of Indian view on world affairs among Asian diaspora and Caribbean communities has been minimal. With our plans to distribute DD India thru ITV in whole of USA and parts of Caribbean, this gap will be filled. DD India will be immediately available in the Tri-state area (NY, NJ and Connecticut),” said Sudhir Parikh, chairman, ITV. Thus, audiences in the Americas will have the opportunity to see and experience the emergence of a new self-reliant India through the DD India, the global news and current affairs channel of Doordarshan. The chief India correspondent of ITV C Anand Velayudhan remarked, “epistemic trespassing by individuals on social media had left Indian origin people in a quandary. We have now overcome that dilemma by bringing DD to USA”. IANS||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dd-expanding-footprint-to-the-americas/articleshow/80471784.cms||---
January 27, 2021||India||Despite pandemic, emerging tech boosts placements at IITs||HYDERABAD: The pandemic may have slowed down the global economy, but it hasn’t slowed down emerging technologies and their demand. If anything, Covid-19 has pressed the fast-forward button for engineering students all set to graduate and looking for a job. Companies that reached the IITs and other top engineering colleges in the country for campus placements increasingly asked for students who could tackle data science, machine learning (ML), internet of things (IoT), artificial intelligence (AI), deep learning, blockchain, and design thinking. “Emerging technologies are growing at a fast pace and so do human resources requirements in these fields. This year, placements for students with a profile in emerging technologies have been better than last year,” said Pradeep Kumar Yemula, faculty-in-charge, office of career services at IIT, Hyderabad (IIT-H). With the phase 2 recruitment process still going on, the training and placement officers at top institutes said that the final job offer numbers are expected to grow further. Some institutes have already crossed last year’s figures when it comes to offers in emerging technologies. While 21 job offers in emerging technologies were made to students of IIT Guwahati during the year 2019-20, this year students have already received 23 offers — 18 in data sciences, three in ML, and two in AI. The average salary in emerging tech has increased from approximately Rs 22.3 lakh last year to Rs 24.2 lakh this year. “Emerging technologies showed growth and we expect this trend to continue in the future,” said Abhishek Kumar, head, centre for career development, IIT Guwahati. C S Shankar Ram, advisor (training & placement), IIT Madras, said, “Phase 1 placements at IIT Madras went on well with good participation from companies in the AI/ML/data science sector. We expect this trend of active participation from companies in this sector to continue in the next few years,” With placements going digital, institutes like Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani- Hyderabad campus, even hired expert trainers from the industry to help students to gear up for digital mode interviews and interactions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/despite-pandemic-emerging-tech-boosts-placements-at-iits/articleshow/80476388.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 27, 2021||India||India and 3 other G4 nations seek single text for UNSC reforms||UNITED NATIONS: India and three other G4 nations seeking a permanent seat in the UN Security Council have asserted that the format of the inter-governmental negotiations (IGN) on UNSC reforms can be saved only if there is a single negotiating text and application of the General Assembly rules of procedure. Participating in the first IGN meeting on the UNSC reforms in the 75th session of the General Assembly on Monday, India, Brazil, Japan and Germany underlined that without the two, it can no longer be the forum where the long-pending amendments can “realistically be achieved”. During the meeting, they said only two things can save the IGN as a format — negotiations of a single text with attributions, reflecting various positions taken by member states in the last 12 years and the application of the General Assembly rules of procedure. “If these two things cannot be achieved this year, the IGN will have run its course for us,” Germany’s Christoph Heusgen said, making a statement on behalf of the G4 nations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-and-3-other-g4-nations-seek-single-text-for-unsc-reforms/articleshow/80471861.cms||---
January 27, 2021||India||Bangladesh contingent, Rafale & Ladakh tableau debut||NEW DELHI: A 122-member Bangladesh contingent, two IAF women pilots, newly acquired multi-role fighter aircraft Rafales, troops deployed in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and a tableau of newly constituted UT of Ladakh were among the novelties at the 72nd Republic Day parade on Rajpath on Tuesday. However, for the first time in over five decades, the parade had no foreign dignitary as chief guest as British PM Boris Johnson cancelled his visit due to the Covid situation in his country. Also, there was no participation of military veterans and motorcycle-borne daredevils who used to be one of the parade’s main attractions in past years. Due to Covid restrictions, even the route of the marching contingents was curtailed till National Stadium instead of Red Fort. Even the size of the marching contingents was reduced from regular 144 to 96 so as to keep social distancing among personnel while masks was made mandatory for them. Despite Covid-triggered restrictions, enthusiasm among the spectators was not missing. The armed forces showcased their latest weaponry like T-90 tanks, Brahmos missile system, Pinaka multiple launch rocket system, bridge -laying T-72 tank, integrated communication electronic warfare system and one upgraded Schilka weapon system. Some of these systems are currently deployed in Ladakh to prevent any Chinese incursion. Two Param Vir Chakra and one Ashok Chakra awardees participated in this parade, which was led by parade commander Lt Gen Vijay Kumar Mishra, general officer commanding Delhi Area, and his second-in-command Major General Alok Kacker, chief of staff, Delhi Area. The 122-member Bangladesh military personnel marched in two groups— one marching contingent and a military band. The marching contingent comprised personnel from three services and was led by a flight lieutenant, navy lieutenant, one Major and 3 Lt Colonels. This was the third time India hosted a foreign contingent to participate in the parade after the French troops in 2016 and UAE personnel in 2017. Seventeen marching contingents from the armed forces, paramilitary, Delhi Police, NSG, NCC and NSS along with 15 military bands participated in the parade. The Indian Army was represented by a mounted column of 61 Cavalry, seven mechanised columns and six marching contingents. The 172 Madras contingent from the Andamans also participated in the parade for the first time. “For the first time, any contingent from the (A&N) islands is participating in such a big event on the mainland and therefore boys are very excited. Over 95% personnel are locals who are from different tribes. Our unit, which is part of Madras Regiment, was raised for the sons of the soil and its objective is to create a robust intelligence in the area.” The contingent comprised 96 personnel, 2 JCOs and one officer, said Major Verma. Flight Lieutenant Bhawana Kanth, who became the first woman combat pilot to participate in the parade, took a salute in front of President Ram Nath Kovind when her IAF tableau featuring mock-ups of an LCA, a light combat helicopter and a Sukhoi fighter loaded with made-in-India missiles passed by the VVIP enclosure. The Indian Navy’s tableau showcased models of Indian naval ship (INS) Vikrant and naval operations that were conducted during the 1971 India-Pakistan war. The DRDO showed two tableaux, one showcasing Tejas' successful take-off from aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya, and another displaying full complement of the anti-tank guided missile systems. A total of 28 tableaux from different states and departments rolled down Rajpath. Among them was the tableau of Ladakh that made its debut in the parade. It depicted the iconic Thikse Monastery, the region’s rich cultural heritage and the vision of Ladakh to be carbon-neutral. The UP tableau displayed a model of the upcoming Ram Templeand the tableau of the Department of Biotechnology showcased the indigenous production of Covid vaccines highlighting India’s self-reliance in the fight against the pandemic. While the tableau of ministry of electronics & IT was inspired by the theme 'Digital India, Aatma-Nirbhar Bharat', the labour ministry tableau showed the segments benefiting the most from 'Labour Codes'. The centre of attraction of the 90-minute parade was IAF's display of the country’s air prowess amid times of the LAC stand-off with China. A vintage Dakota aircraft which had flown troops to ‘save’ Srinagar from attack by tribal militia backed by the Pakistan Army in 1947 and also played a key role in Bangladesh's liberation war, also flew over Rajpath. Another IAF woman pilot Flight Lieutenant Swati Rathore got the honour to be the first woman to be part of this year’s flypast when she flew a Mi-17 V5 helicopter. A total of 42 aircraft flew in different formations but all eyes were on the Rafale fighter when it performed a “vertical charlie” at the end of the flypast. Apart from two Rafales, Sukhoi-30s, MiG-29s, Apache and Chinook choppers also drew visitors’ attention. Watch Republic Day 2021: Rafale jet showstopper in flypast||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bangladesh-contingent-rafale-ladakh-tableau-debut/articleshow/80471873.cms||Surendra Singh
January 27, 2021||Business||Cashless settlement for health, motor claims dips 5%-10% in 2020||Chennai: Fewer wheels on the road due to lockdowns and postponement of planned hospitalisation resulted in a drop in cashless insurance claims. Some general insurance companies witnessed a 5%-10% YoY decline in cashless settlement of claims — largely health and motor — between April and December, last year.ICICI Lombard saw its cashless claims settlement decrease from 50% in 2019 to 40% in 2020. “We have seen cashless settlement of health insurance policies decline in this financial year. However, it will slowly revive in the coming months,” Sanjay Datta, who heads its underwriting and claims division said. Bajaj Allianz General Insurance cashless claims settlement has declined by about 5%. “With the overall health claims predominantly relating to planned hospitalization and surgical procedures, there was a drop as people feared contracting the coronavirus. Since, these procedures are typically cashless claims the percentage dropped by about 5%,” said chief technical officer TA Ramalingam. Since many people left big cities to go to their hometowns, vehicle repairs were undertaken by local garages resulting in fewer cashless claims. Such repairs and claims were paid as reimbursement to the insured. “From our analysis, many people have also moved to their hometowns. There is a possibility that some locations may not have our authorized garages for a particular make or model in which case customers opted for a local garage and hence applied for reimbursement claims which further contribute to the reduction in cashless claims,” he added.“Initially, there were few issues in garages reporting shortage of staff due to migration labourers back to their villages. However, it is not a big issue for us currently,” ICICI’s Datta added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cashless-settlement-for-health-motor-claims-dips-5-10-in-2020/articleshow/80469577.cms||Mamtha Asokan
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Tractor rally: Theories, rumours make social media site of protests too||NEW DELHI: Social media became a hub of rumours, conspiracy theories and debates on Tuesday, as farmers on tractors entered Delhi swiftly converting the Capital into a theatre of violence. As the protesters broke barricades, and clashed with police, the internet captured every minute of the action. Pictures of the protest flooded Twitter, starting as early as 9am, when farmers started out for Delhi from Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders. Two trends, #HappyRepublicDay2021 and #HistoricTractorMarch, dominated the microblogging site. The beginning was marked by pictures of farmers showered with flower petals. Videos of their peaceful march were shared by Twitterati as an example of true democracy and as reflective of the spirit of the Republic. But soon after, chaotic images of farmers breaking barricades and upturning DTC buses put in the way as obstacles by ramming against them with heavy machinery began to flood Twitter. Several people, including members of the ruling party, questioned the protesters' motives. Many internet users, including members of Opposition parties, also condemned the violence. Political activist Yogendra Yadav and Supreme Court lawyer Prashant Bhushan called for peace as conditions deteriorated. A hashtag, calling for police to actively rein in the protesters, also began to trend online around 12pm. "Delhi Police Lath Bajao (Delhi Police Use Batons) drew 83k tweets and by the evening had attracted over 259k tweets. The death of a farmer during the protest also became a subject of rumour and debate. As agitators entered Red Fort and planted Sikhs' holy flag, users took to Twitter to criticize the move, stating that the historic monument should not have been "sieged". Visuals of a man, climbing a pole to hoist the orange flag, were shared widely. A certain section labelled the protesters as extremists. However, a large number of Twitter users also shared videos of farmers helping cops at the peak of violence and even pleading with them to clear the blockaded roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/theories-rumours-make-social-media-site-of-protests-too/articleshow/80470942.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Owaisi pitches for Dalit-Muslim unity||Hyderabad: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Tuesday appealed for unity among the Dalit-Muslim community ahead of Bidar municipal elections, likely to be held in February. Addressing a gathering in Bidar, he said, “"Muslims should never compete with Dalits, instead, they should take Dalits along with them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/owaisi-pitches-for-dalit-muslim-unity/articleshow/80470232.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Delhi shivers at 2.1°C, January to end on cold note||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded “severe” cold wave day on Tuesday as the minimum temperature dipped to 2.1 degrees Celsius — seven notches below normal — at Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station. With this, the total cold wave days reported this month reached four, which is the highest to be recorded in January in the last eight years. The number is likely to increase as India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast cold wave conditions at isolated places for the next three days. For a cold wave day, the minimum temperature should be 4 or more notches below normal or less than 4 degrees Celsius. A “severe” cold wave day is declared when the minimum temperature is less than two degrees or 6.5 degrees or more below than normal temperature. The minimum temperature at Lodhi road was 2.3 degrees Celsius. A thick blanket of fog formed in the early hours on Tuesday as dense fog was recorded at Palam station, while moderate fog was observed at Safdarjung. The maximum temperature touched 20.4 degrees Celsius — two degrees below normal. According to a Met official, the minimum temperature suddenly dropped due to cold wind blowing from the hilly areas, which have received fresh snowfall. After the passage of a western disturbance, the wind direction changed to north-westerly and icy winds from mountains of western Himalayan region have been blowing towards Delhi. The minimum temperature is likely to remain low this month. “The night-time temperature is expected to remain around 3 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. Cold wave conditions at isolated places may be reported till Friday. Shallow to moderate fog is likely during mornings from Wednesday to Friday,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist, IMD, and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre. Delhi’s Air Quality Index (AQI) was 330 in the “very poor” category on Tuesday. “It is likely to stay the same till Friday,” said System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-shivers-at-2-1c-jan-to-end-on-cold-note/articleshow/80470951.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Sarpanchs can kill wild boars: Telangana govt||HYDERABAD: Killing crop-raiding wild boars may now become easier in Telangana with the state government issuing a government order on Tuesday to shoot or kill wild boars by giving a free hand to sarpanchs to order the killing of these animals. The controversial GO, which is likely to raise the hackles of wildlife conservationists says that any ‘hunter’ who has a valid gun and arms licence can be hired by a sarpanch to kill a wild boar. The decision in this regard was taken by the state government after the Principal Chief Conservatory of Forests (PCCF) of Telangana submitted a proposal to appoint the gram panchayat sarpanch as a honorary wildlife warden under Section 4(3) of WLPA, 1972 for the purpose of issuing permission for culling of wild pigs damaging agriculture or horticultural crops outside the protected areas and reserve forest areas where these animals have become dangerous to human life and property. In response to the proposal from the PCCF, the state has allowed the sarpanches to take up services of a panel of shooters chosen by the forest department or professional hunters who have a license for possession of firearms. Stating that culling can be ordered in compliance with the procedure laid down by the government, the order said that the person identified should be an expert shooter and should own a rifle powerful enough to kill a wild boar. The order also stated that the decision to hunt wild boars is subject to compliance with the procedure. “The sarpanch has to take action only on the written complaint of the farmers. He along with village elders and farmers must visit the location for probe and draw a panchnama. If the need for hunting wild pigs seems important, only then the sarpanch can issue permission for the hunt,” the order copy read. It said the responsibility for casualties and loss shall only be on the shooter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sarpanchs-can-kill-wild-boars-t-govt/articleshow/80470261.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Govt must withdraw new farm laws: Uttam Kumar Reddy||HYDERABAD: Congress on Tuesday demanded immediate withdrawal of the new farm laws brought in by the NDA government at the Centre and charged TRS and BJP governments of posing a threat to the survival of democracy in the state and country. Speaking after hoisting the national flag on Tuesday, Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy paid rich tributes to the martyrs who laid down their lives for the country. Uttam said while the Centre was hurting the spirit of the Constitution, the TRS government was trying to suppress democracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-must-withdraw-new-farm-laws-uttam/articleshow/80470246.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Erode||As Tamil Nadu’s Covid count wanes, spotlight shifts to vaccination drive||CHENNAI: As the state reported 523 new cases and five deaths on Tuesday, public health experts and epidemiologists were predicting the end of the epidemic by March and campaigning for a targeted vaccination programme. The cumulative case tally in TN rose to 8,35,803 and the death toll reached 12,325. Active case dropped to 4,736 on Tuesday from 4,813 on Monday and 8,272 on January 2. “Crowding at shops and malls for Diwali shopping, gathering for the New Year revelries or Pongal celebrations did not push up the epidemic curve in the state,” points out senior epidemiologist Dr Jayaprakash Muliyal, chairperson of the scientific advisory committee of the ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology. The state was reporting more than 1,000 cases a day during the Christmas week, which came down to 910 during New Year week. In the Pongal week, the daily cases averaged 626. This week, they are below 560. “We didn’t think the fall would be so swift. Even when neighbouring Kerala is reporting high numbers, TN is not reporting an increase in daily cases. It’s because we have reached herd immunity faster than what we had expected. We don’t need sero surveys to say this,” he said. The epidemic phase of the virus is coming to an end in about five weeks, says senior virologist Dr T Jacob John. “This doesn’t mean there will be no cases. We will enter the endemic phase when we may continue to report a few cases every day but it may not bother us so much because the death rate will return to the pre-pandemic times,” he said. “The infection rate will eventually be equal to the birth rate since new-borns can tamper with herd immunity,” he said. Scientists say that going forward, the strategy should be to eradicate the viral infection altogether. “We can do that with the vaccine. But we have to use it wisely for targeted groups such as people above 50 and those with comorbid conditions as early as possible. If we don’t do it now, the virus will run wild, mutate and make vaccines redundant and eradication impossible,” Dr John said. Of the five deaths reported on Tuesday, two were from Chennai, and Chengalpet, Coimbatore and Trichy reported one death each. Two districts – Kallakurichi and Perambalur -- reported zero cases on Tuesday. Chennai reported 168 new cases followed by Coimbatore, which reported 48. All other districts reported cases below 40 cases, and 19 districts recorded a single-digit increase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/as-tns-covid-count-wanes-spotlight-shifts-to-vax-drive/articleshow/80473596.cms||Pushpa Narayan
January 27, 2021||Madurai||Man held in Tamil Nadu for abusing minor boy||MADURAI: Thirumangalam all-woman police arrested a 20-year-old man on charges of sexually abusing a 10-year-old boy. The incident took place on January 20 in the house of the accused, M Vandi Muthaiah, near Usilampatti. Police registered a case on Monday based on a complaint from the boy’s mother. According to police, she sent her son to the house of the accused that is close by to borrow some grocery. The boy’s friend also accompanied him. While the accused took the victim inside his house the other boy waited outside. Police said Muthaiah tried to sexually abuse the boy. It is learnt that the victim cried in pain and managed to run out of the house. “The frightened boy did not tell his parents about the incident. But, the boy’s friend disclosed the incident to the parents on Monday,” inspector D Sivasakthi said. Vandi Muthaiah was booked under Sections 3 (penetrative sexual assault) and 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and was arrested by Thirumangalam all-woman police on Monday. He was produced before a court, which remanded him in judicial custody in a jail. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect his privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-held-for-abusing-minor-boy/articleshow/80470945.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana trackers find lone tigress, two cubs||HYDERABAD: Out on a massive hunt to capture a maneater that has struck terror in some villages of Komaram Bheem Asifabad district of Telangana with human kills, the tracking team was pleasantly surprised on Tuesday to discover another tigress and two cubs in the forest area.  “Yes, it’s great news. We have identified pug marks of two cubs and a tigress, identified as S6, in Sirpur range of Kagaznagar,” said one official. The tracking teams are searching for the tiger that killed two people within a span of 18 days in November and December last year. They said measures are also being taken to protect the newly-discovered tigress and her two cubs. “The movements of both the adult tigress and the cubs which are native to Telangana are being closely tracked. The forest staff is taking all measures to ensure their safety,” said district forest officer (DFO) S Santharam. Santharam said they are also taking measures that no wildlife enthusiast or any department staff leaks pictures of tigress under the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) protocols. As the tiger population in this part of the state changes due to the constant migration towards Mancherial district in Telangana or further towards Maharashtra, officials said there are at present eight tigers, but at times when they are on the move, possibly four are left in one zone. Telangana’s tiger population is around 26 and it also has 334 leopards. Altogether 60 special teams, trying to capture the tiger at large for two months, reported another incident of a big cat killing a buffalo on Tuesday in Thalugupalli sector in Kagaznagar. After inspecting the pug marks found in the area, forest department staff confirmed that it was a tiger kill. But the elusive A2 is currently on the Maharashtra side of its territory. “It is in Maharashtra but since its territory is spread across both the states, it keeps moving in and out of Telangana. The border between both the states is divided by a small river, a tributary of Pranahita, which it frequently crosses while travelling across the territory,” said Shantaram. “On Monday, we received information that it made a kill in Maharashtra. On Telangana side of the forest, the efforts to capture the animal are still on, but the only thing is while we are making attempts to tranquilize and capture an animal like a tiger, we cannot continuously trace it because it might get suspicious,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-trackers-find-lone-tigress-two-cubs/articleshow/80470274.cms||Moulika.KV
January 27, 2021||Coimbatore||As Tamil Nadu’s Covid count wanes, spotlight shifts to vaccination drive||CHENNAI: As the state reported 523 new cases and five deaths on Tuesday, public health experts and epidemiologists were predicting the end of the epidemic by March and campaigning for a targeted vaccination programme. The cumulative case tally in TN rose to 8,35,803 and the death toll reached 12,325. Active case dropped to 4,736 on Tuesday from 4,813 on Monday and 8,272 on January 2. “Crowding at shops and malls for Diwali shopping, gathering for the New Year revelries or Pongal celebrations did not push up the epidemic curve in the state,” points out senior epidemiologist Dr Jayaprakash Muliyal, chairperson of the scientific advisory committee of the ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology. The state was reporting more than 1,000 cases a day during the Christmas week, which came down to 910 during New Year week. In the Pongal week, the daily cases averaged 626. This week, they are below 560. “We didn’t think the fall would be so swift. Even when neighbouring Kerala is reporting high numbers, TN is not reporting an increase in daily cases. It’s because we have reached herd immunity faster than what we had expected. We don’t need sero surveys to say this,” he said. The epidemic phase of the virus is coming to an end in about five weeks, says senior virologist Dr T Jacob John. “This doesn’t mean there will be no cases. We will enter the endemic phase when we may continue to report a few cases every day but it may not bother us so much because the death rate will return to the pre-pandemic times,” he said. “The infection rate will eventually be equal to the birth rate since new-borns can tamper with herd immunity,” he said. Scientists say that going forward, the strategy should be to eradicate the viral infection altogether. “We can do that with the vaccine. But we have to use it wisely for targeted groups such as people above 50 and those with comorbid conditions as early as possible. If we don’t do it now, the virus will run wild, mutate and make vaccines redundant and eradication impossible,” Dr John said. Of the five deaths reported on Tuesday, two were from Chennai, and Chengalpet, Coimbatore and Trichy reported one death each. Two districts – Kallakurichi and Perambalur -- reported zero cases on Tuesday. Chennai reported 168 new cases followed by Coimbatore, which reported 48. All other districts reported cases below 40 cases, and 19 districts recorded a single-digit increase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/as-tns-covid-count-wanes-spotlight-shifts-to-vax-drive/articleshow/80473594.cms||Pushpa Narayan
January 27, 2021||Trichy||As Tamil Nadu’s Covid count wanes, spotlight shifts to vaccination drive||CHENNAI: As the state reported 523 new cases and five deaths on Tuesday, public health experts and epidemiologists were predicting the end of the epidemic by March and campaigning for a targeted vaccination programme. The cumulative case tally in TN rose to 8,35,803 and the death toll reached 12,325. Active case dropped to 4,736 on Tuesday from 4,813 on Monday and 8,272 on January 2. “Crowding at shops and malls for Diwali shopping, gathering for the New Year revelries or Pongal celebrations did not push up the epidemic curve in the state,” points out senior epidemiologist Dr Jayaprakash Muliyal, chairperson of the scientific advisory committee of the ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology. The state was reporting more than 1,000 cases a day during the Christmas week, which came down to 910 during New Year week. In the Pongal week, the daily cases averaged 626. This week, they are below 560. “We didn’t think the fall would be so swift. Even when neighbouring Kerala is reporting high numbers, TN is not reporting an increase in daily cases. It’s because we have reached herd immunity faster than what we had expected. We don’t need sero surveys to say this,” he said. The epidemic phase of the virus is coming to an end in about five weeks, says senior virologist Dr T Jacob John. “This doesn’t mean there will be no cases. We will enter the endemic phase when we may continue to report a few cases every day but it may not bother us so much because the death rate will return to the pre-pandemic times,” he said. “The infection rate will eventually be equal to the birth rate since new-borns can tamper with herd immunity,” he said. Scientists say that going forward, the strategy should be to eradicate the viral infection altogether. “We can do that with the vaccine. But we have to use it wisely for targeted groups such as people above 50 and those with comorbid conditions as early as possible. If we don’t do it now, the virus will run wild, mutate and make vaccines redundant and eradication impossible,” Dr John said. Of the five deaths reported on Tuesday, two were from Chennai, and Chengalpet, Coimbatore and Trichy reported one death each. Two districts – Kallakurichi and Perambalur -- reported zero cases on Tuesday. Chennai reported 168 new cases followed by Coimbatore, which reported 48. All other districts reported cases below 40 cases, and 19 districts recorded a single-digit increase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/as-tns-covid-count-wanes-spotlight-shifts-to-vax-drive/articleshow/80473597.cms||Pushpa Narayan
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Changes in market yard system likely||HYDERABAD: With the Telangana government making it clear that the new farm laws will be implemented in the state, there could be massive changes in the market yard system. The smaller market yards will likely be merged with the big market yards. At present, the state has 230 market yards. Of the 230 markets yards, 10 of them are big market yards that generate around Rs 6 crore to Rs 7 crore monthly revenue. Around 10,000 people work at the market yards. The state government earns around Rs 150 crore revenue through cess every year from market yards. Under the new farm laws, cess cannot be collected for transactions outside yards and transactions are permitted anywhere. “The transactions at market yards in Telangana are already less, with exception of big markets such as Nizamabad due to its turmeric and Khammam due its chilli. Barring these market yards, the other markets yards are not active,” said sources. The check posts under the market committees are also a source of income for the yards. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had held a detailed review meet with marketing department officials on Sunday where he said that the state government will support the marketing department with funds. Meanwhile, the state agriculture and marketing minister Singireddy Niranjan Reddy on Tuesday assured farmers that the market yards will be strengthened in the state despite the new farm laws. “There is no need to panic, the state government will ensure that the market yards function properly. If there is any problem, we will bring it to the notice of the CM,” he said in Wanaparthy district. He added that the state government has made advancements in farm sector, with the state having farm produce in excess.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/changes-in-market-yard-system-likely/articleshow/80470291.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 27, 2021||Salem||R-Day celebrated in Salem region||Salem: The 72nd Republic Day was celebrated in a grand and colourful manner in Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Erode districts on Tuesday. Salem collector S A Raman unfurled the tricolour flag at the Mahatma Gandhi stadium and gave away Chief Minister’s medals to 121 policemen and honoured freedom fighters. The collector also honoured 139 officials of various departments for best performance. Salem municipal corporation commissioner N Ravichandran unfurled the national flag on his office premises. Erode collector C Kathiravan hoisted national flag and honoured officials, freedom fighters, social activists and best performers. He gave away the CM’s medal to 60 policemen and handed over certificates to 137 officials in the district for their outstanding performance. Namakkal collector K Megraj hoisted the national flag at the integrated sports complex and honoured officials, social activists and best performers in various fields during the celebrations. Megraj also handed over CM medals to 43 policemen and distributed outstanding performance certificates for 152 officials, appreciating their performances. Similarly, Dharmapuri collector S P Karthika hoisted our national flag and honoured officials, freedom fighters, social activists and best performers. Krishnagiri collector Dr Jeyachandra Bhanu Reddy unfurled the flag at the district sports complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/r-day-celebrated-in-salem-region/articleshow/80470950.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 27, 2021||Madurai||Short supply leads to high jasmine price||Madurai: As the demand for flowers at the Madurai flower market increased, the prices soared due to low supply. Jasmine was priced at Rs 2,000 to Rs 2500 per kg on Tuesday. Coordinator of the Madurai flower markets’ associations, S Ramachandran, said that the prices are expected to increase further as the Thaipoosam festival falls on Thursday, and the wedding season is also picking up. He said that the supply of jasmines was less than 500 kg per day for the past few days as unseasonal rains affected the budding process. Usually, the price of jasmine ranges between Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,500 per kg in the beginning of the year but “it may go upto even Rs 3,000 per kg on the festival day,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/short-supply-leads-to-high-jasmine-price/articleshow/80470946.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Chennai||As Tamil Nadu’s Covid count wanes, spotlight shifts to vaccination drive||CHENNAI: As the state reported 523 new cases and five deaths on Tuesday, public health experts and epidemiologists were predicting the end of the epidemic by March and campaigning for a targeted vaccination programme. The cumulative case tally in TN rose to 8,35,803 and the death toll reached 12,325. Active case dropped to 4,736 on Tuesday from 4,813 on Monday and 8,272 on January 2. “Crowding at shops and malls for Diwali shopping, gathering for the New Year revelries or Pongal celebrations did not push up the epidemic curve in the state,” points out senior epidemiologist Dr Jayaprakash Muliyal, chairperson of the scientific advisory committee of the ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology. The state was reporting more than 1,000 cases a day during the Christmas week, which came down to 910 during New Year week. In the Pongal week, the daily cases averaged 626. This week, they are below 560. “We didn’t think the fall would be so swift. Even when neighbouring Kerala is reporting high numbers, TN is not reporting an increase in daily cases. It’s because we have reached herd immunity faster than what we had expected. We don’t need sero surveys to say this,” he said. The epidemic phase of the virus is coming to an end in about five weeks, says senior virologist Dr T Jacob John. “This doesn’t mean there will be no cases. We will enter the endemic phase when we may continue to report a few cases every day but it may not bother us so much because the death rate will return to the pre-pandemic times,” he said. “The infection rate will eventually be equal to the birth rate since new-borns can tamper with herd immunity,” he said. Scientists say that going forward, the strategy should be to eradicate the viral infection altogether. “We can do that with the vaccine. But we have to use it wisely for targeted groups such as people above 50 and those with comorbid conditions as early as possible. If we don’t do it now, the virus will run wild, mutate and make vaccines redundant and eradication impossible,” Dr John said. Of the five deaths reported on Tuesday, two were from Chennai, and Chengalpet, Coimbatore and Trichy reported one death each. Two districts – Kallakurichi and Perambalur -- reported zero cases on Tuesday. Chennai reported 168 new cases followed by Coimbatore, which reported 48. All other districts reported cases below 40 cases, and 19 districts recorded a single-digit increase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/as-tns-covid-count-wanes-spotlight-shifts-to-vax-drive/articleshow/80470303.cms||Pushpa Narayan
January 27, 2021||Salem||As Tamil Nadu’s Covid count wanes, spotlight shifts to vaccination drive||CHENNAI: As the state reported 523 new cases and five deaths on Tuesday, public health experts and epidemiologists were predicting the end of the epidemic by March and campaigning for a targeted vaccination programme. The cumulative case tally in TN rose to 8,35,803 and the death toll reached 12,325. Active case dropped to 4,736 on Tuesday from 4,813 on Monday and 8,272 on January 2. “Crowding at shops and malls for Diwali shopping, gathering for the New Year revelries or Pongal celebrations did not push up the epidemic curve in the state,” points out senior epidemiologist Dr Jayaprakash Muliyal, chairperson of the scientific advisory committee of the ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology. The state was reporting more than 1,000 cases a day during the Christmas week, which came down to 910 during New Year week. In the Pongal week, the daily cases averaged 626. This week, they are below 560. “We didn’t think the fall would be so swift. Even when neighbouring Kerala is reporting high numbers, TN is not reporting an increase in daily cases. It’s because we have reached herd immunity faster than what we had expected. We don’t need sero surveys to say this,” he said. The epidemic phase of the virus is coming to an end in about five weeks, says senior virologist Dr T Jacob John. “This doesn’t mean there will be no cases. We will enter the endemic phase when we may continue to report a few cases every day but it may not bother us so much because the death rate will return to the pre-pandemic times,” he said. “The infection rate will eventually be equal to the birth rate since new-borns can tamper with herd immunity,” he said. Scientists say that going forward, the strategy should be to eradicate the viral infection altogether. “We can do that with the vaccine. But we have to use it wisely for targeted groups such as people above 50 and those with comorbid conditions as early as possible. If we don’t do it now, the virus will run wild, mutate and make vaccines redundant and eradication impossible,” Dr John said. Of the five deaths reported on Tuesday, two were from Chennai, and Chengalpet, Coimbatore and Trichy reported one death each. Two districts – Kallakurichi and Perambalur -- reported zero cases on Tuesday. Chennai reported 168 new cases followed by Coimbatore, which reported 48. All other districts reported cases below 40 cases, and 19 districts recorded a single-digit increase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/as-tns-covid-count-wanes-spotlight-shifts-to-vax-drive/articleshow/80473598.cms||Pushpa Narayan
January 27, 2021||Madurai||As Tamil Nadu’s Covid count wanes, spotlight shifts to vaccination drive||CHENNAI: As the state reported 523 new cases and five deaths on Tuesday, public health experts and epidemiologists were predicting the end of the epidemic by March and campaigning for a targeted vaccination programme. The cumulative case tally in TN rose to 8,35,803 and the death toll reached 12,325. Active case dropped to 4,736 on Tuesday from 4,813 on Monday and 8,272 on January 2. “Crowding at shops and malls for Diwali shopping, gathering for the New Year revelries or Pongal celebrations did not push up the epidemic curve in the state,” points out senior epidemiologist Dr Jayaprakash Muliyal, chairperson of the scientific advisory committee of the ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology. The state was reporting more than 1,000 cases a day during the Christmas week, which came down to 910 during New Year week. In the Pongal week, the daily cases averaged 626. This week, they are below 560. “We didn’t think the fall would be so swift. Even when neighbouring Kerala is reporting high numbers, TN is not reporting an increase in daily cases. It’s because we have reached herd immunity faster than what we had expected. We don’t need sero surveys to say this,” he said. The epidemic phase of the virus is coming to an end in about five weeks, says senior virologist Dr T Jacob John. “This doesn’t mean there will be no cases. We will enter the endemic phase when we may continue to report a few cases every day but it may not bother us so much because the death rate will return to the pre-pandemic times,” he said. “The infection rate will eventually be equal to the birth rate since new-borns can tamper with herd immunity,” he said. Scientists say that going forward, the strategy should be to eradicate the viral infection altogether. “We can do that with the vaccine. But we have to use it wisely for targeted groups such as people above 50 and those with comorbid conditions as early as possible. If we don’t do it now, the virus will run wild, mutate and make vaccines redundant and eradication impossible,” Dr John said. Of the five deaths reported on Tuesday, two were from Chennai, and Chengalpet, Coimbatore and Trichy reported one death each. Two districts – Kallakurichi and Perambalur -- reported zero cases on Tuesday. Chennai reported 168 new cases followed by Coimbatore, which reported 48. All other districts reported cases below 40 cases, and 19 districts recorded a single-digit increase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/as-tns-covid-count-wanes-spotlight-shifts-to-vax-drive/articleshow/80473595.cms||Pushpa Narayan
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 10-yr-old boy dies at hospital, complaint filed||HYDERABAD: A 10-year-old boy, who was admitted at a children’s hospital in Banjara Hills after he became unconscious while being prepared for cataract surgery at a eye hospital in Punjagutta, died while undergoing treatment on Monday evening. After his death, family members lodged a complaint with Punjagutta police on Tuesday, requesting police to find out the reason for the boy’s death. According to Punjagutta inspector M Niranjan Reddy, the victim, son of Ganapati Reddy, a labourer from Yellammabanda in Kukatpally, was initially admitted at an eye hospital in Punjagutta on January 20 for cataract treatment. “After he was administered anesthesia, the boy went into coma and the eye hospital staff referred him to a corporate hospital,” the inspector said. “At 5pm on January 20, on the suggestion of doctors at the corporate hospital, family members shifted the boy to a children’s hospital in Banjara Hills. While undergoing treatment, the boy died at the Banjara Hills hospital on Monday evening,” the inspector added. Based on the complaint of the family members, Punjagutta police registered a case under section 174 of CrPC.  “The body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital for postmortem. Along with postmortem report and boy’s treatment records, we will refer the details to Medical Board as part of the investigation,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/10-yr-old-boy-dies-at-hospital-plaint-filed/articleshow/80470299.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Madurai||Madurai-Mandapam rly section to be electrified by Sept: DRM||Madurai: Stating that the lockdown has come as a blessing in disguise for development of infrastructure and capacity expansion of network, Madurai divisional railway manager (DRM) V R Lenin said on Tuesday that electrification of the 167km Madurai-Mandapam section is targeted for completion by September 2021.Speaking at the Republic Day celebrations here, Lenin said that electrification of the 50km Madurai-Manamadurai section is targeted for completion next month, while the 117km Manamadurai-Mandapam section is targeted for completion in September 2021. Gauge conversion of the 17km Andipatti-Theni section is targeted for completion by April and the Theni-Bodinayakkanur for September 2021.Doubling with electrification of the Gangaikondan-Tirunelveli section is targeted for completion in February, Tirumangalam-Tulukapatti and Tattaparai-Milavittan doubling for April and Tulukapatti-Kovilpatti and Kovilpatti-Kadambur for March. Work in the Madurai-Tirumangalam section is targeted for March 2022, he said.Highlighting other works, he said that provision of pre-fabricated toilets for th use of passengers is in progress at 55 stations at a cost of Rs 13.75 crore. Foot overbridge work is in progress at 17 stations and extension of platforms is in progress in as many stations. The average speed of goods train up to December was 44.14kmph against 21.06kmph for the same period last year. At 48.1kmph, the average in November is the highest ever in the division. Faced with unprecedented Covid-related challenges the division’s earning dropped to Rs 260.1 crore till December against Rs 632.6 crore in the corresponding period in 2019, he said. Lenin added that it has been decided to cut down expenses and change priorities to manage the financial strain caused by Covid-19. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-mandapam-rly-section-to-be-electrified-by-sept-drm/articleshow/80470968.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Madurai||Ramnad to get 1,000 school kitchen gardens||Ramanathapuram: The district administration, which has developed 1,000 Miyawaki forests in the 429 panchayats, will now have an equal number of kitchen gardens in schools to promote health eating.District collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver inaugurated the programme in the Panchayat Union Middle School in Puthendhal village in the presence of the project director of the district rural development agency M Pradeep Kumar and other officials, on Tuesday. Initially, it is planned to grow different varieties of greens, which are rich in protein and minerals. It is also proposed to grow seasonal vegetables in these kitchen garden plots.The collector said that healthy eating was something that had to be promoted in schools. Adolescent girls and girl children are required to have good healthy diets. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ramnad-to-get-1000-school-kitchen-gardens/articleshow/80470969.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Hundreds on street in Hyderabad to support tractor rally||HYDERABAD: Amid slogans of ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan’, hundreds of people hit the streets here on Tuesday in support of the farmers’ tractor rally organised in Delhi. Supporters holding the Indian flag and Kisan flags started the rally from Saroornagar indoor stadium in the afternoon, which culminated at Uppal X roads by evening. Organised by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), the rally witnessed participants from Left parties, civil rights groups and women’s organisations. At 2pm, people started gathering at the stadium with farming tools such as a plough, spade, shovel etc. apart from crops in their hands. Soon, a sea of people started surging towards the Uppal X roads amid traffic restrictions by the Rachakonda traffic police, that allowed the rally following the Telangana high court’s orders. “There were students, IT employees, hawkers, domestic workers among many others who joined the parade. We want to send out a message to the central government that the farmers’ protest is not just limited to the farmers but all those who are affected by these laws,” said Kiran Vissa, AIKSCC national working group member and leader of Rythu Swarajya Vedika. Numerous people were seen walking on the streets with a flag in their hands. Many who joined the procession sang and danced to the tunes of Rythu Yathra, a Telugu song composed for the rally. Some people were also seen dancing on the roads to the tune of Telangana folk songs. “It’s been months that we are raising our voice against the farm laws. Our demands are loud and clear -- repel the farm laws and legalize MSP for all crops,” said Gaddam Venu, one of the participants who came from Saddupally village to attend the rally. Similar rallies were also taken out in many districts such as Nizamabad, Mahbubnagar, Peddapalli, Mulugu and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hundreds-on-street-to-support-tractor-rally/articleshow/80470294.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||History-sheeter waylaid, murdered in Borabanda||HYDERABAD: A 32-year-old history-sheeter was waylaid and bludgeoned to death allegedly by his associates at Borabanda in the early hours of Tuesday. The accused threw chilli powder in the eyes of the victim and attacked him with an iron rod. The deceased was identified as Syed Sadiq alias Kala Feroz from Kukatpally. Sadiq was operating a dhaba in the city and Kukatpally police opened a history-sheet against him a few years ago. On Monday night, Feroz went to a function hall at Nadeem Colony of Tolichowki to attend a family event. While he was returning home in his new SUV, he was intercepted at Borabanda Site III by Khadeer, Mukhtar and a few other acquaintances. “Around 12.15am, they intercepted Feroz’s car. As he knew them, Feroz disembarked from the vehicle. The assailants threw chilli powder in his eyes, threatened with firearms and attacked him on the head with an iron rod. They threw chilli powder in the eyes of others accompanying Feroz and escaped with his car,” Feroz’s brother Syed Riyaz said. Police said Feroz was declared brought dead at a local hospital and the accused abandoned the stolen car and fled from the place. “We found the abandoned SUV at Hafeezpet. We believe that six to seven persons, including Khadeer and Mukhtar, participated in the attack. We have launched a manhunt to nab them. We are yet to ascertain the reason for the murder,” assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Balanagar, K Purushotham said. A murder case was registered under Section 302 of the IPC and after the post-mortem examination, police handed over the body to the family members on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/history-sheeter-waylaid-murdered-in-borabanda/articleshow/80470304.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Madurai||VOC Port in Tuticorin shows signs of improvement from third quarter||Tuticorin: The container handling at V O Chidambaranar Port Trust has started to show positive signs from the third quarter of this financial year, chairman of the port trust T K Ramachandran said at the 72nd Republic Day celebrations at the port’s school ground.Addressing stakeholders after hoisting the national flag and taking the salute from the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) contingent, he said that the port is committed to transforming as the transshipment hub of south India following the approval of the 9th berth containerization project by the Centre.He also stated that the port is taking strenuous efforts to improvise the green credentials by implementing various initiatives like 5MW land-based solar power project, 5MW onshore wind farm 270KW roof top solar power project. For the first time among major ports of India, VOC Port is in the process of procuring three e-cars for port activities.Ramachandran also distributed traffic performance awards for the year 2019-20 for exemplary performance of port users as steamer agents, stevedores, container vessel operators, container liners, container freight stations, custom house agents, exporters, importers and business partners.The chairman also distributed meritorious awards to the officers and staff of various departments of the port.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/voc-port-in-tuticorin-shows-signs-of-improvement-from-third-quarter/articleshow/80470967.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Madurai||Protesting hike in fuel price, MLA pedals to R-Day event||Kanyakumari: Condemning the fuel price hike and to express solidarity with the protesting farmers in Delhi who have not got a solution despite staging protests against the three Farm Acts passed by the Union government, Padmanabhapuram MLA (DMK) T Mano Thangaraj pedalled a bicycle for 16km to take part in the Republic Day celebrations in Kanyakumari district.“When officials asked me the reason, I explained to them that the price of petrol was Rs 50 a litre when crude oil price was 150 US $ a barrel 10 years ago. Now, the crude oil price is down to 55 US $ but the cost of petrol here is Rs 90 a litre,” the MLA told TOI.Thangaraj added that this exorbitant price escalation by the government has made common man undergo hardships. He also expressed concern over the hardships faced by the protesting farmers in Delhi.Accompanied by five DMK youth wing cadres he covered a portion of the return trip from the venue on bicycles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/protesting-hike-in-fuel-price-mla-pedals-to-r-day-event/articleshow/80470954.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 37 rules agreed upon for rally, most tossed aside||NEW DELHI: Right from the number of tractors, to the designated route and timing of entry and exit, the protesting farmers violated every condition they had agreed upon to get permission from Delhi Police for their rally. Based on these violations, many FIRs have been registered and the organisers have become liable for penal action. After multiple meetings were held between the farmers and police last week, it was agreed that a set of guidelines would have to be followed. In all, there were 37 conditions, many of which are relevant for any rally or demonstration. For this rally in particular, there were certain conditions that could not be violated given the fact that the march was being conducted on Republic Day. Times ViewViolence and vandalism only discredits a legitimate mass movement. It neither helps the agitators, nor their cause. Those engaged with the farmers’ protest must ponder over this hard truth and choose their mode of protest with utmost care.The foremost condition was that the rally would be taken out once the Republic Day parade was over and the force deployed there was diverted towards managing the rally. A time window of 12pm-5pm was agreed upon by both sides. However, this was their first violation. The protesting farmers first tried to barge their way in from Loni border on Monday night around 10pm. The group clashed with police and proceeded towards Red Fort, but was reigned in as Signature Bridge was closed just in time. On Tuesday morning, the first round of verbal confrontation with police over entry started as early as 6.30am. By 10am, a large number of tractors barged in from different borders even as the Republic Day parade was on. No predesignated routes were followed, which was another non-negotiable condition. The farmer leaders had promised to stick to the routes based on the threat perception to security. From Singhu border, the rally was to pass through Kanjhawala, KMP Expressway and return, while from Tikri border it was to pass through Nangloi, Najafgarh and Western Peripheral Expressway. From Ghazipur border, the farmers could march through Apsara border, Hapur and return to the protest site. However, all roads led to central Delhi. There was no limit on the number of tractors as the barricades at the border were forcibly removed, resulting in free entry. Tractors with modifications or armour-like structures were prohibited, but many were seen with them. No weapons, like swords, or intoxicating materials, including drugs and liquor, were allowed. The participants were prohibited from indulging in acrobatics, display of martial arts or stunt driving. However, the protesters brandished arms and performed stunts on bikes and tractors even at Red Fort. Police claimed to have seized liquor bottles from trolleys. At ITO, the tractors were driven dangerously to intimidate police. Also, no medical facilities were provided and the volunteers were seen resorting to violence at many places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/37-rules-agreed-upon-for-rally-most-tossed-aside/articleshow/80470980.cms||Raj Shekhar
January 27, 2021||Madurai||Madurai city police launch e-beat to improve patrolling||Madurai: As part of efforts to make patrolling more effective, the Madurai city police on Tuesday launched the e-beat mobile application to monitor patrols with the use of QR code scanning. “This system is a technological upgradation of the existing patta book system by replacing them with QR codes so that monitoring becomes easier which leads to effective increase in police visibility on the streets,” commissioner of police (CoP), Prem Anand Sinha, said. The ‘E-beat Madurai’ mobile app, available on Google Playstore, installed by all police personnel of Madurai city is used for scanning of codes which are put up at different parts of the city, especially in crime prone areas.“The patta book system requires manual signatures and is a little disruptive to the public during the night. But, this system only requires simple clicking of a photo on phone. The QR codes which must be scanned have been placed throughout the city at around 700 different locations. When a QR code is scanned, the precise time and location of the police official will automatically be recorded,” said a source.The application will give real time information and senior officers can monitor patrolling by police constables in an effective manner. Sinha further said that the system will be used to ensure regular visits of police personnel to the homes of senior citizens who are living alone and also locked houses in a phased manner.Revising the existing system of beat police officer, city police also launched sector police officers (SPOs). “Beats at police stations have been converted to sectors. For each station, sectors are demarcated. The SPOs will be patrolling their particular sector in a three-shift basis,” said the source.These police officers, who are nominated to each sector in the station limits, will be moving in their defined area on 24x7 basis. Their purpose is to collect information on criminal movements, illegal activities and attend to public complaints. Communication, responding to complaints and reaching scenes of crime is expected to be sped up through the SPOs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-city-police-launch-e-beat-to-improve-patrolling/articleshow/80470975.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Madurai||HMs’ assn seeks blueprint for Classes X-XII exams||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu Higher Secondary School Headmasters Association has urged the school education department to release the blueprint for Classes X to XII state board exams to make it easier for students to learn within the limited time.The association also passed several other resolutions at a meeting held in Madurai on Monday.Last year, Class XII students wrote the exams without blueprint, while Class X students will be writing the exams for the first time without blueprint, since their exams were cancelled. “Blueprints give an idea about what topics are for how many marks. This makes it easier to train the students in particular topics and help them clear the exams. Last year, in the Class XII exams, a few questions were taken from section of topics that were least expected,” said K Anand Raman, legal secretary of the association.Raman said that even with the reduction of syllabus by 40%, it is still a tough ask for teachers to prepare students for the board exams within three months. “Considering the Covid-19 pandemic and months of time lost, it is only fair to at least release the blueprint, especially for the sake of students of government and aided schools who have had no online classes,” he added.Other resolutions include filling up of vacancies of district education officers (DEOs) and higher secondary school headmasters as soon as possible and granting of compensation from the state government towards the parent teacher ssociations at schools, which is usually paid by students. The association further sought immediate payment of salaries to sanitary workers appointed on consolidated pay by the regional development officer to around 100 government schools in Madurai, who have been left unpaid for over 10 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hms-assn-seeks-blueprint-for-classes-x-xii-exams/articleshow/80470973.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Madurai||Vir Chakra for Galwan Valley martyr Palani||Ramanathapuram: Havildar K Palani from Ramanathapuram district has been honoured with the Vir Chakra (posthumously) for sacrificing his life as part of the ‘Operation Snow Leopard’ to defend the nation in the India-China stand-off at Galwan valley in Eastern Ladakh on June 15, 2020. Palani is among the five – all from the army – who has been crowned with the honour.According to a statement, the havildar (gunner), who was part of patrol 16 Bihar that was tasked to establish an observation post, had fought valiantly in a close hand to hand fight and saved his subordinates from the enemy soldiers.Suddenly, the adversaries had outnumbered and encircled him. He stood bravely and tried to defend his comrades even when the enemy attacked him with sharp weapons injuring him seriously. His act of valour inspired fellow soldiers to fight fiercely and resist enemy aggression.In spite of his grievous injuries he continued to hold his ground resolutely and in the finest traditions of the India Army, laid down his life for the motherland. It is in recognition of his act of bravery, courage and supreme sacrifice Palani is awarded the Vir Chakra (posthumously), the statement added.Hailing from Kadukalur village in Thiruvadanai taluk near Thondi, Palani is the eldest of three children of Kalimuthu and Logambal who are farmhands. He was only 18 when he joined the Indian Army in 1988 and served the nation for 22 years till his martyrdom. He is survived by his wife Vanathidevi, 33, and two children. The kin felt that the recognition is a fitting tribute for the martyr.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/vir-chakra-for-galwan-valley-martyr-palani/articleshow/80470971.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Delhi||157 fresh Covid cases, 7 deaths in Delhi||DELHI: Delhi recorded 157 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, while the positivity rate dipped to 0.24%. This is the fifth time the daily count stood below the 200-mark this month. With seven new fatalities, the death toll mounted to 10,820 and the tally stood at 6.34 lakh, the authorities said. The number of active case on Tuesday dropped to 1,626 from 1,694 the previous day, stated the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/157-fresh-cases-7-deaths-in-delhi/articleshow/80470982.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Frontline workers may get Covaxin jab in February||HYDERABAD: In all likelihood, healthcare workers in the state will not get the Covaxin vaccine for Covid-19 even though the state government has received 1.73 lakh doses. Frontline workers of other departments may receive Covaxin next month, sources suggested. While states such as Bihar and Delhi, have already begun administration of Covaxin, Telangana is still holding on in spite of getting 20,000 doses of vaccine in the first batch itself. Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and West Bengal are also likely to launch the Covaxin from next month. In the state, vaccination for the other frontline departments will begin from February. There are an estimated two lakh employees who will be part of this drive from the municipal administration and urban development department as well as police and revenue departments. “We have received 1.73 lakh doses of Covaxin. We wanted to ensure convenience for some time longer as we need separate sites for Covaxin and Covishield to be administered. Also two doses of each vaccine need to be given for a person,” said Dr G Srinivas Rao, director of health, speaking about the logistics. There are 3.5 lakh healthcare workers in government and private in the state, and a total of 8.73 doses of Covishield and Covaxin have been sent to state till now. The Covaxin doses are currently with state vaccination store centre at Koti. Till now state government has given 1.4 lakh doses of vaccine to the healthcare workers. The current number of doses available is enough for a second dose to be administrated to healthcare works and even first dose for some frontline workers.Sources while there has been hesitancy towards both vaccines, the consent needed for Covaxin has also been matter of concern. Health department sources say a massive awareness drive is being conducted by the department and doctors in favour of the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/frontline-workers-may-get-covaxin-jab-in-feb/articleshow/80470313.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Vaccine a must to achieve herd immunity, say doctors||NEW DELHI: Antibodies developed by exposure to Covid-19 provide limited protection. For herd immunity and ending the pandemic, mass vaccination is the only way, say public health experts. The result of the fifth serological survey conducted in Delhi shows over 50% people having developed antibodies. According to Dr S K Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) — which carried tests on samples of 28,000 people across all districts in the national capital to look for the presence of antibodies against Covid-19 — nearly 25% people had high levels of antibodies, or neutralising antibodies. “The rest had moderate to low levels of antibodies,” he says. Dr Sarin says the presence of antibodies in over 50% of the city’s population is a good sign but that does not rule out the need for mass immunisation. Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology division at Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), says low levels of antibodies may not protect against infection. “Mass vaccination is the only way to develop herd immunity and end this pandemic,” he adds. Herd immunity happens when a large section of people has been affected by a virus and have become immune by developing antibodies, and form a layer between the infected and those who are not, and break the chain of infection. Public health specialists say it is not yet clear how long do the antibodies developed by exposure to the virus last. “Some research suggests that it may last about four to five months. This means that a person may be susceptible to the virus again after a certain period,” says a senior doctor at AIIMS. Mutation in the SARS-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19 is another cause of concern and a potential impediment in the chances of herd immunity through exposure, doctors say. Dr Suneela Garg, a leading public health expert and member of the Lancet commission for Covid-19 India vaccination task force, says vaccination studies conducted in parts of Brazil and the United Kingdom have also shown high prevalence of antibodies against the virus that causes Covid-19. “Despite that, we have seen how the disease continues to spread. Therefore, we cannot hope for herd immunity through exposure to the disease. It will come only through mass vaccination,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vaccine-a-must-to-achieve-herd-immunity-docs/articleshow/80470974.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana high court extends stay on lake beautification in Kukatpally||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court has extended for four more weeks the status quo orders issued earlier in respect of reported beautification being carried out by a realtor at Kamuni Cheruvu in Kukatpally. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this direction on Monday while resuming the hearing in a PIL filed by Kukatpally Area Development Society, which expressed apprehensions over the state inviting realtors to do this job. According to the petitioner, realtor Cyber City Builders and Developers was eating into the lake area and kept it for private use. The state inviting builders to do this job was objectionable because they were trading the lakes under the guise of beautification, the petitioner added. The bench had earlier restrained the builder from raising any structures in the area and also directed the officials of revenue, irrigation and GHMC to protect the land. The bench earlier heard a writ petition related to the same lake along with the PIL. The writ was filed by Raghavendra Weaker Sections Welfare Society, which represents a weaker sections colony in the vicinity. Society counsel Dipak Misra said the realtor was demolishing their houses in the name of beautification. Following rival contentions over the actual extent of the lake, a single judge had earlier ordered the authorities to conduct a fresh survey and determine the extent of lake, its full tank level and buffer zone. The bench directed the weaker sections association to go before the single judge and espouse its cause there. It also made it clear that it would not hear multiple PILs on the same issue and said that its adjudication would continue only in the PIL filed by Kukatpally Area Development Society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/high-court-extends-stay-on-lake-beautification-in-kukatpally/articleshow/80470314.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Chennai||In Tamil Nadu, Republic Day sees a fresh plunge in number of doses administered||CHENNAI: Several vaccination sites across the state saw no visitors the entire day as the vaccination percentage plummeted to 4,936 on Tuesday compared to 7,307 on Monday. Since January 16, the state has administered 73,953 doses (39%) of the targeted 1,87,900 in 1,879 sessions. On Tuesday, Kovilpatti health unit registered a mere five vaccinations against the target of 100. Tenkasi reported 10 shots administered against the target of 400, while Aranthangi and Tirupathur vaccinated 24 people each. “Many people did not turn up as it was a public holiday,” said joint director immunization Dr K Vinay Kumar. “It was low on Sunday and during Pongal holidays. On weekdays, the average is around 7,000 people.” Coimbatore continued to remain a high performer, meeting 92.3% of the day’s target with 369 people, inoculated. Chennai vaccinated 417 against the target of 1,800 healthcare providers. Of this, eight healthcare providers received Covaxin. Over the last 10 days, Chennai has vaccinated 9,217 patients against the target of 16,400. The number of people opting for Covaxin continued to remain low. Over the last 10 days, 187 of 600 people in TN took Covaxin, while 72,253 against the target of 1,81,300 opted for Covishield.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/r-day-sees-a-fresh-plunge-in-number-of-doses-administered/articleshow/80470336.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Step father held for impregnating minor||MADURAI: A 50-year-old man was arrested by T Kallupatti police on Tuesday for raping and impregnating his 13-year-old stepdaughter. The girl, a class IV dropout, is in her 16th to 18th week of pregnancy. Tests also revealed that the survivor, her mother and the accused are HIV positive. The incident came to light when doctors at Government Rajaji Hospital found her pregnant after she was admitted there on Sunday evening. She did not divulge anything about the rape despite repeated counselling by doctors and paramedics. On being intimated, the police sought the help of the child welfare committee. CWC member B Pandiyaraja who counselled the victim and her mother told TOI that the family hailed from Idukki in Kerala. The suvivor’s father died 11 years ago when she was two years old and her elder sister six. The widow married the accused seven years ago as he was known to her for a few years by then. The accused, who was 43 years old at that time, was already married and lived with his family in Madurai. After he married the widow and brought her and the children to Madurai, his wife and children abandoned him. Pandiyaraja said the man has been raping his step-daughter after she attained puberty last September. The survivor’s mother said she saw the girl crying in the middle of the night once and on finding the man next to her scolded him. This made the police suspect him. She said the girl was sick and almost unconscious when she and her elder daughter returned from work a few weeks ago. Four days ago, she vomited and was taken to Peraiyur government hospital and then to a private hospital in Thirumangalam, from where she was referred to GRH. The accused was booked under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act on Monday night. Peraiyur DSP T Mathialagan said the man was arrested on Tuesday and will be produced before the court the same night. The trail of HIV infection – whether the man got it from the girl’s mother or vice versa – will be known when results of the tests on the extent of infection are out. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/step-father-held-for-impregnating-minor/articleshow/80470970.cms||---
January 27, 2021||India||UN chief urges India, China to dial down border tensions||NEW DELHI: After another border face-off between India and China, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres on Tuesday called for the two countries to dial down tensions through dialogue. "Only to say that we hope that, through dialogue, the tensions that may exist along the border could be dialled down," Stephane Dujarric, spokesman for the UN Secretary-General, said at a news briefing. Dujarric was responding to a question on whether the UN Secretariat or the Secretary General had any comment on the "renewed India-China border clashes". Indian and Chinese troops were involved in a clash in the high-altitude Naku La region in North Sikkim on January 20, an incident described by the Indian Army on Monday as a "minor face-off". In a statement, the Indian Army said the face-off was resolved by local commanders as per established protocols. Chinese authorities though have denied any knowledge about the incident claiming that the PLA didn't have any record of the clash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/un-chief-urges-india-china-to-dial-down-border-tensions/articleshow/80471931.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Delhi||A curtailed show: Many firsts mark Republic Day parade||NEW DELHI: The double force of biting cold and novel coronavirus couldn’t deter thousands of Delhiites from turning up at Rajpath for the restricted-but-joyous celebrations of the 72nd Republic Day on Tuesday. With the sun finally coming to their rescue, over 25,000 spectators became witness to several firsts in the R-Day parade — participation of Ladakh as a Union territory, thundering acrobatics by newly inducted Rafale jets to India’s first woman fighter pilot, Flight Lieutenant Bhawana Kanth, taking part in the fly-past. The annual show of pageantry and military might was scaled down due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and the spectators were asked to observe strict social distancing and other safety norms. Owing to Covid, this was the the first time since 1966 that the parade didn’t have a chief guest. As India and Bangladesh celebrate 50 years of their ties since the latter’s liberation war against Pakistan in 1971, Indian Navy had a dedicated tableau depicting the attack on the Karachi harbour in 1971 while old Dakota planes used in the 1971 Indo-Pak war featured in the fly-past. Murals also depicted the surrender of Pakistan Army, a Petya-class ship and Operation X undertaken by divers of Indian Navy and Bangladesh’ Mukti Bahini, and some other ships that had taken part in the war. A 122-member tri-service contingent from Bangladesh also participated in the parade for the first time. The parade, led by Lt General Vijay Kumar Mishra, began around 10am as foreign dignitaries, ministers and politicians cheered from the visitors’ galleries. Continuing his practice of sporting traditional turbans on Republic Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi wore a red headgear with yellow dots, a Jamnagar turban gifted to him by its royal family. Though curtailed, with a shorter route that ended at National Stadium instead of Red Fort, the celebrations featured record numbers of fly-pasts and planes. The march began with the showering of flowers on the spectators by four Mi-17 helicopters in a wine-glass formation. Indian Army displayed its key machineries like battle tank T-90 Bhishma, infantry combat vehicle, Brahmos missile, and Pinaka multi-launcher rocket system. Indian Air Force (IAF) showcased Mi-17 V5, Chinook and Apache helicopters and Rafale jets. Thirty-two tableaux — 17 from states and Union territories, nine from ministries, departments and paramilitary forces, and six from the defence ministry — rolled down Rajpath depicting the country’s rich cultural heritage, economic progress and defence prowess. The daredevils on motorcycles, a major attraction every year, were, however, missing. After 10 formations of thundering aerobatics, the parade ended with Rafale fighter jets, inducted into IAF last year, flying at 900kmph and one of these carrying out a “vertical Charlie” formation. The jet went up vertically carrying out a series of rolls and giving a befitting salute to the motto of IAF, Nabha Sparsham Deeptam. After the agitation against Citizenship Amendment Act at Shaheen Bagh last year, this year’s parade coincided with the farmers’ protests at the capital’s borders against the newly passed central farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-curtailed-show-many-firsts-mark-r-day-parade/articleshow/80471003.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||College directed to pay Rs 40,000 to student for withholding certificates||HYDERABAD: A district consumer forum here has directed Madina Degree College for Women to pay about Rs 40,000 to a student, who discontinued her bachelor’s course in the second year, for withholding her certificates and for forcing her to pay second year tuition fee. M Jahanavi, the complainant, submitted that she had joined Bachelor of Science (BSc) course in the academic year 2017-18 at Madina Degree College for Women.  After completion of the first year, she said that she had qualified for the BPT (Bachelor of Physiotherapy) course in the counselling conducted by the Telangana State Council for Higher Education (TSCHE). She said that she approached the staff concerned at the college seeking the return of her original certificates as she would need the same to complete the admission process into BPT course. Jahanavi alleged that the management insisted that she pay the fee for the remaining term of the course to get certificates. As the last date for submitting her certificates for admission into BPT course was nearing, she said that she had no option except to pay Rs 24, 535 towards the second year so as to cancel her admission and get certificates back. Claiming that demanding the fee in advance to return her original certificates amounts to unfair trade practice, she filed the complaint. The opposite party, in their written version, said that allegations made by the complainant are false and frivolous. They submitted that as per the University Grants Commission rules, the complainant has to pay the entire course fee in view of the declaration given by her while taking admission. They said that the complainant, in fact, had to pay the entire fee (fee for three years) as per the rule, but the college was kind enough to consider the request of the complainant and forgo the third year’s fee. During the trial, the bench noticed that as per the UGC rules, higher educational institutions can charge the fee in advance only for the semester/year in which a student wants to engage in academic activities, but not for the entire programme and cannot collect original certificates. “The opposite party had not even issued fee receipt while collecting the second-year fee. This amounts to deficiency of service and also the adoption of unfair trade practice,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/college-directed-to-pay-rs-40000-to-student-for-withholding-certificates/articleshow/80470327.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Tikri trick: How farmers’ detour led to things spiralling out of control||NEW DELHI: What started off as a peaceful tractor parade from Tikri border on Tuesday around 9am turned into a violent clash by 11.45 am after the protesters reached Nangloi Chowk and insisted on changing the planned route. The farmers were to take a right towards Najafgarh but they insisted on marching towards Peeragarhi and then to Red Fort where other farmer groups had begun to gather. The clash between police and the protesters continued till evening, witnessing many rounds of teargas shelling, lathicharge and vandalism. Virendra Singh Hooda from Samyukt Kisan Morcha was atop a riot vehicle asking people to follow the route. Despite his attempts, his voice was overpowered by the voices of the protesters and he could not do much. Hooda told TOI: “Some miscreants have joined the protest and are hampering our image. We want to follow the designated route but they are not listening.” Personnel from paramilitary forces held a rope trying to stop the tractors but they continued accelerating and moved ahead forcibly. The roadblocks ahead for the farmers were boulders. A man came down from his tractor, tied one end of the rope to the boulder and attached the other end to the tractor. After multiple to and fro movements, the boulders were moved and the tractors moved towards Peeragarhi along with hundreds of farmers on foot. The cops had erected another barricade at Paschim Vihar (west) metro station, which the speeding tractors easily broke and moved ahead towards Madipur where they halted. Earlier, the farmers received a lot of support en route from the locals who waved at them as they passed by. Over changing the route, Kuldeep Singh from Bathinda said: “We wanted to be inside Delhi but they gave us a route, which was more like outside the city. We are already sitting outside the capital.” Shalini Singh, joint commissioner, South-Western range, said: “The protesters failed to adhere to the guidelines and take the designated route. Several policemen have been injured. We tried to stop them through whatever means necessary, we even sat on the road to ensure that the tractors did not pass through. We had thorough talks with farmer leaders and only then was the route defined. We have been trying to reach them since morning but to no avail. I request people to maintain the sanctity of Republic Day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tikri-trick-how-farmers-detour-led-to-things-spiralling-out-of-control/articleshow/80471596.cms||Sakshi Chand
January 27, 2021||Coimbatore||Man held for tearing women’s innerwear in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: The rural police have arrested a construction worker for tearing women’s innerwear at Okkilipalayam. Police identified the accused as S Sundarraj, 38, a native of Kottucherry in Karaikkal. A police officer said Sundarraj had come to Okkilipalayam area for construction work a month ago and was staying in a rental house along with co-workers. “He used to enter the bathrooms of neighbours during early morning and tear women’s innerwear for the past five days. Some women noticed him and informed us.” Chettipalayam police sub-inspector Arulprakash and team arrested the construction worker on Tuesday. He was booked under various sections of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women (TNPHW) Act and produced before a judicial magistrate, who remanded him in judicial custody. In another incident, a 37-year-old woman lodged a police complaint against a moped rider who groped her while she was riding bicycle on Azhagesan Road earlier this month. The Saibaba Colony police said the woman was riding her bicycle on Azhagesan road around 9.10pm on January 8 when an unidentified person, who came riding a moped from the opposite direction, groped her. “She fell on the road. While she informed police, who collected CCTV footage from the area, they couldn’t trace the identity of the accused.” On Tuesday, the woman lodged a complaint with the Saibaba Colony police, who registered a case against the unidentified person under Section 354 (A) (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4 of the TNPHW Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-held-for-tearing-womens-innerwear/articleshow/80470996.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana’s positivity rate at 0.8%, 9 districts with no cases at least once in week||HYDERABAD: At a low positivity rate of just 0.8% Covid-19 infections in the state, nine districts have reported zero cases at least once in the last seven days. Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district is the latest to join the pack with zero cases on Tuesday. Along with Asifabad, Jogulamba-Gadwal, Kamareddy, Mulugu, Nagarkurnool, Narayanpet, Rajanna-Sircilla, Nirmal and Wanaparthy had reported zero cases either once or many times since January 19. “The present trend of zero cases is due to social distancing norms maintained by people as well as our testing policy, which changed according to the need of the hour, with lowest positivity rate at 0.8%. We are still doing around 30,000 tests daily on an average,” director of health Dr G Srinivas Rao said. Positivity rate is out of all tests conducted, how many came back positive for Covid-19. A positivity rate below 5% is considered safe by World Health Organization. If it is below 5 for a period of 15 days, the conditions include very stable picture. Currently, the state is the seventh best along with two other states in terms of having low positivity rate. Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, AP, UP, Haryana, Odisha and Bihar have all brought it down to below 1% in the fortnight between January 9 and 22. Also, nine states had positivity rates between 7% and 15% during November 8-21. Telangana’s positivity rate was at 0.9%. The state had the highest positivity rate at 28% in July. At that time 1,000 tests were done daily and 280 samples returned positive. “Considering the figures then, it is a good scenario now. We had high positivity rate four months into the pandemic at an average of 10-12%, when the daily cases were around 43,000. From then, we have seen declining positivity rate despite cases going up for some time. Presently, the positivity rate of the country stands at around 1.8% now. “We are largely under control, but need to maintain our guard,” Indian Council of Medical Research-certified researcher Dr Kiran Madala said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ts-positivity-rate-at-0-8-9-dists-with-no-cases-at-least-once-in-week/articleshow/80470322.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Conduct intranasal vax Phase I trials on 75 volunteers: SEC to Bharat Biotech||HYDERABAD: The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) that advises the Indian drug regulator has asked vaccine maker Bharat Biotech to first conduct Phase I trials of its chimpanzee adenovirus vectored Covid-19 intranasal vaccine, codenamed BBV154, on 75 volunteers to ascertain its safety and immunogenicity before seeking approval for Phase II trials. The SEC has also asked Bharat Biotech to submit a revised clinical trial protocol. This decision was taken after the company presented the animal toxicity and immunogenicity as well as CMC (chemistry, manufacturing and control) data along with protocol to conduct Phase I/II clinical trials of the vaccine candidate. BBV154 is a single dose vaccine candidate that Bharat Biotech is developing in collaboration with the University of Washington School of Medicine at St Louis (WashU). As per the minutes of the SEC meeting held on January 18 but uploaded recently, “After detailed deliberation the committee recommended that the firm should generate safety and immunogenicity data in Phase I clinical trial (75 subjects) in the proposed doses as per the protocol and submit the data for the consideration of the committee to proceed to Phase II clinical trial. Accordingly, firm should submit revised clinical trial protocol for consideration of the committee.” Watch Bharat Biotech working on intranasal vaccine for Covid-19: All you need to know||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/conduct-intranasal-vax-phase-i-trials-on-75-volunteers-sec-to-bharat-biotech/articleshow/80470317.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 27, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka minister R Ashoka’s secretary asked for money from me: Sub-registrar||BENGALURU: A sub-registrar from Chikkamagaluru district has filed a complaint against Karnataka revenue minister R Ashoka’s personal secretary for allegedly demanding bribe on Sunday. HS Chaluvaraju, 46, has said in the complaint that personal secretary Gangadhar met him during the minister’s visit to Sringeri. “When I met him, he asked me to pay him money,” Chaluvaraju has alleged. Gangadhar, an employee in Vidhana Soudha secretariat’s office and deputed as personal secretary for Ashoka, has since been transferred, sources said. Sringeri Town police registered a non-cognizable complaint on Monday and said they will seek the government’s permission to register an FIR. Chikkamagaluru SP Hakay Akshay Machindra confirmed receiving the complaint. Chaluvaraju said he received a WhatsApp message from an unlisted number on Jan 20 about Ashoka’s travel to Sringeri. ‘Took me to room, sought money’n January 24, I received a call Ofrom a person who identified himself as Gangadhar working as PS to the minister. He asked me to meet the minister at Adichunchanagiri Convention Hall at Sringeri after 6pm. When I reached there, Gangadhar arrived around 7pm. I met him in a room attached to the convention hall where he asked me to give him money,” he stated. Chaluvaraju said: “On January 24, the caller asked me, ‘Bartheera?’ (are you coming?) Then he said, ‘Tartheera?’ (will you bring?) I asked him what should I bring? He said that ‘we will speak’ about it later. On Sunday, when the minister was attending an event in the convention hall, Gangadhar took me to a room and sought money. I said I don’t have the habit of taking/giving money. On Monday, he asked for money on phone. I asked him whether his conscience permits him to demand bribe. I filed a complaint and wrote to the minister against Gangadhar.” Chaluvaraju, from Hunsur in Mysuru, said he has not taken or given bribe in his career as a government officer for 21 years. He was promoted as a sub-registrar in 2005. KPCC president DK Shivakumar said a sub-registrar has, finally, come forward to file a complaint while many others suffer in silence. “There are so many cases like this in the state," he said. BJP national general secretary CT Ravi said the personal secretary was allegedly collecting money, which the minister was unaware of.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sub-registrar-ashokas-secy-asked-for-money-from-me/articleshow/80471959.cms||Uday Kumar R
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Forces on Rajpath, farmers on warpath||NEW DELHI: At least 20 FIRs have been filed for Tuesday’s mayhem in the capital, which caused injuries to policemen as well as damage to public transport and police vehicles. Farmers on protest clashed with police while deviating from the designated route of their tractor parade on Republic Day. Till late evening, 100-120 policemen, including IPS officers, were reportedly injured and over two dozen vehicles vandalised in various parts of the city. Most cops were just wielding lathis and reportedly did not get the chance to retaliate. At Red Fort, policemen were forced to jump off the railings as protesters went on the rampage and assaulted them. Four cases were registered for the vandalism in east Delhi. Eight buses and 17 private vehicles were damaged in the area. The figures were similar in all other ranges. The exact extent of damage was still being recorded till late on Tuesday. At two places, ITO and Kashmere Gate ISBT, women cops were allegedly cornered and assaulted by the protesters and had to be rescued by fellow policemen. Videos of these incidents were recorded by passersby, which went viral on social media. A probe has been initiated into instances of protesters allegedly snatching the belongings of policemen. Several bystanders were also injured in the clashes and their statements have been recorded by police. At least 45 police personnel were admitted to the trauma centre in north district after the violence at Red Fort. In all, 21 people, including 10 protesters and 11 policemen, were rushed to Lok Nayak Hospital with injuries caused during the protest at ITO. Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of the hospital, told TOI that a 40-year-old policeman had serious head injury and was currently in the ICU. “One protester has a bone injury. The rest of the patients are stable. We have kept them under observation for some tests. Some of them are likely to be discharged after a few hours,” Dr Kumar added. Police are looking at videos where the national flag was allegedly thrown into a drain. A video of farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, wherein he is asking his supporters to be armed with lathis and be ready to save their land, is being investigated. A probe suggests that a Punjab-based former gangster-turned-activist and his henchmen played a role in attacking police in central Delhi, a source said. The cops have contacted their counterparts in Punjab in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/forces-on-rajpath-farmers-on-warpath/articleshow/80471015.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid-19: 190 cases in Telangana, two fatalities||HYDERABAD: The state recorded 189 new Covid-19 infections and two fatalities on Tuesday, taking the overall toll to 1,592 and the caseload to 2,93,590. Authorities said there are 3,072 patients under treatment, but with improving recovery rate in the state, which has now touched 98%. So far, a total of 77,11,810 Covid-19 tests have been conducted and 2,88,926 persons have recovered. In the data released by the health department, 29,449 Covid tests were conducted on Tuesday.  A total of 349 persons recovered on Tuesday. The GHMC limits saw 38 cases followed by 12 new cases in Rangareddy and 11 cases in Medchal Malkajgiri district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/190-cases-in-t-two-fatalities/articleshow/80470335.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Covid shares stage with culture, redevelopment||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s tableau featuring ‘redevelopment of Chandni Chowk’ rolled down Rajpath on Tuesday while the tableau of Ladakh based on the theme ‘Vision of the future’ made its debut in the parade. A total of 28 tableaux from different states and departments were showcased. Of these, tableaux based on the themes of ‘one nation, one sign language’ by department of empowerment of persons with disabilities, ‘India fights Covid’ by the department of biotechnology and ‘labour reforms’ by the Union ministry of labour and employment attracted the loudest cheers from the crowd. Sending a message of religious harmony, environmental sustainability and local economic development of the historic city of Shahjahanabad, Delhi’s tableau began with the magnificent Red Fort and ended with minarets of Fatehpuri Mosque. The middle section illustrated the mile-long street of Chandni Chowk with the iconic places of worship — the elevation of Jain temple flanked alongside Gauri Shankar temple built as multi-layered cutouts followed by design of Baptist Church and Sis Ganj Gurudwara with its golden painted domes. The entire architectural replica with colourful lighting acted as the backdrop to the redesigned street. When it was moving on Rajpath, people walked and cycled on either side of the tableau to promote the theme of ‘redevelopment of Chandni Chowk’. The first-ever tableau of Union territory of Ladakh also drew attention of visitors. The front portion of tableau depicted the 29ft statue of Maitreya Buddha in the lotus position of Thiksay Monastery. The second half showed the famous Leh Gateway. The rear portion featured the 12-storey monastery. Uttar Pradesh’s tableau showed Maharishi Valmiki composing the Ramayana and Ram temple slated to come up at Ayodhya. The Union culture ministry’s tableau on the theme of ‘75th year of Indian Independence — A curtain raiser’ also received applause from visitors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-shares-stage-with-culture-redevelopment/articleshow/80471019.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Chennai||Overcrowding at GHs: Greater Chennai Corporation panel to suggest changes||CHENNAI: A committe, formed by Greater Chennai Corporation and comprising retired director of public health Dr K Kolandaisamy and corporation zonal medical officers, will study and propose measures to reduce overcrowding at government hospitals for services that can be availed at a primary health centre near the patient’s home. The committee was established after a brainstorm session by corporation commisioner G Prakash to strengthen the civic body’s healthcare system. The committee, which met for the first time recently, will study if a middle-aged woman in Puzhal requiring a simple check-up, can eliminate the hour-long bus ride to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and instead avail the service at a PHC near her residence . The civic body operates around 149 PHCs in the city and 12 secondary or community health centre, which are 100-bed hospitals. Both provide services ranging from treatment of minor ailments, diseases, basic laboratory services, antenatal facilities and screening for breast cancer. “This will ensure that the medical staff in GHs are available only for special check-ups and procedures and the number of outpatients (OP) can be reduced by at least 50%,” Kolandaisamy told TOI. Kolandaisamy cited his own experience where efficient anti-rabies vaccination in PHCs in a southern district ensured that long queues at the district government hospital reduced to a trickle. PHCs will have to ramp up facilities, such as offering more lab tests, and secondly, break perceptions, say for instance, that it has facilities only for women and children, he added. Jayaram Venkatesan, convenor of NGO Arappor Iyakkam, said these were among the suggestions the NGO provided to the corporation after a detailed audit a few years ago. “We found that out-of-order equipment in many PHCs. The civic body must also ensure that doctors are available in evenings for OP services,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/overcrowding-at-ghs-corpn-panel-to-suggest-changes/articleshow/80470348.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
January 27, 2021||Coimbatore||City resident conferred with communal harmony award||Coimbatore: KA Abdul Jabbar was conferred with with Kottai Ameer communal harmony award by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami during the 72nd Republic day celebrations in Chennai on Tuesday. A resident of Kuniyamuthur in Coimbatore, Abdul Jabbar has been the president of Tajul Islam Sunnath Jamaath for the past 13 years. The jamaath has been promoting communal harmony among different communities. "He is an advocate of religious tolerance, peace and harmony. He also renders social service by conducting eye camps, blood donation camps, medical camps and distribution of educational aid," read his citation.Speaking to TOI, Abdul Jabbar said that their jamaath was the first to celebrate ‘Samathuva Diwali’ with people from all religion about four years ago in the district and every year, they have been working closely with police officials to ensure peaceful processions during Vinayaka Chaturthi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-resident-conferred-with-communal-harmony-award/articleshow/80471008.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 27, 2021||Coimbatore||Winter rain to further cool dist||Coimbatore: The district is likely to receive light and isolated showers between January 29 and February 6, weather experts said on Tuesday, attributing the same to the moisture-bearing easterly wind that is blowing and moving in the western direction and a trough extending to interior Tamil Nadu from near Sri Lanka. Officials said the delta and coastal regions might receive moderate showers, and the western region light rain. They have classified this as winter rain. It is to be noted that the Indian Meteorological Department had a week ago announced that the northeast monsoon was officially over. Weather experts in the district have altered the farmers about the possibility of rainfall from January 29 to February 6 in view of the peak harvest season for crops such as sugarcane, turmeric, small onions and other vegetables. Santhosh Krishnan, a weather blogger, says, “Good environment for rain is seen from January 29 to February 6. Kongu belt will get good rain and farmers are advised to plan their work accordingly. The rain is due to the moisture-bearing easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal blowing towards the west.” Mahesh Palawat, chief meteorologist with Skymet Weather Services, also confirmed the western region was likely to get light and isolated rainfall on January 29 and 30, because of a light trough that extends from southwest Bay of Bengal to interior parts of the state. “The feeble trough will weaken further. But there is a 60:40 chance that it will bring light rain during that period.” Referring to the showers that the city received on last Friday and the forecast, weather experts say they are part of winter rain. Krishnan says, “It is not part of monsoon rain. It is called winter rain as it occurs during the winter. While it is extremely rare, In the past too we have received 20mm to 40mm rain in February.” The forecast has put the farmers, who are busy with harvesting their produce, on high alert. “It is the harvest season for turmeric and vegetables. We can’t dig out the turmeric if the soil is too wet. Rain will also postpone the harvest of sugarcane by a few days. After the rain, labourers are likely to demand higher wages,” says P Kandasamy, state secretary, Tamil Nadu Vivasaigal Sangam. He said vegetables too were likely to be badly affected by the rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/winter-rain-to-further-cool-dist/articleshow/80471025.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Water board lists 3,500 to get Covid vaccine||HYDERABAD: The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) is gearing up to administer Covid vaccine to its frontline workers. Officials have prepared a list of nearly 3,500 personnel including water supply linemen, water sample collectors and sewerage workers. The list was forwarded to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) on Monday. A water board official said, “the department prefers administering the vaccine to workmen in their respective Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Divisions offices, instead of giving it at designated centres.” Once, the date of vaccination is decided, the water board will explain the merits of vaccine to personnel, to dispel myths. All personnel will be covered through the drive, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-board-lists-3500-to-get-vaccine/articleshow/80470339.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Students struggle to arrange hostels as colleges set to reopen in Telangana||HYDERABAD: With physical classes set to commence from February 1, many students are struggling to arrange a hostel/paying guest accommodation. Even colleges are feeling the heat as rooms can no longer be offered on sharing basis as per social distancing norms. Following the Telangana government orders, many colleges are in the process of allowing final year students from February 1 followed by other students in a phased manner. At a time when the rooms in college and university hostels are already limited and overcrowded, Covid-19 poses a bigger challenge for the managements. “From February 1-6, students can renew their hostel facility. We will issue ID cards to those who will be renewing the hostel facility for the ensuing academic year. As per the renewals, we will allot rooms. Rooms with six beds will have only two students at a time and a room with two beds will be allotted to a single student,” said professor LB Laxminkanth Rathod, principal, Nizam College, adding that it will be a difficult task to accommodate students. Nearly 20%-30% of the student population in the city comes from neighbouring districts and states to various colleges for undergraduate and postgraduate courses. Many students are now forced to cough up huge amount to avail private hostel/PG facilities. With colleges planning to call students for laboratory work for only 30 days at a time, finding accommodation is turning out to be a bigger hassle for those coming from other districts. “Most private hostels and PGs are seeking an advance of at least three months. Nobody is ready to accommodate us for a month or less than that. How does the government expect us to come from far-flung places and cough up huge amount without having any clarity on the schedule of classwork,” said Jonnalagadda Sharath, a BTech student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-struggle-to-arrange-hostels-as-colleges-set-to-reopen/articleshow/80470351.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Coimbatore||R-Day celebrated in subdued manner in Coimbatore, Tirupur||Coimbatore: The 72nd Republic day was celebrated in a subdued manner at VOC Park in the city on Tuesday. Collector K Rajamani hoisted the tricolour flag and accepted the guard of honour from armed forces, home guards, fire and rescue personnel and National Cadet Corps (NCC). All the cultural events were cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The collector distributed the Chief Minister’s police medal to 124 personnel both from the city and rural police department. He also honored 92 government officials for their outstanding work and four government bus drivers for operating buses without any accidents for the past 25 years, a statement from the collector’s office said. Similarly, corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian hoisted the flag at the corporation office and honored 10 workers who had done exemplary work during the pandemic to control the spread of Covid-19 infection. He also distributed Rs 2,000 along with a certificate to 10 workers who had completed 25 years of their service without any remarks. Meanwhile, Tirupur collector K Vijayakarthikeyan hoisted the flag at Chikkanna government Arts College ground and witnessed the parade of police personnel. He distributed the Chief Minister’s police medal to 55 cops and felicitated 286 people including police personnel, government employees and volunteers for their outstanding works. Welfare measures to the tune of Rs 6.31 crore were distributed to 222 beneficiaries. INS Agrani, a premier training establishment of Indian Navy, celebrated the Republic day at its premises. The commanding officer laid a wreath on Veer Sthal after inspecting the parade. Proficiency awards were given to healthcare workers and Naval and defence civilian personnel. Panchayat president of Ikkarai Poluvampatti Sadanandam hoisted the flag at the Republic day function celebrated at Isha yoga centre in the city and the event was attended by people from villages in the surrounding area. Several colleges including CMS College of Science and Commerce, Rathinam Arts and Science College and Avinashilingam Institute for Home Science and Higher Education for Women celebrated the Republic day by hoisting the National flag on their college premises. Five students of NIFT TEA created a small art installation in their campus showing what every state is known for, trying to replicate the idea of the Republic Day parade. They created miniature installations and paintings within the installation to show each state’s specialty—like portraying temples in the state to show Tamil Nadu is famous for temples, coconut shells to show coconut trees abound in Kerala, mural paintings for Karnataka among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/r-day-celebrated-in-subdued-manner-in-coimbatore-tirupur/articleshow/80471023.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Children of Republic: Young messengers steal the show||NEW DELHi: While machines of war and disciplined contingents of soldiers marched on Rajpath, it was the performances and marches by children participating in the parade that received the loudest cheers from the crowd. Over 100 girl students from a government school of Delhi delivered performances encouraging people to include physical activities and sports in everyday lives while 127 kids from Delhi Tamil Association Schools captivated the audience by performing folk dances of South India in traditional dresses. Donning pink dresses, girl students of Yamuna Vihar’s Government Girls Senior Secondary School performed dance on “Milkar badhein aao manzil ki aur, laaein fit India ka daur" song. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched "Fit India Movement" on the occasion of National Sports Day on August 29, 2019. Senior students of Delhi Tamil Association Schools in colourful traditional attire presented folk dances of Tamil Nadu, which also showcased the rich tradition of the state. Apart from this, 54 girl students of Mount Abu Public School and Vidya Bharti School from Rohini also performed a dance to highlight the government's Atma Nirbhar Bharat initiative. The Eastern Zone Cultural Centre, Kolkata, performed Bajasal, a folk dance of Odisha, which is usually performed during weddings. “Bajasal is one of the most beautiful folk dances of Kalahandi, Odisha. Here 'Baja' means the instrument, a drum played in the dance, and 'Sal' means the place where these instruments are played. Before the marriage function, many pre-marriage functions are held according to their traditional rites and rituals,” the commentators announced as 80 members of the group delivered a captivating performance. In the quick marches, a 100-member strong contingent of NCC girls’ contingent represented the girl cadets and scouts across India for consecutive 57th year. Samruddhi Harshal from Maharashtra led the group of cadets from all 17 directorates of NCC who have excelled in various adventurous activities. The NCC boys’ contingent was made up of 100 cadets who excelled in humanitarian aid and sports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/children-of-republic-young-messengers-steal-the-show/articleshow/80471061.cms||---
January 27, 2021||India||Pandemic job cuts hit women harder: Study||NEW DELHI: A new report highlights that women are likely to bear the brunt of job losses during the pandemic because much of their work is invisible, and they are likely to work in informal work arrangements. An Oxfam India report — “The Inequality Virus” in a section on livelihood draws upon reports and data to point that women who were employed before the lockdown are also 23.5 percentage points less likely to be re-employed compared to men in the post-lockdown phase. The report cites different data sets, reports and surveys to underline the increasing inequalities in the backdrop of the pandemic in a wide range of sectors and the growing gaps in sectors like education, health and livelihood among others. In a section on “Women bear the Brunt”, it is pointed that 17 million women lost their jobs in April 2020. Therefore, unemployment for women rose by 15% from a pre-lockdown level of 18%. This increase in unemployment of women can result in a loss to India’s GDP of about 8% or $218 billion. It is also pointed that the work-from-home culture has also blurred the lines between working hours and personal downtime. Women have been working longer hours and simultaneously managing the daily chores of the household, the educational needs of the children and care for all members of the family. The report said frontline health workers such as ASHAs (Accredited Social Health Activists) whose work can be seen as an extension of care work have experienced a phenomenal increase in their work. “But the remuneration is way too measly — a mere Rs 1,000 for the Covid-19 duties assigned to them. It is estimated that if India’s top 11 billionaires are taxed at just 1% on their wealth, the government can pay the average wage of the nine lakh ASHA workers in the country for 5 years,” said the report. Reflecting on the overall scenario, the report highlights that the economic fallout of the pandemic manifested in job losses and salary cuts for both informal and formal sectors. “The job loss for the low-income households with no other alternative earnings and no social security has been the most troubling and will find it extremely difficult to cope with and recover from the slowdown,” pointed out the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pandemic-job-cuts-hit-women-harder-study/articleshow/80471995.cms||Ambika Pandit
January 27, 2021||Coimbatore||371 health workers take jab in district||Coimbatore: At least 371 health workers took the vaccine against Covid-19 in the district on Tuesday, compared to 699 on Monday. The only other day that saw a lower turnout was Sunday when 177 people took the jab. “Sunday and Tuesday were public holidays and as such many health workers didn’t want to venture out. But on Tuesday 92.75% of the target beneficiaries had turned out,” officials said. While 318 of the 371 health workers took the vaccine from the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), 41 took it from Pollachi government hospital, nine from SLM Home PHC and three from the Mettupalayam government hospital. The day also saw the trend of more nurses coming forward to take the shot. As per data collected from the deputy director of public health, Dr G Ramesh Kumar, among the 371 beneficiaries were 120 nurses, 91 doctors and 75 medical students from CMCH. The remaining beneficiaries included support staff, other hospital or clinic employees, hospital administrative staff and field workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/371-health-workers-take-jab-in-district/articleshow/80471055.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 27, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Board exams for Classes X, XII may be easier this year||CHENNAI: After making 40% syllabus optional for Class X and Class XII state board students, the Tamil Nadu school education department is planning to simplify board exam question papers by making changes in the pattern. “We are consulting academicians about making changes to board exam question papers. The schedule for Class X and Class XII exams is also being discussed,” school education minister K A Sengottaiyan told reporters in Chennai on Tuesday. “Students, teachers and parents are expecting simplified question papers. We will take a decision considering that,” he said. The state government restarted offline classes in schools for Class X and XII students from January 19 after a gap of 10 months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The department had released the details of 60% prioritized syllabus for Class IX on Monday. When asked about the possibility of holding parents meeting before reopening for Classes IX and XI, the minister said, “Parents gave nod for reopening of schools for Classes IX and XI in the previous meetings. Around 98% of the parents are in favour of reopening of classes from IX to XII. We have reopened Classes X and XII in the first phase. We will consult with the chief minister before reopening classes for IX and XI.” On detecting a Covid-19 positive case at a school in Tiruppur district, Sengottaiyan said, “One student in Tiruppur tested positive. We have also tested four other students in the same classroom. But the test results have turned up negative. We have reopened more than 6,000 schools across the state after taking all precautionary measures.” The school education department is conducting basic learning assessment tests for Classes X and XII students in government schools. For students of Classes XI and XII, 2,100 video lessons in both English and Tamil have been uploaded on their laptops. For students of Classes I to X, more than 4,500 video lessons have been broadcast on Kalvi TV and private channels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/board-exams-for-classes-x-xii-may-be-easier-this-year/articleshow/80469828.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Circular row: Eflu students denied entry||HYDERABAD: Students of the English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU) were irked after authorities denied them entry into the campus for Republic Day celebrations despite issuing a circular inviting students, teaching and non-teaching staff for the same. Around 10 to 20 students, including foreign students, reached the university in the morning to participate in the 72nd Republic Day celebrations. Students cited a circular issued by the university on January 19 which stated that – “all the students, members of the teaching and non-teaching staff are informed to take part in the celebration without fail following social distancing and other protocols”. To their surprise, the students were denied entry by security guards. “So many of us came from across the city. It paints such a dismal picture of our university and our country among foreign students,” said K Srinath, a scholar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/circular-row-eflu-students-denied-entry/articleshow/80470356.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Coimbatore||Sugarcane not a sweet option for farmers||Coimbatore: The area under sugarcane cultivation hasn’t improved in the district since 2017, when it had shrunk by 50% in the aftermath of the 2016 drought. Farmers cite water and labour shortage, high labour cost, and lack of sugar mills in the district as reasons for the status quo. As per the data available with the agriculture department, sugarcane was cultivated on 792 hectares in the district in 2016. Following the drought that year, farmers had cultivated the crop only on 401 hectares in 2017. While the area under sugarcane cultivation saw ups and downs in the subsequent years, the same stood at 400 hectares last December. Pointing out that an annual rainfall of 1,500mm to 2,000mm was required for sugarcane cultivation, Dr Bakshi Ram, director of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR)-Sugarcane Breeding Institute, said the district had started receiving good rainfall only from 2019 after recording insufficient monsoon showers for a few years. He said, “A lot depends on farmers’ interest as well. As there are no sugar mills in the district, sugarcane cultivation is not promoted here. Famers can make profit only if the produce is sent to sugar mills.” Farmers, meanwhile, said they were left with no other option but to transport the produce to the sugar mills at Sathyamangalam or Amaravathi Co-operative Sugar Mills Limited in Tirupur by shelling out huge amounts. N Murugesan, a farmer from SS Kulam who is cultivating sugarcane on three acres, says it is a labour-intensive crop. “Of late, it has become difficult to find labourers. Most of them don’t want to work in sugarcane fields. And the willing few are demanding higher wages citing difficulties involved in removing the bushes grown in between the closely planted sugarcanes.” According to him, a woman worker demands Rs 350 per day and a man Rs 600. “We are forced to spend close to Rs 50,000 on manpower and manure alone per acre.” Pointing out that sugarcane required more water compared to other crops, Murugesan said he had been using drip irrigation to manage with the available water. “But rat menace has increased, damaging the crop. I was told that I could end the menace by supplying more water to the field. But I could not afford to do it because of the water shortage.” A Velusamy, another farmer from Annur, said the price of sugarcane hadn’t increased in the past few years, while the transportation cost and labour charges had shot up. “Hence, I have limited the sugarcane cultivation to just one hectare from three hectares in the past three years and started cultivating tapioca on the remaining land. Tapioca not only requires less water but also brings good price in the market.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sugarcane-not-a-sweet-option-for-farmers/articleshow/80471062.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Killer targeting women arrested in Telangana||HYDERABAD: An alleged serial killer, who targets women at toddy compounds, has been arrested by task force police.  The accused, M Ramulu, has been arrested for his alleged role in two murder cases registered at Mulugu PS of Siddipet commissionerate and Ghatkesar PS of Rachakonda commissionerate. Earlier, he was named accused in 21 cases, including 16 murder cases, and sentenced to life imprisonment in a murder case. However, he was acquitted in most cases except four. Of the four cases, he was given life term in two, while the other two are still pending in court. Ramulu, 45, a worker from Borabanda, was arrested by a task force team near his home for allegedly murdering K Venkatamma, 50, of Venkatagiri at Ankushapur in Ghatkesar on December 30, 2020 and a 35-year-old unidentified woman from Balanagar at Mulugu in Siddipet on December 10, 2020. Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said Ramulu targets women at toddy compounds. “After committing the murder of women, who come to toddy compounds, he steals their valuables,” Anjani Kumar said.  Police said Ramulu’s marriage was performed when he was 21 years old. Shortly after the marriage, his wife eloped with another person and since then he started committing the offences. Ramulu reportedly picked up Venkatamma from Yosufguda toddy compound by offering to buy her liquor. He took her to an isolated place in Ankushapur, Ghatkesar and killed her by bludgeoning with boulders. In a similar manner, he picked up the other victim at Balanagar toddy compound and took her to an isolated place in Japtha Singyapally village, Mulugu, Siddipet. After the victim was intoxicated, Ramulu strangled her using her sari and escaped with her silver ornaments, the commissioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/killer-targeting-women-arrested/articleshow/80470360.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana CM KCR inspects secretariat construction works||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday inspected the ongoing construction works of the new secretariat complex. The CM interacted with the officials of roads and buildings department and representatives of contract agency Shapoorji Pallonji. While insisting on quality work and timely completion of the complex, the CM also directed officials to expedite the construction of Telangana Martyrs Memorial at Lumbini Park. The state government has set a 12-month deadline to complete the project from the date of works starting on the ground. The contract was awarded in October 2020 to Shapoorji Pallonji, which had emerged as the lowest bidder. The construction of the complex is being done in a built-up area of six lakh square feet at an estimated cost of over Rs 600 crore. The old buildings in the secretariat complex located at Saifabad overlooking the Hussainsagar lake were demolished for the new integrated secretariat complex with modern facilities. The last time KCR visited the secretariat campus was on June 27, 2019, to lay the foundation stone. His visit on Tuesday assumes significance as various parties and groups have been demanding reconstruction of a couple of mosques and temples at the same site. The religious structures were demolished following damages caused to it during the demolition of the old but structurally-fit secretariat buildings, the government had told the high court and assured it that it will construct the places of worship soon. Accompanied by ministers Vemula Prashant Reddy, Talasani Srinivas Yadav, Koppula Eshwar and senior officials, the chief minister went around the site and discussed with the engineers the status of work and designs being followed among other issues related to the project. The CM visited the construction sites of the main entrance, other gates and main building complex and had a relook at the approved design of the building. Services of experts from IITs, structural engineers and architects have been hired to ensure that the new secretariat building is able to withstand mild earthquakes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-inspects-sectt-construction-works/articleshow/80470349.cms||Roushan Ali
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Vaccination drive to return after Republic Day break||NEW DELHI: As no vaccinations could take place on Tuesday due to the Republic Day celebrations, the drive will be carried out on Wednesday, which is not one of the days of the week slotted for it. All healthcare workers listed for the shots will be given the jab from 9am to 5pm. Like on previous days, walk-ins will also be allowed. A health department official said the vaccination will be carried out across 81 vaccination booths in government and private hospitals in 11 districts and the target is to inoculate 8,100 healthcare workers. “All those listed to get the vaccine have been contacted by call or SMSs to convince them and report on time for the jab. The workers who have already been vaccinated have also been asked to encourage their colleagues,” said an official. The districts will have the usual total targets. Districts with more vaccination centres have higher targets than those with fewer centres. All districts have been instructed to inoculate as many people as possible. The government has to inoculate 2.5 lakh healthcare workers in the first phase before other frontline workers start getting the shots. The total turnout is expected to be above 90% as apprehensions about vaccine safety are fading and confidence among healthcare workers for the made-in-India vaccines is growing fast. Delhi’s Covid vaccination turnout touched 91.5% on Monday with 7,408 out of 8,100 people turning up to get the jab, highest in a day since the drive began. An immunisation officer said that the drive will continue on Thursday as well. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vaccination-drive-to-return-after-republic-day-break/articleshow/80471097.cms||AlokKNMishra
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana governor praises state govt for Covid fight, welfare||HYDERABAD: The political slugfest between ruling TRS and opposition BJP notwithstanding, governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Tuesday heaped praise on the chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao-led TRS government in containing Covid-19 spread in the state. Though the governor usually reads out only the progress report prepared by the government on such occasions, giving a thumbs up to the TRS government assumes significance against the backdrop of her having expressed unhappiness over the low number of Covid-19 tests being conducted earlier. The state incurred Rs 52,000-crore revenue loss due to disruption of activities due to the pandemic, she said, but it continued its welfare and social security schemes. Delivering her Republic Day speech after unfurling the flag at Public Gardens here, the governor said due to the combined efforts of central and state government, the spread of virus was contained. By strict implementation of the lockdown, and by offering the best medical treatment, mortality rate in the state has been brought down to the lowest possible, she added. Giving details, she said over 76 lakh tests have been conducted with two lakh for every 10lakh population in Telangana, as against the national average of 1.39 lakh tests. She said: “We started 2021 with optimism with the launch of the vaccine for Covid-19. PM Narendra Modi’s visit to Bharat Biotech in Hyderabad gave impetus to the process,” she said. She said she was sure ‘yagna of progress and development’ would be taken forward by the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/guv-praises-govt-on-covid-fight-welfare/articleshow/80470365.cms||Roushan Ali
January 27, 2021||Coimbatore||Withdraw all 3 farm laws without any conditions: Stalin||Coimbatore: DMK president M K Stalin urged the central government to repeal the three new farm laws in the wake of violence during the farmers protest in Delhi and demanded chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to offer a public apology for supporting the laws.Talking to reporters at Coimbatore airport on Tuesday night, Stalin, who was here to attend the wedding ceremony of former AIADMK MP K C Palaniswami’s son, said that the BJP should withdraw all the three farm laws without laying any conditions to the protesting farmers. The Centre should then talk to the farmers and assuage them, he said."If Centre had introduced those laws, it was because of AIADMK’s support in Parliament that the laws were passed. If AIADMK did not support, the laws would have not been passed," he said. "EPS and AIADMK men are speaking everywhere in support of the laws in spite of the farmers’ protest. Their speeches are an insult to the protesting farmers,’’ he said demanding EPS to offer an unconditional apology for supporting the laws.Earlier addressing party workers at a marriage hall, Stalin condemned the violence in Delhi. "Police gave permission for the farmer’s tractor rally. But when they took out the rally, there was lathi-charge. Many were injured and tractors were damaged.’’ Noting that farmers were the backbone of the country, they were being harassed by the Centre despite more than 60 days of protest in severe cold where many farmers have died. "Talks were held, but they were eyewash," he said.Stalin recalled that DMK had opposed the three farm bills, but the AIADMK supported it. "So teach a lesson to AIADMK in the assembly election. In three months polls would be held. Use the elections to show AIADMK their place,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/withdraw-all-3-farm-laws-without-any-conditions-stalin/articleshow/80471096.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Fewer spectators at R-Day function in Hyderabad, celebrations streamed online||HYDERABAD: With fewer spectators and masked cadets, and servicemen, the 72nd Republic Day Parade was held at Public Gardens, Nampally on Tuesday. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan hoisted the national flag in presence of the chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. KCR paid floral tributes at the Army War Memorial at Parade Grounds in Secunderabad. “We took the pandemic as an opportunity to sustain production volumes and upgrade our production process,” said Sumit Deb, CMD, National Mineral Development Corporation. South Central Railways general manager Gajanan Mallya unfurled the national flag and received Guard of Honour by contingents of RPF. He said infrastructure projects by zone was going on at a fast pace resulting in commissioning of 44km of new railway line, 44 km of gauge conversion works. GMR Hyderabad International Airport’s chief executive officer Pradeep Panicker said they are working on increasing connectivity to more international destinations. Celebrations were even streamed online. Officials at universities spoke of initiatives that were taken up during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fewer-spectators-at-r-day-function-in-city-celebrations-streamed-online/articleshow/80470370.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||High court takes serious view of Telangana, Centre over filing counters||HYDERABAD: Coming down heavily on various departments of the state and the central governments for causing huge delays in filing counters and for failing to mend their ways even after repeated reminders, Telangana high court has warned that it will deal sternly with them and adjudicate such matters without any counters from the state and the Centre. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy made this observation while hearing pleas by All India Jamiatul Quresh Action Committee that challenged the newly-added Rule 125(E) to the rules of Motor Vehicles Act, 1989. These rules specify that sufficient measures should be taken while transporting animals to ensure that the lives of the animals are not crippled during transit. The petitioner contended that their association has small farmers as members and cannot follow all the norms pertaining to safe transit of animals. “The animal welfare department should frame such rules. But, these rules were framed by the transport department,” the petitioner said. The bench in March last year directed both the Centre and state to file their counters. When the matter came up for hearing on Monday, both state and the Centre sought time to file the counters. This irked the bench because the governments sought more time despite getting over 10 months to file their counters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-takes-serious-view-of-t-centre-over-filing-counters/articleshow/80470372.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Serial killer M Ramulu was previously arrested in 21 cases||HYDERABAD: M Ramulu was previously arrested in 21 cases, including 16 murder for gain cases, registered at Toopran, Raidurgam, Sangareddy, Dundigal, Narsapur, Narsingi, Kukatpally, Bowenpally, Chandanagar, Shamirpet, Patancheru, four property offences registered at Shamirpet, Medchal, Raidurgam, IDA Bollarum, SR Nagar and a prisoner escape case registered at SR Nagar. In February 2011, a local court in Rangareddy district sentenced Ramulu to life imprisonment in a murder case registered at the Narsingi police station in 2009. While undergoing life imprisonment at Cherlapally prison, Ramulu was admitted to the Government Hospital for Mental Care, Erragadda , and on December 30, 2011, he along with five others escaped from the hospital. “After escaping from hospital, Ramulu committed five more murders in Bowenpally, Chandanagar and Dundigal. He was subsequently arrested by Bowenpally police in May 2013 and later through an appeal to the high court, he was released from prison in October 2018,” the commissioner said. Subsequently, Ramulu committed two more murders at Shamirpet, Patancheru and in 2019 he was arrested and sent in judicial remand. On July 31, 2020, Ramulu was released from prison on bail and committed two more murders in December 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/serial-killer-m-ramulu-was-previously-arrested-in-21-cases/articleshow/80471086.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Coimbatore||Velliangiri Uzhavan bags FPO award||Coimbatore: The state government has conferred the Best Performing FPO award on Velliangiri Uzhavan, a farmer producer company (FPO) promoted by Isha Outreach. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami presented the Best Performing FPO award to Velliangiri Uzhavan under the "Governance'' category during the 72nd Republic Day celebrations in Chennai on Tuesday. The award was received by Kumar, chairman of the FPO and a farmer from Thondamuthur. According to a statement from Isha Foundation, the FPO makes a profit by selling coconuts, sugarcane and vegetables directly in the market. “In the last financial year, the FPO recorded an annual turnover of Rs11.13 crore.” Founded in 2013, under the guidance of Isha foundation founder Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev, the FPO functions with more than 1,000 farmers, 38% of them women, comprising largely small and marginal farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/velliangiri-uzhavan-bags-fpo-award/articleshow/80471098.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Frontline workers serving the Republic during pandemic: Delhi CM||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal unfurled the national flag at his residence to mark the 72nd Republic Day and underlined the contributions of the medical fraternity, soldiers, farmers, sanitation workers towards the country and addressed the public in a video message as well . “In the last year, we have witnessed glimpses of our great republic and its strong unity on different occasions. In the midst of the biggest epidemic that has hit humankind, we witnessed our doctors and nurses serving people by risking their own lives, witnessed sanitation workers ensuring cleanliness in the city, witnessed our brave soldiers protecting the country and serving the people of this great republic. We saw the dedication and struggle of our farmers,” Kejriwal stated. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal bowed to freedom fighters and martyrs, especially the corona warriors. He underlined the work of the corona warriors during the pandemic and urged everyone to continue wearing masks and follow social distancing until the country gets rid of the pandemic. Delhi government’s main Republic Day celebrations were held at Delhi Secretariat on Monday. The city government’s function is usually organised at Chhatrasal Stadium a day before the parade on Rajpath. This year, the venue of the function was shifted due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/frontline-workers-serving-the-republic-during-pandemic-cm/articleshow/80471133.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Architect dies as car brakes fail on ORR, wife injured||HYDERABAD: A 26-year-old architect died and his wife suffered injuries in a road accident on the Outer Ring Road (ORR) at Abdullapurmet on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as M Sharath Kumar, from RNS Colony in Boduppal. According to Abdullapurmet police, Sharath Kumar and his wife, M Jyothi went to attend a function at Kokapet on Monday night and the mishap occurred at Taramatipet on the Outer Ring Road (ORR) at 12.30am while they were returning home in their car. “The car brakes were suddenly jammed and the vehicle crashed into a truck from behind. The front portion of the car got stuck under the truck. Sharath Kumar suffered severe bleeding injuries on his head, chest and his wife Jyothi suffered minor injuries,” Abdullapurmet SI V Janakiram Reddy said. The injured couple were rushed to a corporate hospital in Santosh Nagar. While undergoing treatment, Sharath Kumar succumbed to injuries at around 4am. Police registered a case under Section 304-A and 337 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/architect-dies-as-car-brakes-fail-on-orr-wife-injured/articleshow/80470377.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Coimbatore||Four officials bag presidential awards for meritorious service||Coimbatore: Commanding officer of INS Agrani, Coimbatore, a deputy jailor from Coimbatore central prison and two officials from the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), Coimbatore, were conferred with various presidential awards.Commodore Ashok Rai was conferred with the distinguished award of Vashist Seva Medal (VSM) by the President on the occasion of 72nd Republic Day celebrations on Tuesday. The officer is an alumnus of the National Defence Academy, Khadakuasla. In his career spanning about three and a half decades, he has held various important command, staff and training appointments. He has been an instructor at the National Defence Academy, the Training Commander of the first Training Squadron and the Deputy Commandant and the Chief Instructor of the Naval War College, Goa. A holder of four post-graduate degrees, he is a PhD from the Jawahar Lal University, New Delhi. He is presently the Commanding Officer of the Indian Navy's premier training establishment INS Agrani in Coimbatore.M Sakthilvel, 57, deputy jailor from Coimbatore central prison, was conferred with President’s correctional service medal for meritorious service on Monday. The ministry of home affairs announced correctional service medals on prison personnel on Monday. As many as 52 people from the prison department were conferred with the president’s medal.Sakthivel, a native of Karur district, had completed MA (sociology) and he has been working in the prison department for the last 37 years. Two years ago, he received the Chief Minister’s medal for his meritorious service. His name was referred for the Presidential medal for this time by the state prison department.Two officers A Lakshmi Kanthan, assistant director and P Kannabiran, senior intelligence officer of DRI, Coimbatore were conferred with the presidential award for specially distinguished record of service on the eve of Republic day for detecting extensive tax evasion, anti-smuggling performances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/four-officials-bag-presidential-awards-for-meritorious-service/articleshow/80471112.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||No state tableau at R-Day parade this yr||Hyderabad: Telangana missed out again — fifth time since its formation — at the Republic Day parade in Delhi on Tuesday. Senior government officials said due to the prevailing pandemic and rising cases, the state did not send the tableau.  AP showcased its tableau in the form of Lepakshi temple’s monolithic rock architecture. An I&PR official said: “In view of Covid-19 situation and positive cases rising in Telangana, the decision to showcase the tableau was deferred.” In 2015, a year after it came into being, Telangana represented at the parade with Bonalu festival theme. The state displayed its tableau on Bathukamma theme with Sammakka-Sarakka goddesses in 2020. AP has had a tableau three times — 2015, 2020 and this year — since the bifurcation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-state-tableau-at-r-day-parade-this-yr/articleshow/80470375.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 27, 2021||Coimbatore||Three govt school students test +ve for Covid in Tirupur||Cleared/AnilCoimbatore: The government higher secondary school near Kangeyam in Tirupur district has been closed for fumigation after three of its Class XII students tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. The students are undergoing treatment in the Tirupur Government Medical College and Hospital.After the schools were reopened for classes X and XII last week, a medical team that was attached to the School Health-Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (SH-RBSK) initiative had visited the government higher secondary school at Muthur near Kangeyam on Saturday and taken throat swabs from more than 70 students. Test results showed three students - a girl and two boys - of Class XII positive for Covid-19.The three were taken to the hospital in an (108) ambulance on Monday evening. The students are in dark about how they were infected with the virus.The health department has lifted throat swabs from 10 students who were sitting next to the infected trio. Health officials said they would test all the students with flu symptoms for Covid-19.The government higher secondary school authorities have disinfected the school premises on Monday evening. The classrooms used by the Class X and XII students would now remain closed for a week. However, with the authorities making arrangements to conduct the classes in three other classrooms, regular classes would resume on Wednesday.The health department has, meanwhile, decided to conduct random Covid-19 testing at the government schools in Tirupur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/three-govt-school-students-test-ve-for-covid-in-tirupur/articleshow/80471145.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Virtual job interviews will continue’||HYDERABAD: Increased involvement of technology and virtual sessions will be part of the campus placements in the next few years, said training and placement officers of the top institutes in the country. “The placement session this year was remarkably different in mode and trend than the previous years. We are anticipating that virtual mode of interviews will continue in the future years as well,” said Abhishek Kumar, head, Centre for Career Development, IIT Guwahati. This year, IITs, NITs, and several top institutes in the country have conducted placements in virtual mode. Hundreds of companies conducted the entire hiring process online and gave offer letters to students. “ML and AI is a growing field, having great potential. The sector has also created a demand for talented and competent freshers to join as workforce,” said Kiran Kumar K, head, Center for Career Planning and Development (CCPD), NIT Warangal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/virtual-job-interviews-will-continue/articleshow/80470382.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 27, 2021||Chennai||Rs 45 lakh rehab centre at Omandurar on cards||CHENNAI: An injured sportsperson’s journey to recovery doesn’t end with surgery. An efficient rehabilitation programme is vital. On the government front, there is only one such rehab centre run by Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu (SDAT) physiotherapists at their Chepauk campus. The health department is now working on establishing a state-of-the-art centre on the Omandurar hospital campus. The Rs 45 lakh rehab centre will be manned by medical officers alongside physios and industry experts with both physiotherapy and conventional rehab equipment. Once this lab is functional, patients will be offered post-surgery rehab on the same campus, said Dr Ponraj. Footballer Mohan Raj, 20, who underwent arthroscopic surgery and returned to sporting last year, welcomed the move, saying, “If not for Omandurar, I could never imagine pursuing my dream once again. But rehab did take some time and travelling. It will be great if all of this can happen under one roof.” P Rajinikumar of Tamil Nadu Physical Education and Sports University said sportspersons from lower or middle economic backgrounds may be unaware of protocol post surgery. Since their recruitment chances (through sports quota) get reduced, they don’t come out in open for rehab sessions and end up with complications. The exclusive centre may allow more people to opt for rehab without any hesitation, he added. Besides Omandurar, the sports and youth welfare department is setting up a Rs 5 crore Integrated Sports Science Centre in Madurai to help prevent sports-related injuries and rehabilitate the injured. “This centre will help sportspeople at higher levels,” said a senior SDAT official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rs-45l-rehab-centre-at-omandurar-on-cards/articleshow/80470380.cms||Ram Sundaram
January 27, 2021||Coimbatore||Low price, delay in payment vex farmers||Coimbatore: With yet another harvest season around the corner, sugarcane farmers in the state are worried about low prices and delayed payment by sugar companies. While the Union government had hiked the fair and remunerative (minimum) price of sugarcane by Rs100 per tonne to Rs2,850 from Rs2,750 last August, farmers in the state say the hike doesn’t make much difference and they will get only Rs2,707.50 going by a sucrose content of 9.5%. K Ramu, a farmer from Sivaganga, says the new fair and remunerative price of R2,850 per tonne was applicable only to the produce with a sucrose content of 10%. “The sucrose content of the sugarcane that we grow is usually 9.5% or less. Sugar companies deduct Rs12.50 for every 0.1% drop in sucrose content.” Ramu has given up on sugarcane after 30 years of cultivation as it has become unviable. “While the current rate is higher by Rs95 from Rs2612.5 last year, it is still Rs300 less than our minimum requirements.” Pointing out that it is a labour-intensive crop, D Mohanakumar, a farmer from Dharmapuri, says, “We have to constantly remove the thick leaves and branches, which would otherwise reduce sucrose content. We need to employ at least 18 labourers for a week for harvesting alone by shelling out around Rs84,000. If we have a badly maintained farm, labourers will charge up to Rs750 a day.” According to farmers, they also spend around Rs3,000 on manure and pesticides per acre to ensure a yield of 40 to 50 tonnes from an acre. T Subramaniam, a farmer from Erode, says, “Harvest, which begins in January, becomes more expensive in February and March. Only the farmers who don’t depend on sugarcane solely for their income and those who hadn’t taken loans for cultivation could sustain with the current rate.” Another major issue that farmers face is transportation of the produce. “While sugar companies pay for the transport, we have to pay the drivers and assistants to bribe the cops on the way. Usually, the produce is weighed only at the sugar companies and we have to go by what they say,” says S Subramaniam, another farmer from Erode. Referring to the delay in payments, Mohanakumar, who supplies to Subramania Siva Co-op Mill, says it takes three to nine months for the sugar companies to settle the same. This has forced many farmers to supply the produce to sugarcane juice companies. Diriviyam, a farmer from Coimbatore, says, “These companies come to my farm and harvest the sugarcane, which they load onto vehicles and transport themselves. I don’t incur any expenses at all. They also weigh the produce in front of me and pay me Rs3,000 per tonne.” Sugar companies admit that Rs2707.5 is low for farmers. “But sugar price is also low. We are forced to pay for at least 9.5% sucrose content, when most of the sugarcane we get has lower sucrose content than that. So, we can’t afford to pay more than the fair and remunerative price,” says a representative of a Karur-based private sugar mill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/low-price-delay-in-payment-vex-farmers/articleshow/80471149.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Route cause: From Singhu Border, they veer off course to reach Red Fort||NEW DELHI: After weeks of excitement and anticipation, farmers at Singhu border started their parade on Tuesday morning earlier than expected. However, despite their promise to be disciplined and follow the assigned route, the protesters veered off course. This led to a domino effect resulting in damage at Red Fort, several injuries and a death. When the farmers broke through the barricade earlier than their allotted time of 8am, the omen could be seen clearly. As soon as the serpentine queue of tractors arrived near Mukarba Chowk on GT Karnal Road, they were showered with flowers by the locals, many of whom had set up tents and refreshment counters along the designated route. At 10.40am, after a long argument with police, the farmers insisted on not turning right from GT Karnal Road towards Bawana Road and began removing the barricades. Police then resorted to lathi charge and lobbed teargas shells. The Nihang Sikhs atop horses charged ahead, while the farmers began uprooting the stone slabs by tying them to their tractors. In the next 30 minutes, the farmers used tractors, cranes and bulldozers to clear the blockade while tolerating lathis and teargas smoke. The scuffle ended when police backed out after seeing the farmers taking a left from GT Karnal Road towards Kashmere Gate ISBT. The tractors blaring music moved with little or no resistance through Jahangirpuri and Model Town before arriving near Kashmere Gate ISBT. Harjeet Singh, a protester from Tarn Taran, said, “We are moving with discipline towards Red Fort as that is where we want to place the Nishan Saheb, our sacred flag. Once we do that, only then will the government understand our plight and how they have treated us for two months.” Ajit Singh from Ranchi was injured during the fracas at Mukarba Chowk. Fortunately for him, he was treated by doctors in ambulances sent by Sarbat Da Bhala Trust of Patiala. “We have ointments and medicines and even stretchers in case someone gets injured,” said one of the doctors. Paramjeet Singh of Jai Kisan Andolan claimed that the farmers’ unions were following the route assigned by Delhi Police and going from Singhu border via Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, DTU near Shahbad Dairy and Auchandi border before returning to their protest site. However, many farmers had already reached Kashmere Gate by the afternoon and refused to budge. “Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Samiti, which broke through the barricades, is not a part of our Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, which has 32 farmers’ unions. They met police separately on Monday and we don’t know what was discussed,” said Paramjeet. When TOI went through the designated route till Bawana T-point, it found the roads empty and locals waiting for the tractors. Vijay Kumar, a resident of Shahbad Dairy, had placed chairs in a large tent and was preparing food for the farmers. “We will serve them when they come here so that they feel refreshed,” he said. But the farmers never arrived. Nor did they reach Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar as they took a detour at Mukarba Chowk and went to Red Fort.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/route-cause-from-singhu-they-veer-off-course-to-reach-red-fort/articleshow/80471621.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Full ticket refund for missed trains’||NEW DELHI: In view of the violent clashes across several parts of the national capital during the farmers’ rally on Tuesday, Northern Railway (NR) said that passengers who could not reach stations may apply for full refund of trains departing from Delhi stations. In a statement, spokesperson (NR) Deepak Kumar said: “Passengers who were not able to reach stations are requested to apply for full refund.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/full-ticket-refund-for-missed-trains/articleshow/80471150.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Fire at air cooler unit in Hyderabad, no injuries||HYDERABAD: An air cooler manufacturing unit located in Rajendranagar caught fire in the early hours of Tuesday. No injuries and causalities were reported. Though there were no injuries, property was damaged and the reason for fire is short circuit, said police officials. “The security guards escaped unhurt, no injuries were reported, the air coolers other equipment was damaged but the estimate of property damaged is yet to be assessed,” said Sridhar Reddy, sub-inspector of Rajendranagar police station. The fire accident occurred in the early hours of Tuesday, after the structure (consisting of only a ground floor) caught fire, which led to a lot of smoke emanating. Residents in vicinity alerted the cops. “There are several houses around the structure that caught fire. People were afraid due to the amount of smoke emanating from the structures. Two fire tenders and 10 staffers were pressed into service and fire fighters were able to douze the fire in two hours,” added another policeman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fire-at-air-cooler-unit-no-injuries/articleshow/80470385.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Tractor rally: Railings uprooted, 40 buses, trucks damaged||NEW DELHI: A mob targeted around 40 buses, uprooted the railings on the central verge, broke road dividers and other public properties during the farmers’ rally on Tuesday. Sources said 35 buses of Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and five buses engaged under the Cluster Scheme were damaged by the violent protesters. “On Tuesday morning, 1,975 buses were scheduled to be deployed as demand was expected to be low due to the national holiday. Of these, 16 buses belonging to depots such as Sarojini Nagar, Wazirpur, Ghazipur, etc, got damaged. In view of this, only 900 buses were deployed in the evening,” a source said. The source added, “In most cases, the windshields of DTC buses were damaged, but they will be back on the road after repairs. Despite route diversions and plans to avoid border areas, a few buses got stuck in the protests, particularly at ITO.” Among the five Cluster Scheme buses, three were damaged at Uttam Nagar, one near Akshardham and one at GTB Nagar. “Mainly windshields of the buses got damaged,” said an official of Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIMTS). The mob damaged grilles and slabs on the central verge of roads to allow entry of tractors on barricaded stretches. A senior PWD official said, “Property damage was reported mostly on the stretch between ITO and Red Fort. Some of the road dividers were also damaged by the protesters.” The area officials concerned were alerted about the damage. “Since the protest was ongoing, the officials were yet to visit the spots. Once our engineers see the damage, we will be able to ascertain the cost to be incurred to repair them,” said the official. North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said, “The incidents took place as the farmers deviated from their designated routes. Those coming from Singhu border even damaged 3-4 trucks parked outside Bhalswa landfill site on their way to Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar. We are yet to get the report about damage done to municipal property at the transport nagar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/railings-uprooted-40-buses-trucks-damaged/articleshow/80471157.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Coimbatore||Number of domestic violence goes up in district||Coimbatore: The number of domestic violence cases reported in the district has been increasing steadily in the last few years. More than 60% of the complainants had sought the intervention of the court to resolve the issue. While 374 complaints were registered in 2020 in the district, 183 complaints were filed in 2017. Of the 374 complaints, 111 complaints were received during the lockdown period between March and September and the number is 30% higher than the number of complaints received in 2019, said an official from the social welfare department. More than 10 complaints were registered this month alone. Domestic violence complaints are registered directly with the social welfare department, women helpline number (181), in courts and through counsellors. The official said, “Financial and mental distress caused during the lockdown period is considered as the main reasons for increase in complaints this year. Of the complaints registered during the pandemic period, all the cases except one were resolved through counselling sessions.” Explaining that more than 60% of the cases registered before and after the lockdown were taken before courts to find a solution, the official said that 185 complaints filed in 2019 and 164 in 2018 were now dealt in courts. Activists and psychiatrists said combined action from multiple government bodies and society is required to reduce the instances of domestic violence cases. “Instances of physical assault and verbal abuse are equally high in recent times. While some men indulge in such activities under the influence of alcohol or drugs, some others take out their frustrations on their wives due to their economic condition or due to ego clashes. Even though families do not demand dowry directly from the bride, they continue to keep their expectations high and if it is not fulfilled, they take it out on the women,” Dr GP Godhanavalli, a family and student counselor, said. On an average, it takes about two years to pronounce judgment in a case, she said. Most of the time, the case itself gets diluted due to the delay, she added. In some incidents, women are hesitant to file a complaint and continue to undergo the abuse or assault, she said, pointing out that not all the cases are reported. City-based psychiatrist Dr NS Mony pointed out that a 21-member committee formed to reduce violence against women in the district is not functioning for the past four years. “It is the combined responsibility of the government and society to reduce violence against women,” he added. Explaining that men who are emotionally unstable or found to be suffering from depression, anxiety disorder and delusion disorder, also indulge in such activities, he insisted that mental health awareness needs to be created among the public. “Most of the time, problems caused due to mental health illness could be sorted out with therapy and counselling,” he added. Managing trustee of Aram Foundation and charitable trust Latha Sundaram said the attitude of the people should change and definitely a woman cannot be taken for granted to take out their frustrations. “Quick and stringent punishments could instill a sense of fear and it in turn would help to reduce violence against women,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/number-of-domestic-violence-goes-up-in-district/articleshow/80471151.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Army Captain from Hyderabad gets Sena medal for Galwan bravery||HYDERABAD: Captain Arjun Deshpande, an army captain hailing from Hyderabad, has been conferred with the Sena Medal in this year’s Republic Day list of gallantry medals for holding off China’s People's Liberation Army troopers at the Galwan Valley in Ladakh last year. Though the details of the grit that he displayed in the clash with the PLA jawans on June 15, 2020 are not officially announced yet, from what has been gathered through army sources, Captain Deshpande was in the forefront of taking on the PLA at Galwan Valley. When the Chinese armymen attacked Col B Santosh Babu, the commanding officer of his unit, the 16 Bihar Regiment, Deshpande reacted swiftly and engaged them in hand-to-hand combat. Capt Deshpande and three others of the regiment, who were taken hostage, were reportedly returned by the Chinese army after the Indian government’s intervention. In the announcement made by the defence ministry, Lt Gen TSA Narayanan, Commandant, Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering, Secunderabad, was awarded the Ati Vishisht Seva Medal. Lt Gen YVK Mohan, who retired on December 31, 2020, was awarded the Param Vishisht Seva Medal. Two others from Telangana serving in the Indian Army — Col Sanjeev was awarded the Vishisht Seva Medal and Major A Srinivas Reddy, Grenadiers of 55th Battalion, Rashtriya Rifles, got the Sena Medal for the second time. MCEME said Lt Gen Narayanan was awarded the AVSM for his ‘distinguished service of an exceptional order, displayed towards execution of his duties for the Indian Army.’ This year has been a landmark year for MCEME under his stewardship, having achieved national accolades and fame, notably of which are winning the prestigious Golden Peacock National Training Award, ICTE Uttkrisht Sansthan Vishwakarma Award as well as the General Officer Commanding in Chief (GoC-in-C) Army Training Command (ARTRAC) unit citation, MCEME said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/army-captain-from-hyd-gets-sena-medal-for-galwan-bravery/articleshow/80471623.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 27, 2021||Vijayawada||Fuel prices in Andhra top southern states||VIJAYAWADA: Fuel prices in Andhra Pradesh continue to be on the higher side when compared to its southern Indian counterparts. While the state tops among the southern states, it stands third in the country when it comes to fuel prices. The recent increase in prices by the oil marketing companies have made fuel prices further dearer in the state as it has been collecting additional Value Added Tax (VAT) and road development cess. The price of a litre of petrol reached Rs 92.18 as on Tuesday while the price of diesel stood at Rs 85.11. This is an increase of 6 per cent in petrol and 3.5 per cent in the price of diesel in the last six months. Though the state government has not increased any tax, fuel prices continue to rise with higher rate of tax on the base price when compared to other states. The state government is collecting 31 per cent on petrol and 22.5 per cent on diesel in the form of VAT. As the VAT is being collected in percentage terms, the prices increase accordingly with any increase in the base price. Apart from this, the state government is collecting Rs 4 per litre on both petrol and diesel as additional VAT which is a fixed component. Recently the state government also imposed a Rs 1 road development cess on both fuels. With all the taxes and cess, the state government is collecting Rs 33.5 on every litre of petrol and Rs 24 on every litre of diesel sold in the state. As the price difference on both types of fuels stands anywhere between Rs 3 to Rs 5 when compared to neighbouring states, fuel stations on the borders of Andhra Pradesh have set up large banners calling vehicles to fuel up at their stations before entering the state. Vehicles travelling long distances, especially trucks, have been avoiding transiting through the state to fill up their tanks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fuel-prices-in-andhra-top-southern-states/articleshow/80469881.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Quantum leap in new-age tech jobs at IIT placements||HYDERABAD: The pandemic may have slowed down the global economy, but it hasn’t slowed down emerging technologies and their demand. If anything, Covid-19 has pressed the fast-forward button for engineering students all set to graduate and looking for a job. Companies that reached the IITs and other top engineering colleges in the country for campus placements amid the pandemic increasingly asked for students who could tackle data science, machine learning, internet of things (IoT), artificial intelligence (AI), deep learning, blockchain and design thinking. “Emerging technologies are growing at a fast pace and so do human resources requirements in these fields. This year, placements for students with a profile in emerging technology have been better than last year” said Pradeep Kumar Yemula, faculty-in-charge, office of career services at IIT, Hyderabad (IIT H). With the phase 2 recruitment process still going on, the training and placement officers at top institutes said that the final job offer numbers are expected to grow further. Some institutes, in fact, have already crossed last year's figures when it comes to offers in emerging technologies. While 21 job offers in emerging technologies were made to students of IIT Guwahati during the year 2019-20, this year students have already received 23 offers—18 in data sciences, three in ML, and two in AI. The average salary in emerging tech has increased from Rs 22.29 lakh last year to Rs 24.18 lakh this year. “In 2020-21, more than any previous year, physical location played less of a role as connectivity increased significantly. Emerging technologies showed growth and we expect this trend to continue in future,” said Abhishek Kumar, head, centre for career development, IIT Guwahati. C S Shankar Ram, advisor (training & placement), IIT Madras, said, “Phase 1 placement at IIT Madras went on well with good participation from companies in the AI/ML/Data Science sector. We expect this trend of active participation from companies in this sector to continue in the next few years,” With placements going digital, institutes like Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani- Hyderabad campus, even hired expert trainers from the industry to help students to gear up for digital mode interviews and interactions. The institute said that due to Covid-19, they saw a demand in cloud computing space, network security & bandwidth. Consulting was the new favourite among engineering students, said Prabhudatta Mohanty from the placement unit of the institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/quantum-leap-in-new-age-tech-jobs-at-iit-placements/articleshow/80471624.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||28-year-old bank worker kills self||Hyderabad: A 28-year-old bank attender committed suicide due to financial problems. The deceased was identified as M Sai Kumar from NGO’s Colony in Vanasthalipuram. Sai Kumar’s mother, Laxmamma, found him hanging with a sari in the empty room next to their house on Monday evening. Family members rushed Sai Kumar to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead. A suspicious death case was registered under Section 174 of CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/28-year-old-bank-worker-kills-self/articleshow/80470452.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Task force sleuths arrest burglar in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Task force sleuths nabbed a burglar, Abdul Waheed Khan, 60, of Phool Bagh in Jahanuma area and recovered cigarettes and a scooter from his possession. Waheed committed a burglary at Narayanaguda and a scooter theft at Chaderghat this month. According to police, Waheed is a habitual offender and he was last arrested by Nampally police early in 2020. After coming out of prison, Waheed stole a scooter in November 2020 and changed its registration number to avoid detection by police. Four days ago, Waheed broke into a pan shop near King Koti Hospital and stole cigarettes along with cash. When Waheed came to Barkhatpura on Tuesday to dispose the stolen property, task force police arrested him and seized the stolen items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/task-force-sleuths-arrest-burglar/articleshow/80470500.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Delhi link in 3 of 7 bullet train routes||NEW DELHI: The bullet train corridor from Delhi to Varanasi via Agra and Ayodhya will start from Sarai Kale Khan-Nizamuddin railway station, while the other two corridors to Amritsar and Ahmedabad from Sector-21, Dwarka Metro station and Bijwasan areas. These are three of the seven new routes that the government has planned for which detailed studies are being conducted. Sources said the railway ministry would go for public-private partnership (PPP) to implement some of these new corridors. Currently, work has started only on the Ahmedabad-Mumbai High Speed Rail (HSR) or bullet train project with 100% government funding. National High Speed Rail Corporation Ltd (NHSRCL) is implementing the project and has also been tasked to prepare a detailed project reports (DPRs) of the new seven lines. An NHSRCL official said, the option of the HSR station in close proximity of Sarai Kale Khan and Nizamuddin railway station for the Delhi-Varanasi corridor was being explored as this would provide good road connectivity to users through Outer Ring Road, Metro Rail connectivity through Pink Line, interstate bus connectivity through ISBT and regional rail connectivity through RRTS. The official said the locations were being explored for Delhi-Ahmedabad and Delhi-Amritsar HSR corridors in close proximity of Sector-21, Dwarka Metro station and Bijwasan Railway station since this would provide connectivity to IGI Airport and central Delhi through Airport Express Metro line and west, central and east Delhi along with Noida through Metro Blue Line. This would also be close to the upcoming International Convention Centre at Sector-25 and Gurgaon, the official said. “Indian Railways is moving towards 360 degree development for freight transport and providing best in class passenger amenities with safe and reliable travel. The introduction of HSR is a work in progress . We are working towards achieving this goal by implementing Mumbai-Ahmedabad HSR corridor and exploring options for other high speed rail corridors,” said NHSRCL spokesperson Sushma Gaur. A railway ministry official said the national transporter was getting “future ready” with HSR, dedicated freight corridors, modern stations, better passenger conveniences and amenities. “There is strict monitoring at the highest levels and the high speed rails and networks will soon be reality,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-link-in-3-of-7-bullet-train-routes/articleshow/80488755.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 27, 2021||Delhi||SC stays summons to Manoj Tiwari||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the summons issued to Manoj Tiwari on a criminal defamation complaint filed by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and issued notice to the AAP member on the BJP MP’s petition seeking dismissal of the complaint. Senior advocate R Venkataramani, appearing for Tiwari, argued that the process adopted by Sisodia in instituting the complaint was untenable in law, as such a criminal complaint for alleged defamatory remarks against the President, vice-president or minister at the Centre or in states should be filed by the public prosecutor after following a set procedure. Delhi High Court had earlier dismissed Tiwari’s petition challenging the summoning order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sc-stays-summons-to-tiwari/articleshow/80488767.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Thieves steal Rs 5,000 from temple||Hyderabad: Unknown offenders entered a temple at Kushaiguda and stole Rs 5,000 on Monday night. According to cops, the offenders entered Hanuman temple at Shiva Sai Nagar in Kushaiguda and stole from the cash chest. A case was registered under sections 457 & 380 of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/temple-thieves-steal-rs-5000/articleshow/80470512.cms||---
January 27, 2021||India||Airlifted 6m shots to 9 nations, will supply to WHO’s Covax facility, India tells UNSC||UNITED NATIONS: India has informed the UN Security Council that it will gradually supply vaccines to the Covax facility of the World Health Organisation and undertake contractual supplies to various countries in a phased manner, as more than six million doses have been airlifted to nine countries under New Delhi’s “vaccine diplomacy.” “As the largest vaccine-producing country of the world, we are fulfilling our commitment to make our vaccine production and delivery capacity available for the benefit of the entire humanity,” India’s deputy permanent representative to the UN ambassador K Nagaraj Naidu said on Monday. Speaking at the UNSC briefing on ‘Maintenance of international peace and security : Follow-up on the implementation of resolution 2532’, Naidu said two vaccines have already been granted approval for emergency use in India and the country plans to vaccinate about 300 million citizens in the first six months. Covax is the global initiative to ensure rapid and equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines for all countries, regardless of income level. Sri Lanka thanks India for sending vaccineSri Lanka on Tuesday expressed appreciation and gratitude to India for sending 500,000 doses of coronavirus vaccine to the island country. Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa told the cabinet that the Indian high commissioner in Colombo informed that India would be sending 500,000 vaccines to Sri Lanka and they will arrive here on January 28. “The cabinet of ministers decided to express the appreciation and gratitude of the Sri Lankan government in this regard," a Cabinet note said. Sri Lanka will become the eighth country to which India is gifting Covid-19 vaccines since it began its country-wide mega immunisation programme on January 16. Vax nationalism dangerous for world: SA presidentWarning against dangers of ‘vaccine nationalism’, South African President Cyril Ramaphosa on Tuesday said everyone can’t be safe if some countries vaccinate their people and others are not able to do so. Speaking at the World Economic Forum’s online Davos Agenda Summit, he said, “The challenges we face were not created by the virus, they were created by us”. The South African President said poverty, destruction of environment and conflict are “all the results of our own action, and — too often —our inaction”. He called for forging a new path, saying the task is not to return the world to where it was when the pandemic struck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/airlifted-6m-shots-to-9-nations-will-supply-to-whos-covax-facility-india-tells-unsc/articleshow/80472002.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Madurai||Patrol vehicles get facelift||Madurai: A total of 42 patrolling vehicles of Madurai city police have got a facelift with increased visibility. City police commissioner Prem Anand Sinha inspected the vehicles, 15 four-wheelers and 27 two-wheelers, and formally launched them on Tuesday. While the four-wheelers were fitted with new blinking lights and pasted with newly-designed police stickers, the two-wheelers got blinking lights. Police officials said the new design can help patrol vehicles stand out making it easier for identification. “The main intention is to improve visibility. Light and dark blue and white shades are used on the vehicles to make them look different from other police vehicles. Like how pink patrol vehicles were exclusively used to identify patrols for women and children, this will give identity for Madurai City Police patrol. The blinking lights are also new and improved. Their size has been adjusted and they have better lighting at night,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/patrol-vehicles-get-facelift/articleshow/80471168.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 27, 2021||Vijayawada||Will take up poll duties, say associations of Andhra govt employees||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh government employees’ unions have said they will participate in panchayat elections duties and requested the government to provide them with safety gear. Leaders of various employees’ unions met chief secretary Dr Adityanath Das here on Tuesday and expressed their concerns. The chief secretary explained that the government has to conduct elections as per the orders of the Supreme Court and sought the support of employees in the successful conduct of elections. Andhra Pradesh Non-Gazetted Officers association president Chandrasekhar Reddy speaking to TOI after meeting the CS said, “We have requested the State Election Commission (SEC) to postpone the elections considering our safety. But SEC issued a poll schedule and courts also directed the government to conduct elections. We have met CS and requested him to provide safety gear for us. We demanded the government to announce a compensation of Rs 50 lakh if any employee dies of Covid-19 performing election duties.” Bopparaju Venkateswarulu, chairman of AP Joint Action Committee, said “We are requesting the government to conduct elections only after vaccination. Employees who took vaccination will participate in election duties and we requested the CS to bring this issue to the notice of SEC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/will-take-up-poll-duties-say-assns-of-govt-employees/articleshow/80469925.cms||Venu Lanka
January 27, 2021||Madurai||69 fresh coronavirus cases in south TN, 52 in central districts||Madurai/Trichy:The 10 southern districts of the state reported 69 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the tally to 1,35,773, which include 566 active cases. Meanwhile, the central region reported 52 fresh cases taking the tally to 75,675, which include 404 active cases. The region recorded one death in Trichy, while southern TN recorded no casualties. Kanyakumari recorded 17 fresh cases, the highest in the region, followed by Dindigul (12) and Madurai (10). The seven other districts recorded less than 10 fresh cases each. Virudhunagar, Tuticorin and Ramanathapuram districts recorded two fresh cases each. It is followed by Sivagangai (3), Tenkasi (5), Theni (7) and Tirunelveli (9). Madurai has 115 active cases, the highest in the region. Kanyakumari has recorded more than 100 active cases after a gap of five days. Dindigul (71) and Tirunelveli (60) are the other districts in the region with more than 50 active cases. Ramanathapuram (18), Sivagangai (30), Virudhunagar (31), Tuticorin (43), Theni (48) and Tenkasi (48) are the districts with less than 50 active cases. In the central region, Trichy and Nagappattinam shared the top spot with 14 fresh cases each. While Trichy took its tally to 14,613, Nagappattinam pushed its tally to 8,414. Tiruvarur came second with 10 fresh cases taking its tally to 11,164. Thanjavur recorded nine and Pudukottai three fresh cases. Ariyalur and Karur shared the fourth spot as it recorded one case each, while Perambalur registered zero fresh cases. With one death, the regional toll has climbed to 941. A 50-year-old woman from Trichy died due to Covid-19 pneumonia at a private medical college in Trichy on January 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/69-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-south-tn-52-in-central-districts/articleshow/80471170.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: SEC transfers PR officials for ‘negligence’ in election duties||VIJAYAWADA: The State Election Commission (SEC) on Tuesday issued proceedings transferring principal secretary, panchayat raj, Gopal Krishna Dwivedi, and commissioner Girija Shankar. The SEC said both officials acted negligently in election duties such as preparing the final electoral rolls. The SEC in its proceedings cited that the chief electoral officer, AP, had published electoral rolls for the year on January 15, and it is the part of the panchayat raj department to segregate the lists and prepare mandal and village-wise electoral rolls. But the officials failed to do so, the SEC said. It had decided to conduct elections based on 2019 electoral rolls which are used for 2019 general elections. This is one of the reasons mentioned by the SEC in its proceedings. “A large number of young voters have lost their right to vote as a result of the deliberate act of officials. This is a clear violation of rules,” the SEC said in its proceedings. The SEC also stated that the principal secretary and the commissioner of the panchayat raj department failed to provide the necessary funds to the commission for conducting elections, though they have promised in the AP High Court. The SEC also said that the panchayat raj department failed to provide the necessary manpower to the commission despite repeated consultations made by the SEC. The officials are transferred with immediate effect and the issue should be mentioned in the service record, the SEC said. Meanwhile, state election commissioner N Ramesh Kumar scheduled a video conference with the chief secretary, collectors and SPs on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sec-transfers-pr-officials-for-negligence-in-election-duties/articleshow/80469930.cms||Venu Lanka
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Sewage overflow fixed in Bazarghat after a week||Hyderabad: Flustered over the issue of overflowing sewage, residents of Bazarghat, Nampally finally heaved a sigh of relief after the matter was highlighted by TOI reader, Syed Shamsuddin Maghrabi, on the citizen reporter app. Soon after it was published in these columns on January 18, Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) officials swung into action and fixed the issue. The citizen reporter complained that overflowing sewage had been haunting locals more than a week before that. As a result, the area started reporting minor accidents, traffic snarls, road damage along with witnessing a rise in mosquito menace and stench. “Though owners of commercial establishments complained to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) but the issue was not resolved. Finally the stretch is now free of stench, mosquitoes and overflowing sewage. I thank TOI and officials for addressing our grievance,” said Syed Shamsuddin. According to locals, the problem was affecting hundreds of locals. Apart from homes and commercial buildings the stretch is also home to a government college. “The stretch witnesses heavy footfall throughout the day. Because of this sewage issue, hundreds of commuters were forced to wade through the pool of sewage. Now, they have been finally relieved of it,” said the owner of a commercial establishment. “Some commercial establishments used to drain water on to the roads after cleaning their premises as the stretch used be filled with stagnant water. Even that has stopped after officials fixed the issue,” he added. Loclas also said that due to sewage overflow on the roads, some autos and cabs used to park their vehicles in residential localities adjacent to the lane. “The bylanes had turned into a parking spaces resulting in space crunch,” said Sohaib Ahmed a resident of Bazarghat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sewage-overflow-fixed-in-bazarghat-after-a-week/articleshow/80470528.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 27, 2021||Amaravati||CS directs collectors, SPs to attend meet with SEC||AMARAVATI: Chief secretary Dr Adityanath Das has directed all district collectors and SPs to attend the video-conference to be chaired by the SEC on Wednesday. Dr Das and DGP Gautam Sawang are likely to attend the session from the SEC office. Senior officials including principal secretaries of panchayat raj, health and home departments were asked to participate in the discussions with the SEC. The directive from the chief secretary is significant because all senior officials including the district collectors and SP had skipped the conference with the SEC last week. In fact, district collectors, who are also district election authorities, have not issued notification for the first phase. “The district administrations have vitiated the election process prompting the reschedule of the first phase of elections,” said the SEC on Monday. The government made a retreat and decided to cooperate with the SEC in the conduct of polls to the local bodies following SC verdict. It is not clear yet if the chief secretary has sent the panel of officers for the replacements for district collectors of Guntur and Chittoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/cs-directs-collectors-sps-to-attend-meet-with-sec/articleshow/80469933.cms||Samdani MN
January 27, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Temperature to increase gradually in coming days, rain likely in February||CHENNAI: The easterly winds that extended the northeast monsoon to the first half of the month, are now making the days hotter and the nights warmer in the city. This January has been hotter than usual, with the lowest night temperature (20.6°C on January 18) being the highest recorded for the month in 10 years. While IMD officials said the city is likely to experience a gradual increase in temperatures in the coming days, bloggers said Chennai and some other parts of the state are likely to experience very rare February rainfall. “Winter is over. For us, peak winter is between December 25 and January 25. From now on, temperatures will only shoot up,” said N Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, Regional Meteorological Centre, IMD Chennai. For the next 48 hours, the city is likely to have partly cloudy skies with shallow fog or mist in the mornings in some areas. Maximum and minimum temperatures will be around 32°C and 22°C, which are slightly higher than normal for the month. Puviarasan said the temperature rise is partly due to the persistent easterlies or sea breeze moving into the coastal regions of Tamil Nadu. “Only if there is a high-pressure cell bringing persistent northwesterly winds, minimum temperatures will drop,” he said. “Now, coastal regions are seeing northeasterly winds, which penetrates about 20km to 30km into the land while interior regions are recording northwesterly winds moving from the cold regions from the north, causing a drop in temperatures there,” he added. While inland or northwesterly winds during winter months could cause a drop in temperatures in the state, the same winds during summer get the mercury levels soaring. Sea breeze or easterlies, which keep the temperatures up now, bring them down during summer With Chennai subdivision recording 194.4mm rain so far this month, weather blogger Pradeep John, in a recent post, said there is likely to be record rainfall in February, which normally records only 3.4mm. Chennai and some parts of the state may receive spells, he said. “1984 was the only time in 200 years when the city saw floods in February. The city recorded heavy rainfall in February 2000,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/temp-to-increase-gradually-in-coming-days-rain-likely-in-feb/articleshow/80470525.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Chennai||Four men rob beauty parlour employees of gold, cash at knifepoint at Anna Nagar||CHENNAI: Four men entered a beauty parlour in Anna Nagar on Monday evening, locked up the five women staff and the manager before escaping with seven cell phones, two gold chains and Rs 33,000 in cash, police said. A case was registered and police are scanning CCTV camera footage for clues about the gang. An officer said a complaint from Jai Suresh, who runs Blue Waves Beauty Parlour on 15th Link Road, mentioned that the staff were attending to two women customers and the manager was at the counter when, around 6pm, the gang members, all wearing masks, entered. The manager initially thought they were customers, but they downed the shutters and locked the door. The men then removed their masks and brandishing knives asked all the women, including the customers, to gather in a corner and remove their gold chains. One of them held the manager at knifepoint until the women had removed their gold jewellery and placed their cell phones on the table. After packing the jewellery in a pouch, the men pushed the five women staff and the two customers into a room and locked them up. They then turned on the manager who refused to part with the cash from the counter, but one of the gang members attacked him and managed to take the key from him. The gang then emptied the counter. The men locked the shop from outside and left the scene. The manager using the landline number of the parlour alerted Jai Suresh who immediately came to the parlour and called police. A team of the TP Chatiram police soon arrived and began investigations. Police are now surfing through footage from the CCTV cameras in the parlour as well as outside it. They noted down the identity given by the customers and the staff and suspect it to be handiwork of previous offenders. They were dressed in trousers and t-shirts and are believed to have come on two bikes though there was no bike parked outside the parlour at the time. Police suspect that the gang members parked the bikes at a comfortable distance from the parlour before walking there. Police say the gang members may have come on stolen bikes to avoid getting caught as they knew that there were CCTV cameras at almost every place in Anna Nagar. “We have obtained footage from a few cameras where the identity of the accused is clear. They will be caught soon,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/four-men-rob-beauty-parlour-employees-of-gold-cash-at-knifepoint-at-anna-nagar/articleshow/80470524.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Visakhapatnam||APSIFT training local youth for careers at sea||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Andhra Pradesh State Institute of Fisheries Technology (APSIFT) at Kakinada is fast becoming a hub for youth seeking a variety of jobs at sea such as tour boat drivers, marine policemen, coast guards among others. The institute trains at least 50 candidates every year on operations of fishing boats with the government providing free accommodation to training candidates. The training encompasses imparting skills and knowledge on boat driving, engine functioning, emergency operations during extreme weather conditions. Speaking to TOI, APSIFT principal K Koteswara Rao said that their one-year course is exclusively meant for operation of fishing boats in the high seas but candidates who opt for this training also get fast-tracked for marine police, tourism jobs. “Many candidates are settle successfully by getting jobs in tourism and marine police apart from becoming boat drivers of fishing vessels. Most of our candidates come from the fishermen communities,” Koteswara Rao said. As per institute sources, nearly 100 candidates have seured jobs in marine police and tourism sector as drivers and helpers. A marine police official said that boat drivers trained at the institute have better technical knowledge than other drivers. Most candidates opting for the course come from Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Yanam from Puducherry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/apsift-training-local-youth-for-careers-at-sea/articleshow/80469941.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 27, 2021||Chennai||Chennai police seal unlicensed orphanage following distress call from girl||CHENNAI: The juvenile aid police unit (JAPU) of the city police and the CWC workers have sealed an unlicensed juvenile orphanage home ‘SEERS’ (Socio-Economic Education Rehabilitation Society) at Sathyamurthy Nagar in Vyasarpadi on Monday and all the 18 juveniles living there were shifted to other homes. Director of the juvenile home Kalyanasundaram, who had been running the unit since 2000, managed to escape. About 23 juveniles stayed in the home, and during the coronavirus pandemic, five of them returned to their parents’ home, while the others continued to stay. Police sources said that two girls were studying in a college, two others in Class XII and the rest in Classes X, IX, VII and V. One of the girls staying in the home called ‘1098’ child helpline and informed that the director, his brother, son and a few more in his family had been sexually abusing the girls staying there, especially during the pandemic. Based on the tip, a police team from the JAPU-II unit led by the deputy commissioner of police of crime against women and children H Jayalakshmi conducted inquiries in front of the child helpline volunteers. During questioning, many girls narrated their harrowing experience. Following this, the police team went to question Kalyanasundaram but he managed to escape from his residence. Police said his brother who would take the juveniles from the home to other places in an autorickshaw sexually abused a few girls while transporting them from one place to another. A police officer said, “We have recorded the statements from each one of the girls staying there. We will question all, including Kalyanasundaram’s brother, son and a few others.” The girls will be produced before Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) officials and later shifted permanently to government-run orphanages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/police-seal-unlicensed-orphanage-following-distress-call-from-girl/articleshow/80470532.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Trichy||Social worker from Trichy gets Padma Shri for building eco-friendly toilets||TRICHY: The announcement of Padma Shri to 71-year-old M Subburaman from Trichy city has put NGOs and social workers here in an upbeat mood. The award was in recognition of his efforts of over 20 years in building more than 1.2 lakh toilets across India. Subburaman pioneered and propagated the concept of ecological sanitation (EcoSan) toilets, a crucial reason for the prestigious recognition. Although Subburaman started his NGO Society for Community Organisation and People’s Education (Scope) in 1986, he realised the importance of sanitation and hygiene only in 1996. Since then, the NGO restricted its key focus area to sanitation and constructed over 1.2 lakh toilets in more than seven districts of Tamil Nadu and over eight states including Gujarat and Rajasthan. EcoSan toilets were introduced in water abundant Musiri, Trichy, in 2006 by Subburaman as conventional toilets involving septic tanks may pollute ground water. EcoSan toilets are waterless toilets that have two chambers. Each chamber will have three different pans, one to urinate, one to defecate and the other to wash body parts. Instead of flushing with water, after defecating in EcoSan toilet ash or sawdust has to be sprayed over the faecal waste to eliminate the water content. The opening through which faecal matter falls to the pit below the pans will be closed. Then the faecal waste will be let to dry and decompose to become manure. Once the pit beneath the pan is filled, the other chamber will be used. The filled pit will be removed after months to be used as manure. “A unique feature of EcoSan is that the toilet can serve both water surplus and water-deficient localities. I personally experimented the toilet before advocating in rural localities,” Subburaman told TOI. Through his efforts, sanitation parks displaying various types of toilets have come up in Trichy and Chennai suburbs. During the recent Covid-19 lockdown, Subburaman along with local metal fabricators designed pedal-operated handwash basins and placed in government offices. He has also converted several abandoned borewells as rainwater harvesting pits in the district. His house in Ramalinga Nagar has the capacity to store 10,000 litre of rainwater for reuse. “Constant innovation drives me to stay active. We need to focus more on access to water, sanitation and hygiene to develop a healthy society,” Subburaman added. Being a vocal supporter in establishing more urinals and public toilets under the smart cities mission programme, Subburaman said that he will continue to focus on building environment-friendly toilets for developing a healthy generation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/social-worker-gets-padma-shri-for-building-eco-friendly-toilets/articleshow/80471187.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 27, 2021||Chennai||2 owners, 3 staff of jewellery shop held for cheating||CHENNAI: The sleuths of Economics Offence Wing (EOW) on Monday arrested five people including two owners of Ruby Royal Jewellery at Mambalam in connection with alleged cheating of customers who had pledged their gold ornaments with the shop in 2019. Around 3,000 people who pledged their gold found that the owners and employees of Ruby Royal Jewellery had disappeared with nearly 500kg gold pledged by them. Police said that owners Syed Rahman and his brother Ansoor Rahman had repledged the entire gold with a big gold loan finance firm and escaped with the money. Though the case was initially probed by the city police, it was later handed over to EOW. The sleuths nabbed one of the staff in 2019 and arrested the owners on Monday along with three women staff – Rihana, Sajitha and Shihana. Police said that the accused kept travelling to different states and had been living a lavish life. EOW sources said that whatever money was left would be soon returned to the customers. Police said the brothers gained the confidence of customers by returning the pledged jewellery initially and added Ibrahim who posed as a pious man would say he was doing this as charity. He would lend money which would be one third the value of the gold pledged for three months, six months or one year. “Many people believed him, pledged their jewellery and later returned the cash they had borrowed from him.” said an EOW official. Days before escaping he just gave them a receipt for the money returned and said he would call them once he brought back their jewellery stored somewhere safe. Soon after he closed the shops, around 3,000 customers besieged the police commissioner office demanding action in 2019. The arrested five people have been remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/2-owners-3-staff-of-jewellery-shop-held-for-cheating/articleshow/80470534.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Is our economy ready for ‘Anything From Home’?||There is no surprise anymore in claiming that there’s no need to leave home often. In a co-Covid world, I wake up to groceries and a newspaper at my doorstep before I reach the office through a laptop. After a meeting on Zoom, I browse for headphones on Amazon and perhaps a shirt on Instagram. People in the house range from virtually attending school to attending a satsang. Later, my barber prepares my living room for my monthly trim and cleans up after it, following which, my family and I join my friends via tele-party for a movie night. For a certain class, the co-Covid world order means XFH- Anything from Home. Private sector services, unlike the public sector, have quickly advertised themselves as providing customers with XFH. But this system has its problems. Like most things in the present economy, XFH works for one section of society at the expense of another. For some, XFH means receiving all services at home; for others, it means delivering these services to other people’s homes. The latter are the millions ensuring that our food reaches the market, the service sector workers called for massages and pedicures, the safai karamcharis, construction workers, policemen and countless others whose work cannot exist in the home. XFH is the privilege of a small class while providing it is the bread-and-butter of other classes. The old divide between manual and intellectual labour in our economy places physical exertion as ‘unskilled’ labour while ‘skille’ professions are considered prestigious. Consequently, the market rates for a day’s manual labour and a day’s intellectual labour are unequal. While this is considered universal and taken for granted, questioning this distinction reveals its ridiculousness. There is no real basis to assume that anyone can perform manual labour and only intellectual labour requires skilling. XFH culture worsens this divide as those who can avail XFH do so, while those who cannot must endanger their livelihoods and lives. Without demonising XFH, we must ensure that functions that can be conducted without contact, are facilitated. However, unequal distribution of resources means unequal distribution of the privilege of XFH. Thus, instead of XFH, its hazardous unequal distribution is the problem. Manual labour is not the only category getting the short end of the XFH stick. Many working men have welcomed WFH; it has benefitted fathers who may spend more time around their kids. People with motor or sensory disabilities reported an increased ease with no commuting and being able to control their work environment. However, women reported preferring the office over XFH as blurring the line between home and work proved disadvantageous. It is known that women with greater access to public spaces are safer and have more financial independence. Stepping out of the house signifies distance (to some degree, for a while) from maintenance and caregiving roles. XFH confines the woman to the house. Women reported declines in their personal job satisfaction owing to constant disturbance during work hours due to household activities. Data from 16 Indian metros showed an 8.2% increase in number of working hours per day and an increase in number of meetings. On a graver note, instances of domestic abuse rose with survivors being forced to live with their abusers 24x7. These factors mean unfavourable situations for working women. Female workforce participation that was declining before the lockdown, now stares at a bleak future. In May 2020, 90% of IT sector employees were working from home. Till 2025, 75% of TCS employees are to be permanently working from home -- XFH is here to stay. While the house, for some classes, has become the new universe for things we’d imagined as ‘public’, for other classes, XFH has worsened existing inequalities. XFH poses the newest conundrum in India’s co-Covid story — How does an unprepared society respond to necessary changes? What to do when one person’s necessity is another’s wreckage? Only time will tell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/is-our-economy-ready-for-anything-from-home/articleshow/80470544.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Khalistan flags at Red Fort? Probe launched||NEW DELHI: Intelligence agencies and Delhi Police has started a probe into the flag-related incidents reported from the Red Fort on Tuesday. Special Cell received inputs that while a group of Sikh protesters climbed atop a pole to hoist their religious flag Nishan Sahib, Khalistan flags were also waved at the spot. Police are analysing a video where a Tricolour can be seen thrown on the ground by a protester. The cops are likely to ask for the original footage and get it checked for authenticity by the forensics team. The cops are probing if the diversion of protesters from their designated routes to the Red Fort was indeed the result of the call given by banned terrorist outfit, Sikhs for Justice (SFJ). Two weeks ago, SFJ had announced a reward of USD 2.5 lakh to those who would hoist a Khalistani flag on Red Fort on Republic Day. Shocked by Tuesday’s developments, the agencies are now scrambling to go through other recent threats given by SFJ, including disrupting power supply to Delhi. Two weeks ago, SFJ’s Gurpatwant Singh Panun called upon the farmers of Punjab to up the ante by cutting off the electricity supply to Delhi on January 25 and 26. Panun had claimed that the electricity companies BSES Rajdhani Power Limited and BSES Yumna Power Limited, which supply electricity to Delhi, are owned by the Ambanis who will be the main beneficiary under the new farm bills. On Sunday afternoon, Sikhs for Justice made a threat call to CISF’s control room saying Indian government will be responsible for the deaths at Singhu border and they will be held accountable. The SFJ had earlier threatened Chief Justice of India S A Bobde, asking him not to stop the tractor rally on January 26. The body’s threats, a security official said, are taken seriously, given the influence the group has amongst its online followers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/khalistan-flags-at-red-fort-probe-launched/articleshow/80471652.cms||Raj Shekhar
January 27, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Over 10,000 fisherfolk in East Godavari await biometric ID cards||KAKINADA: Over 10,000 fishermen in East Godavari district are yet to receive biometric identity cards that can be accessed by authorised agencies to strengthen coastal security and reduce the threat of terror attacks from the sea route. The idea behind biometric cards had been proposed by the Centre in 2009 following the terror attack in Mumbai in 2008. The task of generating the cards had been handed over to the Electronics Corporation of India Limited (ECIL). Under the initiative, the customs department and Indian Coast Guard will verify the credentials of resident and marine fisherfolk in coastal villages with the help of card readers. The readers will check the authenticity of the cards issued by the fisheries department. The machines will also examine the authenticity of resident cards recorded in the National Population Register. However, with ECIL having withdrawn from the initiative and over 10,000 fishermen yet to receive their cards, repeated pleas raised by the fisheries department with higher officials have not yielded results. Deputy director of fisheries, East Godavari, P V Satyanarayana said, “We are making repeated requests to get the work done for the remaining fishermen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/over-10k-fisherfolk-in-eg-await-biometric-id-cards/articleshow/80469945.cms||Samson Raj
January 27, 2021||Chennai||Nagaswaram vidwan who could inspire vocalists||By AarvalanFlautist N Ramani once said, the development of ragas as envisioned by nagaswara vidwan Karukurichi Arunachalam was perhaps the most ideal one and he would go to any length to own a collection of his recordings. Ramani was not alone in his praise, Carnatic music greats G N Balasubramaniam and Semmangudi also drew inspiration for their raga delineations from the way Arunachalam played the nagaswaram. While this year marks his birth centenary, the Carnatic world is yet to see another musical genius with such creative elan.A natural talent, chance played a big role in his musical journey. He was pushed towards music by his father, who nurtured an unfulfilled dream of playing the nagaswaram. Arunachalam belonged to the pandaram community that makes garlands for the main temple deity. Many eyebrows were raised in disapproval when Palavesam Pillai, Arunachalam’s father bequeathed his son to music. What the father had wished, the son did achieve. Karukuruchi, the birthplace of Arunachalam in Tirunelveli district attained significance after his advent into the firmament of music.Arunachalam’s guru, ‘the emperor of nagaswaram’ T N Rajarathinam Pillai (TNR), whose name is synonymous with ‘Thodi’ raga chose Arunachalam as his accompanying artist, merely by chance. Injikudi Subramanaim and Mohandas prominent nagaswaram players of today, remember the incident as told to them. "Arunachalam used to play the nayyandi melam (another name for nagaswaram) in Tirunelveli when TNR was on a visit there. Impressed by the impeccable tonal quality, TNR sent for the ‘fellow’," says Subramaniam. Awestruck and sweating profusely at the call of the genius, the would-be disciple rushed to TNR’s abode. "It was all decided at the spur of the moment that henceforth Arunachalam would get into the TNR-fold. He climbed into TNR’s car without the slightest demur," says Mohandas. And thus started an inimitable musical journey.Renowned music historian B M Sundaram , in his book ‘Mangala Isai Mannargal’, however, says that Kakkayi Natarajasundaram who used to accompany TNR took ill and an ad-hoc arrangement had to be made. And that happened to be Arunachalam, who was drafted in 1935 "just to blow", but eventually became the permanent disciple and "jodi" (partner). There were no formal classes between the guru and disciple, rather it was a free flowing exchange of musical ideas. There have been many instances in concerts where TNR would prefer to be a spectator to the playing of Arunachalam, egging him on, basking in his incandescence, resonance, undiluted talent, et al.When TNR and Arunachalam played together on two separate instruments it would sound as one. Such was the kind of synchrony at their command. While TNR’s music was imposing, Arunachalam’s notes stood for persuasiveness. Something akin to the sun and the moon. One becoming the other. Some rasikas feel TNR’s released recordings could be that of Arunachalams. The difference in their styles and manner of delivery were indistinguishable. Nagaswaram exponent Seshampatti Sivalingam explains another pioneering work of Arunachalam. "Nagaswaram was originally a high-pitched instrument — Thimiri — which was at five or six kattai-sruthi. It was TNR who worked with instrument maker Ranganatha Achari to make the sound deeper to Baari. But the person who took it forward and made it popular among the masses was Arunachalam," he says.Kasim and Babu, grandsons of Sheikh Chinna Moulana Saheb, who had created a niche area for himself in nagaswaram playing, liken Arunachalam’s Karaharapriya alapana to that of the Garuda bird circling at the top with its unobtrusive descent on the listener. Arunachalam’s influence on successive generations is undeniable, Sheikh Mehboob Subhanai and Khalsha Bi both say their playing has been guided by the thought-processes of Arunachalam in more ways than one. His phenomenal breath control and stamina in playing not only long concerts, but also long passages are looked upon with awe. For instance, there is nobody to play Bharathiyar’s "Chinnanjiru Kiliiye" conveying all the apt emotions in all the stanzas,like Arunachalam, says nonagenarian nagaswara vidwan Sembannarkoil Rajanna.Arunachalam’s latent vocal prowess is what his student Kizhvelur Ganesan of Palani has always admired. "During his visits to Palani, Arunachalam would never let go of an opportunity of taking lessons for Ganesan. Arunachalam would always elucidate a raga by singing in his melodious voice," says Ganesan. Palani houses a famous music college under the Temple Devasthanam’s auspices where Ganesan had his lessons.The maestro swayed the masses with his music in cinema too, the one song that catapulted him and S Janaki to immense fame was Konjum Salangai’s "Singara Velane". The pitch-perfect match between Janaki’s voice and the Thimiri’, was hitherto unparalleled in the history of music and thus became a runaway hit even among those not greatly attuned to classical music. If not for his sudden death at the age of 43, he could have had many more records.He took his genius and fame lightly. During the later part of his career, Arunachalam played solos. One such occasion saw an invaluable ring being presented to him. Arunachalam seemed to wonder; who is the ring really due. "To the man whose sweat and blood made this precious instrument that has produced this mesmerising sound". After the concert he visited Ranganatha Achari and the ring adorned his finger; he believed a performer could never do it alone, it was a collective act.(The writer is a music critic)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/nagaswaram-vidwan-who-could-inspire-vocalists/articleshow/80467388.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: As active Covid cases fall, recovery rate touches 99% in 8 districts||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 172 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,87,238. The toll increased to 7,150 as one more patient succumbed to the pandemic in Kadapa district. As many as 203 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state on Tuesday. There are currently 1,357 active cases with 8,78,731 cumulative recoveries and 7,150 fatalities. The active case load is less than 100 in eight districts. Vizianagaram has only 22 active cases, the lowest among all the districts. Krishna district recorded 39 new infections on Tuesday, followed by Visakhapatnam (34), Guntur (22), East Godavari (21), Kadapa (15), Chittoor (11) and Srikakulam (10). For the second consecutive day, Vizianagaram has not recorded any new cases. The remaining five districts posted single-digit case numbers. Kadapa became the eighth district to cross the 99% recovery rate milestone on Tuesday after Nellore, Anantapur, Kurnool, East Godavari, West Godavari, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. Andhra Pradesh tested 38,323 Covid-19 samples on Tuesday and detected 172 new Covid-19 cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.4%. The state so far conducted 1.29 crore Covid-19 tests with an overall positivity rate of 6.8%. The state’s mortality has remained stable at 0.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/as-active-cases-fall-recovery-rate-touches-99-in-8-districts/articleshow/80469953.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: As active Covid cases fall, recovery rate touches 99% in 8 districts||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 172 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,87,238. The toll increased to 7,150 as one more patient succumbed to the pandemic in Kadapa district. As many as 203 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state on Tuesday. There are currently 1,357 active cases with 8,78,731 cumulative recoveries and 7,150 fatalities. The active case load is less than 100 in eight districts. Vizianagaram has only 22 active cases, the lowest among all the districts. Krishna district recorded 39 new infections on Tuesday, followed by Visakhapatnam (34), Guntur (22), East Godavari (21), Kadapa (15), Chittoor (11) and Srikakulam (10). For the second consecutive day, Vizianagaram has not recorded any new cases. The remaining five districts posted single-digit case numbers. Kadapa became the eighth district to cross the 99% recovery rate milestone on Tuesday after Nellore, Anantapur, Kurnool, East Godavari, West Godavari, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. Andhra Pradesh tested 38,323 Covid-19 samples on Tuesday and detected 172 new Covid-19 cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.4%. The state so far conducted 1.29 crore Covid-19 tests with an overall positivity rate of 6.8%. The state’s mortality has remained stable at 0.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/as-active-cases-fall-recovery-rate-touches-99-in-8-districts/articleshow/80473096.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: As active Covid cases fall, recovery rate touches 99% in 8 districts||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 172 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,87,238. The toll increased to 7,150 as one more patient succumbed to the pandemic in Kadapa district. As many as 203 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state on Tuesday. There are currently 1,357 active cases with 8,78,731 cumulative recoveries and 7,150 fatalities. The active case load is less than 100 in eight districts. Vizianagaram has only 22 active cases, the lowest among all the districts. Krishna district recorded 39 new infections on Tuesday, followed by Visakhapatnam (34), Guntur (22), East Godavari (21), Kadapa (15), Chittoor (11) and Srikakulam (10). For the second consecutive day, Vizianagaram has not recorded any new cases. The remaining five districts posted single-digit case numbers. Kadapa became the eighth district to cross the 99% recovery rate milestone on Tuesday after Nellore, Anantapur, Kurnool, East Godavari, West Godavari, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. Andhra Pradesh tested 38,323 Covid-19 samples on Tuesday and detected 172 new Covid-19 cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.4%. The state so far conducted 1.29 crore Covid-19 tests with an overall positivity rate of 6.8%. The state’s mortality has remained stable at 0.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/as-active-cases-fall-recovery-rate-touches-99-in-8-districts/articleshow/80473095.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Centre holds farmers’ unions responsible||NEW DELHI: The Centre held Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body representing farmers’ unions, responsible for the mayhem in the city on Republic Day, and said almost all the major components reneged on their commitment to take a peaceful tractor march along the routes they had worked out with Delhi Police. “They are all signatories to the agreement and are to be held liable for unprovoked violence, rioting, damage to public property, assault on police personnel and the shameful incident at Red Fort. The reality remains that none of the farmers’ unions stuck to the routes they had agreed to. Besides, though they were to enter Delhi after 12 noon, they started breaking the barricades in the morning itself even before the parade had started and forced their way in from unapproved routes. It seems they had no plan to stick to the routes, and came prepared for the chaos and violence, armed with lathis and rods,” said an officer, emphasising that farm leaders were nowhere to be seen at any of the trouble spots when the mob ran amok. The determination is significant in view of attempts by unions to blame the violence and chaos on alleged “outsiders” who infiltrated their protests and figures who were not represented in the SKM. Sources said while the police and agencies had apprehended mischief by certain groups, they were not prepared for a situation where the signatories failed to keep the commitment on a day when their resources were spread thin because of the R-Day security requirements. With the situation taking a sharp turn, leading to the ugly spectacle of rioters planting the Khalsa flag on Red Fort, home minister Amit Shah ordered deployment of central forces in the Capital and adjoining areas. At a review meeting after his ministry ordered the suspension of internet services in areas from where trouble makers had congregated and tried to gatecrash into the city, officials briefed him about the role of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee led by Satnam Singh Pannu and Sarwan Singh Pandher, the Ugrahan group, the BKU faction led by Rakesh Tikait and other groups, sources said. The meeting, attended by home secretary Ajay Bhalla, Delhi Police commissioner S N Srivastava and the Intelligence Bureau director, agreed that the numbers of Delhi Police, which had a good chunk of its force tied up with Republic Day security duties, needed to be augmented without delay. Accordingly, a decision was taken to bring in central paramilitary reinforcements for deployment in Delhi and border areas of Haryana and UP. Sources said Delhi Police personnel were outnumbered by the protesting farmers as they reneged on their pact on the routes and timing of the rally. “Delhi Police personnel were already deployed in huge numbers for Republic Day security. Barricades were put up and police personnel deployed mostly along the agreed routes for the rally. While barricades were posted in ITO area in view of Republic Day, the barricading fell short in areas like Red Fort, which led to the unfortunate turn of events there. It took the authorities some time to find and deploy additional paramilitary forces and this resulted in the tractor rally turning chaotic at Red Fort. The situation was brought under control by evening,” an officer said. Sources said the mobile internet ban may be extended further if the situation demanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/centre-holds-farmers-unions-responsible-for-city-mayhem-paramilitary-forces-deployed-in-capital-border-areas-under-home-ministrys-orders/articleshow/80471244.cms||Bharti Jain
January 27, 2021||Chennai||Is that a coral underwater? No, it’s a Covid-19 mask||CHENNAI: For more evidence of the pandemic, dive 60 feet under water. Scuba divers, kayakers and water sports enthusiasts say they have been collecting piles of discarded masks from the shoreline and seabed off Chennai and neighbouring areas. Over the past few days, scuba diver S B Aravind has gathered up more than 120kg of garbage floating about underwater, a third of that being Covid-19 masks, he says. “I was doing a regular dive off the coast of Puducherry with students when I noticed corals with masks wrapped around them. So I went back for another few dives and started cleaning it up,” he says. At 18 metres under water, Aravind says there are “so many all over the place it’s going to take a long while to clean up”. Every year, the December-January rains result in a lot of flotsam and jetsam being washed into the sea, masks being the latest entrants. Kayaker John AJ for instance, has so far picked up 30 or more masks from the waters of Kovalam, ECR and Puducherry. “I carry a bag with me every time I kayak so I can pick up garbage from the sea. Just doing my bit. It’s mostly plastics and masks,” he says. “If people disposed garbage in the proper manner this would not be happening,” he says. Masks are part of the coastal landscape now, says Bay of Life founder Showkath Jamal. “Especially the blue disposable ones. We’ve been ridding the beaches of them. Every day we pick up at least 50.” While Jamal’s team does beach cleanups every day, every February they organize an ‘inside out’ session, where in association with the Coast Guard, they do an intensive cleaning of the beach and the water. “Divers will clean the insides of the sea and we will clean the outside.” N Godhantaraman, head of department of Environmental Science at the University of Madras, says macro and microplastics can get consumed by marine organisms and impact the food chain. “The pollutants affect at every level from the zooplankton to the larger fish. And finally, humans as well, who consume the fish,” he says. Though non-biodegradable masks may begin as macroplastic pollution, they end up as microplastics, he explains. Conservationists from around the world have begun putting up social media posts of masks polluting ocean floors. French conservationists Laurent Lombard for instance showed videos of algae-entangled masks and in the sea near Antibes. Watch Covid-19: Piles of discarded masks at shoreline, seabed off Chennai, neighbouring areas||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/is-that-a-coral-underwater-no-its-a-covid-19-mask/articleshow/80470546.cms||Kamini Mathai
January 27, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh saw sharp 17% dip in road accident fatalities last year||VIJAYAWADA: As a result of the pandemic and the consequent lockdown, Andhra Pradesh witnessed a steep decline of 17% in road accident fatalities and a 30% drop in fatal accidents in 2020 compared to the year before. When it comes to overall road accidents, the state saw a 16% dip in 2020, the steepest fall in a decade. Compared to 2019, 2020 saw 1,083 fewer deaths as a result of road accidents. Compared to neighbouring states in 2020, Tamil Nadu saw a steeper dip in road accidents compared to Andhra Pradesh. Tamil Nadu has been awarded the best performing state for road safety by the Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) for two consecutive years. In AP, a significant shift from previous years in terms district-wise numbers of road accidents cases has been observed. In East Godavari, West Godavari, Krishna, and Guntur districts contributed to over 50% road accidents. This was due to the presence of two major national highways — NH16 and NH 65, intersecting each other. Latest data reveal that Praksam, Anantapur, and Kurnool districts stand to be the major contributors of road accident of road accident fatalities. Rajahmundry Urban, Tirupati Urban and Guntur Urban police jurisdictions were recorded to have the least number of road accident fatalities. Interestingly, East Godavari still tops the state for most number of road mishaps but this time the district has recorded fewer fatalities compared to previous years. Police pointed out that the Chennai-Kolkata National Highway-16 happens to be the most dangerous highway compared to others. Official data also show that the lockdown and Covid-19 restrictions did not have a significant impact on accidents that took place at night. In line with previous three years of accident data, around 40% of the road accidents continue to take place during the night hours — between 9 pm and 6 am. Officials point out that these mishaps happen for varied reasons like poor lighting conditions, fog and drowsiness resulting in collision with stationary vehicles. As the state is observing a month-long road safety awareness month, officials said that they would be coordinating with respective municipal administrations and roads & buildings department to rectify black spots across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-saw-sharp-17-dip-in-road-accident-fatalities-last-year/articleshow/80469849.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
January 27, 2021||Vijayawada||Madanapalli murders: Relatives suspect role of outsiders in influencing family||TIRUPATI: As police intensify their investigation into the double murder case in Madanapalli, several questions remain unanswered. The town is yet to come to terms over what forced seemigly well-educated and well-settled parents to kill their two daughters. It is suspected that the couple had killed the daughters for “supernatural” reasons, apparently triggered by isolation during the lockdown. Police officials investigating the case are verifying different versions as to what led the whole family into a state of trance. While a few people close to the family told the police that after the younger daughter Sai Divya (22) fell sick a few days ago, the family roped in services of a local tantrik to cure her. The tantrik visited the family’s residence at Siva Nagar locality near Madanapalli and performed some occult pujas.Others told police that some tantriks were also roped in from the neighbouring states of Tamil Nadu and Kerala to perform certain “strange, discreet occult pujas” at their residence . The couple reportedly told the police that their elder daughter Alekhya (27) had researched occult practices to deal with prolonged sickness, resurrection and other related practices both online and offline. According to them, she allegedly had done all this to cure her younger sister who was ill. After mentally preparing her younger sister for a sacrifice to the gods, the whole family performed nude pujas on the fateful night and killed her using a dumbbell. Later, the elder daughter asked her parents to tonsure some portion of her head and kill her using a trident so that she could return along with her younger sister to life in what could be their pure rebirth. The parents accordingly killed their elder daughter too before the local police arrived. Meanwhile, colleagues and relatives of the family are in complete disbelief and suspect that some outside elements, possibly tantriks or others, could be responsible for driving the whole family into a trance and instigated them towards the murder. Dr Radhika, psychiatrist at the government hospital, who examined Padmaja and Purushotham, said Padmaja’s maternal aunt suffers from a delusion disorder and that her father too who was under psychiatric treatment, passed away recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/madanapalli-murders-relatives-suspect-role-of-outsiders-in-influencing-family/articleshow/80469787.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 27, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Parking slots being mulled for rythu bazars in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: The marketing department may soon introduce time slots for motorists to park their vehicles at rythu bazars in Visakhapatnam city. The move is being mulled to solve parking problems at rythu bazars. If successfully implemented, Visakhapatnam will be the first place to have introduced the system for all ryhtu bazars, including in Telangana. According to the plans, a parking coupon will be issued to each motorist. This coupon will mention the time slot for which the motorist is allowed to keep his vehicle in the parking area. If the owner exceeds the time limit, penalties will be imposed. Currently, it is a common sight to see vehicles being parked at rythu bazars for long periods. In some cases, people are also reported to have been using the parking area for their own convenience while they attend to other engagements. None of the rythu bazars have authorities for parking management. On an average around 25,000 people visit ryhtu bazars every day of whom close to 20,000 come with their own vehicles. Speaking to TOI, marketing department deputy director P Papa Rao said they were working on the new system to solve the parking problems in the city’s rythu bazars. “We will pursue the matter with higher authorities and shortly introduce new systems for effective handling of the parking at rythu bazars. We decentralised the existing 13 rythu bazars to 93 bazars during the lockdown period,” Papa Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/parking-slots-being-mulled-for-rythu-bazars-in-vizag/articleshow/80469976.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 27, 2021||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh saw sharp 17% dip in road accident fatalities last year||VIJAYAWADA: As a result of the pandemic and the consequent lockdown, Andhra Pradesh witnessed a steep decline of 17% in road accident fatalities and a 30% drop in fatal accidents in 2020 compared to the year before. When it comes to overall road accidents, the state saw a 16% dip in 2020, the steepest fall in a decade. Compared to 2019, 2020 saw 1,083 fewer deaths as a result of road accidents. Compared to neighbouring states in 2020, Tamil Nadu saw a steeper dip in road accidents compared to Andhra Pradesh. Tamil Nadu has been awarded the best performing state for road safety by the Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) for two consecutive years. In AP, a significant shift from previous years in terms district-wise numbers of road accidents cases has been observed. In East Godavari, West Godavari, Krishna, and Guntur districts contributed to over 50% road accidents. This was due to the presence of two major national highways — NH16 and NH 65, intersecting each other. Latest data reveal that Praksam, Anantapur, and Kurnool districts stand to be the major contributors of road accident of road accident fatalities. Rajahmundry Urban, Tirupati Urban and Guntur Urban police jurisdictions were recorded to have the least number of road accident fatalities. Interestingly, East Godavari still tops the state for most number of road mishaps but this time the district has recorded fewer fatalities compared to previous years. Police pointed out that the Chennai-Kolkata National Highway-16 happens to be the most dangerous highway compared to others. Official data also show that the lockdown and Covid-19 restrictions did not have a significant impact on accidents that took place at night. In line with previous three years of accident data, around 40% of the road accidents continue to take place during the night hours — between 9 pm and 6 am. Officials point out that these mishaps happen for varied reasons like poor lighting conditions, fog and drowsiness resulting in collision with stationary vehicles. As the state is observing a month-long road safety awareness month, officials said that they would be coordinating with respective municipal administrations and roads & buildings department to rectify black spots across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-saw-sharp-17-dip-in-road-accident-fatalities-last-year/articleshow/80473269.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
January 27, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh saw sharp 17% dip in road accident fatalities last year||VIJAYAWADA: As a result of the pandemic and the consequent lockdown, Andhra Pradesh witnessed a steep decline of 17% in road accident fatalities and a 30% drop in fatal accidents in 2020 compared to the year before. When it comes to overall road accidents, the state saw a 16% dip in 2020, the steepest fall in a decade. Compared to 2019, 2020 saw 1,083 fewer deaths as a result of road accidents. Compared to neighbouring states in 2020, Tamil Nadu saw a steeper dip in road accidents compared to Andhra Pradesh. Tamil Nadu has been awarded the best performing state for road safety by the Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) for two consecutive years. In AP, a significant shift from previous years in terms district-wise numbers of road accidents cases has been observed. In East Godavari, West Godavari, Krishna, and Guntur districts contributed to over 50% road accidents. This was due to the presence of two major national highways — NH16 and NH 65, intersecting each other. Latest data reveal that Praksam, Anantapur, and Kurnool districts stand to be the major contributors of road accident of road accident fatalities. Rajahmundry Urban, Tirupati Urban and Guntur Urban police jurisdictions were recorded to have the least number of road accident fatalities. Interestingly, East Godavari still tops the state for most number of road mishaps but this time the district has recorded fewer fatalities compared to previous years. Police pointed out that the Chennai-Kolkata National Highway-16 happens to be the most dangerous highway compared to others. Official data also show that the lockdown and Covid-19 restrictions did not have a significant impact on accidents that took place at night. In line with previous three years of accident data, around 40% of the road accidents continue to take place during the night hours — between 9 pm and 6 am. Officials point out that these mishaps happen for varied reasons like poor lighting conditions, fog and drowsiness resulting in collision with stationary vehicles. As the state is observing a month-long road safety awareness month, officials said that they would be coordinating with respective municipal administrations and roads & buildings department to rectify black spots across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-saw-sharp-17-dip-in-road-accident-fatalities-last-year/articleshow/80473267.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
January 27, 2021||Chennai||Aide whose pen stopped Bharati writing prose||By K R A NarasiahNot many may know that the first book on the life and works of firebrand poet Subramania Bharati as we know it today, 100 years since his death, was by his close associate Va Ramaswami Aiyangar. Va Raa, as he was known, was the first biographer of Bharati. The two met at a time of turmoil and new awakening in Puducherry.Born in 1889, V Ramaswami Ayyangar was a bright student but had to abandon his studies due to financial constraints. It was at this time that he was drawn towards the national movement. He attended the Congress convention in Madras in 1908, and having heard that Surendra Nath Banerji had started a national college in Calcutta went there to join it. He could neither meet Banerji nor join the college but during the stay there, he started learning Bengali. He wanted to meet Aurobindo Ghose, but couldn’t as he had moved to Puducherry in April of 1910.By then Bharati was well-known in Puducherry. Va Raa met Bharati to get an introduction to Aurobindo and was drawn to Bharati’s positive approach towards life. While his meeting his Aurobindo did happen latter, his friendship with Bharati began to grow.A B Purani Aurobondo’s biographer records that Va Raa, used to visit Aurobindo daily. Va Raa, liked Bengali literature and started translating some of them into Tamil and when he was translating ‘Twin Rings’ (1874) of Bankim Chandra Chatterji, Bharati happened to visit. Shy of showing his writing to the famous poet, Va Raa pushed his papers under the bed. Bharati insited on looking at the writing and told Aurobindo, "Babuji, his prose is better than mine. From now onwards I shall not deal in prose and do only poetry. Ayyangar is there for prose."After their return to Madras, Bharati and Va Raa were engaged in various nationalistic activities. Va Raa was jailed during the Salt Satyagraha and sent to Alipore prison for six months. When he was there in 1930, he was prolific in Tamil and English. For writing in English a piece titled ‘What is Poetry?’ The jail warden helped him with the books he need and so Va Raa dedicated the essay to David Abernathy Greenwood, the English official and wrote "by V. Ramaswamy Ayyangar, convict no. 1557" This was written between October 6 and 11 in 1930.The writing showed his knowledge of the English language and poetry: "One of Moliere’s characters asks what is poetry, that which is not prose, answers the other. And pray what is prose queries the first. That which you are talking replies the second. So I am talking prose all my life without knowing it, the first character soliloquises rather loudly." In this piece, Va Raa deals with most English poets and ends it with a tribute to Bharati. He says, "Bharati simply worked a miracle in Tamil life and literature."In the 1930s, Va Raa, edited Manikkodi an avant garde journal in Tamil, through which he encouraged forward thinking writers like N Pichamurthy, Pudumaippithan, Ku Pa Rajagoplan and Chitti. On May 8, 1935, Va Raa proceeded to Colombo and took over as the editor of Veera Kesari a Tamil journal, dedicating his life to literature.(The writer is a history enthusiast)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aide-whose-pen-stopped-bharati-writing-prose/articleshow/80467401.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Pune||Dog training centre of CID won’t reopen soon||Pune: The state Criminal Investigation Department (CID) will reopen its dog training centre only after the pandemic situation is over. The CID closed the facility after a nationwide lockdown was announced in the last week of March 2020. The facility not only trains sniffer dogs, but also dog handlers from different units of the state police. Each year, the facility trains 160-190 dogs and about 300 dog handlers. “The facility will remain closed as of now. It will reopen only when the situation returns to normal. We will also wait for government orders in this regard. Human beings can speak if they develop some health issues, but not dogs,” said additional director general of police (CID) Atulchandra Kulkarni. There are 92 police dog units in the state, a CID officer said, adding that it is the only facility in the state. The dog training facility has barracks for dog handlers, where they can stay for a period of six months. At the same time, there are many canals for dogs in the facility. A senior CID officer said, “In the Covid situation, it is not possible for dog handlers to stay under one roof as there are chances of them as well as dogs getting infected.” “Also, there were news reports stating that animals, too, were getting infected with the corona virus. Thus, we decided not to open the dog training centre as of now,” the CID officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dog-training-centre-of-cid-wont-reopen-soon/articleshow/80456974.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Delhi||UP man dies as tractor topples trying to break through barricades||NEW DELHI: Navreet Singh, a 24-year-old farmer from Uttar Pradesh, died at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg in central Delhi during the tractors’ rally when he, atop his blue tractor, reportedly tried to break through two layers of police barricades and it toppled. Singh, who came from the Ghazipur border, was among those who tried to charge at Delhi Police before reaching Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg. Around 1.30pm, Singh tried to march on, but his tractor toppled near Andhra Education Society immediately after coming into contact with the first layer of barricades. He died on the spot. Farmers who reached the site a little later alleged he had been shot by police, a rumour that spread across ITO and many protesters gathered there. However, a CCTV camera footage released later by Delhi Police showed the incident, with no gunshot heard. A policeman was seen placing the barricades across DDU Marg as Singh tried to race through it. The tractor then lost control and toppled. A TOI reporter also witnessed the incident. The body was found along with a bag of clothes and a Tricolour. It was placed on a carpet and covered with the national flag. Sukhwinder Singh, a 46-year-old farmer, said that while some of them looked for an identity card in his black jacket pocket, another picked up his phone to inform the family; but it was locked. “It is an iPhone, use face lock,” shouted another, but Navreet’s face was smeared with blood. Calling him a “shaheed”, the protesters did not allow ambulance to take away the body. A little later, his friend, Harpreet Singh, arrived at the spot and identified him. “He is the only son of his parents and a married man,” he said. H S Dibdiba, Navreet’s grandfather, later told TOI over phone that he had gone to Australia for education and got married there. “He had come to India three-four months ago to celebrate his wedding.” Around 2.10pm, the protesters placed the body in the middle of a road at the ITO crossing, chanting “Satnam Wahe Guru”. “He is a shaheed,” said Kavita Chaudhary, a 36-year-old from Meerut. Releasing the footage, Delhi Police said the farmer didn’t die of any bullet wound but because his tractor overturned “as he was speeding while trying to break a barricade. The police officials did not fire at anyone”. The body lay on the road for almost six hours and was taken around 5.50pm to the Ghazipur border, where his family would come, said a farmer. Dibdiba, also a protester, said Navreet had gone to Delhi from Rampur district along with his uncles and cousins for the rally. Dibdiba, who was on his way to Delhi to receive the body, said he had heard that Navreet had died after a police bullet hit him on the head. With inputs from Yudhvir Rana||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/youth-dies-as-tractor-topples-trying-to-break-through-barricades/articleshow/80471656.cms||Shradha Chettri
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Vaccine will restrict spread of the virus’||Some statistics suggest that 98% have been cured of the virus without the vaccine, while the effectiveness of the vaccine is only 95%. If this is true, what’s the need for the vaccine? — Ujval Jain The numbers you mention are correct. Furthermore, the effectiveness of the vaccines we are talking about is variable from 60% to 90%. But reasons to go for vaccination are different. Vaccine is given to a healthy individual with the purpose that either infection is prevented or it makes the disease very mild in terms of symptoms, etc., and most likely the person does not spread it further and thereby works as a speed breaker for the virus. Those 98% currently recovered people are likely to have spread the virus, unlike vaccinated people. Vaccination is also less likely to have long-term adverse effects (popularly referred to as ‘long Covid’), which is a concern, as much less is understood about this aspect of Covid-19. If we indeed have to take the vaccine, which of the two - Covishield and Covaxin - should we take? -- K R Rao In the current situation, central government pays for the vaccine and there is no choice given to people. Even otherwise, both are likely to be comparable. After three-four months, when healthcare workers followed by frontline workers are vaccinated, situation may change. There are likely to be many more options available, for example, mRNA vaccines of Moderna and Pfizer, and several more. How long will the vaccines provide immunity? Once immunized, do we need to take the vaccine again next year? -- Parimala G Tada This is, at present, an unanswered question for all Covid-19 vaccines. Only time will tell. We need to wait for that much time – to know if vaccine protects for one year or more. That is why vaccine development takes several years! At present these vaccines are available as Emergency Use Approval, to fight the pandemic situation and should protect you at least for few months. Since there are some reports about adverse impacts of the vaccine, is it a good idea to give it a miss for now? How long can we wait before we take the jab? -- Ramesh Shastri There are all indications that these have no adverse effects beyond what is known for common vaccination. Therefore, if one is getting the vaccine there is no problem in taking it. Can we be completely sure of being Corona-free after taking the vaccine? Or do we still need to take precautions. What would those be? -- Trisha Mukherjee Currently available vaccines in India have efficacy of 60-90%. Which means the remaining 10-40% may not be protected. Even if it is 95%, like for mRNA vaccines, 5% will not be protected. Just to let you know that WHO has recommended anything over 50% efficacy is acceptable. Vaccines with such efficacy are currently used and save millions of lives every year. Therefore, at least for next six months all of us have to take precaution of mask, physical distancing and hand hygiene, commonly called ‘social vaccine’! Without combination of real and social vaccine, we will not succeed in this fight. I am 68 and take blood thinners every morning along with my blood pressure and thyroid medicine. Is it safe for me to take the vaccine? Which vaccine should I take? – Sourendra Chakraverty Although as per regulatory body recommendations, there is no problem in taking vaccine in these conditions, the vaccine companies have advised such cases to avoid vaccination as a matter of abundant caution. I suggest you to consult your clinician for the best advice. As far as which vaccine is concerned, either one is ok and, moreover, as per the current policy, especially if it is funded by the central government, there is no option to choose. Will one inoculation provide lifetime immunity from the disease? What are our chances of contracting the virus after taking the jab? -- Jitesh Mathur The current vaccines are in two doses, separated by a three-to-four week gap. There is no data to say if these vaccines will be protective beyond four to six months. To know if it is effective for a lifetime, we have to wait for several years after taking the vaccine and during this period the virus should be actively infecting. If we remain protected for that period, then we can begin to think about long-term immunity provided by the vaccine. Unfortunately, we cannot fast forward time. I am a senior citizen and am booked for international travel in April. If the rollout happens for the general public before that, do you suggest I take the jab and then go? I do have some comorbidities as well. -- Roma Rao It is recommended by regulatory authority for senior citizens even with comorbidities to take the vaccine. I suggest you consult your clinicians for best advice. I am not sure though, if by April we will be done with vaccinating healthcare workers and frontline workers and the vaccine will be available for citizens like you. It requires at least 28 days to complete the two doses of vaccine. Do you think the government is doing the right thing by rushing the vaccine? Why can’t we wait for all clinical trials to be over and then roll it out? -- Pankaj Kumar We are fighting a pandemic. All clinical trials and duration of protection may take several months. Till then if a large number of people are getting infected, the virus has a chance to come with more variants and create new problems. I can understand that the government does not want another wave and lockdown, as is being faced by several European countries. Once it is ensured that the vaccine is safe and the government can afford it, a vaccine of even relatively lesser efficacy that provides protection for several months is worthwhile. I am 74 and have had a bypass surgery for three blockages in December 2018. Is it safe for me to get vaccinated? -- Muntajab Sanai As described in response to other questions, regulatory authorities recommend the vaccine to senior citizens even with comorbidities. It is suggested that you consult your clinicians for the best advice. What happens if I don’t take the vaccine at all? -- Dr R K SamantaIt is not advisable as you may get infection and spread the disease to your contacts. Even if you are asymptomatic and recover like others, there is something called ‘long Covid’ which is the long term effects of Covid-19. Vaccines are likely to help in preventing these. Also, vaccination will be helpful in controlling the pandemic along with ‘social vaccine’ practice. It is highly recommended that citizens who are offered, should take it, for the well-being of oneself and others. Who will believe the vaccine which does not have contents specified on the label? Has this vaccine drive become more of a political game? -- Suvendu Mohapatra We should take the regulatory authority and the system seriously. As explained in response to several questions, we are talking about a pandemic, looming danger of another lockdown and its consequences and under those conditions, emergency use approval. We need to consider various factors and assess the urgency, return on investment, etc. You have the option of potentially infecting a large number of people (along with adverse consequences for those people) while waiting or alternately, vaccinate with a good chance of reducing this spread considerably: I would say, take that chance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vaccine-will-restrict-spread-of-the-virus/articleshow/80470552.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||My lockdown takeaway: Some wars can be won with love||The lockdown taught us some lessons for life. It taught us about the millions who live on the streets, those who struggle to make ends meet and showed us that death is unstoppable. But it also helped me realise many things; one of them being the value of friends. Yes, those very friends, who sometimes annoy us but are also, when away, are missed dearly. Meeting them every day at school never taught me their value, but maintaining social distance did. Next comes family. In this unpredictable situation, I am sure of just one thing and that is, come what may, my family will also be right there to hold my hand. In our worldly interactions, we often overlook this wonderful bonding. It also made me realise the importance of sanitary workers and doctors -- the saviours of 2020. Without them we surely wouldn’t have overcome this disaster. Throughout this global-threat, serving the country selflessly is no easy work, and thus they surely were the heroes. No billionaire, no politician could save the world when these frontline warriors came to the rescue. Temples, mosques, churches were all shut, as God, in disguise of policemen and doctors, saved the world from its downfall. During the lockdown, I also learnt the value of life. The value of basic necessities like food, shelter, love, protection, which I am blessed with, while the whole world is fighting for them. We go in search of money, power, status and what not, putting our life and health at stake, and now all of these: money, power, education together: are trying to save just one thing: Life. Lockdown gave me time to stop and see the world from a closer view. It made me realise how fortunate it is to know that whatever may happen, at the end, you have a definite meal to eat, a lovely home to return to. After this is over, no human interaction will be taken for granted, no amenities will be undervalued. I did realise that all wars do not require bloodshed and weapons. Some can be fought and won by love, responsibility and compassion. Thus, the year of 2020 was a harsh teacher that taught me to make a fresh start. (The writer is a student of class 10)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/my-lockdown-takeaway-some-wars-can-be-won-with-love/articleshow/80470610.cms||---
January 27, 2021||India||India sees 12k fresh cases, nearly half of them in Kerala||Kerala accounted for nearly half of all fresh Covid-19 cases recorded in India on Tuesday, as the pandemic continued to rage in the state while receding from most other parts of the country. Kerala logged 6,293 new cases on Tuesday, back above the 6,000 mark after a day's gap. In the rest of the country put together, 6,445 fresh cases were recorded, with data from Chandigarh yet to be received till late on Tuesday. A total of 12,673 cases were recorded on the day, up from Monday’s seven-month-low of 9,110. In the weekly cycle, however, Tuesday’s case count was a decline of over 1,100 as on the same day last week (January 19) the country had reported 13,821 fresh cases. There were 135 deaths from the pandemic on Tuesday (without Chandigarh data), a rise from the previous day’s count of 117. As compared to last week’s numbers, deaths continued to show a decline. Maharashtra reported 2,405 cases, the second highest in the country. With 47 deaths recorded in the last 24 hours, the state again led the country in fatalities, followed by Kerala (19 deaths), Chhattisgarh (14) and Punjab (11). Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh reported 172 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, with the recovery rate touching 99% in eight districts of the state. Odisha registered less than 100 daily cases for the first time in seven months as 99 new infections were detected on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-sees-12k-fresh-cases-nearly-half-of-them-in-kerala/articleshow/80472035.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: At battleground ITO, cops take to teargas, riot gear to stop farmers||NEW DELHI: ITO turned into a battleground for nearly two hours on Tuesday after a large contingent of farmers reached the intersection at 12.20pm, breaking through several barricades at Ghazipur and Akshardham. The group seemingly tried to march towards Parliament through Tilak Bridge, but encountered teargas shells and stiff resistance from police in riot gear. Buses had been parked on both carriageways as well as under the bridge to prevent farmers from marching forward, while teargas shells were lobbed by police from the skywalk. The farmer group split into two, one headed towards Red Fort and the other remained on Vikas Marg, making the job of police even more difficult. The first teargas shell was fired at 12.35pm when farmers tried to remove a bus at Tilak Bridge. Within seconds, the protest turned even more violent with both sides charging towards each other. Metal railings on the median were damaged by the protesters, many of whom were carrying rods and pipes. For the next hour, both sides tried to push each other back. Stone-pelting was also witnessed. Teargas shells were fired at the group on Vikas Marg, but they remained adamant on moving forward. Yadvinder Singh, a farmer from Bilaspur in UP, said, “We were not given permission to march towards Red Fort. When we reached ITO, we were met with resistance, lathi-charge and teargas.” Police tried to talk to farmers asking them not to vandalise public property any further, but the farmers claimed that violence was started by police and not them. Around 1.35pm, a tractor charged towards police and headed onto Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg, where multiple barricades had been placed. CCTV footage showed the tractor ramming the barricades and toppling over, which resulted in the driver getting killed. Within 10 minutes, farmers discovered the deceased farmer’s body and rumour started spreading that he had been shot by police. However, violence had stopped at this point. Delhi Police vacated DDU Marg, allowing the farmers to take the deceased man’s body towards ITO. They brought it there around 2.10pm and covered it with the Tricolour. Piyush Tomar, a 30-year-old from Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh, who had been protesting at Ghazipur border for the past two months, said, “It was police who provoked us by barricading areas for which we had permission. They also threw teargas and lathi-charged at us.” A walk towards Delhi Secretariat showed tractors blocking Vikas Marg on both carriageways for several kilometres. By 3.30pm, food distribution had begun with the protesters camped on one side of the road. After the family of the deceased farmer showed up around 5pm to take the body, the groups started leaving the site slowly. By 6pm, only a handful of protesters could be seen there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-battleground-ito-cops-take-to-teargas-riot-gear-to-stop-farmers/articleshow/80471659.cms||Shradha Chettri
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Republic daze: Delhi in farm’s way||NEW DELHI: The script had been read out and the red lines drawn, but nothing went as planned when the farmers took out their tractor rally on Tuesday. A dash to the heart of Delhi on speeding tractors that rammed barricades and even threatened to mow down policemen, widespread vandalism and destruction of public property and prolonged clashes with the cops marred a two-month-long peaceful agitation against the farm laws. This was capped with the unfurling of the Sikh religious flag, Nishan Sahib, at Red Fort even as cops were battling the protesters in the foreground. The leaders who had promised a peaceful march and should have reined in the hotheads did the disappearing act and the volunteers who were supposed to keep the rally on course were not be seen anywhere. This was a pyrrhic victory, bitter harvest of what turned out to be a rudderless agitation when it came to hitting the streets. Police showed extraordinary restraint as use of force against farmers was never on the table during discussions amongst the brass. However, this strategy landed over 120 cops in the hospital, half of them with severe injuries. A few are critical and in ICU. A farmer driving a tractor dangerously crashed into barricades near ITO and died on the spot. Ignoring the schedule of 12pm to 5pm that had been agreed upon for the tractor rally, the protesters at Singhu and Ghazipur borders had begun challenging the cops as early as 6.30am. They soon began making attempts to break through the barricades. This was even before the Republic Day parade had begun. By 8am, the barricades at Singhu were down and 45 minutes later, Tikri too had been breached. The tractor rally was on, still on course. By 10am, around 6,000-7,000 tractors had entered Delhi, cocking a snook at police and violating virtually all mutually agreed terms and conditions. When this group reached Mukarba Chowk on GT Karnal Road around 10.40am, it insisted on moving towards central Delhi instead of going on the predesignated route as planned during the meeting between the farmer leaders and Delhi Police. The cops tried to reason with them but the farmers, led by Nihang Sikhs on horses carrying swords and kirpans, charged at police and broke several layers of barricades between Mukarba Chowk and Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar. The protesters were teargassed and mild force was used to stop them from moving forward, but to no avail. Meanwhile, a section of farmers at Ghazipur border smashed the barricades at several points and headed towards ITO through Akshardham and Millennium Park, where they were joined by some farmers from Singhu border. Things were getting chaotic at Tikri border too. Here, a section of the protesters refused to turn towards Najafgarh and insisted on marching towards Peeragarhi and central Delhi, which led to day-long clashes with the cops. However, it was at ITO that the protesters met with stiff resistance from police, which turned the intersection into a battleground. The farmers turned violent and broke barricades, damaged iron railings on the central median of the road as well as the dividers and even tried to run over the policemen with their tractors. Around 12.35pm, police fired teargas shells and lathicharged the protesters, setting off a cat-and-mouse game. In retaliation, the protesters pelted the cops with stones. With the arrival of reinforcements after the conclusion of the Republic Day parade, police succeeded in stopping the farmer group from entering New Delhi district and moving towards Parliament. One section of protesters then turned towards Red Fort with another staying put on Vikas Marg. Having reached the ramparts of Red Fort, the protesters hoisted the Nishan Sahib amid much cheering even as police personnel were being attacked in the vicinity. It was only late at night that some order could be restored and the crowd was removed from the area. Police had to cut off the electricity supply to Red Fort to fish out the protesters. The clashes between police and farmers continued throughout the day. Most of the incidents were reported from Mukarba Chowk, Ghazipur, ITO, Seemapuri, Nangloi, Tikri Border and Red Fort. Delhi Police — caught between overseeing Republic Day security and handling the spiralling violence — used mild force, including teargas, and suspended the internet at many places. The request for the latter was made by the Special Cell to the Union home ministry, which gave the order without much of an impact. According to intelligence officials, things spun out of control as the protesters were virtually leaderless. While the talks had been held with the elderly union leaders, youngsters took charge on Tuesday morning, refusing to heed any counselling or instructions by police, with the leaders having disappeared from the scene. Reacting to the day’s developments, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava said, “The time and the routes for the tractor rally were finalised after several rounds of meetings. But the farmers drove their tractors off the routes and before the fixed time, leading to vandalism in which many police personnel were injured.” “Public property has also been damaged. I appeal to the protesting farmers not to indulge in violence, maintain peace and return through the designated routes,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/republic-daze-delhi-in-farms-way/articleshow/80471330.cms||Raj Shekhar
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Tractor rally: Unlikely weapon of mass destruction||NEW DELHI: Tractors became the protesting farmers’ biggest weapon during Tuesday’s rally — they used their vehicles to charge at police barricades, break through them and even push back armed forces on the ground. Tractors were also used to remove stone barricades and even steel containers placed along various routes to stop protesters. At ITO, farmers used tractors multiple times to charge at police, breaking their chain and forcing them to look for cover. Each time police personnel pushed farmers back, the protesters at the front were asked to charge their tractors, speeding instantly at the cops to break their rhythm. Groups of farmers behind the tractors then came forward, often with weapons, and charged further. Tractors pushed buses around at ITO, damaging multiple vehicles stationed near Tilak Bridge, while median railings were also severely damaged. At Mukarba Chowk, as protesters from the Singhu border decided to divert from the allotted route, farmers used their tractors to push police back in just 30 minutes and then tied their vehicles to stone slab barricades using iron chains. The tractors, with visibly higher horsepower, pulled away the slabs to clear the path. Next came containers, also placed to stop the rally. Within just a few minutes, these were removed and thrown by the road side. Tractors also helped farmers block the stretch towards Delhi Secretariat by positioning them in front of the old police headquarters. By 3pm, even as some tractors started returning towards Ghazipur, Guljeet Singh, one of the farmers, climbed atop his tractor and placed one wheel on the road and another on the divider. Singh was followed by another tractor driver and soon the stretch was completely blocked. At Nangloi Chowk, protesters managed to move the boulders and move ahead only thanks to their tractors. These were used to hit police barricades and later to drag boulders with the help of ropes to make way for the rally. Tractors were also used to intimidate security personnel by charging towards them at full speed. Moving tractors in a zig-zag manner helped protesters keep security officials at bay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/unlikely-weapon-of-mass-destruction/articleshow/80471664.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Shops in major markets play safe, down shutters||NEW DELHI: Fearing damage to property, shopkeepers in prominent markets, including Connaught Place and Chandni Chowk, decided not to open their shops after the Republic Day celebrations on Tuesday. New Delhi Traders’ Association (NDTA) issued an advisory after Delhi Police suggested that they keep the market closed in the second half of the day citing safety issues. “We had planned to open after 2pm. Usually, people visit India Gate and Connaught Place with their family and enjoy the evenings in the market. Some shop owners even decorated their shops and others came forward to offer great discounts,” said Atul Bhargawa, president, NDTA. However, after the farmers changed the route of their rally and drove towards ITO, NDTA sought Delhi Police’s advice on the situation. “They advised us to keep the shops closed. We circulated the message, but a few shop owners decided to wait and remained open till things were in control in Connaught Place,” said Bhargawa. At Chandni Chowk, though a majority of the shops remained closed, many eateries and a few shop owners preferred to open shutters in the evening. “But seeing the situation at Red Fort and the mob, no one gathered the courage to keep them open. There was complete chaos in the area. The situation looked out of control and shopkeepers feared damage to their property,” said Sanjay Bhargava, president, Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal. The traders of neighbouring markets, who opened their shops, had a hard time returning home due to the restrictions and barricading on roads. “We were on alert from afternoon, but decided to open the shops. However, in the evening it became really difficult to go inside the market due to police barricading and buses parked outside,” said Sanjiv Mehra of Khan Market Traders’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/shops-in-major-markets-play-safe-down-shutters/articleshow/80471323.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 27, 2021||Delhi||CJI S A Bobde had feared violence if rally was allowed in Delhi||NEW DELHI: During the hearings on farmers’ protest in the Supreme Court, CJI S A Bobde had feared that there could be violence if the protesters were allowed to take out a tractor march on Republic Day. The bench headed by Justice Bobde was sceptical when advocate Prashant Bhushan, who represented eight of the 40 unions protesting at Singhu border, said on January 20, “The tractor rally will be on the Outer Ring Road. We are only celebrating Republic Day and will not breach peace.” Attorney general K K Venugopal and solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who too feared violence, were ultimately proved right. “It will be difficult to keep peace on the congested roads of Delhi if 5,000 tractors are brought in,” the AG had said. The SG had repeatedly urged the court to issue a direction to farmers’ unions not to take out the tractor rally. He had told the SC that “extraneous and outside elements and ideologies have taken over the agitation”. But the SC didn’t rely upon the government’s specific assertion and “advocated” the farmers’ “right to protest”. While allowing the march, the CJI had said, “The only rider we would add is that they must assure the citizens of Delhi of complete peace.” Bhushan said the unions had already issued a call for maintaining peace. In the end, the promises proved to be fragile. Even during the hearing on January 11, the CJI had asked advocate Dushyant Dave, who represented the unions, whether the farm leaders were ready to accept responsibility for violence that could break out even by a stray incident. The CJI had asked, “The most serious question is possible loss of lives and damage to property. We do not mind protests going on but who is going to take responsibility? If the farmers’ leaders can take responsibility, let the protests go on.” Dave replied, “Nobody can (take responsibility).” Realising the enormity of the situation, the CJI had said, “God forbid if anything goes wrong. We do not want blood on our hands...” What Dave said sounds hollow now. "Our unions have maintained complete discipline. The government has enough police power to stop it (violence). Let the farmers' unions be permitted to protest at Ramlila Maidan. Why are we not allowed to go to Ramlila Maidan? It is a historical ground where citizens should be allowed to protest," he had said. On that day, Dave had initially said the farmers will not take out tractor rallies. When the CJI expressed happiness and the AG requested the court to record Dave's statement, the latter immediately made a U-turn and said, "I am not making any such statement. Give us a day. Keep the matter tomorrow. I will consult and get back to the court." However, neither Dave nor Bhushan appeared before the court on January 12, when the court appointed a four-member committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cji-had-feared-violence-if-rally-was-allowed/articleshow/80471338.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 27, 2021||Delhi||AAP condemns violence, says Centre to blame||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday condemned the violence seen during farmers’ protests and said the Centre allowed the situation to deteriorate to such an extent. “We strongly condemn the violence. The movement had been peaceful for the past two months. Farmer leaders have said that those who indulged in violence were not part of the movement and were external elements. Whoever they were, the violence has certainly weakened the movement,” the party, which has been supporting the farmers’ demands to repeal the three farm laws, said in a statement. Yogendra Yadav says violence ‘matter of shame’: Farmer leader Yogendra Yadav condemned the violence, saying it was “a matter of shame”. “I take full responsibility for what happened and I am in no way running away from it. Maintaining peace is the strength of this protest. I once again appeal everyone not to resort to any violence. The ones who caused it today were not a part of us since day one,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-condemns-violence-says-centre-to-blame/articleshow/80471363.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Trichy||Central region celebrates 72nd Republic Day||Trichy: Central Tamil Nadu witnessed toned down celebrations for the 72nd Republic Day akin to the rest of the state on Tuesday. Trichy collector S Sivarasu hoisted the tricolour at the celebration organised by the district administration at the Armed Reserve police ground in the city. Commissioner of police, Trichy city, J Loganathan, deputy inspector general of police (DIG), Trichy range, Z Annie Vijaya, deputy commissioner of police, law and order, Trichy city, A Pavan Kumar Reddy, deputy commissioner of police, crime and traffic, Trichy city, A Vedharathinam were also present at the event. Prior to the event, the collector and officials paid tributes at the World War I memorial at Gandhi market area. The collector honoured 534 officials from across the government departments with certificates for their meritorious services. Doctors, nurses and health workers were honoured for their services during the Covid-19 pandemic. In National Institute of Technology, Trichy (NIT-T), director Mini Shaji Thomas hoisted the national flag and addressed the gathering. She congratulated the NIT fraternity for rising to the challenges of the pandemic and ensuring a swift transition to online teaching and evaluation. Vice-chancellor of the Central university of Tamil Nadu (CUTN), R Karpaga Kumaravel, hoisted the national flag on the university premises. Unfurling the national flag at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in BHEL’s Kailasapuram township, general manager, BHEL Trichy, TS Murali said that a ‘Make-in-India’ business development group has been formed in BHEL’s corporate office at New Delhi. It will help to come up with products to support the government’s Aatma-Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, aimed at developing self-reliance in manufacturing. The Republic Day celebrations were also held in Karur, Pudukottai, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam districts in the region with the respective district collectors hoisting the tricolour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/central-region-celebrates-72nd-republic-day/articleshow/80470724.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Trichy||Trichy railway division to get 8 more subways||Trichy: Subways have been commissioned at six locations and 10 manned level crossing gates eliminated in Trichy railway division during the current financial year 2020-21, and work is in progress for eight more to ensure the safety and security of the general public, divisional railway manager of Trichy, Ajay Kumar has said. Addressing the Republic Day event, Kumar said that the division has loaded 6.309 tonne of different types of commodities to various destinations across the country up to December 2020. The division has also achieved 97.37% in punctuality, which is 7.39% higher than the corresponding period of last year, he said. “Integrated emergency response systems (video surveillance system) were provided at Kumbakonam, Thanjavur, Mayiladuthurai and Villipuram railway stations,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-railway-division-to-get-8-more-subways/articleshow/80470722.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Trichy||45 NCC cadets from Trichy set to join armed forces||Trichy: A total of 45 college students from Trichy region, all National Cadet Corps (NCC) cadets during their under graduation, have made it to the armed forces as soldiers in the last one year alone. Most of these students hail from humble background and live in the rural areas, who were motivated and offered timely guidance by NCC staff to enlist for selection to the defence forces. “Constant motivation and awareness are the reasons for these many cadets making it to the armed forces. It has ensured guaranteed income to many families and a dignified career,” said Lieutenant Colonel R Satheesan of 34 independent NCC company Thanjavur. R Prem Kumar, 21, who finished BSc Botany in St Joseph’s College last year is all set to join the oldest infantry of the Indian Army - the Madras Regimental Centre (MRC) Wellington for training. Though he joined college without any aim, he said NCC gave him direction. Attending the Army attachment camp in Secunderabad attracted him to army life. While many candidates get eliminated in the written test, Prem was exempted as he holds NCC ‘C’ certificate and could directly go for the physical test. Vijay G, another student from Ariyalur who will be heading for soldier training in Nasik next month, has other plans too. “I want to become an officer in the Army and will work for it once I get into the Army as solider,” he said. S Bala Chandru, a student from National College Trichy (NCT), got selected as airman in Indian Air Force. He had joined college with the sole aim of getting a government job. “But after joining NCC air wing, I nurtured a dream to get into the armed forces,” he said. Bala will be paid Rs 18,000- Rs 19,000 during training for a year and later draw Rs 33,000. “I would have settled for a private job after graduation but Army life fascinates me, and without NCC experience it would not have been possible to join the forces,” he said. Wing Commander C Gunasekaran, Commanding Officer, 3 TN Air Squadron NCC, said it is disheartening to find many students settling for menial jobs after graduation though they have the capability of joining the armed forces. “We understood that they lack orientation and we have decided to help them,” he said. The selection happens twice or thrice a year. While the basic eligibility is class XII pass with 60% marks for IAF with a simple entrance test, there is no entrance test in Army selection if the candidate holds NCC ‘C’ certificate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/45-ncc-cadets-from-trichy-set-to-join-armed-forces/articleshow/80470728.cms||Sampath Kumar
January 27, 2021||Trichy||Trichy city cops aim to speed up response||Trichy: As part of a state-wide project, Trichy city police launched the sector vigilance police officers programme in all the police station limits here on Tuesday. Commissioner of police, Trichy city, J Loganathan, inaugurated the programme for all the 14 police stations attached to the Trichy city police from the Armed reserve police grounds in KK Nagar. The system aims to reduce the response time to a complaint. The scheme is aimed at bridging the gap between the police and the general public besides monitoring and controlling the criminal activities in the society thereby preventing crimes. The project would focus on ensuring the safety of the senior citizens and rehabilitating youths with bad habits. The scheme has come into effect in all 50 police beats in the jurisdictions of the 14 police stations. Though there will be three policemen for each beat to take care of three shifts, one of them will be named sector vigilance police officer. The sector vigilance police officer will be in the rank of head constable or special sub-inspector. The police have chosen only male police officers for the project. The officer should be in constant touch with the local people in the jurisdiction of the respective police station. Trichy city police have differed from their counterparts in other districts by providing a bike and mobile phone to each of the selected officers. Sources said that the mobile phones will be equipped with some exclusive features to ensure the speedy communication and coordination with higher officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-city-cops-aim-to-speed-up-response/articleshow/80470726.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Trichy||Farmers defy police, take out rallies on tractors, bikes||Trichy/Madurai: Ignoring stern warnings from the police, hundreds of farmers and members of trade unions took out rallies on tractors, two-wheelers and bullock carts in the delta districts on Tuesday in support of the farmers protesting in Delhi for withdrawal of the three new farm laws. The rallies were held in Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvaur and Trichy districts according to a decision taken by the state-level meeting of All India Farmers’ Struggle Coordination Committee and labour unions. Police did not grant permission for the rally in these districts and also warned of stern action if they went ahead. In Trichy, the farmers converged near MGR statue near district court and tried to proceed, but a large posse of police intercepted them citing the prohibition. Chaos prevailed with the farmers trying to cross the barrier and police stopping them, but after some time they were allowed to proceed. In Thanjavur, protesters converged at Melavastha Savadi and proceeded towards the new bus stand riding tractors, two-wheelers and bullock carts. Police blocked them 100 metres away leading to arguments. Finally the protesters managed to break the barrier and complete their rally at the bus stand. Similar incidents were seen in Tiruvarur also where the protesters came on 75 tractors headed by DMK MLA Poondi Kalaivanan and Congress, communist and VCK leaders. In Trichy, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam leader Ayilai Sivasuriyan, G Suresh of AITUC and members of DYFI as well as various other opposition parties and Tamil outfits like Makkal Adhikaram participated in the rally. In Thanjavur, DMK MLAs Durai Chandrasekaran, M Ramachandran and TKG Neelamegam participated. In Madurai, CPM staged a demonstration in the evening protesting the attack on farmers who took out the tractor rally in Delhi. Madurai urban district CPM secretary R Vijayarajan led the protest near Pandi Bazaar which was attended by Su Venkatesan, MP too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-defy-police-take-out-rallies-on-tractors-bikes/articleshow/80470730.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Chennai||Greater Chennai civic body plans foot over-bridge across Loop Road||CHENNAI: As part of the Marina beautification project, Greater Chennai Corporation has made plans to build a foot over-bridge across the Marina Loop Road to facilitate the movement of fishermen across the stretch and avert accidents. The plan has been finalised as per directions of the Madras high court, an official said. The bridge will connect the new fish market that the corporation is building. In November, the corporation had said it had identified a two-acre land on the Loop Road for a modern fish market to address traffic congestion on the stretch and ensure fish products are sold in hygienic conditions. A parking area is being planned along with 300 shops, about 15sqft each. Sources in the civic body told TOI that the corporation faced two issues in designing the bridge. On the eastern side of the road near the beach, they had to keep a narrow landing because of coastal regulation zone norms. On the western side, across the road, they had little space so they opted for a spiral landing, similar to the one at Anna Nagar tower park. The approach to the foot over-bridge, which will have two spans, will have a sloping ramp as it would be easier for fishermen carrying a big load to climb the bridge. Fishermen leader K Bharati said such a project will face opposition from the fisherfolk.  “Our contention is that Santhome High Road should be widened and Loop Road should not be used for vehicular traffic at all as it impedes our traditional occupational rights,” Bharati said. He said they had “complete faith in the judiciary” and that they would be representing issues regarding the Loop Road once again. “Already, there is discontentment among vendors as many of them have been restricted from plying their trade on Marina due to orders of the high court. Only 500-odd vendors will be allowed and they are also selected by a draw of lots,” Bharati said, referring to restricting the number of vendors on Marina to 900.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/civic-body-plans-foot-over-bridge-across-loop-road/articleshow/80470157.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Trichy||AAI seeks underpass on Trichy-Pudukottai rd||Trichy: Efforts are on to establish an underpass along Trichy-Pudukottai road to avert any security threat to the Trichy airport, airport director S Dharmaraj has said. Addressing the Republic Day celebration at the airport on Tuesday, he said Airports Authority of India has been constantly pursuing with the chief engineer of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Chennai the need to establish an underpass for road traffic on Trichy-Pudukottai road on safety grounds. On the land acquisition for airport expansion, he said, “Substantial progress has been made in land acquisition process and I am confident that by the end of this year we will achieve the requisite target.” A total of 5.5 acres of land from Kottappattu village has been taken over for providing a simple approach lighting system and work is in progress. Another 3.3 acres has also been acquired from Keelakalkandarkottai village. Working permission for the construction of perimeter wall on the northern side to meet the safety requirements is being pursued with defence authorities, which may materialize by May, he further stated. “We have obtained no objection certificate for construction of a new technical block-cum-air traffic control tower. The construction activity will commence after the tendering process is completed,” Dharmaraj added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/aai-seeks-underpass-on-trichy-pudukottai-rd/articleshow/80470731.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Trichy||Fishermen commended for saving dugongs||Trichy: In all, 16 fishermen from Therku Puthukudi and Vadaku Puthukudi coastal villages in Pudukottai district, and three field level staffs from the forest department received commendation certificates for their efforts to save the endangered aquatic mammal dugong, from the district collector P Uma Maheswari on Tuesday as part of the Republic Day celebration. Dugongs are protected under wildlife protection Act 1972 and are found extensively in shallow waters along Pudukottai coastal regions. They feed on sea grass, which are also termed as bioindicators. Dugongs are often killed after coming under the fishing nets of the local fishermen. On three such occasions last year, four dugongs got trapped in the fishing net. However, they were safely rescued and released back in the sea. Constant awareness campaign by the forest department has been instrumental in making the fishermen compassionate towards these endangered species.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fishermen-commended-for-saving-dugongs/articleshow/80470732.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Trichy||IIM launches doctoral programme in management||Trichy: The Indian Institute of Management Trichy (IIM-T) started its first batch of executive doctoral programme in management (EDPM) on Monday. EDPM is the fifth programme launched at IIM-T, which is intended for senior working executives and aims to encourage knowledge sharing, dissemination and creation. The programme includes four terms of course work with 36 credits and 360 hours of teaching. A total of 11 candidates have been selected out of over a hundred applicants. “The programme is designed in such a way that these executives will become established scholars in the corporate, government and academia field,” said Sujeet Kumar Sharma, chairperson, doctoral programme in management and research. Inaugurating the EDPM programme at a virtual event, Sandhya Shekar, former founding CEO, IIT Madras Research Park, said that such programmes strengthen the relationship between academic institutions and industry. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/iim-launches-doctoral-programme-in-management/articleshow/80470734.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Nagpur||SC stays HC verdict on ‘skin-to-skin contact for sexual assault’||Nagpur: The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed one of the most controversial judgments delivered by the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on January 19 ruling that groping 12-year-old minor’s breasts without removing her clothes wasn’t a “sexual assault” as there was no skin-to-skin contact between them. While staying accused’s acquittal by HC under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) Act, an SC bench led by Chief Justice Sharad Bobde also issued notices to the Maharashtra government and others after attorney general (AG) KK Venugopal brought the Nagpur bench’s verdict to notice of the apex court terming it as “disturbing verdict” and that will set a “dangerous precedent”, the city lawyers associated with the case told TOI. “The HC apparently acquitted the accused under Section 8 of the Pocso Act on the ground that he had no sexual intent to commit offence because there was no skin-to-skin contact. The AG submitted that the order in question is unprecedented and is likely to set a dangerous precedent. We permit thte AG to file a petition against the order,” the top court said, while asking the respondents to reply within two weeks. In her verdict, Justice Pushpa Ganediwala held that there must be a “skin-to-skin” contact with sexual intent for an act to be considered as “sexual assault”. While acquitting the city-based accused Satish Ragde from the Act, she reversed three years rigorous imprisonment (RI) awarded to him. But the judge maintained his conviction under Section 354 of the IPC related to outraging modesty along with Section 342 and directed him to undergo one years of RI along with Rs1,000 fine. “The act of pressing of breast of a 12-year-old child in the absence of any specific detail as to whether her garment tops was removed or whether he put his hands inside the tops to press her breast would not fall in the definition of sexual assault,” Justice Ganediwala said in the verdict. The verdict drew flak from the women’s organizations across the country who termed it a “bizarre” judgment. The National Commission for Women had also planned to challenge the order. Even the legal experts had termed it as bad judgment that will encourage the molesters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sc-stays-hc-verdict-on-skin-to-skin-contact-for-sexual-assault/articleshow/80483273.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Raid Fort: When rampaging mob took ramparts by storm||NEW DELHI: Chaos reigned at Red Fort on the 72nd Republic Day as the tractor rally by farmers went off the designated course and rolled into the iconic Mughal-era monument. Not only was the Nishan Sahib hoisted atop a minaret, but a mob vandalised the fort and pushed away the cops on duty. Before the situation could take an uglier turn, a group of elderly men somehow convinced the agitated protesters to move out of the place of historic importance. Around 12.45pm, a group of protesters at ITO broke ranks and headed towards Red Fort. Within 15 minutes, the road in front of the fort was swamped with tractors adorned with flags blaring music. At 1pm, the farmers entered the forecourt of the fort despite heavy police presence. Around 2pm, a couple of people climbed the minaret and tied the saffron flag amid cries of “Jo bole so nihaal”. For the past two months, the symbolism of Red Fort was clear in the minds of the protesting farmers, right from pop songs mentioning it, to artwork at Singhu border showing the Khalsa army entering the fort after defeating the Mughals. The importance of Red Fort has been in the minds of Sikhs since 1783, when Mughal emperor Shah Alam II was defeated. Kanwaljeet Singh, a young protester from Kurukshetra, said, “Red Fort is the symbol of power and every year the Prime Minister speaks from here. With us capturing it, we want to raise our voice as the PM refuses to listen to us. We are not here for fun. We are here to give a message.” Another protester at Lahori Gate, Kulbeer Singh from Jammu, said, “We, as people, have laid claim to the monument and proven that India is a democracy. We have not touched the national flag and it flutters higher than any other. With this action, we demand that the three agri laws be repealed.” He added that many would claim that this act was similar to what Khalistanis would do, “but they don’t understand that this flag is a symbol of Sikh pride.” While the identity of the person who hoisted the flag was not revealed, actor Deep Sidhu, who felicitated him, called him “our true hero.” Asking the protesters to avoid violence, he said, “We cannot be violent today as it is not in our nature.” However, violence did occur. After the flag was unfurled, many young farmers wanted to enter the Naubat Khana. Police resorted to lathi-charge, which injured protesters and cops alike. After the protesters charged at police, the latter were left with no option but to jump off a wall roughly 20 feet in height, giving open space for a mob to damage property. CCTV cameras installed there were also damaged. The ticket counter was vandalised despite elderly farmers trying to stop the mob. An ASI official told TOI, “We will assess the damage to the fort and its property in a few days.” By evening, most protesters left the fort. The remaining were removed by baton-wielding cops. Electricity supply of the Red Fort was cut off to fish them out. Later, a key farmer group called off the tractor rally, accusing anti-social elements of being responsible for the violence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/raid-fort-when-rampaging-mob-took-ramparts-by-storm/articleshow/80471382.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
January 27, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: A Republic Day without the people||CHENNAI: Republic Day celebrations this year were subdued as members of the public were requested to skip to the event. Every year, the Kamarajar promenade along Marina beach usually brims with students and general public who turn up in numbers to witness the ceremonial march past by different contingents and cultural performances. This year, the prevailing pandemic situation meant that only government officials, ministers, dignitaries from consulates and their families were part of the audience in the gallery. Governor Banwarilal Purohit unfurled the National Flag at 8am near Mahatma Gandhi’s statue following which a helicopter of the Indian Air Force showered petals. Thirty contingents, including that of the Indian army, navy, air force, CRPF, Tamil Nadu special police, Chennai police, forest, fire and prison departments were part of the march past. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami presented seven awards -- Anna medal for gallantry (four recipients), Kottai Ameer award for communal harmony to K A Abdul Jabbar of Coimbatore, C Narayanasamy Naidu award for highest productivity in rice to G Selvakumar of Srivilliputhur, best performing famer producer company (governance) to Erode Precision Farm Producer Company Limited and Velliangiri Uzhavan Producer Company Limited, best performing famer producer company (business performance) to Tamil Nadu Banana Producer Company Limited and Virudhai Millets Farmers Producer Company Limited, Gandhi Adigal police medals to four police officers and chief minister’s trophy for the best police station. B Kumar, inspector, Salem town police station, received the CM’s trophy for the best police station in the state. The dignitaries were enthralled by performances by folk artists from across the country who displayed traditional performances and a procession of tableaux of various government departments. Chennai police’s tableau was adjudged the best. The highlight of the event, however, was the display of motorbike acrobatics by a team of Tamil Nadu police. City police sub-inspector Anbarasi glided past on a heavy motorbike standing all along to set the tone for the team’s later performances whose manoeuvres were applauded by the dignitaries. The motorbike acrobatics team is headed by assistant commissioner T Pandi of Chennai police who assembled the team of 45 police personnel about a week ago to train for the event. “We trained at the Rajarathinam Stadium grounds in Egmore. However, since we also require training on road, we requested senior officials to divert traffic at night and arrangements were made for us to rehearse during the night,” said Pandi who has been part of the bike acrobatics team since 1993. A senior official with the organising committee said they missed school and college students. “Every year after the parade and hearing stories of service and valour, youngsters come up to officials to inquire about taking up civil services and such events act as a motivating factor for youngsters apart from being a prominent day in the country’s history,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-republic-day-without-the-people/articleshow/80470161.cms||Srikkanth D
January 27, 2021||Trichy||Pedestrians most victims in fatal road accidents in Trichy||TRICHY: Fatal road accidents reported in the district has been on the decline in the last two months, but pedestrians and pillions riders have mostly been the victims in fatal road accidents. In December 2020, 33% of the casualties involve pedestrians attempting to cross roads. City roads, with only one casualty, are relatively safer compared to suburban and rural localities. As per the district-level statistics shared by the road accident data management system, 153 accidents were reported in December resulting in injuries of which 21 were fatal - the lowest in the last six months. In November, the number of non-fatal and fatal accidents were 148 and 23 respectively. Analysis of fatal accidents by the state highways department and other stakeholder departments has revealed lack of attention on the roads and the absence of self-consciousness as reasons for pedestrians to fall victims. Two mentally-ill homeless people have also died in road accidents as pedestrians at Namakkal and Thuraiyur bypass roads. Though the district did not witness any accidents involving head-on collisions in December, rash and careless driving and unauthorised parking have cost 21 lives. As a remedial measure, the state highways department has planned for a joint inspection at the accident-prone zone. “We will conduct a feasibility study at Palpannai junction with NHAI and city police to redevelop the traffic island. Measures to prevent pedestrians from falling victims were suggested,” said P Vadivel, divisional engineer, state highways. Unauthorised parking of trucks on the Trichy-Madurai highway and other NHs was identified as another reason for fatal accidents on the stretch. Two-wheeler riders, due to the lack of lighting on the highways, are ramming into stationary vehicles. Thuvakudi on Trichy-Thanjavur NH was identified to have reported at least four fatal accidents in the month. Analysing the fatal accidents on highways, the mobile highways patrol has been asked to regulate unauthorised parking on highways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pedestrians-most-victims-in-fatal-road-accidents-in-trichy/articleshow/80470735.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 27, 2021||Kanpur||Girl ‘cop’ challans dad for not wearing helmet in Uttar Pradesh||KANPUR: In a rare display of impartiality, dedication to duty and following the rule book, Akansha Gupta, who was made police station in-charge for a day on National Girl Child Day, issued a challan to her father who was driving a two-wheeler without helmet in Usrahar police station area of Etawah district on Sunday. Akansha, who is pursuing BSc at a local degree college, was widely hailed for setting an example of impartial working while discharging duties with her action. Sitting in the chair of police station in-charge, Akanksha patiently heard the grievances of complainants and then went on patrolling in a police vehicle with the actual in-charge Amar Pal Singh and sub-inspector Dharmendra Sharma. She, however, took many by surprise when she issued a challan to her father Arvind Gupta, who was caught driving his motorcycle without wearing a helmet, and made an appeal to all to wear helmets. Arvind also regretted his mistake in public. Talking to reporters, Akanksha said officers should not come under any kind of pressure during checking and everyone should first set things right at his/her home. “I issued a challan to my father, who was driving bike without helmet without giving it a second thought. No one is above the law, and it’s my appeal to all those travelling on two-wheelers to wear helmet and fasten its strap to save their lives which are very precious for their family members and dependents,” she said. “I am feeling proud while working as station in-charge,” she added. Usrahar police station in-charge Amar Pal Singh said, “We all appreciated Akansha’s dedication and hope people will heed to her appeal.” National Girl Child Day was first celebrated in 2008 by the ministry of women and child development and is celebrated on January 24 every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/girl-cop-challans-dad-for-not-wearing-helmet/articleshow/80455194.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
January 27, 2021||Trichy||Trichy UGD work will end in ’21: Corpn||Trichy: Corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said that UGD works under the smart cities projects will be completed this year, after hoisting the national flag at the main office of Trichy Corporation on Republic Day on Tuesday. He reiterated that plugging the discharge of waste water and sewage in the fresh waterbodies will be top priority for the civic body. “UGD work and sewage treatment plant work under the smart cities mission will be completed within the year. Preliminary work to renovate the existing underground drainage project is underway is to prevent wastewater from merging with Koraiyar and Uyyakondan rivers,” he said. As many as 18 officials and workers who had completed 25 years of service in the civic boy were felicitated. A cash incentive of Rs 2,000 was provided to each of them. Similarly, 38 health officials and workers who had effectively carried out the Covid19 mitigation work were honoured with a certificate of merit. Meanwhile, Bhel Trichy general manager T S Murali unfurled the national flag and inspected the guard of honour presented by the security forces at Bhel township on Tuesday. He gave away Bhel's republic day medals and awards for outstanding contributions by employees and to recognize the contribution during the pandemic. He said that several initiatives are planned at Bhel Trichy complex and are being implemented in line with the corporate roadmap for the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-ugd-work-will-end-in-21-corpn/articleshow/80470736.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Chennai||TN honours the brave and the good||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami awarded the Anna medals for gallantry to four people during Republic Day celebrations. The award is given to government servants and civilians for acts of bravery and carries a cheque of Rs 1 lakh, a medal and a certificate. Selfless act P Mullai, teacher, Pulivalam government high School, Sholinghur The 48-year-old teacher’s selfless efforts in saving 26 students of her school brought her accolades. Mullai was rehearsing for an event with her students on January 29 when she smelt LPG in the vicinity. Without wasting time she evacuated the room. However, before she could leave the compound, a cylinder burst at an adjacent building. In the impact, the compound wall of the school collapsed severely injuring Mullai. She was under treatment in ICU for over two months and underwent eight operations. “I am grateful for the recognition. But what kept me going all these days was the love and affection from the students and their parents who showered me with affection,” Mullai said. In action, hands-on Dr A Prakash, veterinary assistant, Hosur In November, the rescue of a wild elephant that fell into a 60-foot-deep narrow concrete ring well after an 18-hour struggle attracted media attention. Among the team of various departments which co-ordinated in the rescue efforts, Dr Prakash, a 36-year-old veterinary surgeon, was chosen for the gallantry award for his timely action in administering anaesthetic drug to the animal with his bare hands. “Usually, a tranquilizing gun is used. But as the rescue operation went on for hours, a crowd gathered in the area and when the animal was eventually lifted we had to ensure that it did not get scared. If an animal gets scared, there are chances it will go out of control. So without wasting time, I got into action and administered the anaesthetic drug with bare hands,” Dr Prakash said. Quick thinking J Suresh, loco pilot, Madurai Suresh’s timely action in applying emergency brakes and stopping the train before it hit a boulder on the track saved the lives of 1,500 passengers on the Vaigai Express in November. The 49-year-old loco pilot started from Madurai at 7am and was heading to Chennai when he noticed boulders on the track ahead of Kodai Road railway station. “It was a foggy morning. Rocks had fallen on the track following a landslide. Since there was a curve, I could notice two boulders and many pieces of rocks on the track from about 450m,” he said. Recalling that the train was at a speed of 50km he said he managed to stop it 100m away from the boulders by applying emergency brakes. “I consider this award a recognition and motivation for loco pilots and assistant loco pilots,” he said. Good Samaritan R Pugazendiran, cab driver, Nilgiris The only non-government employee among those who received the gallantry award on Tuesday, the 35-year-old cab driver from the Nilgiris was recognized for his consistent efforts in helping the public in the locality by providing free transportation during emergency situations. On August 4, braving heavy rain and severe storm, Pugazendiran helped transport a police constable from Nilgiris to Coimbatore Government Hospital. His timely help saved the life of the police constable who suffered a spinal cord fracture after a tree fell on him during relief work during rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-honours-the-brave-and-the-good/articleshow/80470164.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 27, 2021||Trichy||Transwoman hoists national flag at Trichy school||TRICHY: A transwoman, who was invited as the chief guest for the Republic Day celebration at Subbiah Memorial Middle School at Tennur, hoisted the national flag at the school on Wednesday. School headmaster K S Jeevanandhan said that the school wanted to recognise the transwoman, Sneha, a driver at the district collector office, who is leading a dignified life. She hoisted the national flag, distributed sweets and addressed the students. Like any other transgender, Sneha, 41, started facing humiliation at her school and dropped out of the school after class X. She was forced to hide her identity as a female for many years even after the gender reassignment surgery to avoid rejection from the society that identified Sneha as a man. She worked as a driver in a few places but had to switch her job after being faced humiliation for her female like gestures. She was abandoned by her family and parents after they learned about the surgery. Struggling without food for several days, she took shelter in a temple where a family offered her accommodation. But, she started searching for jobs and approached the social welfare department. “Most of the transgenders are identified with prostitution, but they are forced to take that step after facing neglect by the society. I don’t want to be one among them,” I told the officials while seeking a job. She was inducted as an ad-hoc driver with the district administration and allowed to live with her female identity. The job started changing her life for the good and she was accepted by her family members. The society too started accepting her as she was invited to speak in a few colleges. “I still don’t attend weddings of my family members to avoid humiliation. But I live with my parents as they have accepted me, and I am taking care of them,” she said. Asked about her future plans, she said she wants to serve people affected with HIV, which she has been doing with an NGO. “I want to live a meaningful life until my death,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/transwoman-hoists-national-flag-at-trichy-school/articleshow/80470738.cms||Sampath Kumar
January 27, 2021||Trichy||Dial no. 1077 for complaints against harvester operators||TRICHY: The Thanjavur district collector has warned private harvester operators against collecting rent in excess of that fixed by the district administration to harvest paddy. . With samba paddy harvest on in the delta districts, the collector had convened a tripartite meeting to fix reasonable rent for private harvesters. However, farmers said the harvester operators have been collecting higher rent for their machines due to high demand. The district administration fixed the rent for chain type harvester at Rs 2,100 per hour and for tyre type harvester at Rs 1,600. The rate for the machines provided by agriculture engineering department has been fixed at Rs 1,415 for chain type. Farmers can dial toll free number 1077 and complain if they have any grievance in this regard, district collector M Govinda Rao said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dial-no-1077-for-complaints-against-harvester-operators/articleshow/80470739.cms||---
January 27, 2021||India||Feb 1 rally still on, says SKM, blames ‘some outfits, persons’ for violence||NEW DELHI: With events around ‘Kisan Republic Day Parade’ going against their proclaimed script of peaceful protest, farm unions’ umbrella body, Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), on Tuesday disassociated itself from violent incidents in the heart of the capital and blamed “some organisations and individuals” for violating the planned routes and indulging in “condemnable” acts. “Antisocial elements have infiltrated the otherwise peaceful movement. We have always held that peace is our biggest strength, and that any violation would hurt the movement,” said the Morcha in a statement, issued after hundreds of protesters jumped police barricades and reached ITO and Red Fort in central Delhi. As the protesters stationed themselves at various sites in the city, SKM called off the ‘Kisan Republic Day Parade’ on Tuesday evening and appealed to all participants to immediately return to their respective protest sites on Delhi borders — Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri. It said the “movement will continue peacefully and further steps will be discussed and decided soon”. SKM leaders later said the events on Tuesday would not affect their plan to hold a protest march on foot towards Parliament on the Budget Day on February 1. Though the Morcha has not identified the organisations and individuals responsible for violence during the tractor rally, leaders hinted at those associated with Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) — the group which had rejected the route plan finalised by SKM with Delhi Police on the eve of the Republic Day. KMSC’s Punjab unit general secretary Sarvan Singh Pandher had on Monday announced to start its parade towards Outer Ring Road at 8am on Tuesday — ahead of SKM’s agreed plan to start the tractor rally after conclusion of the official parade at Rajpath. Regretting the “undesirable and unacceptable events”, the SKM said, “We dissociate ourselves from all such elements that have violated our discipline.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/feb-1-rally-still-on-says-skm-blames-some-outfits-persons-for-violence/articleshow/80472074.cms||Vishwa Mohan
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Kisan jam: Traffic derailed with tractors out on roads||NEW DELHI: Delhiites who ventured out and those trying to reach the capital had a nightmarish experience on Tuesday as farmers’ tractor rally resulted in massive jams not only on arterial roads across the city, but also highways leading to it. Tuesday saw a record 51 Delhi Metro stations across six different corridors getting closed due to security reasons. Those travelling between Delhi, Gurugram and Noida were stuck in snarls for hours, including many who had a train or flight to catch. One of the commuters, Priyanka Sharma, said that she urgently had to go to Gurugram from Delhi but everywhere she found barricades. Another commuter, Ravi, said that he had to go to Dwarka from Daryaganj in the evening but since internet services were suspended in the area, he got late in arranging a ride for himself. However, even when he did, it took him more than an hour to find a way out since all the adjoining routes were barricaded. Delhi Traffic Police kept updating commuters through their Twitter handle about traffic jam situations. “Please avoid NH 44, GTK road, outer ring road, Signature bridge, GT road, ISBT ring road, Vikas Marg, ITO, NH 24, Nizammudin Khatta, Noida link road, Peeragarhi & Outer Delhi, East & West Delhi border areas due to ongoing farmer protests,” read one of the posts. Roads around Meerut Expressway, Akshardham, Pragati Maidan, Vikas Marg, ITO, Mandi House, India Gate, Mukarba Chowk, Outer Ring Road, Delhi-Noida Link Road, Ghazipur border, Singhu border and Chilla border had to be closed for general traffic earlier in the day. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) first closed the Lal Quila (Red Fort) station of the Violet Line (Kashmere Gate-Ballabhgarh) around 10 am and within 10 minutes, closed entry to 11 stations of the Green Line that connects Inderlok to Bahadurgarh and crosses the TIkri border where farmers have been protesting. The entire corridor was closed by 12.46 pm. Several other stations on other corridors were closed too. Most of them reopened between 8 and 9 pm. Later in the day, traffic officials said that vehicle movement was running close to normal in several areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kisan-jam-traffic-derailed-with-tractors-out-on-roads/articleshow/80470937.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
January 27, 2021||India||Peaceful farm stir in rest of India||Protests by farmers and their supporters against the agri-marketing laws were by and large peaceful in states like Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Telangana. In Karnataka, there were tractors rallies of varying size in support of the protest in Delhi. Members of some 50 outfits participated in a demonstration in Bengaluru that involved 125 tractors and other vehicles under the Aikhya (United) Forum. There were a few reports of minor skirmishes with the police from other parts of the state, while some farmers’ groups threatened to intensify the agitation on the lines of the Delhi stir if the Centre failed to withdraw the laws. Over 5,000 tractors headed towards Bengaluru were stopped. Federation of Farmers’ Associations Kurubur Shanthkumar warned of a larger agitation. “ In Telangana, hundreds of people chanting “Jai Jawan Jai Kisan” hit the streets in Hyderabad. Organised by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, the rally comprised participants from the Left parties, civil rights groups and women’s groups. The tractor rally at the Shahjahanpur-Kherhi border in Haryana’s Rewari district saw farmers, labourers, fishermen and tribals from seven states participate. The rally, which began at Rewari after tricolour was unfurled at the venue, reached Manesar via Bawal and returned by the same route without any controversial incident. It included 26 makeshift tableaux on trolleys highlighting the art, culture, heritage and source of income of 26 states. “Hum iss tractor parade se dil jeetne aaye hain, naa ki Dilli jeetne (We want to win the hearts of people with this parade, not Delhi),” Samyukta Morcha local coordinator Sanjay Madhav said. In Mumbai, protesters headed home after flag-hoisting at Azad Maidan, the All India Kisan Sabha said. In Tamil Nadu, farmers and trade union members ignored warnings from police and took out rallies on tractors and twowheelers involving several people in Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvaur and Trichy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/peaceful-farm-stir-in-rest-of-india/articleshow/80472078.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Chandigarh||What is Nishan Sahib? It’s found flying atop every gurdwara||Was a Khalistani flag hoisted at Red Fort? No, it was a Sikh flag which is found in every gurdwara and people carry it almost invariably during religious processions. In gurdwaras, it is hoisted at a height with a ‘khanda’ (a doubleedged sword). The flag flies at the top of this and is called Nishan Sahib. The type of flag that was fixed atop the pole in Red Fort is usually carried atop vehicles when people go for religious processions or even for religio-political gatherings, or during any movement. Sikh flag in the Indian ArmyNishan Sahib aka the ‘Sikh flag’ is there at every gurdwara of the Sikh Regiment. When the contingents of the regiment move their gurdwara, they also carry the Sikh Flag along the ‘bir’ of Guru Granth Sahib and it is treated with great respect by officers and jawans. Nishan Sahib is found at every gurdwara in any Army cantonment. The war cry of Sikh Regiment and Sikh Light Infantry is the Sikh war cry, ‘Bole So Nihal, Sat Sri Akal’. Motto of the Sikh Regiment is ‘Nischay Kar Apni Jeet Karoon (With determination, I will be triumphant) which is taken from a hymn by Guru Gobind Singh. The regimental motto of the Sikh Light Infantry is ‘Deg Teg Fateh (prosperity in peace, victory in war)’. Protesters also raised the slogans of ‘Bole So Nihal Sat Sri Akal’ throughout the tractor march and also at the Red Fort. Was the Tricolour removed at Red Fort?No, the videos of the incident make it abundantly clear the ‘Sikh flag’ was mounted on an empty pole and no one touched the Tricolour. Some protesters were even carrying Tricolours along with Sikh flags and flags of the farmers’ unions. Watch Sikh flag at Red Fort: Know all about the 'Nishan Sahib'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nishan-sahib-is-found-in-every-gurdwara/articleshow/80472079.cms||IP Singh
January 27, 2021||India||TN shows the way, cuts road deaths by 54% in 4 years||NEW DELHI: Robust ambulance services and highway patrol teams can reduce road deaths drastically as was evident in Tamil Nadu where road crash fatalities fell by 54% in 4 years — from 17,218 fatalities in 2016 to 7,287 in 2020. While Rajasthan, Karnataka and Kerala are keen to adopt the Tamil Nadu model, Maharashtra on Tuesday announced to implement it. Venkatesh Balasubramanian of IIT-M on Tuesday said even if the 2020 road crash and death data are not taken into consideration because of the lockdown, Tamil Nadu has been recording continuous decline in fatalities since 2016. Now the road transport ministry and World Bank will propagate the TN model — identifying the exact cause of fatalities, ambulance reaching site within 13 minutes, rectifying crash spots and smooth coordination among various agencies — which others can adopt to check the number of road deaths. The state deploys ambulances after identifying accident-prone locations, which has reduced response time considerably. Balasubramanian said one of the focuses is to save as many lives as possible in case of any crash. India loses 415 lives per day in road crashes, the most across the globe. “If we keep waiting till 2030, at least 6-7 lakh people will die due to road accidents. If Tamil Nadu can do it, all states can make progress,” Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari said while launching the month-long Road Safety campaign. Elaborating about Tamil Nadu, a state transport department official said the steps include collection of robust data on accidents, identifying and elimination of ‘black spots’, providing emergency response and healthcare, educating drivers on safe driving and enforcement by police and the transport wing. The state transport minister holds a meeting of all wings concerned on road safety every third month and the collector of each district chairs a meeting every month. Performance on the road safety front has been made a critical input while analysing the performance of field officers in their annual performance reports. Times View: Tamil Nadu must be congratulated for coming up with a successful model that helps reduce road deaths. It would be even better if other states adopt this model, with necessary local tweaks. India is the world’s road death capital. The sooner the tag is lost, the better.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tn-shows-the-way-cuts-road-deaths-by-54-in-4-years/articleshow/80472086.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 27, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Start-up in Vizag makes smart pods for quick naps||VISAKHAPATNAM: Have you ever wanted to take a quick nap at your workplace? Here’s a start-up in incubation at IIM-Visakhapatnam (IIM-V) looking to cater to your specific need. Urbanpod Innovation Private Limited is building smart napping pods for urban spaces for rest and recharge. Featuring a zero-gravity bed, the bed provides a perfect setting for a quick nap. Urbanpod Innovation Private Limited is among five start-ups handpicked by IIM-V to incubate under its Technology Incubation and Entrepreneurship Development (TIDE 2.0) G3 Centre, sanctioned by the Union ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY). Heamac Healthcare, another start-up in incubation at IIM-V, is working towards solving problems in the field of neonatology. Pro Safe, a third start-up, is working on a digital pill which when consumed by a subject in distress can act as a broadcaster of their real-time location to their emergency contacts and cops. The Centre has got a grant-in-aid of Rs1.7crore from MeitY to play the role of an angel investor for the chosen tech start-ups. Apart from providing commercialisation or prototyping grant, IIM-V is offering mentorship, incubation and networking support to these start-ups. IIM-V director Prof M Chandrasekhar said that the five selected start-ups are working on products and services based on various cyber-physical systems including Internet of Things (IoT), artificial intelligence, machine modularity and sensors. Prof Mohammed Shameem Jawed, faculty member as well as director and COO of IIMV-Field, said that the institute has created a co-working space for 40 ventures. “In all, the five start-ups have registered three technology and one design patent. Application was filed for another patent,” Prof Jawed said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/start-up-makes-smart-pods-for-quick-naps/articleshow/80469890.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
January 27, 2021||Vijayawada||On Republic Day, AP governor pays tribute to freedom fighters||VIJAYAWADA: Governor Biswabushan Harichandan on Tuesday hoisted the national flag to mark the 72nd Republic Day at Indira Gandhi Municipal Stadium in city. He inspected the Republic Day parade by armed forces. He said that one should respect the freedom fighters and the members of the drafting committee, who drafted the Constitution of the country. Biswabushan said that the government is committed to develop Vishakapatnam as executive capital, Amaravati as legislative capital and Kurnool as judicial capital of the state and achieve overall development of the state. The governor lauded the efforts of the health authorities for their efforts during Covid-19 pandemic. Andhra Pradesh stood as a role model in Covid-19 testing. The state, which once occupied the second place with the maximum number of Covid-19 cases, had later recovered. He hoped that Covid-19 vaccination drive would continue successfully. The governor hoped that the state would transform into a major industrial and tourism hub soon. He hoped that development and welfare would continue hand in hand. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, AP legislative assembly speaker T Sitharam, AP legislative council chairman Md Shariff, state election commissioner N Ramesh Kumar and others attended the celebrations. In Visakhapatnam, a ceremonial parade was held at the Eastern Naval Command (ENC) parade ground at INS Circars. Vice Admiral Atul Kumar Jain, flag officer commanding-in-chief of ENC, took the salute and inspected a 50-men armed guard. Later, he reviewed 12 platoons comprising naval personnel from all ships, submarines and defence security corps. The 72nd Republic Day was celebrated with great patriotic fervour at Sainik School Korukonda, RINL-VSP, Dredging Corporation of India Limited (DCIL), HPCL, HSL and the SBI administrative office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/on-r-day-guv-pays-tribute-to-freedom-fighters/articleshow/80469893.cms||Venu Lanka
January 27, 2021||World||EU warns drug cos of strict export rules amid vax delays||BRUSSELS: The European Union on Tuesday warned pharmaceutical giants that have developed coronavirus vaccines with EU aid that it must get its shots on schedule, a day after the bloc threatened to impose export controls on vaccines produced within its borders. The EU made it very clear that it is bent on getting all doses as quickly as their contracts provide for at a time when infections are surging, many hospitals are overwhelmed, and many of the 27 members states are struggling to get their vaccine rollout going at top speed. The hardening of its position came days after it accused AstraZeneca of failing to guarantee the delivery of coronavirus vaccines without a valid explanation. It also had expressed displeasure over vaccine delivery delays from Pfizer-BioNTech. The Pfizer vaccine is already being rolled out in the EU, and the AstraZeneca one is expected to be approved this week. “Europe invested billions to help develop the world’s first Covid-19 vaccines,” EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen told the World Economic Forum’s virtual event in Switzerland. “And now, the companies must deliver. They must honor their obligations.” The EU, which invested €2.7 billion in vaccine research and production for the drug companies, “means business”, she added, reflecting the heavy pressure EU nations are under to roll out vaccines. In a sign of concern that pharma groups might be selling the earmarked doses to higher bidders outside the bloc, Von der Leyen said, “We will set up a vaccine export transparency mechanism to ensure the firms meet their contractual obligations.” Though the bloc says it’s not exactly an export ban, critics say it could lead to it while the EU gets its allotment. Both Astra-Zeneca and Pfizer have vaccines made in the EU. The EU has committed to buying 300 million AstraZeneca doses with option on 100 million extra shots. Late last week, the firm said it was planning to reduce a first contingent of 80 million to 31 million. Pfizer said it was delaying deliveries to Europe and Canada while it upgrades its plant in Belgium to increase output.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/eu-warns-drug-cos-of-strict-export-rules-amid-vax-delays/articleshow/80472111.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Business||Indian economy to contract at slower pace of 8% in FY21: IMF||NEW DELHI: The Indian economy is estimated to post a narrower contraction of 8% in the current financial year but is projected to report double-digit expansion next year as well as in 2022-23, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said on Tuesday. IMF, which released its update to the World Economic Outlook report, projected the Indian economy to grow by 11.5% in 2021-22 and 6.8% in 2022-23 as the economy gathers momentum after arrival of the vaccine and pick-up in economic activity. For the next two years, India is projected to be the fastest growing major economy, displacing China, which is estimated to grow by 8.1% and 5.6% in the next two years. The IMF update forecast a narrower contraction for the Indian economy in 2020-21from the previous estimate of a decline of 10.3%. China is estimated to grow by 2.3% in the current fiscal year, the only major economy to post expansion. IMF’s estimate of contraction for 2020-21 is higher than the 7.7% decline estimated by the country’s statistics office and 7.5% fall projected by RBI. The Indian economy was hit hard by the strictest lockdown in the world to stem spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. It is estimated to post the sharpest contraction since data began to be published in 1952. Since lifting of the lockdown, the economy has posted a sharp recovery, propped up by pent-up and festival demand. After posting a record contraction of 23.9% in the June quarter, the economy scripted a recovery to post a narrower contraction in the September quarter. Various agencies estimate growth to return in the third and fourth quarters as several sectors of the economy touch pre-Covid levels. IMF said although recent vaccine approvals have raised hopes of a turnaround in the pandemic later this year, renewed waves and new variants of the virus pose concerns for the outlook.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-economy-to-contract-at-slower-pace-of-8-in-fy21-imf/articleshow/80472115.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Business||Govt looks to monetise Rs 6k cr GAIL pipelines via InvIT route||NEW DELHI: The oil ministry is eyeing the InvIT (Infrastructure Investment Trust) route to monetise pipelines worth about Rs 6,000 crore built by India’s largest gas utility GAIL, charting a new course for raising funds for the government as the pandemic spooks bigticket disinvestments such as of Bharat Petroleum. Discussions about InvIT are on in the ministry in parallel to preparations for carving GAIL’s countrywide gas pipeline network into a fully-owned subsidiary. The ministry may seek Cabinet approval, although technically the GAIL board can decide to divest stake in pipelines through InvIT. The Dabhol-Bengaluru and the Dahej-Uran-Panvel pipelines will be the first to be monetised. “There could be gradual dilution, say in tranches of 10-20% stake, to begin with, but GAIL will retain majority stake,” one official said. GAIL will be the second state-run entity to dilute stake in projects through InvIT. The power ministry had in September 2020 secured Cabinet approval for PowerGrid to monetise transmission lines worth Rs 7,146 crore via InvIT. Under the InvIT route, the parent company gets the proceeds and the government makes money through capital gains tax etc. In case of public sector projects, the government, as the owner, can additionally demand higher dividend from the parent. The InvIT route fits well with GAIL’s bifurcation, after which the parent will continue to market gas and build pipeline connectivity. The subsidiary will operate the transportation network and continue to raise funds by monetising minority stake in pipelines. The government will retain control of the infrastructure, considered strategic asset, through GAIL and an independent TSO (transport service operator) will manage 25% of the network capacity under the open access policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-looks-to-monetise-rs-6k-cr-gail-pipelines-via-invit-route/articleshow/80472119.cms||Sanjay Dutta
January 27, 2021||Business||Delivered most planes to India in 2020: Airbus||NEW DELHI: India has seen among the fastest revival of domestic air travel globally, with only China ahead of it, after countries started allowing these flights by following Covid protocol. Thanks to this, Airbus says it delivered the highest numbers of aircraft — 57 — to Indian carriers in pandemic 2020, the European aerospace major’s (India & south Asia) president and MD, Rémi Maillard, has told TOI. “Scheduled domestic flights here were suspended for two months from March 25 to May 25. Domestic air travel now back to 60% of pre-Covid level. No other region, except China, has seen that kind of swift recovery,” he said, while adding that he is “cautiously optimistic” about the industry which is “not yet out of the woods and is still bleeding cash.” “A number of issues need to be taken care of (in India) like taxation and infrastructure. The pandemic will lead to people preferring to travel direct between India and rest of the world (something which was done largely by transiting via nearby mega hubs in the Gulf and southeast Asia). India has a huge domestic market that can reconfigure the contours of international air travel to and from the country in favour of Indian carriers if the required steps are taken in terms of taxation and infrastructure,” he said. While Airbus has no plans to have a final assembly line in India — China has one, — the aerospace major says it is firmly committed to the make in India plan. “We are hopeful that India will contribute significantly technologically to the next-gen zero emission hydrogen-powered aircraft Airbus is working on.” In pandemic 2020, Airbus had delivered 566 aircraft (wide plus narrow bodies) to 87 customers — 34% below its all-time high of 863 in 2019. Its Indian customers got over 10% came of those planes with IndiGo inducting 44 A320/21neos and the remaining 13 going to Vistara, AirAsia India and GoAir. “We are in discussion with some startup airlines in India for aircraft (for aircraft orders),” he said. America’s Delta and China Southern were delivered 30 and 22 aircraft last year, respectively. While they took a mix of narrow and wide and bodies, Indian carriers took only single aisle A320 and A321neos. Airbus had delivered 566 aircraft (wide plus narrow bodies) last year to 87 customers — 34% below its all-time high of 863 in 2019 — of which 10% came to India. A320 competitor Boeing 737 Max is beset by its issues and the latter’s deliveries were suspended from March 2019 till recently. IndiGo has placed orders of 730 A320 family of aircraft, making it the biggest customer of this best-selling single aisle globally. The airline returned about 50 older version of A320s while inducting the 20% more fuel efficient A320neo (24) and A321neo (20). In 2019, it had inducted 39 new A320neos. It wants to replace as many older version A320/21s with the thriftier neos as possible. The airline at present has over 280 aircraft — A320s and ATRs — in its fleet. It did not comment for the story.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/delivered-most-planes-to-india-in-2020-airbus/articleshow/80472120.cms||Saurabh Sinha
January 27, 2021||Business||New laws for auditor, company secretary bodies in offing||NEW DELHI: The government is set to amend laws to streamline the functioning, especially the disciplinary aspects, of three professional institutes — the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), Institute of Cost and Works Accountants of India (ICWAI) and Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI). A bill to amend relevant provisions of laws governing the three bodies is expected to be introduced during the second half of the budget session of Parliament. The idea is to step up oversight on the three bodies after a committee suggested several changes almost three years ago. In fact, some of the proposals have been accepted, the legal changes are being undertaken in consultation with the institutes. ICAI itself has been open to changes in recent months and has sought to simplify the process in cases such as those where the Quality Review Board suggests disciplinary action against its members, who are chartered accountants. The disciplinary track record of ICAI had come under the scanner a few years ago, with even Prime Minister Narendra Modi flagging it at the time of the launch of goods and services tax. Subsequently, the role of auditors had come under scrutiny after the collapse of IL&FS and the government had set up the National Financial Reporting Authority to look at important cases. As part of the proposal, the government intends to have a say in the appointment of secretaries of the institutes and directors responsible for discipline of the professionals. At one time, the ministry of corporate affairs, which is piloting the bill, was looking to appoint government officers in these roles. The committee headed by Meenakshi Dutta Ghosh, a former civil servant, had suggested that the disciplinary platform should be independent of the institute, while pointing out that the current mechanism needed to be revamped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/new-laws-for-auditor-co-secy-bodies-in-offing/articleshow/80472121.cms||Sidhartha
January 27, 2021||Noida||At Chilla, Noida cops step in to keep rally in order||NOIDA: More than 800 farmers were marching peacefully from the Chilla border and had just reached the Crowne Plaza signal in Mayur Vihar Phase 1 when they saw a row of barricades. Angered at being stopped just a kilometre into Delhi, some of the farmers on tractors ran over the barricades, leading to a confrontation with paramilitary forces who had been stationed there. On Monday, police in Delhi had asked the farmers to travel till the Crowne Plaza signal, take a turn towards Ashok Nagar and return to the Chilla border. But the farmers had objected to the route, asking what good it would serve them to enter just a kilometre into the national capital. On Tuesday, the 800-odd farmers, led by the state president of BKU-Bhanu, Yogesh Pratap Singh, began the march around 12.10pm and reached the Crowne Plaza signal when they saw the barricades. This was followed by a small confrontation, after which the farmers continued their march till the Mayur Vihar Phase 1 cut. When the situation turned combative, a team of Noida cops walked in front of the farmers. The protesters then returned to Chilla around 12.55pm. However, after reaching the Chilla border, the farmers blocked the Delhi-Noida carriageway of the Link Road, alleging the cops had misbehaved with them. “We had promised to march peacefully and not break the barricades on Republic Day. But they (police) did not let us go further. We had opened the road (Delhi-Noida carriageway) for traffic after the police requested us. But now they have put up barricades here. Across UP, the police are stopping our tractors,” said Yogesh. Traffic remained choked on the road for about three hours. Around 3pm, a group of Noida police officers, led by additional DCP Ranvijay Singh, spoke to the farmers and requested them to free up the road. The farmers reportedly told the Noida cops they would vacate the road only if their supporters were not stopped anywhere in the state and cases and notices slapped against the farmers were withdrawn. Somewhat calmed after the talks, the farmers gave roses to the additional DCP and vacated the road. Manoj Nagar, national general secretary of BKU-Bhanu, said the Noida police team assured the farmers they would ensure their demands reached the DGP headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/at-chilla-noida-cops-step-in-to-keep-rally-in-order/articleshow/80471278.cms||Shikha Salaria
January 27, 2021||Gurgaon||Clash in Faridabad as cops stop tractors||PALWAL: Police lathicharged protesters and punctured tyres of tractors at the Faridabad-Palwal border near Softa village on Tuesday in an attempt to stop farmers from marching towards Delhi via Ballabhgarh. More than 10 farmers were injured as some of them tried to breach police barricades. According to police, a few cops were also injured in the clash. Later in the evening, about 50 tractors were allowed to go till Ballabhgarh after farmer leaders met local police officers and administration officials. The police officers assured the farmers that no cases would be registered against them and a few tractors that were impounded would be released. The farmers’ demand to allow about 100 tractors to go till Faridabad was denied by the local administration and police. “While they accepted two demands, they were adamant on not allowing farmers to enter Faridabad. We consider this as a victory as we resolved the issue peacefully even though we were off to a rough start,” said Ratan Singh Sorout, district president, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), who was one of the leaders to talk to the officials. While police accused the protesters of breaching the barricade to take a route that was not open for them, the farmers claimed that the cops had changed their plan to allow them to protest peacefully. More than 3,000 police personnel were stationed at Softa, along with water cannons and teargas shells. The cops had also blocked the highway by parking trucks, trailers and JCB machines. “We had requested the police to allow us to march till the Badarpur border. When they cited law and order issues in Delhi, we urged them to allow us to take the rally till Faridabad at least. But they did not listen to us. When we insisted, they started lathicharge. They even pelted stones and injured many farmers,” Rahul Tawar, a member of BKU, said adding that he was injured too. Police denied the allegations and said the protesters turned violent first. “Had we not stopped them, they would have driven the tractors over us. While I narrowly escaped being run over by a tractor, a few cops have sustained injuries. We used minimum force and that too in self-defence,” said Palwal SP Deepak Gehlawat. The rally had more than 5,000 farmers from Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana. While the protesters had informed the administration that 500 tractors would be at the rally, more than 1,500 tractors rolled onto the Delhi-Agra highway around 10am. About 5km away, farmers were stopped by more than 200 police personnel at Kuslipur village. They asked the protesters not to enter the city limits before 11am in order to avoid disturbing the Republic Day celebrations. But the farmers pushed ahead. The cops, who were outnumbered, let the rally proceed. A stream of tractors with Tricolours mounted on them and playing patriotic songs drove through Palwal district through the day. At many places along the route, the farmers were garlanded by locals as they shouted slogans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/clash-in-faridabad-as-cops-stop-tractors/articleshow/80471362.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
January 27, 2021||Faridabad||Clash in Faridabad as cops stop tractors||PALWAL: Police lathicharged protesters and punctured tyres of tractors at the Faridabad-Palwal border near Softa village on Tuesday in an attempt to stop farmers from marching towards Delhi via Ballabhgarh. More than 10 farmers were injured as some of them tried to breach police barricades. According to police, a few cops were also injured in the clash. Later in the evening, about 50 tractors were allowed to go till Ballabhgarh after farmer leaders met local police officers and administration officials. The police officers assured the farmers that no cases would be registered against them and a few tractors that were impounded would be released. The farmers’ demand to allow about 100 tractors to go till Faridabad was denied by the local administration and police. “While they accepted two demands, they were adamant on not allowing farmers to enter Faridabad. We consider this as a victory as we resolved the issue peacefully even though we were off to a rough start,” said Ratan Singh Sorout, district president, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), who was one of the leaders to talk to the officials. While police accused the protesters of breaching the barricade to take a route that was not open for them, the farmers claimed that the cops had changed their plan to allow them to protest peacefully. More than 3,000 police personnel were stationed at Softa, along with water cannons and teargas shells. The cops had also blocked the highway by parking trucks, trailers and JCB machines. “We had requested the police to allow us to march till the Badarpur border. When they cited law and order issues in Delhi, we urged them to allow us to take the rally till Faridabad at least. But they did not listen to us. When we insisted, they started lathicharge. They even pelted stones and injured many farmers,” Rahul Tawar, a member of BKU, said adding that he was injured too. Police denied the allegations and said the protesters turned violent first. “Had we not stopped them, they would have driven the tractors over us. While I narrowly escaped being run over by a tractor, a few cops have sustained injuries. We used minimum force and that too in self-defence,” said Palwal SP Deepak Gehlawat. The rally had more than 5,000 farmers from Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana. While the protesters had informed the administration that 500 tractors would be at the rally, more than 1,500 tractors rolled onto the Delhi-Agra highway around 10am. About 5km away, farmers were stopped by more than 200 police personnel at Kuslipur village. They asked the protesters not to enter the city limits before 11am in order to avoid disturbing the Republic Day celebrations. But the farmers pushed ahead. The cops, who were outnumbered, let the rally proceed. A stream of tractors with Tricolours mounted on them and playing patriotic songs drove through Palwal district through the day. At many places along the route, the farmers were garlanded by locals as they shouted slogans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/clash-in-faridabad-as-cops-stop-tractors/articleshow/80472185.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
January 27, 2021||Business||Why FM should not bring in any new tax in this budget||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman faces a huge challenge this year. The coronavirus pandemic raged through 2020, roiling economies and ruining many lives. The government’s revenues are down but expenditure commitments are up (think of the free vaccines promised). What path should the finance minister now take? Should she try and balance the books by levying additional taxes? Say, introduce a temporary Covid-19 cess at the highest income-tax slab, or maybe reintroduce the wealth tax? Or, should she focus on maintaining tax stability while stepping up expenditure for economic revival? To understand how both scenarios could play out, let’s first look at what impact moderate tax rates have on the tax-GDP ratio and how this compares with a high-tax regime. EY’s analysis of the historical tax rates in India shows that we have come a long way in achieving the objective of a rational and moderate tax rate regime. For instance, in 1971, the personal tax system had as many as 12 tax brackets, with tax rates ranging from zero to 85%. With surcharge, the highest tax rate worked out to a staggering 93.5%. The effective burden of personal taxes was reduced in successive years as governments recognised that moderate rates, a wider base and higher compliance made for a better tax policy as opposed to high rates. In 1992-93, the tax rates were considerably simplified: only four tax brackets, with the peak rate at 40%. The 1997-98 ‘Dream Budget’ — presented by P Chidambaram — cut the peak personal income-tax rate from 40% to 30% and the corporate incometax rates from 40% to 35% for domestic firms. This announcement set the new peak tax rate for personal income-tax which continues until today, although with additional surcharges the highest tax burden is now 42.7%. The immediate impact of the Dream Budget was a sharp fall in the tax-GDP ratio. But, soon after, moderate rates led to better compliance. The government also took measures to broaden the tax base. So, eventually, the tax-GDP ratio got much better. Consider the numbers. After the 1997-98 Budget, personal tax collections fell by 6%. However, in the next five years (FY1999 to FY2003), the average personal tax-GDP ratio jumped to 1.4% as against 1.2% in the previous five years (FY1993 to FY1997). A similar effect was observed in the corporate tax collections too, where the average CITGDP ratio increased from 1.4% in the previous five years (FY1993 to FY1997) to 1.6% in the next five years (FY1999 to FY2003). This sustained increase in the tax-GDP ratio was achieved despite India facing global economic headwinds and a three-year growth slowdown between FY2000 and FY2002. The data suggests that stability and a gradual moderation of tax rates resulted in a positive behavioural response with better compliance, leading to an increase in the direct taxes-to-GDP ratio in the long run. Compared to other developing countries, India’s peak individual effective tax rate is still on the higher side (see table above). India’s peak effective tax rate (after including surcharge and cess) hovered between 30% and 35.9% till last year. The hike in surcharge rate by the Finance Act, 2020 catapulted the peak rate to the present level. The prime minister has launched the initiative of ‘Honouring the Honest’. In keeping with this spirit, in times of crisis, the focus may need to be on stability, encouraging compliance, broadening the tax base and boosting consumption to improve tax collections. To this effect, certain measures have already been announced and it is expected that Budget 2021 will be constructed around these themes. In the circumstances, any additional burden on existing taxpayers or any new taxes like wealth tax/estate duty, which were discontinued earlier for reasons of high administrative costs and low revenue yield, may not be in sync. The mantra for the FM in Budget 2021 should be ‘No New Tax’. - Anish Thacker & Shalini Mathur(Thacker is tax partner, and Mathur, director, tax & economic policy, EY India (Views expressed are personal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/why-fm-should-not-bring-in-any-new-tax-in-this-budget/articleshow/80472135.cms||---
January 27, 2021||India||World on verge of defeating pandemic, says Harsh Vardhan at WHO meet||NEW DELHI: The world is on verge of defeating the coronavirus pandemic by adopting preemptive, proactive and collaborative strategies to combat the virus, said Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday. "I thank member nations that despite the wide disparity in their epidemiological trends, we're on verge of defeating pandemic by adopting preemptive, proactive and collaborative strategies," said the Union health minister at 148th session of WHO Executive Board (virtual) meeting. Speaking about the year that was marred by the pandemic, he said, "2020 was the year of science when the best of humanity was shown through the gloom that descended due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The situation demanded setting up of major global collaboration so that scientists could share their expertise. For these governments, business and philanthropic organisations got together to start committing resources." On the efforts being undertaken globally to fight Covid-19, Harsh Vardhan added: "All member states are doing their utmost to overcome challenges and improve the accessibility, affordability and quality of health care services. But the job isn't finished here. So we must redouble our commitment to putting an end to the pandemic." "In the present context, nowhere is safe until everywhere is safe. At the WHO, we have ensured that the low and middle-income countries have access to safe and effective Covid-19 tests, treatment and vaccine." Over the post-Covid world, he said, "The post-Covid world will be filled with challenges. To overcome them, WHO needs to be a trailblazer, empowered to work towards a new vision that allows it to realise its full potential and strengthen health care systems across member nations." Harsh Vardhan's statement comes as the worldwide tally of Covid-19 cases surpassed the 100 million mark on Wednesday, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University. The United States continues to be the worst affected country with 25,407,414 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/world-on-verge-of-defeating-pandemic-says-harsh-vardhan-at-who-meet/articleshow/80472152.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Amritsar||Did Tarn Taran youth unfurl Nishan Sahib at Red Fort?||TARN TARAN: A youth from Vaan Tara Singh village of Punjab’s Tarn Taran district is being named on social media as the protester who hoisted the Sikh religious flag Nishan Sahib at Red Fort on Republic Day in protest against three-recently introduced farm laws. According to a video , which has gone viral on the Internet, a youth is heard saying that Jugraj Singh of Vaan Tara Singh village had hoisted the Khalsa flag. Proudly claiming to be a close relative of Jugraj Singh, the man in the video introduces Jugraj’s father and grandfather Baldev Singh and Mahal Singh, respectively, and along with his grandmother and mother. In the 2.21minute video , the man identified as Jugraj’s grandfather is heard showering praise on his grandson. He is also heard saying, “It’s a matter of pride for the Sikh panth that earlier Khalsa flag of victory had been unfurled on Red Fort and in 2021 again the victory flag of Khalsa was unfurled. Now, the media will storm the house of this ‘youdha’.” Confirming the identity of the person who had hoisted the flag from Red Fort, a senior Tarn Taran police officer said, on the condition of anonymity, the police was first verifying what exactly the youth had done and which clauses of the law he had violated before taking any action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/did-tarn-taran-youth-unfurl-nishan-sahib-at-red-fort/articleshow/80472146.cms||Yudhvir Rana
January 27, 2021||Bengaluru||Hesitancy obstructs vaccination drive, Bengaluru brings up rear||BENGALURU: Karnataka has achieved a mere 55% Covid-19 vaccine coverage over the past 10 days as many healthcare workers are wary of the jab. Bengaluru (49%) has lagged, with the turnout being poor in government hospitals. While private hospitals have inoculated 70-75% beneficiaries, the number in government hospitals is 50-55%. “When the pandemic is vanishing from India, why should we take the vaccine?” is the common refrain authorities are hearing. Of the 685 staffers at KC General Hospital, only 360 (53%) have been inoculated. “Some staffers said they won’t take it and some said they have allergies,” said Dr BR Venkateshaiah, medical superintendent, KC General. At Jayanagar general hospital, 161 (53%) of 302 beneficiaries have taken the jab. “Many refused it saying they have already suffered Covid and have natural immunity,” said doctors at the hospital. At BMCRI, 6,060 had registered for the vaccine, but so far only 1,873 (32%) have taken the jab. Officials say the focus was on vaccinating doctors, nurses and group D staffers and sessions for students will begin soon. Many senior staffers including Dr CR Jayanthi, director, BMCRI, are yet to take the vaccine. Dr Jayanthi said she has been travelling and blamed glitches with the CoWIN app for the low turnout. “Coverage is on par with the state average and it will improve. There is some hesitancy among students due to exams,” she said. In contrast, Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research has vaccinated more than 86% of its staff. “When CoWIN didn’t work, we administered the vaccine as per the list sent to BBMP and uploaded the data later,” said Dr CN Manjunath, director of the institute. Dr Manjunath, also a member of the Covid-19 technical advisory committee, said the vaccine does not cause significant side effects. “It’s a myth that Covid has vanished from India. In UK, cases burgeoned after a brief lull,” he said. The turnout in private hospitals has been far better. At Apollo hospital, Jayanagar, 78% of staffers (570/732) have taken the vaccine. “Except for lactating mothers and pregnant staffers, most are inoculated. A nurse and a resident doctor refused. Some group D employees too are hesitant. We will explain the benefits to them again,” said Dr Yateesh Govindaiah, unit head, Apollo Hospitals, Jayanagar. At Manipal Hospitals, Bengaluru, close to 80% of the 5,200 staffers across branches have been vaccinated. “There isn’t much reluctance,” said Deepak Venugopal, regional COO, Manipal hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hesitancy-obstructs-vaccination-drive-bengaluru-brings-up-rear/articleshow/80472165.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 27, 2021||Gurgaon||Haryana: On 20 tractors, women from 2 states steered rally||REWARI: Hundreds of women joined the tractor rally at Jaisinghpur Khera on the Haryana-Rajasthan border and Masani in Dharuhera on Tuesday. More than 20 tractors were driven by women from the two states. Tara Dhayal, from Sikar, Rajasthan, who took training for 10 days so she could drive the tractor, said: “We are here to make our presence felt.” Rajwanti Bala was also seen steering a tractor. The woman who hails from Rewari said she knew how to drive the vehicle. “But after my marriage, I did not take the driver’s seat. My husband, Rambir, told me that I should join the tractor rally. He also trained me for two days,” she said. “This agitation is no less than the freedom struggle for us.” At the rally, farmers from 11 states came with tableaus to highlight different themes. For the first time since the agitation began, 15 farmers from Assam joined the protest. Nathu Gogoi, from Assam, said: “Agriculture and allied sectors continue to be the predominant source of income for more than 70% people in our state. Despite that, the farmers are poor while others are making profits.” A tableau readied by a group of farmers from Jammu portrayed how agricultural land was being converted for horticulture and industrial purposes. “We are one of the best dry fruit producers. But we don’t get good prices for the produce,” said Sewa Ram, a farmer from Jammu. Among the tableaus seen at the rally were those prepared by farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/on-20-tractors-women-from-2-states-steered-rally/articleshow/80471372.cms||Shahnawaz Alam
January 27, 2021||Aurangabad||65-year-old woman freed from Pakistani jail, returns to Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: 65-year-old Hasina Begum who had gone to Pakistan 18 years ago to meet her husband's relatives but landed up in a Pakistan jail after she lost her passport, returned to India on Tuesday after Aurangabad police filed a report on the matter.  She was received by her relatives and Aurangabad police officials upon her return here.  "I went through a lot of hardships and I am feeling a sense of peace after returning to my country. I am feeling as if I am in heaven. I was imprisoned forcefully in Pakistan," she said.  "I want to thank Aurangabad police for filing a report in the matter," she added.  Khwaja Jainuddin Chishti, a relative of Hasina Begum, also thanked Aurangabad police for the help provided by them in bringing her back to her home country.  Begum had lost her passport in Lahore after arriving there 18 years ago to meet her husband's relatives.  She was locked up in a jail in Pakistan for the last 18 years.  According to the information received from the police, Begum who is a resident of Rashidpura area under the City Chowk police station limits in Aurangabad is married to Dilshad Ahmed who is a resident of Uttar Pradesh's Saharanpur.  She urged the court in Pakistan that she is innocent after which the court sought information in the matter.  Aurangabad police sent information to Pakistan that Begum has a home registered in her name under the City Chowk police station in Aurangabad.  Pakistan released Begum last week and handed her over to Indian authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/65-year-old-woman-freed-from-pakistani-jail-returns-to-aurangabad/articleshow/80472279.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: PMK hopeful of sealing vanniyar quota deal with AIADMK by January 31||CHENNAI: PMK leader S Ramadoss on Tuesday sought to intensify the party's protests to demand internal quota for vanniyars, urging "lakhs of cadres" to take part in the proposed agitation across Tamil Nadu on January 29. The party's governing council had put off its scheduled meeting to January 31 to discuss whether to continue electoral ties with the AIADMK. The PMK is hopeful of sealing a deal with the AIADMK by January 31 and is confident that the AIADMK government would consider its request favourably. In a statement, the PMK leader said no force could delay the reservation. "The five-phase agitation since December showed our strength. Moreover, the government is aware of the justification for our struggle, but it is still reluctant to extend the sub-quota for the vanniyars. This reluctance is unfair," Ramadoss said, urging the cadres to ensure vanniyars from other parties too, join hands with the PMK's reservation struggle. The party contested on its own in the 2016 assembly election, securing a vote share of 5.32% (23 lakh votes), fielding candidates in 232 constituencies. It came third in 64 constituencies, denting the prospects of the AIADMK and the DMK in the northern and western belt. The party pushed the DMK to the third slot in chief minister K Palaniswami's Edappadi assembly segment. Ramadoss has been taking to social media platforms like Twitter to consolidate support for the renewed quota demand, alleging betrayal by the Karunandhi-led DMK regime in 1989. The then DMK government carved out 108 communities to form a new bloc, the MBC, including the vanniyars, and extended 20% reservation. The AIADMK has already held two rounds of talks with Ramadoss, deputing senior ministers P Thangamani, S P Velumani and K P Anbalagan to Tindivanam, after PMK's protests in December turned violent. There is no indication of talks resuming despite promises by the ruling camp that hold another round of talks after Pongal. Ramadoss took to Twitter on Tuesday to thank PT leader K Krishnasamy for the latter's support to the "vanniyar protest" in December. "The government does not and cannot implement 20% to vanniyars. Even if the PMK steps down from its earlier demand and now seeks internal reservation within the MBC, there are other MBCs too. Will they agree?" said an official. Justice Kulasekaran commission set up to collect quantifiable data on castes, communities and tribes of Tamil Nadu, pertaining to various social, education, economic and political parameters of the population, has a deadline till June to submit its report. The AIADMK leaders justified the constitution of the commission, since caste-wise census was one of the ten-point charter of demands made by the PMK to sign a pre-poll pact with the AIADMK during the 2019 LS polls. A section in the party does not rule out the AIADMK including a promise in its electoral manifesto to appease the community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-pmk-hopeful-of-sealing-vanniyar-quota-deal-with-aiadmk-by-january-31/articleshow/80472288.cms||Julie Mariappan
January 27, 2021||Mumbai||Five new cyber police stations in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Mumbai Police will now be able to expand the scope and speed of cyber investigation on the strength of five new dedicated cyber police stations with trained personnel, an official said on Tuesday. These cyber police stations were inaugurated earlier in the day. They are located in the five regions under Mumbai Police, he said. "To operates these police stations, personnel have been trained in investigating the cyber crime. They are also versed with the knowledge of cyber laws," he said. Additional commissioner of police of each region concerned will monitor the functioning of each such police station while joint commissioner of police (Law and Order) will be responsible for overall supervision, the official said. Meanwhile, a 'Swagat Kaksh' for all the 94 police stations and the Mumbai Police calendar were also unveiled at a function held at the DB Marg police station in the presence of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, ministers Anil Deshmukh, Aaditya Thackeray, Aslam Shaikh, and Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/five-new-cyber-police-stations-in-mumbai/articleshow/80472285.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Ghaziabad||How UP Gate tractors reached Red Fort||GHAZIABAD: On Monday, the night before the farmers’ tractor parade scheduled on Republic Day, the mood at the protest site at UP Gate had turned sharply defiant. The route for the parade had been decided, after discussions between farmer leaders and Delhi Police, but talk at the site housing thousands of protesters on Monday night was that they were going to Akshardham. That’s exactly what they did on Tuesday morning, deviating far from the rally route to reach not just Akshardham but much deeper into Delhi – the central district of ITO and the Red Fort itself. On Monday night, Jagtar Singh Bajwa, member of the UP Gate farmers’ committee, had told this correspondent, “We don’t care what the administration, Ghaziabad police or Delhi Police want. We are taking our rally through Akshardham.” So, when the tractors lined up – more than 8,000, by ballpark estimates – in a 4km cavalcade on NH-9, little went along expected lines. The understanding with the police was that the farmers’ parade would begin at noon once the main Republic Day parade ended. But around 10.30am, a tractor suddenly broke away from the line and dashed into the layer of concrete barricades that has separated the protesters and police lines since the last week of November, when the protest against the farming laws began. The posse of Delhi Police personnel posted there resisted but yielded as the waiting lines grew more and more restive. A little after 11am, the cavalcade rolled down NH-9 into Delhi, for the designated route, a right turn into Anand Vihar and then towards Mohan Nagar. The farmer leaders were to be in charge of this. But within minutes, the parade moved off script. It began with some tractors towards the front of the line veering very close to each other, trying to break away from the queue. In front of the Ghazipur meat market, a handful of Delhi Police personnel tried to point the tractors to the route they were supposed to take towards Anand Vihar. However, scores of them raced past the overwhelmed cops. “We have been told to proceed towards Akshardham and take a U-turn towards Anand Vihar. We will have to see whether that happens. We are planning to march towards Delhi,” yelled a young farmer from his tractor in which five others accompanied him, all in their late 20s or early to mid-30s. While farmer leaders have camped at the protest sites continuously and taken all the decisions, the younger farmers had taken the lead here. The 500 volunteers the farmer leaders had claimed to have appointed weren’t visible along the route as tractors went helter-skelter and chaos unfolded. Once they had gone through the barricades on NH-9, next to the Ghazipur flyover, they could get on to the Delhi-Meerut Expressway unimpeded and hare down towards Akshardham and Sarai Kale Khan, from where they headed towards ITO and Red Fort. Delhi Police tried to stop them near Akshardham, but many tractors had already crossed that point by then. The number of tractors that veered off course became evident at Mohan Nagar, which was on the designated rally route. The rally had lost more than 50% of its participants by the time it reached here. BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, who has been leading the protests at UP Gate, argued that Delhi Police had barricaded the original route, which had triggered chaos and confused those driving the tractors, leading to many of them going astray. Tikait, who was in the group that stuck to the designated route and returned to UP Gate, sought to deflect the blame to Delhi Police. “It was all the fault of Delhi Police. They had on purpose barricaded the route agreed upon with an intention to create confusion. Because of this, farmers strayed into Delhi. How else do you explain that so many of them entered Delhi?” he asked. The gap in the way farmer leaders and at least some of the protesters were thinking became evident when the protesters began returning in their tractors in batches late afternoon. “Lal Qila par jhanda pheira aaye hum (we have unfurled the flag at Red Fort),” said Vishvedra Choudhary, who was returning in a tractor. Chandrpal Singh, a farmer from Moradabad, said, “We have done what we wanted to. The government now knows the farmers’ might. We always wanted to enter Delhi but were not sure if we would get the opportunity. When we saw hundreds of tractors proceeding towards Akshardham, we just followed them. We were stopped on the way and tear gas was fired at us, but we remained undaunted and drove right up to ITO.” Kripal Singh, another farmer returning from Delhi, was worried about others. ”We managed to get back but hundreds of farmers are still at ITO and Red Fort. Delhi police is closing all routes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/how-up-gate-tractors-reached-red-fort/articleshow/80471218.cms||Abhijay Jha
January 27, 2021||Erode||EC notifies officers for holding assembly poll in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The election commission has notified returning and assistant returning officers for the conduct of assembly elections in each of the 234 constituencies in the state. Chief electoral officer Satyabrata Sahoo will inaugurate a training-cum-certification programme for 116 returning officers from 17 districts for four days, beginning on Wednesday. Officers of Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Chengalpet, Vellore, Tirupattur, Ranipet, Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Cuddalore, Namakkal, Coimbatore, The Nilgiris, Tiruppur, Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri will attend the programme in Anna Institute of Management, Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/ec-notifies-officers-for-holding-assembly-poll-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/80472343.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Coimbatore||EC notifies officers for holding assembly poll in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The election commission has notified returning and assistant returning officers for the conduct of assembly elections in each of the 234 constituencies in the state. Chief electoral officer Satyabrata Sahoo will inaugurate a training-cum-certification programme for 116 returning officers from 17 districts for four days, beginning on Wednesday. Officers of Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Chengalpet, Vellore, Tirupattur, Ranipet, Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Cuddalore, Namakkal, Coimbatore, The Nilgiris, Tiruppur, Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri will attend the programme in Anna Institute of Management, Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ec-notifies-officers-for-holding-assembly-poll-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/80472340.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Madurai||EC notifies officers for holding assembly poll in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The election commission has notified returning and assistant returning officers for the conduct of assembly elections in each of the 234 constituencies in the state. Chief electoral officer Satyabrata Sahoo will inaugurate a training-cum-certification programme for 116 returning officers from 17 districts for four days, beginning on Wednesday. Officers of Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Chengalpet, Vellore, Tirupattur, Ranipet, Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Cuddalore, Namakkal, Coimbatore, The Nilgiris, Tiruppur, Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri will attend the programme in Anna Institute of Management, Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ec-notifies-officers-for-holding-assembly-poll-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/80472341.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Chennai||EC notifies officers for holding assembly poll in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The election commission has notified returning and assistant returning officers for the conduct of assembly elections in each of the 234 constituencies in the state. Chief electoral officer Satyabrata Sahoo will inaugurate a training-cum-certification programme for 116 returning officers from 17 districts for four days, beginning on Wednesday. Officers of Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Chengalpet, Vellore, Tirupattur, Ranipet, Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Cuddalore, Namakkal, Coimbatore, The Nilgiris, Tiruppur, Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri will attend the programme in Anna Institute of Management, Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ec-notifies-officers-for-holding-assembly-poll-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/80472331.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Salem||EC notifies officers for holding assembly poll in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The election commission has notified returning and assistant returning officers for the conduct of assembly elections in each of the 234 constituencies in the state. Chief electoral officer Satyabrata Sahoo will inaugurate a training-cum-certification programme for 116 returning officers from 17 districts for four days, beginning on Wednesday. Officers of Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Chengalpet, Vellore, Tirupattur, Ranipet, Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Cuddalore, Namakkal, Coimbatore, The Nilgiris, Tiruppur, Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri will attend the programme in Anna Institute of Management, Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/ec-notifies-officers-for-holding-assembly-poll-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/80472346.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Trichy||EC notifies officers for holding assembly poll in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The election commission has notified returning and assistant returning officers for the conduct of assembly elections in each of the 234 constituencies in the state. Chief electoral officer Satyabrata Sahoo will inaugurate a training-cum-certification programme for 116 returning officers from 17 districts for four days, beginning on Wednesday. Officers of Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Chengalpet, Vellore, Tirupattur, Ranipet, Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Cuddalore, Namakkal, Coimbatore, The Nilgiris, Tiruppur, Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri will attend the programme in Anna Institute of Management, Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ec-notifies-officers-for-holding-assembly-poll-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/80472345.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Noida||Excise department eases norms to open restobars in Noida||GREATER NOIDA: The district excise department earlier this month relaxed norms for those interested in establishing bar-cum-restaurants this fiscal. In line its aim to generate more revenue, the department has already received six new applications since January 8 — when the changes came into effect. Explaining the changes introduced this year, officials from the department said that now on the applications of those interested in setting up a bar will be scrutinised by the district-level bar committee presided over by the district magistrate. It will then be sent to the excise commissioner for approval. Earlier, the divisional commissioner forwarded the verified application to the excise commissioner, who then sought approval of the state government before allowing the bar to be set up. Besides cutting down the steps in the bureaucracy ladder, parking norms to open a watering hole have also been relaxed. Instead of having a dedicated parking area in their vicinity, any place that has a public or private parking facility within 500 metres can be considered to set up a bar. While commercial complexes with ample parking space were preferred for setting up of resto-bars, now onwards, standalone bars can come up in complexes that lack parking space if an alternative arrangement is available. “It is a welcome step for entrepreneurs interested in the liquor business. Several times, people are forced to pay steep rents since large commercial complexes charge a lot of money. Concept of neighbourhood bars and pubs will catch up with this relaxation,” said Nitin Srivastava, a Greater Noida-based businessman who runs a bar in Vaishali due to cheaper rent. To serve hard drinks or beer in a pub, restaurant or bar, an individual has to obtain FL-7 license from the excise department after paying Rs 10 lakh. Clubs and starred hotels have a different fee structure with license fees extending from Rs 3 lakh to Rs 25 lakh as per the number of members and rooms. Noida and Greater Noida together had 93 watering hole before the pandemic outbreak. However, 13 of them decided to shut shop instead of renewing their licenses. Officials hope to have more than 90 operational watering holes across the city once again with the eased norms in place. “We were initially worried about the decreasing number of bars in the city. However, we have started getting queries now. Two new players have already entered into the business while applications of four others will be reviewed in the coming weeks,” said excise officer of GB Nagar, RB Singh. Notably, it will be mandatory to have a seating capacity of 40 in at least 2,000 sqm of plinth area to open a new bar. “This condition will be applicable only for fresh applications. Those renewing the license can operate within the same premises,” added Singh. The condition of having a minimum covered area and seating capacity has been stipulated for the first time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/excise-department-eases-norms-to-open-restobars-in-noida/articleshow/80471169.cms||Shalabh
January 27, 2021||Noida||Noida: Wish Town buyers set to oversee flats’ completion||NOIDA: The homebuyers of Wish Town’s Knights Court project are set to take charge of the completion of their flats after a series of negotiations with Jaiprakash Associates Limited (JAL). A joint agreement undersigned by the buyers’ association of Knights Court and JAL has been presented to UP-Rera and the regulator is all set to award the construction following formal approval by the Noida Authority. The Authority is likely to take it up for discussion this week. UP-Rera confirmed that Knights Court has 312 flats, which would require Rs 145 crore for construction. JAL has offered Rs 12 crore for initial funding and the recoverable amount from buyers is Rs 103 crore. The remaining Rs 30 crore and any other expense will be borne by JAL that will be coming on board as a contractor for the project in a similar manner as with Kalypso Court. The completion time of the flats in Knights Court will be 12 to 15 months. The project will be supervised by a monitoring committee of buyers, UP-Rera representatives and Noida Authority officials. The construction fund would be put together in an escrow account. “We have approved the proposal and the project will be awarded following a nod from the Noida Authority. There are four more projects stuck in Noida that will be awarded to buyers for construction in a similar manner,” Balvinder Kumar, UP-Rera member told TOI. The proposal is expected to be presented with the Noida board this week. A Rera official told TOI, “The initial fund will be invested by JAL and then buyers’ dues will be collected thereafter. The condition is that any expense over and above the estimate for completion of the project will have to be borne by the builder. Also, the basis of this contract emphasises that at no cost can work stop at any point and the project will have to be delivered on time.” The projects at Wish Town under JAL include Kalypso Court, Knights Court, Imperial, Pavillion Court and Pavillion Heights. All projects were delivered except Kalypso and Knights Court, for which the buyers themselves have now taken charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/wish-town-buyers-set-to-oversee-flats-completion/articleshow/80471171.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
January 27, 2021||Noida||Low footfall stations to shut down on Aqua Line||NOIDA: The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) is slated to shut down some stations on the Aqua Line in order to speed up its operations from Noida to Greater Noida and cut down the travel time. NMRC’s managing director, Ritu Maheshwari, announced this decision during the Republic Day programme where she informed the gathering that the stations receiving little footfall will be shut down. The Aqua Line operated on Tuesday at intervals of 15 minutes. The footfall recorded till 6pm was 3, 881. The NMRC ridership has been on a steady rise since it opened doors to passengers in September last year. The highest footfall after the lockdown has been recorded as 11,511 on January 12. After lockdown, truncated services on the corridor had resumed on September 7 and 600 passengers had taken trains on the line that day. Before lockdown, the daily footfall on the line was about 28,000. After the lockdown, only a few trains operated within a specific time bracket in the mornings and evenings. On September 12, NMRC restarted its full service and ridership of 2,148 was recorded on the Aqua Line that day. Aqua Line passes through 10 stations between Noida and Greater Noida, including sectors 51, 76, 101, 81, 137, 142, Knowledge Park 2, Pari Chowk, Alpha 1 and Delta 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/low-footfall-stations-to-shut-down-on-aqua-line/articleshow/80471185.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Noida||Signs in build-up; leaders say rally was ‘infiltrated’||GHAZIABAD: Farmer leaders blamed the Republic Day violence in Delhi on “mischievous elements” that had “infiltrated” their scheduled tractor parade as well as Delhi Police for setting up barricades on the designated routes that they were supposed to take. But signs of restlessness among those protesting at UP Gate had been visible for days. When talks were on to fix a route for the tractor parade, a farmer came to UP Gate with five modified tractors that had barricade-busting bumpers fixed to them. Monu Pawar, son of Galtan Singh who died at UP Gate on January 1, had said he would use the tractors on January 26 “if we are not allowed to go to Delhi”. Narendra Singh, a farmer from Pilibhit, had brought about a dozen double front-wheel tractors. “These tractors provide us with enough power to smash anything that comes in the way,” Singh had told this paper three days ago. The day before the tractor parade began, farmers at the protest site were vocal about their “rejection” of the route agreed to by farmer leaders and Delhi Police, though Rakesh Tikait, the Bharatiya Kisan Union leading the UP Gate protests, had maintained farmers would stick to the route that was decided. On Tuesday evening, asked how the parade went off track, Tikait said, “We had started off peacefully from UP Gate and were proceeding as per plan. But at the point where were supposed to take a turn towards Anand Vihar (on the designated route), Delhi Police had set up barricades, which created confusion, leading to farmers going towards Akshardham. By the time we sorted this out and proceeded along the designated route, more than 150 tractors had already taken off towards Delhi.” Asked what this meant for the protests, which had been continuing peacefully so far, the BKU leader said, “We will go on with the protest. There is no question of backing off.” Jagtar Singh Bajwa, member of the UP Gate farmers’ committee who had on Monday night told this correspondent that farmers would take their rally through Akshardham, said on Tuesday “mischievous elements” were responsible for the rally going astray. “It has come to our notice that so-called farmers who had participated in the rally created confusion and sped towards Delhi, even though we stood on the pre-decided route. We are gathering more inputs,” said Bajwa. Rashtriya Kisan Majdoor Sangathan’s leader VM Singh, who is also stationed at UP Gate but hasn’t seen eye to eye with the BKU on several issues, said, “It was Rakesh Tikait and BKU and other farm unions who have been holding talks with the government. Now that the tractor rally has gone awry, it is Tikait and the others who should take the blame for whatever happened, including the death of a young farmer,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/signs-in-build-up-leaders-say-rally-was-infiltrated/articleshow/80471248.cms||Abhijay Jha
January 27, 2021||World||GOP largely sides against holding Trump impeachment trial||WASHINGTON: All but five Senate Republicans voted in favor of an effort to dismiss Donald Trump's historic second impeachment trial on Tuesday, making clear a conviction of the former president for "incitement of insurrection'' after the deadly Capitol siege on Jan. 6 is unlikely. While the Republicans did not succeed in ending the trial before it began, the test vote made clear that Trump still has enormous sway over his party as he becomes the first former president to be tried for impeachment. Many Republicans have criticized Trump's role in the attack - before which he told his supporters to "fight like hell'' to overturn his defeat - but most of them have rushed to defend him in the trial. "I think this was indicative of where a lot of people's heads are," said South Dakota Sen. John Thune, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate, after the vote. Late Tuesday, the presiding officer at the trial, Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., was taken to the hospital for observation after not feeling well at his office, spokesman David Carle said in a statement. The 80-year-old senator was examined by the Capitol's attending physician, who recommended he be taken to the hospital out of an abundance of caution, he said. Later Tuesday, Carle said Leahy had been sent home "after a thorough examination'' and was looking forward to getting back to work. Leahy presided over the trial's first procedural vote, a 55-45 tally that saw the Senate set aside an objection from Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul that would have declared the impeachment proceedings unconstitutional and dismissed the trial. The vote means the trial on Trump's impeachment will begin as scheduled the week of Feb. 8. The House impeached him Jan. 13, just a week after the deadly insurrection in which five people died. What seemed for some Democrats like an open-and-shut case that played out for the world on live television is running into a Republican Party that feels very different. Not only do senators say they have legal concerns, but they are wary of crossing the former president and his legions of followers. It's unclear if any Republicans would vote to convict Trump on the actual charge of incitement after voting in favor of Paul's effort to declare it unconstitutional. Ohio Sen. Rob Portman said after the vote that he had not yet made up his mind, and that constitutionality "is a totally different issue'' than the charge itself. But many others indicated that they believe the final vote will be similar. The vote shows that "they've got a long ways to go to prove it,'' Iowa Sen. Joni Ernst said of House Democrats' charge. South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham, a close Trump ally, said he thinks the vote was "a floor not a ceiling.'' Oklahoma Sen. James Lankford said he thinks that most Republicans will not see daylight between the constitutionality and the article of incitement. "You're asking me to vote in a trial that by itself on its own is not constitutionally allowed?'' he asked. Conviction would require the support of all Democrats and 17 Republicans, or two-thirds of the Senate _ far from the five Republicans who voted with Democrats Tuesday to allow the trial to proceed. They were Sens. Susan Collins of Maine, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, Mitt Romney of Utah, Ben Sasse of Nebraska and Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania _ all recent critics of the former president and his effort to overturn President Joe Biden's win. Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell, who has said Trump "provoked'' the riots and indicated he is open to conviction, voted with Paul to move toward dismissing the trial. Democrats rejected the argument that the trial is illegitimate or unconstitutional because Trump is no longer in office, pointing to an 1876 impeachment of a secretary of war who had already resigned and to the opinions of many legal scholars. Democrats also say that a reckoning of the first invasion of the Capitol since the War of 1812, perpetrated by rioters egged on by a president as Electoral College votes were being tallied, is necessary. "It makes no sense whatsoever that a president, or any official, could commit a heinous crime against our country and then defeat Congress' impeachment powers _ and avoid a vote on disqualification _ by simply resigning, or by waiting to commit that offense until their last few weeks in office,'' said Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer. Before the vote, the senators officially opened the trial by taking oaths to ensure "impartial justice'' as jurors. The nine House Democrats prosecuting the case against Trump carried the sole impeachment charge across the Capitol on Monday evening in a solemn and ceremonial march along the same halls the rioters ransacked three weeks ago. The lead House prosecutor, Rep. Jamie Raskin of Maryland, stood before the Senate to describe the violent events of Jan. 6 and read the House resolution charging "high crimes and misdemeanors.'' For Democrats the tone, tenor and length of the trial so early in Biden's presidency poses its own challenge, forcing them to strike a balance between their vow to hold Trump accountable and their eagerness to deliver on the new administration's priorities following their sweep of control of the House, Senate and White House. Chief Justice John Roberts is not presiding at the trial, as he did during Trump's first impeachment, potentially affecting the gravitas of the proceedings. The shift is said to be in keeping with protocol because Trump is no longer in office. Instead, Leahy, who serves in the largely ceremonial role of Senate president pro tempore, was sworn in on Tuesday. Leaders in both parties agreed to a short delay in the proceedings, which serves their political and practical interests, even as National Guard troops remain at the Capitol because of security threats to lawmakers ahead of the trial. The start date gives Trump's still-evolving legal team time to prepare its case, while also providing more than a month's distance from the passions of the bloody riot. For the Democratic-led Senate, the intervening weeks provide prime time to confirm some of Biden's key Cabinet nominees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/gop-largely-sides-against-holding-trump-impeachment-trial/articleshow/80472468.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra govt announces perks for unanimous panchayat polls||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a bid to encourage unanimous elections for the post of village sarpanch and members of gram panchayats (GPs) in the upcoming elections, the state government on Tuesday announced an incentive scheme. It issued orders to this effect. The same order, when issued in March 2020 before the outbreak of Covid-19, had not received sufficient public notice. The officials have been asked to give it a wide publicity and create awareness among the public about the incentive scheme. As per the order, GPs with a population of less than 2,000 would be awarded 5 lakh for unanimous election, while GPs with a population between 2,001 and 5,000 would get a 10 lakh incentive. Similarly, GPs with a population between 5,001 and 10,000 would be rewarded with 15 lakh and those with a population of above 10,000 with 20 lakh. The maximum incentive available for unanimous panchayat elections in 2001 was 50,000. The government, in its order on Tuesday, mentioned that this would facilitate concentrating energies of gram panchayats on developmental activities. Several states such as Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Telangana and Punjab continue to have elections to gram panchayats on a non-political party basis. In Himachal Pradesh, the non-party-based election is adopted not only at the GP level, but also at the panchayat samiti (block) level. The Gujarat government provides an incentive, varying between 2 lakh and 5 lakh, to panchayats conducting unanimous election under the Samras Scheme. Haryana is implementing a similar scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-govt-announces-perks-for-unanimous-panchayat-polls/articleshow/80472997.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Amaravati||Andhra govt announces perks for unanimous panchayat polls||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a bid to encourage unanimous elections for the post of village sarpanch and members of gram panchayats (GPs) in the upcoming elections, the state government on Tuesday announced an incentive scheme. It issued orders to this effect. The same order, when issued in March 2020 before the outbreak of Covid-19, had not received sufficient public notice. The officials have been asked to give it a wide publicity and create awareness among the public about the incentive scheme. As per the order, GPs with a population of less than 2,000 would be awarded 5 lakh for unanimous election, while GPs with a population between 2,001 and 5,000 would get a 10 lakh incentive. Similarly, GPs with a population between 5,001 and 10,000 would be rewarded with 15 lakh and those with a population of above 10,000 with 20 lakh. The maximum incentive available for unanimous panchayat elections in 2001 was 50,000. The government, in its order on Tuesday, mentioned that this would facilitate concentrating energies of gram panchayats on developmental activities. Several states such as Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Telangana and Punjab continue to have elections to gram panchayats on a non-political party basis. In Himachal Pradesh, the non-party-based election is adopted not only at the GP level, but also at the panchayat samiti (block) level. The Gujarat government provides an incentive, varying between 2 lakh and 5 lakh, to panchayats conducting unanimous election under the Samras Scheme. Haryana is implementing a similar scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/andhra-govt-announces-perks-for-unanimous-panchayat-polls/articleshow/80472996.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra govt announces perks for unanimous panchayat polls||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a bid to encourage unanimous elections for the post of village sarpanch and members of gram panchayats (GPs) in the upcoming elections, the state government on Tuesday announced an incentive scheme. It issued orders to this effect. The same order, when issued in March 2020 before the outbreak of Covid-19, had not received sufficient public notice. The officials have been asked to give it a wide publicity and create awareness among the public about the incentive scheme. As per the order, GPs with a population of less than 2,000 would be awarded 5 lakh for unanimous election, while GPs with a population between 2,001 and 5,000 would get a 10 lakh incentive. Similarly, GPs with a population between 5,001 and 10,000 would be rewarded with 15 lakh and those with a population of above 10,000 with 20 lakh. The maximum incentive available for unanimous panchayat elections in 2001 was 50,000. The government, in its order on Tuesday, mentioned that this would facilitate concentrating energies of gram panchayats on developmental activities. Several states such as Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Telangana and Punjab continue to have elections to gram panchayats on a non-political party basis. In Himachal Pradesh, the non-party-based election is adopted not only at the GP level, but also at the panchayat samiti (block) level. The Gujarat government provides an incentive, varying between 2 lakh and 5 lakh, to panchayats conducting unanimous election under the Samras Scheme. Haryana is implementing a similar scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-govt-announces-perks-for-unanimous-panchayat-polls/articleshow/80472540.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Army Captain from Hyderabad gets Sena medal for Galwan bravery||HYDERABAD: Captain Arjun Deshpande, an army captain hailing from Hyderabad, has been conferred with the Sena Medal in this year's Republic Day list of gallantry medals for holding off China's People's Liberation Army troopers at the Galwan Valley in Ladakh last year. Though the details of the grit that he displayed in the clash with the PLA jawans on June 15, 2020 are not officially announced yet, from what has been gathered through army sources, Captain Deshpande was in the forefront of taking on the PLA at Galwan Valley. When the Chinese armymen attacked Col B Santosh Babu, the commanding officer of his unit, the 16 Bihar Regiment, Deshpande reacted swiftly and engaged them in hand-to-hand combat. Capt Deshpande and three others of the regiment, who were taken hostage, were reportedly returned by the Chinese army after the Indian government's intervention. Commandant of MCEME awarded AVSMIn the announcement made by the defence ministry, Lt Gen TSA Narayanan, Commandant, Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering, Secunderabad, was awarded the Ati Vishisht Seva Medal. Lt Gen YVK Mohan, who retired on December 31, 2020, was awarded the Param Vishisht Seva Medal. Two others from Telangana serving in the Indian Army — Col Sanjeev was awarded the Vishisht Seva Medal and Major A Srinivas Reddy, Grenadiers of 55th Battalion, Rashtriya Rifles, got the Sena Medal for the second time. MCEME said Lt Gen Narayanan was awarded the AVSM for his ‘distinguished service of an exceptional order, displayed towards execution of his duties for the Indian Army.’ This year has been a landmark year for MCEME under his stewardship, having achieved national accolades and fame, notably of which are winning the prestigious Golden Peacock National Training Award, ICTE Uttkrisht Sansthan Vishwakarma Award as well as the General Officer Commanding in Chief (GoC-in-C) Army Training Command (ARTRAC) unit citation, MCEME said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/army-captain-from-hyd-gets-sena-medal-for-galwan-bravery/articleshow/80472559.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 27, 2021||India||Farmers' rally: Tractor parade turns Capital raid||NEW DELHI: The script had been read out and the red lines drawn, but nothing went as planned when the farmers took out their tractor rally on Tuesday. A dash to the heart of Delhi on speeding tractors that rammed barricades and even threatened to mow down policemen, widespread vandalism and destruction of public property and prolonged clashes with the cops marred a two-month-long peaceful agitation on the farm laws. This was capped with the unfurling of the Sikh religious flag, Nishan Sahib, at Red Fort even as cops were battling the protesters in the foreground. The leaders who had promised a peaceful march and should have reined in the hotheads did the disappearing act and the volunteers who were supposed to keep the rally on course were not be seen anywhere. This was a pyrrhic victory, bitter harvest of what turned out to be a rudderless agitation when it came to hitting the streets. Police showed extraordinary restraint as use of force against farmers was never on the table during discussions amongst the brass. However, this strategy landed over 120 cops in the hospital, half of them with severe injuries. A few are critical and in ICU. A farmer driving a tractor dangerously crashed into barricades near ITO and died on the spot. Protestors put flags atop a dome after breaching the route during the tractor rally at Red Fort. Ignoring the schedule of 12pm to 5pm that had been agreed upon for the tractor rally, the protesters at Singhu and Ghazipur borders had begun challenging the cops as early as 6.30am. They soon began making attempts to break through the barricades. This was even before the Republic Day parade had begun. By 8am, the barricades at Singhu were down and 45 minutes later, Tikri too had been breached. The tractor rally was on, still on course. By 10am, around 6,000-7,000 tractors had entered Delhi, cocking a snook at police and violating virtually all mutually agreed terms and conditions. When this group reached Mukarba Chowk on G T Karnal Road around 10.40am, it insisted on moving towards Central Delhi, instead of going on the predesignated route. The cops tried to reason with them but the farmers, led by Nihangs on horses carrying swords and kirpans, charged at police and broke several layers of barricades between Mukarba Chowk and Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar. The protesters were teargassed and mild force used but to no avail.  A protester charges a security personnel during clashes at the Red Fort following farmers' tractor parade on Republic Day. (PTI )Meanwhile, a section of farmers at Ghazipur border smashed the barricades at several points and headed towards ITO, through Akshardham and Millennium Park, where they were joined by some farmers from Singhu. Things were getting chaotic at Tikri too. Here, a section of the protesters refused to turn towards Najafgarh and insisted on marching towards Peeragarhi and Central Delhi, leading to day-long clashes with the cops. However, it was at ITO that the protesters met with stiff resistance from the cops which turned the intersection into a battleground. The farmers turned violent and broke barricades, damaged iron railings and dividers and even tried to run over the policemen with their tractors. Around 12.35pm, the cops fired teargas shells and lathicharged the protesters, setting off a cat-and-mouse game. The protesters pelted the cops with stones. A tractor smashes its way past a barricade at Akshardham.With the arrival of reinforcements after the conclusion of the R-Day parade, police succeeded in stopping them from entering the New Delhi district and moving towards Parliament. One section of protesters then turned towards Red Fort with another staying put on Vikas Marg. Having reached the ramparts of Red Fort, the protesters hoisted the Nishan Sahib amidst much cheering even as police were being attacked in the vicinity. It was only late at night that some order could be restored and the crowd removed from the area. The clashes between police and farmers continued throughout the day. Most of the incidents were reported from Mukarba Chowk, Ghazipur, ITO, Seemapuri, Nangloi, Tikri Border and Red Fort. Delhi Police — caught between overseeing R-Day security and handling the spiralling violence — used mild force, including teargas, and suspended internet at many places. The request for the latter was made by the special cell to the home ministry which gave the order without much of an impact. According to intelligence officials, things spun out of control as the protesters were virtually leaderless. While the talks had been held with the elderly union leaders, youngsters took charge on Tuesday morning, refusing to heed any counselling or instructions by police, with the leaders having disappeared from the scene. Reacting to the day's developments, police commissioner S N Shrivastava said, "The time and the routes for the tractor rally were finalised after several rounds of meetings. But the farmers drove their tractors off the routes and before the fixed time, leading to vandalism in which many police personnel were injured." "Public property has also been damaged. I appeal to the protesting farmers not to indulge in violence, maintain peace and return through the designated routes," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-rally-tractor-parade-turns-capital-raid/articleshow/80471152.cms||Raj Shekhar
January 27, 2021||Hubballi||Sales of national flag down, weavers in distress in Hubballi||HUBBALLI: Karnataka Khadi Gramodyoga Samyukta Sangh (KKGSS), Hubballi, the only authorised national flag production unit in the state, had pinned hopes of a revival on Republic Day, but weavers have been left a disappointed lot as sales fell by 60%. The unit was in the doldrums after the pandemic hit as it suffered a shortage of manpower and raw materials after the nationwide lockdown was imposed. The unit had hoped for a turnaround ahead of Independence Day last year, but that did not happen. The unit sold national flags worth Rs 2.4 crore between April and January 2019-20, but until January 25 this year (2020-21), it sold only Rs 1.1 crore worth of flags. Due to flagging sales, salaries of many employees have either been delayed or withheld for the past three months. With the number of fresh Covid-19 cases coming down and with the vaccination drive in full flow, KKGSS is hoping sales improve ahead of this year’s Independence Day. Shivanand Mathapati, secretary, KKGSS, said after the lockdown was lifted, the unit began receiving raw materials and had hoped to recoup losses ahead of Independence Day celebrations last year. But the response was poor. “We expected bumper orders compared to past years from across the country, but sales were poor,” Mathapati said. “As a result, we found it difficult to pay salaries of employees for three months. Sales are poor because schools and colleges are closed and even government and private offices in many states are either closed or operating with limited staff. Celebrations are on hold.” He said the unit had worked hard to produce flags of different sizes, but are now stuck with a lot of finished products. Savitribai, a weaver affiliated to the unit, said the condition of employees is turning from bad to worse and if the situation continues they would be in deep trouble. “Governments should pay attention to khadi weavers and should extend a helping hand,” she said. Weavers said if the state government clears pending incentive of Rs 105 crores — Rs 3 crore of which is due to KKGSS — it would be a big relief. “But the government is not releasing funds and that’s very unfortunate,” said many weavers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/sales-of-national-flag-down-weavers-in-distress-in-hubballi/articleshow/80472582.cms||J Abbas Mulla
January 27, 2021||India||Violence a setback, but farm unions to take stir pan-India||NEW DELHI: Violence during the tractor rallies came as a setback for farm unions agitating for repeal of central farm laws. However, they expressed their determination to continue with their protests while seeking to dissociate themselves from Tuesday’s violence. The unions said that there were no plans to abandon the march to Parliament on Budget day, though neither the courts nor the Central government may be accommodative this time. The farm unions, which have received favourable notice so far, will find themselves being closely questioned over the manner in which their rally spun out of control and resulted in chaos in Delhi on Republic Day. Read AlsoRed Fort raider Deep Sidhu has been quoting Jarnail Singh BhindranwalePunjabi actor-singer-activist Deep Sidhu, who farmer unions allege was responsible for taking youths towards Red Fort on Tuesday, has been making news from the beginning of the agitation since September last year.Union leaders do not appear ready to give up on their core demands — repeal of laws and legal guarantee to minimum support price (MSP) —and some of them feel that their protests are acquiring a larger dimension. The unions will in any case want to wait to see how opposition parties take up the stir in the Budget session, which begins on Friday. Farmers protest: Live updatesThe likely stand of the Central government, which has so far been at pains to signal its flexibility to amend the laws — short of repeal — was not clear though BJP leaders were taken aback by the violence. The government and BJP offered no word on the violence, with sources saying the priority was to restore law and order. The government seemed to expect the televised events to hurt the protest, while the proceedings in the Supreme Court, which had asked if the rally would be peaceful, could also see the Centre spelling out its stand. Read AlsoWhat is Nishan Sahib? It’s found flying atop every gurdwaraWas a Khalistani flag hoisted at Red Fort? No, it was a Sikh flag which is found in every gurdwara and people carry it almost invariably during religious processions. In gurdwaras, it is hoisted at a height with a ‘khanda’ (a doubleedged sword). The flag flies at the top of this and is called NishanSo far, the government has been careful in not using coercive methods, keeping in mind the sensitivity of Punjab, from where most of the unions are from, being a border state and the likely role of extremists in exploiting the situation. The unions said they had mobilised some organisations in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal to intensify the agitation. All these states, along with Assam and Manipur, witnessed protests on Tuesday. Until now, the mobilisation has been largely cadre-based with the Left-aligned All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) playing a leading role. 1/25Tractor rally: Farmers march into Delhi protesting against farm laws Previous NextShow Captions<p>Protesting farmers hoist a flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort on 72nd Republic Day, in New Delhi on Tuesday. (ANI)</p><p>Protesting farmers hoist a flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort on 72nd Republic Day, in New Delhi on Tuesday. (ANI Photo)</p><p>Farmers try to move baricades during a tractor rally to protest against farm laws on the occasion of India's Republic Day at Tikri border near New Delhi, India. (Reuters)</p><p>Farmers participate in the 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' after breaking police barricades at Ghazipur border, during their protest against Centre's farm reform laws, on the occasion of 72nd Republic Day, near Red Fort in New Delhi. (PTI)</p><p>Farmers attempt to break a barricade near Ghazipur border as they participate in 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' in protest against Centre's farm reform laws, on the occasion of 72nd Republic Day, in New Delhi. (PTI)</p><p>New Delhi: Farmers attempt to break barricades as they try to march towards Red Fort during 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' amid the 72nd Republic Day celebrations, in New Delhi, Tuesday, Jan. 26, 2021. (PTI)</p><p>Delhi: Police officials sit on road in Nangloi to block the area where farmers holding tractor parade have reached. (ANI)</p><p>New Delhi: Farmers break a police barricade as they participate in the 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' during their protest against Centre's farm reform laws, on the occasion of 72nd Republic Day, near Red Fort in New Delhi. (PTI)</p><p>Farmers attempt to break barricades as they participate in the 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' as part of their protest against Centre's farm reform laws, on the occasion of 72nd Republic Day, near Akshardham in New Delhi, Tuesday. (PTI)</p><p>Farmers participate in the 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' after breaking police barricades at Singhu border, during their ongoing protest against Centre's farm reform laws, on the occasion of 72nd Republic Day, near Bhalswa landfill site in New Delhi, Tuesday. (PTI)</p><p>Tear gas used to disperse farmers attempting to break barricades for the 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' in protest against Centre's farm reform laws, on the occasion of 72nd Republic Day, near Akshardham in New Delhi. (PTI)</p><p>Police attempt to stop farmers during their 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' in protest against Centre's farm reform laws, on the occasion of 72nd Republic Day, near Akshardham in New Delhi, Tuesday. (PIT)</p><p>New Delhi: Police uses tear gas to disperse farmers attempting to break barricades at Ghazipur border during their 'Kisan Gantantra Parade', on the occasion of 72nd Republic Day, in New Delhi. (PTI)</p><p>Farmers attempt to break a barricade at Ghazipur border as they participate in 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' in protest against Centre's farm reform laws, on the occasion of 72nd Republic Day, in New Delhi. (PTI)</p><p>Farmers take part in a tractor rally as they ride through the smoke of tear gas fired by the police to stop them as farmers continue to protest against the central government's recent agricultural reforms in New Delhi on January 26, 2021. (Photo: AFP)</p><p>Kisan Gantantra Parade in Delhi. </p><p>Police use tear gas used to disperse farmers attempting to break barricades at Ghazipur border for the 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' in protest against Centre's farm reform laws, on the occasion of 72nd Republic Day. (PTI)</p><p>Farmers on their tractors move towards Delhi during their rally on Republic Day, at Singhu border in New Delhi, Tuesday. (PTI)</p><p>Farmers broke the police barricading at the Singhu-Tiki border points to entre the national capital on their tractors on Republic Day. (PTI)</p><p>Farmers on their tractors move towards Delhi after breaking the police barricades at Singhu border during their rally on Republic Day, in New Delhi, Tuesday. (PTI)</p><p>Farmers take part in a tractor rally to protest against farm laws on the occasion of India's Republic Day at Tikri border near New Delhi. (Reuters)</p><p>Farmers hoist the National Flag at Ghazipur border during the Republic Day celebration, ahead of their tractor rally, in New Delhi. (PTI)</p><p>Residents of an area are seen behind a police barricade as they see farmers taking part in a tractor rally to protest against farm laws on the occasion of India's Republic Day at Tikri border near New Delhi. (Reuters)</p><p>Security forces deployed at Gazipur</p><p>Haryana: Drones put to use amid high security arrangements at Faridabad-Palwal border as farmers carry out tractor parade. (ANI)</p>“Those elements, which are not going along with the collective spirit of the farmers’ movement, and which broke the norms, are the ones who have weakened and isolated themselves, and it is not the movement that is weakened,” said Kavitha Kuruganti of Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch, who represented farmers in talks with the government, while condemning the violence. Read AlsoDeep Sidhu &amp; government agencies behind rampage: Farm netasFarm leaders on Tuesday evening blamed the Majha-based Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and Deep Sidhu - who had led a group to Red Fort - for the violence in the national capital and termed the entire episode as “the handiwork of some central agencies” to defame the farmers’ struggle.P Krishna Prasad of AIKS and Avik Saha of Jai Kisan Andolan (JKA) believe that the rally on Delhi roads in fact enthused and encouraged farmers in several states. “The incidents will not weaken the movement. It has now become a mass movement and will eventually become truly pan-India. Masses are now leading the struggle. They are not being led by farmers’ unions anymore,” Prasad, who participated in the Rohtak-Tikri leg of the tractor rally on Tuesday, said. Asked whether violence would not defeat the purpose, Saha said, “Only one group short-circuited it and created panic by its unacceptable act, which we all condemned. We will review it and take a collective decision. We are bound by the common mission and we are determined to achieve it through further intensifying the protests across the country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/violence-a-setback-but-farm-unions-to-take-stir-pan-india/articleshow/80471494.cms||Vishwa Mohan
January 27, 2021||Business||Microsoft profit soars as Covid speeds shift to cloud||SAN FRANCISCO: Microsoft said Tuesday profit rose sharply in the recently ended quarter as the coronavirus pandemic revved a shift to relying on services hosted in the cloud for work, play and socializing. The US technology stalwart reported net income of $15.5 billion in the final three months of last year, a 33 percent jump from the same period in pre-pandemic 2019. Overall revenue rose 17 percent from a year ago to $43.1 billion, Microsoft said in its update for its fiscal second quarter. "What we have witnessed over the past year is the dawn of a second wave of digital transformation sweeping every company and every industry," Microsoft chief executive Satya Nadella said in an earnings release. "Building their own digital capability is the new currency driving every organization's resilience and growth." Microsoft's commercial cloud offerings took in revenue of $16.7 billion in the quarter, up 34 percent from the same period in the prior year, according to chief financial officer Amy Hood. "We continue to benefit from our investments in strategic, high-growth areas," Hood said. Microsoft shares were up more than five percent in after market trades that followed release of the earnings figures. "These were blow-out numbers that will be another feather in the cap for the tech sector as the cloud growth party is just getting started, in our opinion led by Microsoft," Wedbush analyst Dan Ives said in a note to investors. Revenue in Microsoft's consumer-focused More Personal Computing unit was up 14 percent to $15.1 billion, helped by a 40 percent surge in money taken in from content and services at its Xbox video game unit, according to the company. Sales of video games, consoles and accessories hit a record high in the US last year as people hunkered down at home due to the pandemic turned to play. Sony's PlayStation 5 and Microsoft's newest Xbox were released in November, vying for holiday season dominance as the pandemic boosts gaming demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/microsoft-profit-soars-as-covid-speeds-shift-to-cloud/articleshow/80472668.cms||---
January 27, 2021||World||Coronavirus: 100 million Covid-19 cases worldwide||WASHINGTON: More than 100 million Covid-19 cases have now been recorded worldwide, according to an AFP tally on Tuesday, as newly-inaugurated President Joe Biden pledged to ramp up the United States's struggling vaccine program. The number of cases, compiled from data provided by national health agencies, represents just a fraction of the real infections as the coronavirus has spread around the globe.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The United States, which passed 25 million confirmed cases last weekend, remains the country with the largest outbreak -- and the largest death toll of over 420,000. Biden is seeking to turn around the fight against the virus, which took a ferocious grip on the country during Donald Trump's presidency when the risks were downplayed and officials gave mixed messages on mask-wearing other safety measures. Biden said vaccinating the entire US population was a daunting challenge, and the program inherited from the Trump administration "was in worse shape than we anticipated or expected." "This is a war-time undertaking. It's not hyperbole," he said, announcing the US was buying an additional 200 million doses and will have enough to vaccinate 300 million Americans -- virtually the entire population -- by early fall. In another day of grim milestones, Britain surged past 100,000 Covid-19 deaths, and other European nations looked to tighten their borders, hoping to keep out new, more transmissible virus strains. Prime Minister Boris Johnson said it was "hard to compute" the loss felt by British families after his country became the first European country to surpass 100,000 Covid-19 deaths. But he said his government, which faced criticism over its initial response to the outbreak, "did everything that we could to minimize suffering and minimize loss of life." According to the London Times, the UK government will announce Wednesday that British travellers must quarantine in hotels near airports for 10 days after returning from 30 high-risk countries, mostly in South America and Southern Africa. Neighboring Ireland said Tuesday it would enact mandatory travel quarantines for the first time, as well extending its third national lockdown until March 5. Among other European nations looking to strengthen border controls was Germany, which said it is considering almost completely halting flights into the country. "The danger from the numerous virus mutations forces us to consider drastic measures," Interior Minister Horst Seehofer told the Bild newspaper. Iceland meanwhile started to issue vaccination certificates to ease travel for those who have had both required doses. The new measures came as anger rises over grinding anti-coronavirus restrictions, with the Netherlands rocked by nightly riots since it imposed a curfew on Saturday. More than 400 people were arrested after the worst unrest to hit the country in four decades, but the Dutch government said it would not back down. "You don't capitulate to people who smash shop windows," Dutch Finance Minister Wopke Hoekstra said, calling the rioters "scum." Israeli police also clashed with protesters, arresting 14 people after ultra-Orthodox Jews demonstrated against lockdown measures. With the global death toll at 2.1 million, the world has looked to vaccines to break the gloom, but bickering over access to doses has intensified. Tensions have in particular mounted between the European Union and pharmaceutical firms over delays to deliveries. "Europe invested billions to help develop the world's first Covid-19 vaccines," EU chief Ursula von der Leyen told the virtual World Economic Forum (WEF). "And now, the companies must deliver. They must honor their obligations." Europe's vaccination campaign stumbled after British-Swedish drugs company AstraZeneca warned it would not be able to meet promised targets on EU shipments -- a week after US group Pfizer said it was also delaying delivery volumes. AstraZeneca's CEO insisted Tuesday that the company was not selling vaccines ordered by the EU to other countries at a profit. The widening gap for vaccine supplies between rich and poor countries led both South African President Cyril Ramaphosa and World Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus to lash out at "vaccine nationalism." Ramaphosa told the WEF that low- and middle-income countries were being shouldered aside by wealthier nations able to acquire "up to four times what their population needs." The row over access to vaccines at the WEF -- normally held at the Swiss ski resort of Davos -- comes as the pandemic compounds economic inequality. Despite Lebanon being under one of the world's strictest lockdowns, father-of-six Omar Qarhani told AFP he was still selling vegetables on the side of a road in Tripoli because he is desperate to support his family. "I'm not scared of corona -- what scares me is being in need and poverty," he said. The IMF now predicts a "cumulative output loss" of $22 trillion -- the equivalent of the entire US economy -- over 2020-25. Nevertheless, optimism that vaccines will bring the pandemic under control and allow economic activity to resume, coupled with stimulus in major economies, boosted the IMF's growth forecast this year to 5.5 percent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/coronavirus-100-million-covid-19-cases-worldwide/articleshow/80472730.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan woman raped by three men, brutalised||JAIPUR: A 25-year-old woman was allegedly raped by three men in Nagaur district of Rajasthan and a bottle was inserted inside her private parts, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place on January 19 when the woman had gone to a nearby farm.  In her police complaint, the woman has alleged that the accused inserted a bottle inside her private parts when she resisted rape attempts by them.  The accused threatened her of dire consequences if she told anyone about the incident, SHO Parbatsar Rupram said. Later, the woman narrated her ordeal to her family members. She was admitted to a private hospital in the district on January 19 and was discharged the next day.  An FIR was registered against Panchuram Jat, Kanaram Jat and Shrawan Gurjar and efforts were on to nab them, the SHO added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-woman-raped-by-three-men-brutalised/articleshow/80472774.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Chennai||21-year-old who stole tablets from shops to get high arrested in Chennai||CHENNAI: A man who was on the spree of stealing tablets from medical shops to get high was nabbed at Saidapet on Monday night. A search for the accused was launched by the Saidapet police based on a complaint from Ramesh, a pharmacy owner from V S Mudali Street, after cash and tablets went missing from his shop. Several other shops in the locality too came up with similar complaints in the past one month. With the help of CCTV camera footage police found the involvement of Pinky alias Arun Kumar, 21, a previous offender from Ambedkar Nagar in Adambakkam. Police caught him and during the course of interrogations, police found he is drug addict. Whenever he ran out of money to buy liquor or ganja, he took to stealing tablets. He chose a particular brand of tablets used by diabetic patients. He told police that he took at least eight to ten tablets and mixed them with water and made a solution. He then used a syringe to administer the solution into his body. "This he said would leave him high for at least four hours," said an investigating officer. He was able to find out the tablets at shops as names of tablets are written on boxes. Before striking at a shop, he would visit it to ensure the particular brand of tablets were available there. Investigations revealed that he had stolen tablets from Sri Balaji Medicals at Kumaran Colony on January 14. On January 15, he broken in Kumaran Stores at Saidapet. Similarly, he had also targeted shops at Ethiraj Nagar, Dhanapal Street at Kumaran Nagar and escaped with 33,000. He has been remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/21-year-old-who-stole-tablets-from-shops-to-get-high-arrested-in-chennai/articleshow/80472851.cms||---
January 27, 2021||World||From sunny Florida, Trump casts shadow over Republican Party||WASHINGTON: He's gone, he's golfing, but from his palm lined Florida hideaway Donald Trump is also plotting revenge. If many Americans -- perhaps discreetly including a number of senior Republicans -- wished Trump would just disappear at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, they're in for a sore disappointment. As an impeachment trial clanks into gear in Washington, the disgraced ex-president is making clear to Republican senators that they need to remember he is a major force. An announcement on Monday that he was opening "the Office of the Former President" in his new hometown reminded them. "President Trump will always and forever be a champion for the American People," the statement said. Senators are considering Trump's fate in the first impeachment trial ever of a former president and -- after last year's version -- the first time a president has been twice impeached at all. But Trump -- winner of 74 million votes in his defeat to Biden on November 3 and reportedly sitting on some $70 million in campaign funds -- wants Republican senators to consider their own futures before they dare cross him. At least 17 Republicans would need to join the 50 Senate Democrats for a conviction in his trial. Every day that goes by, this appears less likely. On Tuesday, a Republican senator's motion to declare the trial unconstitutional got support from all but five Republicans, the strongest indication yet that a bipartisan conviction is dead on arrival. Yes, a lot of Republican lawmakers are furious at Trump's incitement of a crowd to march on Congress on January 6 in a bid to interrupt certification of President Joe Biden's election win. But Republicans also want to win back the House of Representatives and Senate in the 2022 midterm elections and the White House in 2024. And for now at least, being pro-Trump is arguably the best way to achieve this. According to a January Washington Post-ABC News poll, nearly six in 10 Republicans and Republican-leaning independents believe the party needs to remain under Trump's leadership. Trump's main way of applying pressure while out of office is to threaten disloyal legislators with support for their challengers in party primary votes ahead of the 2022 midterms. Trump's endorsement on Monday of his former White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders in her bid to become governor of Arkansas was a first flexing of political muscle. Sanders is competing with more senior party officials in the state for the shot at high office. But in the race to be the most loyal Trump acolyte, she already wins hands down and can expect to reap the rewards. For those who have failed the Trump purity test, nervous days await. During the four years of his presidency, Trump ground down almost any internal opposition. So he was stung by the outpouring of criticism over his actions on January 6 and he'd like revenge. Those on the list include the 10 Republicans in the House who voted with Democrats for his impeachment and now are likely to face primary challenges. If senators go further by voting for his conviction, that would trigger an even harsher response from Trump and grassroot Republicans who believe his lie that he was robbed of election victory. Responding to reports that Trump was considering founding a breakaway right-wing party, advisor Jason Miller told Axios that the ex-president is fully supportive of the Republican Party -- for now. "It's completely up to Republican senators if this is something that becomes more serious," he was quoted as saying. One Republican feeling the tension is Marco Rubio, a senator in Florida. He is loyally attacking the impeachment trial as a "waste of time" and "vengeance from the radical left." But is this enough? Rubio did not support Trump's last-minute attempts to challenge congressional certification of Biden's victory, putting him in the potential crosshairs. Speculation is rife that Rubio's seat could be challenged in the 2022 primary by none other than Ivanka Trump, the ex-president's ambitious daughter and former White House advisor. Asked about this scenario by Fox News on Sunday, Rubio looked uncomfortable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/from-sunny-florida-trump-casts-shadow-over-republican-party/articleshow/80472834.cms||---
January 27, 2021||India||Huge relief for spouses of H-1B workers, Biden nixes Trump plan to kill H-4 work permits||NEW YORK: "Withdrawn". A single word on a thick bureaucratic file on the seventh day of the Biden administration delivered a huge win for spouses of workers on H-1B visas in the US who spent the last four years worried sick that their work authorisations would be killed off. The latest development brings to an end years of effort by the Donald Trump administration to rescind an Obama era regulation that allowed a certain subset of spouses of H-1B visa holders to work in the US. Up until the summer of 2015, H-4 visa holders could not legally hold paid employment in the United States. Almost as soon as Obama changed the game, the lawsuits followed and then the Trump presidency took the attack on the H-4 work permit to a whole new level. On text messages, chat groups and online threads, the outpouring of relief played out online on Tuesday evening. "Great news! Hopefully H4EAD delays will be ending soon which is leading to a long wait for dependent spouses," tweeted Rashi Bhatnagar. Sharmistha Mohapatra posted, "Big win for H4 EAD holders today. Former Pres Trump's EO to rescind H4 EAD is now withdrawn by POTUS. Let's hope excruciating long wait times often resulting in job loss is taken away too!" From the time the skewering of the H-4 work permit (called the EAD) began in Fall 2017, the proposed rule has been published seven times for ongoing review, keeping the H-4 community on cliff-edge. The Trump government justified the move saying it is "economically significant" and aligns with the "Buy American and Hire American" executive order, which was mostly code for keeping foreign workers out of the US and flinging red meat to the Trump base. Now, the backlink to that Trump executive order ends up as a 404 (page not found) error and re-routes to the Biden White House. "Removing H-4 Dependent Spouses from the Class of Aliens Eligible for Employment Authorization" was a Trumpian agenda pursued by White House immigration hawks with intense zeal and inter-agency collaboration. It was being reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA), where it was parked for months. The pressure on the H4 community never really let up since Trump took office. The decision to rescind the proposed rule on revoking the H4 work permit came on the same day Biden signed an executive order calling for the practice of racial equity in the United States. Data from the US government show that Indian and Chinese workers account for the lion's share of H-1B visas. H-4 visas typically follow the same trajectory. Indians filed 74 per cent of all H-1B petitions in fiscal year 2019. Chinese filed 11.8 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/huge-relief-for-spouses-of-h1b-workers-biden-nixes-trump-plan-to-kill-h4-work-permits/articleshow/80472889.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Business||Huge relief for spouses of H-1B workers, Biden nixes Trump plan to kill H-4 work permits||NEW YORK: "Withdrawn". A single word on a thick bureaucratic file on the seventh day of the Biden administration delivered a huge win for spouses of workers on H-1B visas in the US who spent the last four years worried sick that their work authorisations would be killed off. The latest development brings to an end years of effort by the Donald Trump administration to rescind an Obama era regulation that allowed a certain subset of spouses of H-1B visa holders to work in the US. Up until the summer of 2015, H-4 visa holders could not legally hold paid employment in the United States. Almost as soon as Obama changed the game, the lawsuits followed and then the Trump presidency took the attack on the H-4 work permit to a whole new level. On text messages, chat groups and online threads, the outpouring of relief played out online on Tuesday evening. "Great news! Hopefully H4EAD delays will be ending soon which is leading to a long wait for dependent spouses," tweeted Rashi Bhatnagar. Sharmistha Mohapatra posted, "Big win for H4 EAD holders today. Former Pres Trump's EO to rescind H4 EAD is now withdrawn by POTUS. Let's hope excruciating long wait times often resulting in job loss is taken away too!" From the time the skewering of the H-4 work permit (called the EAD) began in Fall 2017, the proposed rule has been published seven times for ongoing review, keeping the H-4 community on cliff-edge. The Trump government justified the move saying it is "economically significant" and aligns with the "Buy American and Hire American" executive order, which was mostly code for keeping foreign workers out of the US and flinging red meat to the Trump base. Now, the backlink to that Trump executive order ends up as a 404 (page not found) error and re-routes to the Biden White House. "Removing H-4 Dependent Spouses from the Class of Aliens Eligible for Employment Authorization" was a Trumpian agenda pursued by White House immigration hawks with intense zeal and inter-agency collaboration. It was being reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA), where it was parked for months. The pressure on the H4 community never really let up since Trump took office. The decision to rescind the proposed rule on revoking the H4 work permit came on the same day Biden signed an executive order calling for the practice of racial equity in the United States. Data from the US government show that Indian and Chinese workers account for the lion's share of H-1B visas. H-4 visas typically follow the same trajectory. Indians filed 74 per cent of all H-1B petitions in fiscal year 2019. Chinese filed 11.8 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/huge-relief-for-spouses-of-h1b-workers-biden-nixes-trump-plan-to-kill-h4-work-permits/articleshow/80472844.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Bengaluru||Aero India 2021: Plane carnival in Bengaluru amid pandemic||BENGALURU: Aircraft participating in Aero India 2021 are scheduled to start arriving Wednesday onwards and will begin rehearsals after January 29, the day a mandatory main briefing for all flying display pilots will be conducted, as per the manual. “It is compulsory for all aircrew participating in the displays and customer demonstration flights to attend the briefing at 4pm on January 29. Failure to attend daily briefings shall disqualify the participants for the day,” the airshow’s flying manual reads. Scheduled between February 3 and 5, this edition of the show has been reduced to a three-day event (from five days) owing to the pandemic with restrictions on the number of participants, as reported by TOI earlier. According to the official schedule, as of January 26, there will be only five flying display slots during this edition, which is only 50% of the usual (10) slots. Usually, each day would have two displays, but this year, the last day has only one slot scheduled. As per the manual, practice for flying displays and customer demonstration flights will commence on January 30, and flights to demonstrate aircraft to potential customers and media, and for publicity and other purposes will operate on each of the exhibition days. A full rehearsal is scheduled for February 2 — the day before the inaugural as usual — while practice flying will happen between January 30 and February 1. Familiarisation and customer demonstration flight practice is expected to be held between 10am and 4.30pm on these days. On show days, flying displays are planned as follows — on day 1, the first will be between 10.15am and 11.15am and the second slot is scheduled from 3pm-5pm. The second day will see two two-hour slots, 10am to 12pm and 3pm to 5pm and the third day will have one slot between 10am and noon. According to the Indian Air Force, as of January 22, 41 aircraft were scheduled to participate in the inaugural fly-past, while 42 were to be part of the various flying displays and 63 on static display. These are not the number of aircraft types but number of planes. At least 11 foreign aircraft had shown interest, but IAF could not give a final confirmation on the exact number that will participate. KIA may release info on disruptions todayAero India will impact flight operations at Kempegowda International Airport from the date the practice sessions begin. Sources at Bangalore International Airport Limited said KIA is likely to release information on air show-related flight disruptions on Wednesday or Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/aero-india-2021-flying-displays-slashed-from-10-to-5-aircraft-to-start-landing-today/articleshow/80472860.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Drive hits hurdles in nursing colleges||BENGALURU: The focus of the vaccination drive in Bengaluru is on nursing and medical colleges which account for 64,000 beneficiaries, but students are refusing to take the jab although they registered for it, said N Manjunatha Prasad, BBMP commissioner. Some nursing colleges are seeking signed consent from parents of students prior to taking the vaccine and this has led to added concerns. AECS Maaruti Nursing and Dental College off Bannerghatta Road, had 600 staff and pupils registered for the vaccine, but only 180 were inoculated. “There are others who are ready, but BBMP has not held sessions yet,” said Girijamaba Devi, principal, Maaruti nursing college. “Many dental students from other colleges are scheduled to take the vaccine here and we are getting calls. We have had only three sessions in one day.” Fifty dental students in the college didn’t want to register for the drive. Devi said there are students from other states who stay in hostels on the campus which is why parental consent is required. “We are responsible for their safety, but many parents are unwilling and we cannot help it,” said Devi. She, however, said the response from parents has been mixed. In some colleges, names of students who have already graduated have also been added to the list and this has inflated the beneficiary list, say BBMP officials. The registration was first done in August when final year students were still on campus. “Final exams were held in December. Some students who passed out are employed in private hospitals and they have taken the vaccine here,” said the principal of a nursing college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-drive-hits-hurdles-in-nursing-colleges/articleshow/80472968.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||No Telangana tableau at R-Day parade this year||HYDERABAD: Telangana missed out again — fifth time since its formation — at the Republic Day parade in Delhi on Tuesday. Senior government officials said due to the prevailing pandemic and rising cases, the state did not send the tableau. AP showcased its tableau in the form of Lepakshi temple’s monolithic rock architecture. An I&PR official said: “In view of Covid-19 situation and positive cases rising in Telangana, the decision to showcase the tableau was deferred.” In 2015, a year after it came into being, Telangana represented at the parade with Bonalu festival theme. The state displayed its tableau on Bathukamma theme with Sammakka-Sarakka goddesses in 2020. AP has had a tableau three times — 2015, 2020 and this year — since the bifurcation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-telangana-tableau-at-r-day-parade-this-year/articleshow/80473089.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 27, 2021||Mysuru||Karnataka: 435 more health workers from five districts get jab||BENGALURU: The statewide Covid-19 vaccination programme hobbled on Tuesday with only five districts holding inoculation sessions. Bengaluru Rural, Ballari, Dharwad, Hassan and Raichur conducted a total of 12 sessions. Although the target was to vaccinate a total 1,094 healthcare workers who had registered for the jab across the state, vaccinators managed to administer the first dose to only 435, a coverage of 40%. The state’s vaccination coverage for the past 11 days – the drive kicked off nationwide on January 16 – stands at 55% as on Tuesday with a total 2.3 lakh healthcare workers being vaccinated. Still, while Karnataka leads the rest of the nation in coverage, the drive in the state has fallen well short of expectations. Authorities, in Bengaluru especially, had hoped to complete the process of inoculating healthcare workers within a week from launch. In Dharwad on Tuesday, of the 400 beneficiaries listed to receive the vaccine, only 40 took the dose, a coverage of a mere 10%. In Ballari, only one session was held and vaccinators had hoped to cover 100 people, but only 52 were administered the vaccine. In two sessions in Bengaluru Rural district, 43 of the 101 beneficiaries took the vaccine. In one session across Raichur district, 73 of the 93 healthcare workers slated to receive the first dose, came forward to take it. No sessions were held in Bengaluru Urban district. Health department officials said data was frozen as a reconciliation exercise with the CoWIN app was on. Names of registered beneficiaries and other details were being updated in the portal, which was why a session wasn’t held. Technically glitches with the app have dogged the vaccination programme from Day I. However, some hospitals like Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research have gotten around the hurdle by uploading data to the portal later. Despite being government-run, the institute has already vaccinated a staggering 86% of its staff – the highest among medical facilities in Bengaluru. Taking note of the fact, the government has asked the hospital to share its model so that it can be adopted across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/karnataka-435-more-health-workers-from-five-districts-get-jab/articleshow/80475142.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 435 more health workers from five districts get jab||BENGALURU: The statewide Covid-19 vaccination programme hobbled on Tuesday with only five districts holding inoculation sessions. Bengaluru Rural, Ballari, Dharwad, Hassan and Raichur conducted a total of 12 sessions. Although the target was to vaccinate a total 1,094 healthcare workers who had registered for the jab across the state, vaccinators managed to administer the first dose to only 435, a coverage of 40%. The state’s vaccination coverage for the past 11 days – the drive kicked off nationwide on January 16 – stands at 55% as on Tuesday with a total 2.3 lakh healthcare workers being vaccinated. Still, while Karnataka leads the rest of the nation in coverage, the drive in the state has fallen well short of expectations. Authorities, in Bengaluru especially, had hoped to complete the process of inoculating healthcare workers within a week from launch. In Dharwad on Tuesday, of the 400 beneficiaries listed to receive the vaccine, only 40 took the dose, a coverage of a mere 10%. In Ballari, only one session was held and vaccinators had hoped to cover 100 people, but only 52 were administered the vaccine. In two sessions in Bengaluru Rural district, 43 of the 101 beneficiaries took the vaccine. In one session across Raichur district, 73 of the 93 healthcare workers slated to receive the first dose, came forward to take it. No sessions were held in Bengaluru Urban district. Health department officials said data was frozen as a reconciliation exercise with the CoWIN app was on. Names of registered beneficiaries and other details were being updated in the portal, which was why a session wasn’t held. Technically glitches with the app have dogged the vaccination programme from Day I. However, some hospitals like Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research have gotten around the hurdle by uploading data to the portal later. Despite being government-run, the institute has already vaccinated a staggering 86% of its staff – the highest among medical facilities in Bengaluru. Taking note of the fact, the government has asked the hospital to share its model so that it can be adopted across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-435-more-health-workers-from-five-districts-get-jab/articleshow/80473099.cms||---
January 27, 2021||World||US to purchase additional 200 million coronavirus vaccine doses||WASHINGTON: US President Joe Biden on Tuesday announced the purchase of additional 200 million doses of coronavirus vaccines as the country hit another grim milestone, reaching 25 million infections. After reviewing the current vaccine supply and manufacturing plans, Biden announced that his administration will increase overall weekly vaccination distribution to states and tribal territories from 8.6 million doses to a minimum of 10 million doses. Starting next week, that's an increase of 1.4 million doses per week, he said adding that these are being distributed to states based on population. “We've got a long way to go, though,” he said in his address to the nation on the steps he is taking to address the coronavirus pandemic. Reiterating his ambitious goal of 100 million shots in 100 days, he said the end goal is to beat Covid-19. Biden said he is directing Covid-19 response coordinator Jeff Zients to work with the Department of Health and Human Services and increase the supply of vaccines for the American people. “We believe that we will soon be able to confirm the purchase of an additional 100 million doses for each of the two FDA authorised vaccines Pfizer and Moderna,” he said, adding this is 200 million more doses that the federal government had previously secured not in hand yet but ordered. “We expect these additional 200 million doses to be delivered this summer,” he said. Observing that there are enough vaccine doses to fully vaccinate 300 Americans by the end of the summer, he stressed that over 400,000 people in the country have already died from coronavirus in the past year. “This is a wartime undertaking. It is not hyperbole, and as such, I directed the team to be ready to exercise all of the authorities I have under the Defense Production Act and expedite these vaccines, and we are using the Defense Production Act to launch full-scale wartime effort to address the supply shortages we inherited from the previous administration,” he said. “These aggressive steps to increase vaccine supply come on top of the steps we took last week to get more people vaccinated for free, to create more places for them to get vaccinated and to mobilise more medical teams to get shots in people's arms,” Biden said. The president has also directed the Federal Emergency Management Agency to stand up the first federally supported community vaccination centers. That work is under way, he said. “We are working to make vaccines available to thousands of local pharmacies beginning in early February, a couple of weeks off, and that will enormously expand our reach,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-to-purchase-additional-200-million-coronavirus-vaccine-doses/articleshow/80473119.cms||---
January 27, 2021||World||One year after lockdown, Wuhan clubbers hit the dancefloor||WUHAN: Glow-in-the-dark rabbit ears, pulsating beats, and a flexible attitude to masks: nightlife in China's Wuhan is back with a vengeance almost a year after a lockdown brought life to a standstill in the city of 11 million. As the rest of the world continues to grapple with lockdowns and soaring infections, young people in the city, once the epicentre of the novel coronavirus, are enjoying their hard-earned freedom. In Super Monkey -- a huge nightclub in the city centre -- there is no dress code or VIP list. What is obligatory, at least to get through the door, is a mask and a temperature check -- any higher than 37.3 degrees Celsius and bouncers can turn prospective partygoers away. Inside, where clubbers let loose on the dancefloor amid the deafening sound of techno and a blinding laser show, the rules are not always so strictly followed. While masks are obligatory at the door, DJs and partygoers take them off to chat with friends, dance, or smoke. Many are just happy to find themselves out on the town after last year's gruelling quarantine, imposed to battle what was then a mysterious new virus. "I was stuck inside for two or three months... the country fought the virus very well, and now I can go out in complete tranquility," a man in his thirties, who identified himself as Xu, told AFP. The hedonistic vibes and champagne on ice are far from the austerity preached by authorities in Beijing. But Chen Qiang, a man in his 20s, praised the Communist Party for having practically eliminated the epidemic, despite a recent surge in cases in other parts of the country in the past few days. "The Chinese government is good. The Chinese government does everything for its people, and the people are supreme. It is different from foreign countries," he said. Beijing's state media has hammered home the failure of Western governments to tackle the virus, contrasting the chaos abroad with China's return to normal. It touts that success as evidence of the superiority of Beijing's authoritarian political model. But while many are keen to get back to a semblance of normality, Chen recognised that the virus has changed things. In the club, there are fewer people than before the pandemic, he said. Nightclub brand manager Li Bo said the virus had hit his industry hard. "Compared with other lockdowns in other countries, our country is at least half open, but the consumers still have the feeling of unease," he told AFP, estimating that nightlife in Wuhan had dropped about 60 to 70 percent. The strict rules applied by some establishments do not help, with attendee numbers limited and reservations required. Users must also show a tracking app proving they have a clean bill of health. Even that is not always enough to get in. Several AFP journalists were refused entry into the Imhan club because their apps revealed they had come from Beijing. One southern neighbourhood of China's capital has reported an infectious variant of the virus which originated in the UK. Despite the uncertainty, Wuhanites are thrilled that their city is no longer the ghost town that shocked the world a year ago. Last summer, images of a mega-party at a water park in the city were met with shock by internet users in the rest of the world, where the coronavirus continued to wreak havoc. Partygoer Xu said he now sees last spring's lockdown as a "once in a lifetime experience". "I felt lucky that I wasn't (infected with Covid-19). Now it is back to normal, I feel very relaxed and happy."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/one-year-after-lockdown-wuhan-clubbers-hit-the-dancefloor/articleshow/80473147.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Mumbai||204 more local trains on Mumbai suburban network from January 29||MUMBAI: A total of 204 more local trains will run cumulatively on Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) from January 29. Total 2,985 local services would run per day from January 29. At present, 2,781 services run on Mumbai suburban network, including 1,201 on WR and 1,580 on CR. CR's chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar said, "We have decided to increase the suburban services from the existing 1,580 to 1,685 services." WR's chief public relations officer Sumit Thakur said, "We will run 1,300 services from Friday." Earlier, WR had planned to run all its 1,367 services, but the decision was reversed within few hours after the announcement was made. Railway has clarified that only those passengers permitted by railway ministry and state government will be allowed to travel by the suburban trains. Others are requested not to rush to the railway stations. On Monday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had held a review meeting with railway and state government officials to discuss the steps needed to be taken to control crowd once general passengers are allowed to travel. Thackeray said that the decision on permitting all passengers to travel in local trains will be taken soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2985-locals-to-run-on-mumbai-suburban-network-from-january-29/articleshow/80473157.cms||Manthan K Mehta
January 27, 2021||World||Ottawa residents seek to dump Trump street name||OTTAWA: Residents of an Ottawa neighborhood are looking to distance themselves from Donald Trump by renaming their street, which bears his name -- once a source of intrigue, but now an embarrassment. Trump Avenue on the Canadian capital's west side is lined with brick homes, each with two-car garages and kids playing hockey in driveways. The Central Park neighborhood, known for New York City-themed street names, was built in the late 1990s -- long before a certain Big Apple real estate mogul entered politics. There's also a Madison Park, Bloomingdale Street, Manhattan Crescent, and Staten Way in the area. Bonnie Bowering moved here in 2008. "When I used to tell people I live on Trump Avenue and I would add, 'Yes, it is The Donald,' people would smirk, some offered sympathies, that sort of thing," she told AFP. "But now -- after he's undermined democracy, and incited an insurrection, a violent attack on the US Capitol -- it's time to change our street name," she said. "Trump doesn't deserve the honor and I think it's inappropriate to have a street named after him in Canada's capital." Ottawa city councilor Riley Brockington started gathering support for the name change from people who live on the street this week. Some residents had been petitioning the city for years to change it, but Brockington resisted, saying he feared offending Trump while he was in office. "I was concerned that there might be ramifications against Canada, that Trump would take punitive measures if word got out that Canada's national capital wanted to take his name off a street sign," Brockington said. "With his exit from the White House, I felt now was a good time to try it." At least 50 percent of residents must agree to the name change to trigger a process that would take several months. That's not soon enough for Diane Hosker, who was out walking her dog Tuesday afternoon. "It was a novelty at first, a fun way to start off a conversation when you told people where you lived," she said. "Now it's an embarrassment." "The man's an idiot and I don't like his brand of politics," she added. Nearby, a father stuck his head out of his front door to call his son in from the cold, and nodded in agreement. Changing the street's name would require new signage, but also new maps and postal addresses for 62 homes. And then there's the matter of selecting a new name. Most other New York names are already taken in Ottawa, and numbered street names such as Fifth Avenue won't do. "We already have one of those in Ottawa," Bowering explained. "I hope we end up with a name that everybody is happy with," she concluded. "Of course, some people say 'Anything would be better.'"||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/ottawa-residents-seek-to-dump-trump-street-name/articleshow/80473207.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Chennai||Pallankuzhi: A traditional mancala game lost in time||CHENNAI: One of the fondest childhood memories for Korattur homemaker Rajalakshmi S is spending a lazy afternoon enjoying a game of pallankuzhi with her mother and grandmother. "I could never count as fast as my grandma. She always won," she recalls. Rajalakshmi, who grew up in Attur, Salem, hasn't played the game since moving to Chennai. "Had I continued, my kids may have picked it up," says the 48-year-old homemaker. As pallankuzhi, the traditional mancala game that finds its roots in south India, struggles to remain relevant today, a traditional Turkish strategy and intelligence game 'mangala', which also follows similar principles, recently made it to Unesco's representative list of Intangible Cultural Heritage. According to Ramanujam R, professor at Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Taramani, the cultural significance of mancala games differs from society to society. "In some African tribes, the chieftain is always someone who is undefeated in mancala. If he loses a game, his power is questioned," says the professor, who has written research papers on pallankuzhi. Ramanujam, who has analyzed pallankuzhi's mathematical complexities and possibilities, believes the game has vanished from mainstream entertainment due to its absence in formal education. Jayasree S, a researcher and educator affiliated with the Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education, says a reason for the game's waning popularity is also its low availability. "Our culturally-rooted games hardly make it to the shelves of a store. We only purchase what we see," says Jayasree. Pallankuzhi, from south India, is a two-row, seven-pit game that is intertwined with mythological traditions. "The game was supposedly given as a dowry for child brides in the past. There are also mythological links of Sita playing it in Ashoka Vana," says Jayasree, who incorporates pallankuzhi in her mathematical research. However, organizations such as Kreeda games, have been making an effort to renew this traditional game. "These games started disappearing when the idea of entertainment shifted to cinema, television, computers, and phones," says Vinita Sidhartha, founder of Kreeda. "When the adults in our communities stopped playing these games, they were rarely passed on to the next generation," says Vinita. The traditional games' enthusiast has been documenting pallankuzhi's presence globally. "The first time I found a temple with a pallankuzhi inscription was in Palmyra, Syria," she says, adding that she made similar observations of a four-row pallankuzhi inscription at the Mamallapuram Shore Temple. There are several types of mancala games played across West Asia, Africa, parts of Europe and South Asia. "The number of pits, players and rules may vary according to the version played," she says. The stones used also vary according to the geographical location. In coastal areas for instance, shells are used. While we can still spot mancala games being played at cafes in West Asian countries, there are not many takers for our game of pallankuzhi. "Though there is a resurgence of some traditional games, they will sustain only if more families start playing them," she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pallankuzhi-a-traditional-mancala-game-lost-in-time/articleshow/80473309.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
January 27, 2021||World||Israel foundation connects to isolated Holocaust survivors||HAIFA, Israel: When the face of 86-year-old Holocaust survivor Naomie Lichthaus appeared on their screen, staff at the call centre of Israel's Yad Ezer La-Haver foundation were ready to respond. The foundation established by Shimon Shabag in the northern port city of Haifa in 2001 has been supporting survivors of the Nazis for two decades but its mission has expanded during the Covid-19 pandemic. On Holocaust Remembrance Day, 76 years since the liberation of the Nazi extermination camp at Auschwitz, Holocaust survivors find themselves vulnerable to a virus that preys on the elderly and has forced many into painful isolation. Before the pandemic, Yad Ezer ran a home for about 100 survivors while providing food as well as medical and psychological assistance to others who lived independently. But in October it expanded to include a round-the-clock call centre with electronic monitoring, installing tablets in people's homes to allow for rapid, direct communication. "We call more than 3,500 people a day," Shabag told AFP. "We talk to them. We show them that we are here and that we're taking care of them." There are an estimated 180,000 Holocaust survivors living in Israel, according to official data. Among them is Lichthaus, who was born in Chernivtsi, a city which falls in present day Ukraine. She said when World War II broke out she was only six but would "never forget" the horror she experienced, including when men burst into her home and carried out a brutal anti-Semitic assault on her mother. She lives alone now and said her calls with Yad Ezer offer comfort. "They ask me if I need anything or if I want to talk," she said, explaining that she recently asked for a mobility walker. After disconnecting with Lichthaus, foundation volunteer Mourad Marehi was headed to her home on a motorbike to deliver the walker. "I feel more secure walking around now," Lichthaus said after receiving the delivery, her weight supported by the device. Shabag said that if someone doesn't answer a call to their tablet, "we immediately send one of our bikers" to see what's going on. On multiple occasions, the foundation has found someone lying on the floor following a stroke, a heart attack or a fall, he explained. Shabag told AFP that many survivors had been suffering from financial distress and other hardships like loneliness independent of the pandemic. The traumas brought on by the virus, especially "the fear" of lacking the essentials needed to survive, had triggered painful war-era memories, he said. The home run by Yad Ezer near the call centre is on Haifa's Kassel Street, but is known to locals as "survivors street". One resident is Holocaust survivor Haya Caspi, an 88-year-old of Romanian origin who lost her parents during the war. "It's hard because we're alone, but... we are lucky because they take care of us," she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/israel-foundation-connects-to-isolated-holocaust-survivors/articleshow/80473330.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Latest traffic updates from Delhi-NCR: Heavy traffic on DND Flyway||Times City brings you the latest traffic updates from Delhi-NCR in view of ongoing farmers' protest and with several traffic restrictions in place. 2.15pm: Traffic congestion in parts of DelhiDelhi: Traffic congestion continues in parts of the national capital; visuals from Bhairon Road. (Photos: ANI)… https://t.co/TmbTB1P9jZ— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1611737257000Delhi Metro update at 10.50am: The average waiting time for Saket has normalised. 10.35am: Traffic congestion at Delhi's Anand ViharDelhi: Traffic congestion in parts of the national capital; visuals from near Anand Vihar. (Photos: ANI)… https://t.co/9x7OBK8o31— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1611723761000Delhi Traffic Police update at 10.30am: Minto Road is open now for traffic movement. Traffic AlertMinto Road is open now for traffic movement.COVID PRECAUTIONS :WEAR MASK, MAINTAIN SOCIAL DISTANCING, KEEP HAND HYGIENE.— Delhi Traffic Police (@dtptraffic) 1611723679000Delhi Traffic Police update on 10am: Traffic movement slow on both sides of Noida-Kalindi Kunj stretch. Noida: Heavy traffic at Delhi-Noida-Delhi (DND) Flyway. "Two lanes each are closed for traffic from Kalindi Kunj… https://t.co/dblBdeQheP— TOI Noida (@TOINoida) 1611724848000Delhi Traffic Police update at 9.31am: Road towards Connaught Place from Minto Road closed, please avoid this route. Delhi Traffic Police update at 9am: Ghazipur Mandi, NH-9 and NH-24 have been closed for traffic movement. People commuting from Delhi to Ghaziabad are advised to take Shahdara, Karkari Mor and DND Delhi Metro update at 8am: Entry/exit gates of Lal Quila metro station are closed. Entry gates of Jama Masjid metro station are closed. Delhi Metro update at 7am: Entry gates of Lal Quila metro station are closed. Exit is permitted at this station. All other stations are open. Normal services on all lines. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation: Average waiting time at Saket station is 35 minutes. In case of any fluctuations in crowd, the waiting time will be informed accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/latest-traffic-updates-from-delhi-ncr-nh-9-and-nh-24-closed/articleshow/80473353.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Chennai||North Western Railway notifies extension of special trains||CHENNAI: The North Western Railway has notified the extension of special trains. According to a press release, biweekly special trains such as 02968 Jaipur - Dr MGR Chennai Central Bi-Weekly Special Train on Fridays and Sundays will be extended to run from February 5 until further advice. 02967 Dr MGR Chennai Central-Jaipur Bi -Weekly Special Train on Sundays and Tuesdays will be extended to run from February 7 until further instruction. As far as weekly trains are concerned, 02475 Hisar - Coimbatore Weekly Special Train on Wednesdays will be extended to run from February 3, 02476 Coimbatore-Hisar Weekly Special Train on Saturdays will be extended to run from February 6, 02978 Ajmer - Ernakulam Weekly Special Train on Fridays will be extended to run from February 5, 02977 Ernakulam - Ajmer Weekly Special Train on Sundays will be extended to run from February 7, 02970 Jaipur - Coimbatore Weekly Special Train on Tuesdays will be extended to run from February 2 and the service of 02969 Coimbatore - Jaipur Weekly Special Train on Fridays will be extended to run from February 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/north-western-railway-notifies-extension-of-special-trains/articleshow/80473434.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Business||Google revives Australia news platform launch amid content payment fight||SYDNEY: Google is reviving plans to launch its own news website in Australia within weeks, according to a local media outlet contracted to provide articles for the venture, as the search giant fights world-first proposed laws on content payments. The launch of the News Showcase product as early as next month is Google's latest tactic in a high-profile campaign against the Australian government's planned legislation to make the company pay local news providers for content that appears in its search engine. Misha Ketchell, editor of the academic-penned newsite The Conversation, said on Wednesday he was approached by Google "to resume discussions about launching the News Showcase product as soon as possible, potentially in February. We are working with them on this." Google had announced plans to launch News Showcase in Australia last June, signing deals with six small local outlets, including The Conversation, for content. It subsequently delayed the launch, citing regulatory conditions, when Australia's competition regulator published a draft copy of the proposed media bargaining code. The decision to push ahead with the launch was an apparent show of Google's willingness to run its own content deals, negating the need for government-mandated legislation. A spokesman for Alphabet Inc owned Google in Australia declined to comment on Wednesday. Two other local publishers confirmed they had content details in place for the new site, without discussing recent talks. Google Australia Chief Executive Mel Silva told a parliamentary hearing last week the company would pull its flagship search tool from Australia if the laws, the first of their kind in the world, went ahead. Under the planned laws, Google and social media behemoth Facebook Inc must negotiate binding commercial contracts with Australian outlets whose content drives traffic to their platforms. If they can't strike a deal, the government will appoint an arbitrator to do it for them. Google has argued that the legislation, which is currently the subject of a parliamentary inquiry but expected to be passed into law soon, is unworkable. "If Google can demonstrate that it can reach agremeent with some publishers then its aim is to show that that commercial arrangements can be made in the absence of some kind of legislative intervention," said Derek Wilding, a professor at the University of Technology Sydney's Centre for Media Transition. "The question is whether those arrangements are suitable for all publishers. The kind of arrangements that Google can propose will suit some publishers, but not others."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/google-revives-australia-news-platform-launch-amid-content-payment-fight/articleshow/80473433.cms||---
January 27, 2021||World||Australia records 10th day of no local Covid-19 cases||SYDNEY: Australia recorded a 10th straight day of no new local Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, allowing its most populous state of New South Wales (NSW) to relax coronavirus restrictions after controlling a fast-spreading cluster. NSW has recorded no local cases for 10 days after low single digit numbers earlier in January. Victoria state, which is hosting the Australia Open tennis tournament, has gone three weeks without a local case. Federal Health Minister Greg Hunt tweeted Wednesday marked the 10 day of no community transmission of Covid-19 Australia wide, adding the country's success comes at a time when global coronavirus cases have crossed 100 million with the death toll surpassing 2 million. Australia has recorded more than 22,000 local cases since the pandemic began and 909 deaths. The Covid-free run allowed NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklien to ease coronavirus restrictions from Friday, including relaxing rules around mask wearing and increasing numbers in house parties, weddings, funerals and places of worship. The restrictions had kicked in late last year to successfully curb virus clusters in Sydney's northern beaches and western suburbs. The outbreaks saw other states and territories close borders or restrict travel from NSW. Berejiklien hinted that restrictions would be eased further in two weeks if there were no further cases, adding she was "striking the right balance" between economic growth and virus control. "They both go hand in hand, you can't have an open economy unless you make sure you get the health settings right," she said, while urging Sydneysiders to come out and get tested for Covid-19 even for the "mildest of symptoms". Despite its relative success in handling the pandemic, Australia's international borders will likely remain shut to non-citizens this year although there may be exclusive travel arrangements called "bubbles" with its South Pacific neighbours. Australia had a one-way "travel bubble" with New Zealand where those arriving from the latter didn't have to quarantine, but that arrangement was suspended for 72 hours on Monday after a highly infectious coronavirus strain was found in New Zealand. New Zealand reported a third day of zero cases on Wednesday, allaying fears of a fresh outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/australia-records-10th-day-of-no-local-covid-19-cases/articleshow/80473467.cms||---
January 27, 2021||World||Boris Johnson extends condolences to kin of 100,000 Covid-19 deaths in UK||LONDON: As the United Kingdom on Tuesday crossed the grim milestone of 100,000 deaths due to Covid-19, Prime Minister Boris Johnson extended condolences to the kin of victims and said it was hard to "compute the sorrow contained in the grim statistic". Johnson during a Covid-19 briefing on Tuesday said that he and his government take "full responsibility" for the decisions taken by him and his Cabinet to curb the spread of the virus and reduce the fatalities due to the pathogen. The British Prime Minister further said that he "was sorry for every life that has been lost" stating that the government did everything they could possibly do. "I am sorry to have to tell you that today the number of deaths recorded from Covid in the UK has surpassed 100,000, and it is hard to compute the sorrow contained in that grim statistic. The years of life lost, the family gatherings not attended and, for so many relatives, the missed chance even to say goodbye," Johnson said during a briefing on Tuesday. He added, "I offer my deepest condolences to everyone who has lost a loved one; fathers and mothers; brothers and sisters; sons and daughters and the many grandparents who have been taken... I am deeply sorry for every life that has been lost and of course, as Prime Minister, I take full responsibility for everything the government has done. What I can tell you is that we truly did everything we could and continue to do everything we can do." The British Prime Minister pledged that when the country "comes through" this crisis, the British public would come together and remember "everyone we lost". "To all those who grieve, we make this pledge: that when we have come through this crisis, we will come together as a nation to remember everyone we lost, and to honour the selfless heroism of all those on the front line who gave their lives to save others," he said. "We will remember the courage of countless working people -- not just our amazing NHS and care workers, but shop workers, transport staff, pharmacists, teachers, police, armed forces emergency services and many others - who kept our country going during our biggest crisis since the Second World War," he added. According to Sputnik, the UK vaccination campaign started on December 8 and as of Tuesday, around 6.5 million people have received at least one vaccine dose. The vaccination is currently open to five priority groups, including people over 80 years old, some people over 70, clinically vulnerable persons, personnel of care homes, and medical workers. There are currently three authorised vaccines in the United Kingdom -- the domestically-made AstraZeneca, the US-German Pfizer/BioNTech, and the one developed by US company Moderna. Johnson called for lessons to be learnt and reflect on once "those vaccines have finally freed us" and added that the best "and most important thing" the people can all do to honour the memory of those who have died from Covid-19 is to "work together with ever greater resolve to defeat this disease." As per the latest update by Johns Hopkins University, the United Kingdom has over 3.7 million Covid-19 cases and 100,359 deaths from the deadly virus across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/boris-johnson-extends-condolences-to-kin-of-100000-covid-19-deaths-in-uk/articleshow/80473239.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Business||Union Budget 2021: The case for a higher standard deduction||NEW DELHI: With work from home becoming the new normal, it is going to be difficult for the finance minister to separate salary from business income. Raising the standard deduction for salaried employees may help level the field.Two years ago, in July 2019, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman presented her maiden budget -- and the first Budget of the second term of the NDA government. In that Budget, she hiked the standard deduction for salaried employees to Rs 50,000 from Rs 40,000. Union Budget 2021-22: Complete coverageThe standard deduction is an amount that is deducted from an individual’s salaried taxable income, thus reducing the taxable income. Clearly, if the government wants to put more money in the hands of the taxpayer (as it may need to in order to boost demand that has been choked by Covid-related lockdowns), a substantial increase in the standard deduction makes sense. Except that the finance minister, in the Budget presented in February 2020, had eliminated the standard deduction for taxpayers who opted to enter a new tax regime where lower tax slabs were offered to those who forgo the standard deduction and a host of other exemptions. These tax slabs are 5 to 10 percentage points lower than the older slabs -- at the lower end of the income scale. At the higher end (income of Rs 15 lakh plus), the tax rate remains the same. Tax mavens have discussed the new scheme at length, and see it as the government’s first, exploratory move into a no-exemption regime. Is this fair to salaried employees? In an article written in June 2019 by EY, it was made clear that income-tax rules seem skewed against salaried employees. While businesspeople and consultants can claim exemptions against all kinds of expenses every month, salaried employees have far fewer options. Tax is deducted at source by the employer, significantly reducing take-home pay. Read AlsoNew, or old: Which tax regime makes the most sense for you?A salaried taxpayer’s expectations are high from his year's Union Budget. Last year’s Budget introduced the new concessional tax regime that offers an individual the option to choose lower tax rates in lieu of forgoing certain tax exemptions and deductions. The new regime prescribes tax ratesEY also offered a hypothetical case of a salaried employee and a consultant. Both make the same gross income of Rs 30 lakh, one as salary and one as fees. Post tax, however, the story is vastly different. The salaried employee pays Rs 6.73 lakh in taxes. The consultant, meanwhile, pays Rs 2.18 lakh. The salaried employee takes home Rs 4.55 lakh less than the consultant. The finance ministry disagreed with this reading. In a written response, the ministry said: “The tax paid on taxable salary income and on gross amount of professional receipts cannot be compared as the taxable income in case of professionals is computed after allowing all the expenses incurred for carrying-out the profession. These expenses include rent for office space, salaries & wages of employees, electricity expenses for the office, printing & stationery etc. However, in respect of a salaried individual, there is no requirement to maintain any office and the office expenses are borne by the employer. The only major expenses required to be incurred by a salaried individual for earning salary income is the expense incurred for commuting to the office. For this purpose and other miscellaneous petty expenses which a salaried individual might have to incur, a standard deduction is allowed to the salaried taxpayer which is currently Rs. 50,000.” The purpose of the EY piece was not to question the expenses legitimately allowed to professionals. Rather, it was to highlight the fact that salaried employees had very few options to claim equally legitimate expenses. Now more than ever, people are working from home and are using computers and phones for official work. But they are not allowed to claim even a part of what they spend on buying such equipment as deduction from income. Some countries, such as Denmark and South Korea, allow such deductions to salary earners, and this is something the government could seriously consider now that ‘work from home’ is not just accepted but necessary. Read AlsoBudget 2021: Why finance minister should not bring in any new taxFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman faces a huge challenge this year. The govt’s revenues are down but expenditure commitments are up. In the circumstances, any additional burden on existing taxpayers or any new taxes like wealth tax/estate duty,which were discontinued earlier, may not be in sync.The few deductions that are allowed to the salaried are unrealistically lower than the actual cost of the services. For instance, the limits for children’s education allowance (Rs 100 per month per child, up to two children) and hostel allowance (Rs 300 per month per child, up to two children) were last revised almost two decades ago. The government’s claim that standard deduction of Rs 50,000 will take care of incidental expenses rings somewhat hollow. EY said the re-introduced standard deduction subsumed the tax-exempt transport allowance — an annual figure of Rs 19,200 and the medical reimbursement that could be claimed up to Rs 15,000. In short, the end benefit was just an annual incremental net reduction in taxable income of Rs 5,800. Now compare this to what a professional can claim. For starters, there’s the presumptive tax scheme. Under this, professionals can file their return declaring 50% of their gross returns (subject to gross receipts not exceeding Rs 50 lakh). After the tax-saving investments under Section 80 are accounted for, the professional needs to pay tax only on the balance income. Of course, receipts in excess of Rs 50 lakh will need to be audited and the actual expenses as per the audited accounts are allowed as a deduction. While presumptive tax has really helped smaller and medium-sized professionals, it has resulted in stark disparity between salaried employees and consultants with the same income. The finance ministry disagrees, and says that in the case of presumptive tax, “it is presumed that 50% of his gross receipts are expended towards various expenses required to be incurred for carrying out his profession. However, this is not a standard deduction and it has also been provided in the Act that if the professional incurs expenses less than 50% of the gross receipts, then he has to declare the higher income.” The previous finance minister, the late Arun Jaitley, saw this in a different light. In his 2018-19 budget speech, Jaitley highlighted the fact that an average salary earner pays three times more income tax (Rs 76,306) than a non-salaried taxpayer does (Rs 25,753) — both figures from the budget speech. It will be interesting to see how the finance ministry deals with the issues of presumptive tax and standard deduction in a year when almost the entire country worked out of home. The pandemic-induced lockdown and subsequent restrictions on movement meant that salaried employees and professionals alike spent on office infrastructure at home. This new normal is unlikely to vanish in a hurry. Will the upcoming Budget take this into account when framing the new tax rules? (A version of this article was published in July 2019)Watch Budget 2021: Tips on how to save tax for individuals||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/union-budget-2021-the-case-for-a-higher-standard-deduction/articleshow/80473457.cms||---
January 27, 2021||India||Union Cabinet meeting to be held today via video conferencing||NEW DELHI: Meeting of the Union Cabinet is scheduled to be held on Wednesday via video conferencing. "Union Cabinet meeting to be held today at 10:30 am via video conferencing," an official said. The meeting is scheduled to be held post farmers' tractor rally that caused violence in various parts of the national capital on Tuesday. In the last meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 30, 2020, the Cabinet had approved the export of Akash Missile System aiming to achieve the target of $5 billion of defence export and improve strategic relations with friendly foreign countries. It had also approved a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Government of the Republic of India and the Royal Government of Bhutan on Cooperation in the peaceful users of outer space signed on November 19, 2020 by both sides at Bangalore/Thimpu and exchanged. The Union Cabinet had also approved the opening of 3 Indian Missions in Estonia, Paraguay and Dominican Republic in 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/union-cabinet-meeting-to-be-held-today-via-video-conferencing/articleshow/80473562.cms||---
January 27, 2021||World||#MeToo: Harvey Weinstein to pay sexual abuse victims $17 million||NEW YORK: A US bankruptcy judge has approved a $17 million payout to dozens of women who accused jailed movie producer Harvey Weinstein of sexual abuse. Weinstein, 68, was sentenced to 23 years in prison last year after being convicted of rape and sexual assault. Delaware Judge Mary Walrath on Monday agreed to the Weinstein Company's liquidation plan, which sets aside the payment. She overruled the objections of several of Weinstein's victims who complained that the settlement prevented them from pursuing other legal claims. The money will be split between 37 women, meaning they are each likely to receive six-figure sums. Lawyers representing some victims had earlier denounced the proposed settlement as insufficient. Eight accusers who rejected the settlement will be able to sue the ex-Hollywood mogul later. Weinstein was found guilty in February 2020 of a criminal sexual act in the first degree and rape in the third degree in a landmark verdict for the #MeToo movement. His sentence capped a remarkable downfall for the "Pulp Fiction" producer who was accused of years of vile predatory behavior by almost 90 women, including Angelina Jolie and Salma Hayek. The Weinstein Company declared bankruptcy in March 2018 after the avalanche of claims. Lantern Capital, later renamed Spyglass Media Group, bought its assets for $289 million. Weinstein is also awaiting trial in Los Angeles on rape and sexual assault charges involving five women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/metoo-harvey-weinstein-to-pay-sexual-abuse-victims-17-million/articleshow/80473653.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada district tops Karnataka with 80% class 10 attendance||MANGALURU: While attendance has been low in many districts, Dakshina Kannada district has topped SSLC attendance with close to 80% class 10 students returning to campuses, data from the department of public instruction shows. Officials in DK though are pushing to get all students in class and have drawn up several plans to boost attendance and learning. There are an estimated 33,000 SSLC students in the district. “Although the district is at the top, we are aiming for 100% attendance. We have come up with a few initiatives which we will implement from February 1,” said Malleswamy, deputy director of public instruction, DK. As a first step, heads of schools will visit homes of SSLC students and find out firsthand why they are not attending regular classes. “Headmasters/mistresses will personally visit home so that students/parents are convinced. The feedback will also be useful for the department,” said Malleswamy. There are other reasons for students staying away, he said. For example, a chunk of students are from North Karnataka and they are unable to return. “They moved back to their villages when the lockdown was announced and were forced to stay back as their parents lost jobs,” Malleswamy said. “We are trying to reach out to these students. The department has asked them to attend classes in nearby schools in their villages. They can appear for board examinations in Dakshina Kannada.” Another reason, Malleswamy said, is that many hostels are yet to reopen because of which students can’treturn. “We hope everything will be normal by February,” he said.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dakshina-kannada-district-tops-karnataka-with-80-class-10-attendance/articleshow/80473312.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
January 27, 2021||Puducherry||Ex-minister, ex-Congress MLA in Puducherry all set to join BJP||PUDUCHERRY: Former public works minister A Namassivayam, who was sacked from all posts including primary membership by the Congress on Monday, is likely to join the BJP in Delhi on Wednesday. His supporter E Theeppainthan, elected from Oussudu constituency on Congress ticket, who also resigned from the MLA post, is also expected to join the BJP. Namassivayam and Theeppainthan left for Chennai on Tuesday afternoon to board a flight to the national capital. Namassivayam’s supporters said the former minister and former MLA will call on BJP president J P Nadda on Wednesday afternoon and formally join the party. “Our leader has got an appointment with BJP chief on Wednesday afternoon. He, along with his supporter Theeppainthan, will formally join the BJP on Wednesday. We are expecting a few more MLAs to quit the Congress and join the BJP in the coming days. The MLAs are in constant touch with BJP leaders and will announce their decision shortly,” said a former Congress functionary and Namassivayam’s supporter, who resigned from all posts after the party sacked Namassivayam. The decision of the former second-in-command in the Puducherry cabinet, next only to chief minister V Narayanasamy, and former president of Puducherry Pradesh Congress Committee to join the BJP will be a major setback for the Congress, that seeks to retain power in the Union territory. It may be recalled that Namassivayam stayed with the party when former chief minister N Rangasamy quit Congress and floated All India NR Congress party in 2011. Namassivayam was appointed president of the Puducherry Pradesh Congress Committee in 2015 after the party lost 2014 parliamentary polls and 2011 assembly polls. Congress wrested power back from its splinter group AINRC in 2016 and also the lone Lok Sabha seat in 2019 when he served as the PPCC president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/ex-minister-ex-congress-mla-in-puducherry-all-set-to-join-bjp/articleshow/80473675.cms||Bosco Dominique
January 27, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Students thrilled with online exams, but schools frown||BENGALURU: Rahul, a class 10 student, describes himself as an average pupil — one who never scored over 70%. But he was delighted to find he had scored above 85% in all subjects in the recent pre-boards. He credits the high scores to exams being held online. “I had plenty of time to prepare and I felt the evaluation was also lenient,” he says. Like Rahul, many students in the city have scored higher than usual due to exams being held online. Though schools have reopened for board classes and could reopen for other classes soon, students have developed a fondness for online mode of examinations. School authorities, however, are frowning and feel better performances are because of other reasons — students being in their comfort zone, support from parents and in rare cases, malpractice. Sarada Chandrasekaran, principal, Whitefield Global School, admits percentages have gone up. “It can be because students are taking exams from their homes, which is a comfort zone,” Chandrasekaran said. “Also, it is humanly impossible to have constant, strict virtual proctoring so there are misses and students are at liberty to take advantage of it.” Chandrasekaran said that during evaluation, the benefit of doubt is given because of the circumstances. “The child’s mental well-being and health are also taken into consideration as they are in their homes and we are in the middle of a pandemic,” she said. Jyothis Mathew, principal and head of schools, Treamis Schools, where there has been a noticeable difference in scores with some students ever since exams went online, said she is glad schools have reopened and children will get a chance to realign themselves with regular pen-andpaper exams. “Online scores were higher in some cases because students had access to all resources,” she said. Treamis World School conducted the first pre-boards in regular mode from January 5 to 20 and Mathew says scores dropped as children struggled to manage time and to write for three hours straight. “In online exams, they could take breaks during the exam,” she said. “That will not be the case in board exams and we will work closely with students on aspects like time management, writing pace etc., so that they are ready by May for board exams.” Mathew said based on the performance in pre-boards, students will be sorted into clusters and schools will introduce customized teaching for each cluster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-students-thrilled-with-online-exams-but-schools-frown/articleshow/80473713.cms||Farheen Hussain
January 27, 2021||Business||Jeff Bezos seeks $1.7 million in legal fees from girlfriend's brother||LOS ANGELES: Jeff Bezos wants $1.7 million from his girlfriend’s brother to cover legal fees the world’s second-richest person racked up successfully defending a defamation lawsuit. Lauren Sanchez’s brother, Michael Sanchez, sued Bezos and his security consultant, Gavin de Becker, claiming they defamed him by telling journalists that Michael had been the source of nude photos of Bezos that were leaked to the National Enquirer. The case was thrown out because Michael Sanchez’s only evidence was that he had heard that from journalists. Michael Sanchez betrayed his sister and Bezos by selling their private communications to the tabloid for $200,000 and then doubled down by filing a lawsuit, intended to harass Bezos into a settlement “by threatening discovery and public disclosure of private matters,” Bezos, with a net worth of $193 billion, said in his request filed Friday in Los Angeles Superior Court. “Mr Bezos’s fee request is obscene, even grotesque, on many levels,” Tom Warren, an attorney for Michael Sanchez, said in an email. A California state judge in November threw out Sanchez’s lawsuit under a state law that allows for expedited dismissal of baseless lawsuits over protected speech. Under the anti-Slapp statute, the prevailing defendant is entitled to have legal costs reimbursed by the plaintiff. Bezos went public in 2019 with what he said was an extortion attempt by the National Enquirer. He said it had threatened to publish more details of his relationship with Lauren Sanchez as well as revealing photos if he didn’t stop investigating what had prompted a January 2019 expose about their affair while Bezos was still married to MacKenzie Scott. They divorced in 2019. The case is Sanchez v Bezos, 20ST-cv-04212, California Superior Court, Los Angeles County.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/bezos-seeks-1-7-million-in-legal-fees-from-girlfriends-brother/articleshow/80473744.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Noida||Security tightened at Red Fort, Singhu border post farmers' tractor rally violence||NEW DELHI: A day after the violence broke out during a tractor rally in various parts of the national capital, security has been increased at the Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border), where farmers have been protesting against agricultural laws for over two months. A large number of security forces has been deployed at the protest site. Wazir Singh, a farmer from Punjab's Amritsar, said that the farmers' tractor rally was successful and he will return back to his home after the withdrawal of farm laws. Additional forces have been deployed at Red Fort"Our tractor rally was successful except for minor incidents of violence at some places. We are here to protest against farm laws. We are not protesting for Punjab only, but for the whole country. We are not here under any pressure. We will go home, once these laws are withdrawn by the government," said Singh. Elaborate security arrangements have been made near the Red Fort where a group of protestors climbed to the ramparts of the fort and unfurled flags yesterday. On Tuesday, farmers broke barricades to enter Delhi and indulged in vandalism across several parts of the national capital during their Kisan tractor rally organised to protest against the new farm laws. 83 police personnel were injured, with several public and private properties being damaged in this act of vandalism by the rioting mob, said the Delhi Police in a release. As per Delhi Police sources, 15 FIRs have been registered in connection with the violence during farmers' tractor rally yesterday. So far, 5 FIRs have been lodged in the Eastern Range.Yesterday, the DMRC had closed the entry and exit gates of all stations of the Grey Line, as clashes between the farmers and Delhi Police intensified during protests against the Centre's three new farm laws. Protesting farmers did not follow the marked route for their tractor march on Republic Day and forcibly entered central Delhi by removing police barricades. They clashed with police and also entered the Red Fort and unfurled their flags from its ramparts. Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/security-tightened-at-red-fort-singhu-border-post-farmers-tractor-rally-violence/articleshow/80473846.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Security tightened at Red Fort, Singhu border post farmers' tractor rally violence||NEW DELHI: A day after the violence broke out during a tractor rally in various parts of the national capital, security has been increased at the Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border), where farmers have been protesting against agricultural laws for over two months. A large number of security forces has been deployed at the protest site. Wazir Singh, a farmer from Punjab's Amritsar, said that the farmers' tractor rally was successful and he will return back to his home after the withdrawal of farm laws. Additional forces have been deployed at Red Fort"Our tractor rally was successful except for minor incidents of violence at some places. We are here to protest against farm laws. We are not protesting for Punjab only, but for the whole country. We are not here under any pressure. We will go home, once these laws are withdrawn by the government," said Singh. Elaborate security arrangements have been made near the Red Fort where a group of protestors climbed to the ramparts of the fort and unfurled flags yesterday. On Tuesday, farmers broke barricades to enter Delhi and indulged in vandalism across several parts of the national capital during their Kisan tractor rally organised to protest against the new farm laws. 83 police personnel were injured, with several public and private properties being damaged in this act of vandalism by the rioting mob, said the Delhi Police in a release. As per Delhi Police sources, 15 FIRs have been registered in connection with the violence during farmers' tractor rally yesterday. So far, 5 FIRs have been lodged in the Eastern Range.Yesterday, the DMRC had closed the entry and exit gates of all stations of the Grey Line, as clashes between the farmers and Delhi Police intensified during protests against the Centre's three new farm laws. Protesting farmers did not follow the marked route for their tractor march on Republic Day and forcibly entered central Delhi by removing police barricades. They clashed with police and also entered the Red Fort and unfurled their flags from its ramparts. Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/security-tightened-at-red-fort-singhu-border-post-farmers-tractor-rally-violence/articleshow/80473840.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Entry at Jama Masjid, Lal Quila metro stations closed||NEW DELHI: The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) announced on Wednesday that entry and exit to Lal Quila metro station and entry at Jama Masjid metro station have been closed. "Entry/exit gates of Lal Quila metro station are closed. Entry gates of Jama Masjid metro station are closed," the DMRC tweeted on Wednesday. Delhi: Security tightened at #RedFort in the national capital.A group of protestors climbed to the ramparts of th… https://t.co/BCza7WV582— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1611715166000Meanwhile, heavy security has been deployed near the Red Fort where a group of protestors climbed to the ramparts of the fort and unfurled flags yesterday. This comes as farmers broke barricades to enter Delhi and indulged in vandalism across several parts of the national capital during their Kisan tractor rally organised to protest against the Centre's three new farm laws. 83 police personnel were injured, with several public and private properties being damaged in this act of vandalism by the rioting mob, said the Delhi Police in a release. As per Delhi Police sources, 15 FIRs have been registered in connection with the violence during farmers' tractor rally yesterday. So far, 5 FIRs have been lodged in the Eastern Range. Yesterday, the DMRC had closed the entry and exit gates of all stations of the Grey Line, as clashes between the farmers and Delhi Police intensified during protests against the Centre's three new farm laws. Protesting farmers did not follow the marked route for their tractor march on Republic Day and forcibly entered central Delhi by removing police barricades. They clashed with police and also entered the Red Fort and unfurled their flags from its ramparts. Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-entry-at-jama-masjid-lal-quila-metro-stations-closed/articleshow/80473809.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Tractor parade violence: 22 FIRs registered by Delhi Police||NEW DELHI: The Delhi Police has registered 22 FIRs so far in connection with the violence that broke out during the farmers' tractor parade in the national capital leaving over 100 policemen injured, officials said on Wednesday. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the city as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. Delhi: #FarmersProtests at Nangloi Chowk#TractorRally https://t.co/2N1uTth3wa— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1611643295000Additional PRO (Delhi Police), Anil Mittal, said 22 FIRs have been so far registered in connection with Tuesday's violence. Read AlsoTractor rally: Unlikely weapon of mass destructionTractors became the protesting farmers’ biggest weapon during Tuesday’s rally — they used their vehicles to charge at police barricades, break through them and even push back armed forces on the ground. Tractors were also used to remove stone barricades and even steel containers placed along variousMore than 100 policemen have been injured in the incident, he said. Delhi: #FarmersTractorRally at Mubarka Chowk https://t.co/3GKog3X2ao— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1611644361000The Sayunkt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which comprises various farmer organisations, had proposed a "Kisan Tractor Rally" on Republic Day. The SKM had held several rounds of meetings with the Delhi Police in connection with their tractor parade. Read AlsoRepublic daze: Delhi in farm’s wayThe script had been read out and the red lines drawn, but nothing went as planned when the farmers took out their tractor rally on Tuesday.They had given an undertaking to the police to take out a peaceful rally as per the proposed plans on four agreed upon routes. #FarmersTractorRally against the #FarmLaws at ITO in Delhi https://t.co/ZIbpjvUJ9u— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1611644587000However, on Tuesday around 8.30am, 6,000 to 7,000 tractors assembled at the Singhu border, police said. Instead of going on the pre-decided route, they insisted upon going towards central Delhi and despite repeated requests, the farmers, led by Nihangs on their horses and equipped with swords, kirpans and fursas, had charged at the police and broke through several layers of barricades, which were erected between Mukarba Chowk and Transport Nagar, the police had said. #FarmersTractorRally: Visuals of damage done at Delhi's ITO https://t.co/Z2plNxAWon— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1611647181000Similar incidents were reported from Gazipur and Tikri borders. The farmers at the Gazipur border broke through the barricades at several points and headed for ITO, where they were joined by the farmers who had come from the Singhu border. Protesters enter Red Fort in Delhi, wave flags from the ramparts of the fort#FarmersProtests https://t.co/X9y9w8Onig— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1611650140000At the Tikri border also, the farmers did not agree to the pre-decided plan and fought with police. They not only broke barricades, but also attacked police vehicles and personnel with deadly weapons. Instead of turning towards Najafgarh, they headed towards Peeragarhi and further towards the central part of the national capital, police had said. Farmers at Red Fort in Delhi#FarmersProtests https://t.co/0M4YhkJaOX— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1611652044000At ITO, a large group of farmers, who had come from Gazipur and Singhu borders,had attempted to move towards Luytens' Delhi. When they were stopped by policemen, a group of these farmers became violent and broke the barricades, damaged iron grills and dividers and even tried to run over the policemen deployed at these barricades, the police had said in a statement. Read AlsoDelhi: 37 rules agreed upon for rally, most tossed asideRight from the number of tractors, to the designated route and timing of entry and exit, the protesting farmers violated every condition they had agreed upon to get permission from Delhi Police for their rally.However, police personnel succeeded in stopping them from entering Lutyens' Delhi. Meanwhile, some farmers also indulged in vandalism and attacked policemen. Later, they changed their plans and moved towards Red Fort, it said. Read AlsoTractor rally: Railings uprooted, 40 buses, trucks damagedA mob targeted around 40 buses, uprooted the railings on the central verge, broke road dividers and other public properties during the farmers’ rally on Tuesday.At Red Fort, they broke the gates and entered its wells. A section of the crowd also managed to climb atop the rampart of the Red Fort where they hoisted their organisation's flag, the statement had said. Police had managed to remove the crowd from the rampart.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tractor-parade-violence-22-firs-registered-by-delhi-police/articleshow/80473944.cms||---
January 27, 2021||India||12,689 fresh Covid-19 cases take India's infection tally to 1,06,89,527||NEW DELHI: India's Covid-19 tally mounted to 1,06,89,527 with 12,689 new cases in a day, while 1,03,59,305 people have recuperated from the infection so far pushing the national recovery rate to 96.91 per cent on Wednesday, according to the Union Health Ministry's data. With 137 more fatalities, the death toll reached 1,53,724, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. There are 1,76,498 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprise 1.65 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 19,36,13,120 samples have been tested up to January 26 with 5,50,426 samples being tested on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/12689-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-indias-infection-tally-to-10689527/articleshow/80474055.cms||---
January 27, 2021||World||Biden admin withdraws move to rescind work authorisation for H-1B spouses||MUMBAI: The steps that were underway, by the Trump administration to rescind the employment authorisation program, for certain categories of spouses of H-1B visa holders, is history. Nearly a lakh Indian spouses can now breathe a sigh of relief. Way back in February 2019, when the Trump administration began to take concrete steps towards rescinding this employment authorisation program, US Vice-President Kamala Harris (who was then a Senator) had tweeted, “This is outrageous and will force immigrant women who are doctors, nurses, scientists and academics among others to abandon their professional careers. I called on DHS last year to withdraw this proposal and will continue to fight this.” Nearly two years later, this fight comes to an end. This is outrageous & will force immigrant women who are doctors, nurses, scientists & academics, among others, to a… https://t.co/gBvwDqpTmp— Vice President Kamala Harris (@VP) 1550869727000The proposed rule - ‘Removing H-4 dependent spouses from the class of aliens eligible for employment authorisation’ was under review by the Office of Management and Business (OMB). In other words, it was in its final stages of a roll-out. Soon after the Biden administration stepped in, it stayed for a 60-day period, subject to further extensions, various proposed policies including the proposal to rescind the employment authorisation program. Now, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has formally withdrawn this proposed rule. Spouses of H-1B workers are given an H-4 visa. Only in certain cases, such as where the H-1B visa recipient is on track for a green card or where the H-1B visa recipient has got an extension beyond the permitted six years, could the H-4 spouse apply for an employment authorisation document. To take care of the decades-long green card backlog for certain sections, such as applicants from India, the Obama administration in 2015 had introduced the ‘H-4 Employment Authorization Document (EAD) rule.” Given that the expected wait time for Indians caught in the backlog of the employment-based green card for EB-2 and EB-3 (skilled category) runs to 84 years, according to a CATO Institute study – the EAD program proved to be very useful, especially for families struggling to survive on a single income. According to the latest available official data, up to December, 2017, nearly 84,360 Indian spouses (largely wives) held an EAD (this was 93% of the total EADs issued). The number of such Indian spouses is now estimated to be over a lakh. The EAD program meant more than financial freedom by enabling them to take up jobs or be self-employed, as the work authorisation also enabled spouses to obtain a social security number, open a bank account and get a driving license. SaveH4EAD, a group that started in December 2017, which currently has an outreach of several thousands has tweeted, “After years of advocacy, meeting Congress members, DHS/OMB and collecting irrefutable data on value-add of H4-EAD not only to economy but also to provide life of dignity to thousands of immigrants, we are pleased to announce that the new administration has withdrawn regulation to help #SaveH4EAD.” After years of advocacy, meeting congress members, DHS/OMB & collecting irrefutable data on value add of H4EAD not… https://t.co/dbrmItHazw— Save H4EAD (@SaveH4EADs) 1611703268000TOI has in the past covered the efforts of this group and had narrated how the American dream for many families would be shattered, if the EAD program came to an end. Read AlsoPlans to return or migrate elsewhere emerge for over 80,000 Indian families in USThe American Dream is fast turning into a nightmare for nearly 80,000 plus families from India, where a spouse is currently holding an employment authorisation document (EAD). This programme, that enabled spouses of certain category of H-1B visa holders, to work, is expected to end in the comingThe H4-EAD program has been involved in a long-drawn lawsuit filed by Save Jobs USA, which states that the EAD program takes away American jobs. Lately delays in getting the EAD extensions in a timely manner, has led to many H-4 visa holders filing lawsuits across the country. The next step according to SaveH4EAD is to streamline the process so that no one loses their jobs owing to processing delays. Todd Schulte, President of FWD.us, a bipartisan political organisation, whose founders include Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg and others stated, “We commend the Biden-Harris Administration for taking immediate action to turn the page from the Trump-Pence Administration’s disastrous immigration policies, and to do right by more than 100,000 hardworking immigrants who are contributing to the United States every single day in the midst of a deadly pandemic. Allowing H-4 visa holders the ability to continue working and providing for their families has profound, life-changing effects for these individuals and our communities. Roughly 93 percent are women, and many are working in essential roles that are key to supporting our nation’s economic recovery from the coronavirus pandemic.” “At the end of the day, there is no successful economic or public health recovery without bold action from lawmakers to protect immigrant essential workers and keep immigrant families safe and together. Congress must work together to immediately pass the U.S. Citizenship Act of 2021, which would formalize work authorization for H-4 visa holders, create a pathway to citizenship for undocumented immigrant essential workers, and address the bureaucratic backlogs that plague our broken immigration system,” added Schulte.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-admin-withdraws-move-to-rescind-work-authorisation-for-h-1b-spouses/articleshow/80474069.cms||Lubna Kably
January 27, 2021||India||Deep Sidhu blamed for violence at Red Fort: All you want to know about this Punjabi actor||NEW DELHI: Farmer leaders have alleged that Punjabi singer and actor Deep Sidhu instigated protesters and led them to the iconic Red Fort and hoisted flags at the 17th-century monument. Famous for his role as a gangster in the Punjabi film ‘Jora Das Numberia’ in 2018, the 36-year-old was one of the first celebrities to support farmers when they took to the streets against the three laws. Sidhu claims to be a supporter of strengthening the federal structure to give more rights to states. He has long been openly quoting Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale. Read AlsoRed Fort raider Deep Sidhu has been quoting Jarnail Singh BhindranwalePunjabi actor-singer-activist Deep Sidhu, who farmer unions allege was responsible for taking youths towards Red Fort on Tuesday, has been making news from the beginning of the agitation since September last year.Last month, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) registered a case against Sikhs for Justice and had also issued notices to Sidhu and his brother Mandeep Singh. Considered close to Sikh ideologue Ajmer Singh, Sidhu practised as a lawyer before joining the show business in 2015. Sidhu also did a Facebook live while hoisting the pennant from the ramparts of the Red Fort. In the video, Sidhu said in Punjabi, "We have only hoisted the Nishan Sahib flag at the Red Fort while exercising our democratic right to protest." Read AlsoDeep Sidhu &amp; government agencies behind rampage: Farm netasFarm leaders on Tuesday evening blamed the Majha-based Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and Deep Sidhu - who had led a group to Red Fort - for the violence in the national capital and termed the entire episode as “the handiwork of some central agencies” to defame the farmers’ struggle.Deep Sidhu belongs to Muktsar in Punjab. He had held a prolonged protest at the Shambhu border between Punjab and Haryana, where accusations of Khalistani elements running the protests had been made. During the Lok Sabha elections in May 2019, Deep Sidhu was in the news for being close to Bollywood actor-politician Sunny Deol, who contested from Gurdaspur as a BJP candidate. However, Deol distanced himself from Sidhu in a tweet, saying he or his family had no relationship with him. "I am deeply saddened by what happened at the Red Fort today. On December 6 itself, I had clarified on Twitter that I and my family have nothing to do with Deep Sidhu. Jai Hind," Deol wrote on Twitter. आज लाल क़िले पर जो हुआ उसे देख कर मन बहुत दुखी हुआ है, मैं पहले भी, 6 December को ,Twitter के माध्यम से यह साफ कर… https://t.co/X4YBSUmpkL— Sunny Deol (@iamsunnydeol) 1611679589000 Leaders across the political spectrum condemned the violence and the Red Fort incident. Congress' Shashi Tharoor saying he supported the farmers' protests from the start but cannot condone "lawlessness". Read AlsoWhat is Nishan Sahib? It’s found flying atop every gurdwaraWas a Khalistani flag hoisted at Red Fort? No, it was a Sikh flag which is found in every gurdwara and people carry it almost invariably during religious processions. In gurdwaras, it is hoisted at a height with a ‘khanda’ (a doubleedged sword). The flag flies at the top of this and is called NishanSwaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav, who is among the leaders spearheading the agitation, said Sidhu had been disassociated "from our protest right from the beginning".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/deep-sidhu-blamed-for-violence-at-red-fort-all-you-want-to-know-about-this-punjabi-actor/articleshow/80474327.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee govt to table resolution against new farm laws during assembly session tomorrow||KOLKATA: The Trinamool Congress government in West Bengal will table a resolution during an assembly session on Thursday, demanding the withdrawal of new farm laws.  The two-day assembly session will begin on January 27 and the resolution will be tabled under Rule 169 on January 28, state parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee said.  After Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Kerala and Delhi, West Bengal will be the sixth state to pass a resolution against the new farm laws.  Earlier in December last year, chief minister Mamata Banerjee called for a 3-day protest in Kolkata in support of farmers against the new farm laws.  Meanwhile, the violence broke out during a tractor rally on Tuesday in various parts of the national capital. Farmers broke barricades to enter Delhi and indulged in vandalism during their Kisan tractor rally organised to protest against the Centre's three new farm laws.  Over 100 police personnel were injured, with several public and private properties being damaged in acts of vandalism by the rioting mob, said the Delhi Police sources.  As per Delhi Police, at least 22 FIRs have been registered in connection with the violence during the farmers' tractor rally yesterday.  Farmers have been protesting at different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-banerjee-govt-to-table-resolution-against-new-farm-laws-during-assembly-session-tomorrow/articleshow/80474347.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Delhi's minimum temperature rises slightly||NEW DELHI: Delhi's minimum temperature rose to 5.4 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, though it was still three notches below normal, the India Meteorological Department said. A cold wave had gripped the city on Tuesday with the minimum temperature dropping to 2.1 degrees Celsius, seven notches below normal. An IMD official said cold wave conditions are likely to make a comeback in Delhi as the minimum temperature is predicted to dip by four degrees Celsius over the next two days. "Icy winds barrelling through the plains are likely to bring the mercury down again," he said. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. Delhi had recorded a "cold day" on Sunday with the maximum temperature dropping to 15 degrees Celsius, six notches below normal and the lowest this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-minimum-temperature-rises-slightly/articleshow/80474523.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: NCTE nod pending, admissions to 2,500 BEd seats delayed again||CHENNAI: Admissions to 2,500 BEd seats in government and government-aided colleges in Tamil Nadu have been delayed further as the southern regional committee of the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) is yet to give its nod for the admissions. Recently, higher education secretary Apoorva asked the council to relax faculty requirement in view of the ongoing recruitment. The directorate of collegiate education used to conduct single-window counselling for 2,500 BEd seats in seven government colleges of education and 14 government-aided colleges. Citing faculty shortage in government colleges, the NCTE directed all the seven institutions not to make any admission till the recruitment is completed. The Teachers Recruitment Board (TRB) has expedited the recruitment of 33 faculty members to government colleges. The southern regional committee after perusing the higher education secretary's January 3 letter decided to request the NCTE chairperson to take appropriate action on the matter. "Only then the SRC can consider the request made by the principal secretary, Government of Tamil Nadu," minutes of the southern regional committee meeting said. Online registration for BEd admissions was held from December 4 to 10. Several hundred candidates applied. Candidates said they are worried about the long delay as they may lose a full year if admissions are delayed. "Tuition fee in government colleges is just 2,000 against 35,000 in private colleges. Because of the delay in admissions, the 14 government-aided colleges are also not able to fill 90% seats under government quota," an aspirant said. There are 1,900 BEd seats in 14 government-aided colleges. "There are chances that the admissions may not be possible for this academic year with only three months available. The higher education department should consider conducting admissions for this batch in the calendar year instead of in the academic year," said J Robert, general secretary of the Secondary Grade Seniority Teachers Association. "The government can still conduct BEd counselling in February and for this batch can finish 3-4 months late. If they don't conduct admissions, it will affect aspirants," said A Manoharan, president, Voice of Academics. Sources said the TRB conducted the certificate verification for 1,400 candidates and is likely to appoint the 33 faculty members to government colleges of education by the first or second week of February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-ncte-nod-pending-admissions-to-2500-bed-seats-delayed-again/articleshow/80474659.cms||A Ragu Raman
January 27, 2021||Bengaluru||Time for Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa to focus more on governance, development||BENGALURU: After over eight months of internal turmoil over leadership change, cabinet expansion and portfolio allocation, it finally looks like the BJP government is getting down to brass tacks. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa at the Republic Day function on Tuesday assured people he would focus on governance and development. He has had to face challenges from back-to-backfloods followed by the pandemic, farmers protests and party infighting. The government’s image has been hurt by a slew of corruption charges by opposition Congress. KPCC working president DK Shiva Kumar and opposition leader Siddaramaiah have often alleged that the Yediyurappa administration has gone into a coma due to infighting and leadership issues. A senior official in the public works department said: “While bureaucrats take the decisions, the chief minister and ministers have just given the nod. But in the last few months, it is a complete paralysis of the administration. It’s high time to leave behind political acrimony and focus on governance.’’ Some said the attention of policy-makers is still largely on Covid-19 despite the caseload coming down. The upcoming budget holds the key for the government’s image-building exercise as Yediyurappa has announced that he’ll focus on development and welfare of farmers, besides urban centres. It won’t be easy as he may be compelled to cut down the expenditure of many departments like in the 2020-21 budget. Yediyurappa has already indicated he’ll cut down the budget size (from Rs 2.37 lakh crore of the previous year) as the state reels under severe financial distress and resource crunch. The State gross domestic product (GDP) has fallen drastically compared to fiscal year 2018-19 and is expected to show a negative growth rate for the second successive year. The debt burden has been consistently increasing and is estimated to cross Rs 3.6 lakh crore. Key sectors like public infrastructure and irrigation have taken a hit, with funds being diverted to managing Covid-19. Recent surveys indicated that though Karnataka is No. 1 destination in attracting investments, its position has been steadily falling in terms of realisation as most proposals are not executed on the ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/time-for-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-to-focus-more-on-governance-development/articleshow/80474661.cms||Manu Aiyappa
January 27, 2021||India||Farm union calls meeting to discuss violence during tractor parade in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Samkyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting unions, has called a meeting later on Wednesday to discuss the violence that broke out during the farmers' tractor parade in the national capital. Before the Morcha meeting, representatives of 32 Punjab unions will also meet at the Singhu border, a major protest site against the three new farm laws. A senior farmer leader said, "The Samkyukta Kisan Morcha will meet around 3 pm on Wednesday and discuss all aspects pertaining to violence that happened during the tractor parade in Delhi". The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 farmer unions, is leading the protest against the three central farm laws at several border points of Delhi. After violence broke out during the tractor parade on Tuesday, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha had called off the parade and appealed to participants to immediately return to their respective protest sites. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the city as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort The Delhi Police has registered 22 FIRs so far in connection with the violence in several area that has left over 300 policemen injured. The Kisan Morcha had disassociated itself from those who indulged in violence during the tractor parade, and alleged that some "antisocial elements" infiltrated their otherwise peaceful movement. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farm-union-calls-meeting-to-discuss-violence-during-tractor-parade-in-delhi/articleshow/80474961.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Poll for council deputy’s post tests BJP-JD(S) unity||BENGALURU: The election for the deputy council chairman’s post, scheduled for Friday, is set to test the new partnership between BJP and Janata Dal (Secular) in the house. Both parties are eyeing the chairman’s position and want the other to settle for the deputy’s role. The deputy’s post fell vacant after the death of BL Dharmegowda, a JD(S) member. BJP and JD(S) joined hands recently in a bid to oust current chairman K Pratapchandra Shetty, a Congress member. They will hold a crucial meeting on Wednesday to discuss if they can remain united on the issue and also resolve the post deadlock. No party has a majority in the 75-member legislative council. In 2018, JD(S), which has 13 members, had backed Congress (29). In this arrangement, Shetty was elected as the chairman and Dharmegowda as the deputy. Last month, JD(S) moved away from Congress and supported BJP’s attempt to move a no-confidence motion against Shetty. In return, JD(S) was promised the chairman’s post, which JD(S) veteran Basavaraj Horatti is keen on serving. But many BJP members now believe that the ruling party deserves this post. “We are the single largest party in the council and the chairman’s post must come to us,” said BJP MLC Lahar Singh Siroya. BJP’s chief whip, Mahantesh Kavatagimath, said that party members planned to meet chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday and persuade him to stick to the demand for the chairman’s post. BJP, which has 31 members, has sent a fresh notice to move the no-confidence motion against Shetty during the council session beginning on Thursday. A surprised JD(S) leadership went into a huddle on Tuesday, with party MLCs urging HD Deve Gowda to resist pressure from BJP. The window for nominations for Friday’s election will close on Thursday afternoon. The two parties will have to decide their stand before that. “The chairman’s post was the BJP high command’s promise to us. We will not be responsible if they backtrack on it,” Horatti said. He appeared to be suggesting that Congress may take advantage of the situation and upset BJP’s apple cart. Senior JD(S) MLC Marithibbe Gowda is already associated with Congress and a few more are reportedly in talks with it. Enthused by the development, Congress plans to field KC Kondaiah or Prakash Rathod as its candidate. “We can consider backing JD(S) for the chairman’s post if it supports us in the deputy chairman’s election. A decision will be collectively taken in our legislative party meeting on Thursday morning,” said Congress MLC BK Hariprasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-poll-for-council-deputys-post-tests-bjp-jds-unity/articleshow/80475060.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
January 27, 2021||World||Pakistan govt decides to amend constitution for Senate election||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan Cabinet has decided to table a bill in the parliament to amend the constitution for holding the Senate elections through open vote. The decision was taken during the Cabinet meeting on Tuesday, presided over by Prime Minister Imran Khan. "The government wants the (Senate) polls to be held in a transparent manner and without horse-trading. This is why we want Senate polls to be held through an open ballot," Information Minister Shibli Faraz told the media after the meeting. He said that in Senate elections money was used in the past and votes were bought making the house election a mockery. He asked what was the use of an upper house in which people come through purchasing votes. Faraz also said that people opposing the proposed move are forgetting that their own party had demanded open ballot in the past. "The government will present a constitutional amendment bill in the parliament so that Senate polls are held through open ballot," he said. Already the government petitioned to the Supreme Court, seeking direction to hold the upcoming Senate elections through open ballot. The decision is pending. Meanwhile, Dawn quoted a Cabinet member as saying that Prime Minister Khan tasked his advisor parliamentary affairs Babar Awan to table a bill in the National Assembly for holding Senate elections through open ballot when the adviser was giving a briefing on the status of the government's reference in the Supreme Court. Awan said the government had already laid two bills "Constitution Amendment Bill and Electoral Reforms Bill" in the parliament on the basis of which desired legislation could be done for an open ballot. The Cabinet member said Awan had called a meeting of his ministry and its legislation branch to devise a roadmap on how to proceed with the matter in the parliament. It has been proposed that since Senate polls could not be held through show of hand because every voter has to show his preference in the ballot paper. Therefore, to ensure open identity of the voter, the voter should be required to mention his name on the back side of the ballot paper, according to Dawn newspaper. Senate elections will be held in the first half of next month and ruling Pakistan Tehreek-I-Insaf is wary that its own members may vote a gay party policy, according to opposition parties that are opposing the move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistan-govt-decides-to-amend-constitution-for-senate-election/articleshow/80474967.cms||---
January 27, 2021||World||Saudi Arabia hosts 'Davos in Desert' amid pandemic||RIYADH: Saudi Arabia will host a two-day Davos-style investment forum starting Wednesday, with dozens of global policy makers and business tycoons lined up to speak at the partly virtual event amid the coronavirus pandemic. Around 150 speakers will participate in the fourth edition of the Future Investment Initiative (FII), organisers said, seeking to showcase the insular kingdom as a dynamic investment destination. Around 100 speakers will participate virtually from FII hubs in New York, Paris, Beijing and Mumbai and 50 will attend the conference in-person in Riyadh, they added. The participants include Goldman Sachs chief executive David Solomon, Stephen Schwarzman, head of private equity firm Blackstone, American asset management company Blackrock's chief executive Larry Fink and former Olympic sprinter Usain Bolt, organisers said. The summit, earlier slated to be held last October, comes amid the pandemic that has battered the global economy. "There has never been a more important time for leaders, investors and policy makers to come together to work towards re-energising the global economy," Yasir al-Rumayyan, chairman of Saudi Arabia's Public Investment Fund, said in a statement. The summit, dubbed "Davos in the desert", was launched by Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman in 2017 to woo foreign investors and promote his Vision 2030 diversification plan to wean the economy off its dependence on petro-dollars. But the following year, the fallout over journalist Jamal Khashoggi's murder by Saudi agents in Istanbul prompted a wave of business and political leaders to pull out of the glitzy conference at the last minute. The murder at Saudi Arabia's consulate in Istanbul triggered one of the top crude exporter's worst ever diplomatic and public relations crises. The conference saw a reboot in 2019 as global outrage over the murder subsided. The forum is billed as an economic coming-out party for the petro-state, seeking to diversify away from oil -- and authorities are eager to project the kingdom's economic ambitions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/saudi-arabia-hosts-davos-in-desert-amid-pandemic/articleshow/80475149.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Business||Saudi Arabia hosts 'Davos in Desert' amid pandemic||RIYADH: Saudi Arabia will host a two-day Davos-style investment forum starting Wednesday, with dozens of global policy makers and business tycoons lined up to speak at the partly virtual event amid the coronavirus pandemic. Around 150 speakers will participate in the fourth edition of the Future Investment Initiative (FII), organisers said, seeking to showcase the insular kingdom as a dynamic investment destination. Around 100 speakers will participate virtually from FII hubs in New York, Paris, Beijing and Mumbai and 50 will attend the conference in-person in Riyadh, they added. The participants include Goldman Sachs chief executive David Solomon, Stephen Schwarzman, head of private equity firm Blackstone, American asset management company Blackrock's chief executive Larry Fink and former Olympic sprinter Usain Bolt, organisers said. The summit, earlier slated to be held last October, comes amid the pandemic that has battered the global economy. "There has never been a more important time for leaders, investors and policy makers to come together to work towards re-energising the global economy," Yasir al-Rumayyan, chairman of Saudi Arabia's Public Investment Fund, said in a statement. The summit, dubbed "Davos in the desert", was launched by Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman in 2017 to woo foreign investors and promote his Vision 2030 diversification plan to wean the economy off its dependence on petro-dollars. But the following year, the fallout over journalist Jamal Khashoggi's murder by Saudi agents in Istanbul prompted a wave of business and political leaders to pull out of the glitzy conference at the last minute. The murder at Saudi Arabia's consulate in Istanbul triggered one of the top crude exporter's worst ever diplomatic and public relations crises. The conference saw a reboot in 2019 as global outrage over the murder subsided. The forum is billed as an economic coming-out party for the petro-state, seeking to diversify away from oil -- and authorities are eager to project the kingdom's economic ambitions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/saudi-arabia-hosts-davos-in-desert-amid-pandemic/articleshow/80475125.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Chennai||Doctors head to field to keep players fighting fit||The most common injury that any sportsperson is likely to fall prey to is a ligament tear. In this case, a conventional cut-open orthopaedic surgery may put their career in limbo for up to two years. And even after, there is no guarantee that they can get back on the field with the same vigour. Enter arthroscopic surgery. This method has begun to gain prominence world over as doctors say the recovery period is hardly two months. An arthroscopy is similar to a laparoscopy procedure. A 5mm to 10 mm hole is made and graft obtained from the knee is used to stitch up the torn ligament. In case the patient is aged below 10 or 12 years and has immature tissues, graft tissue is taken from their parents, said Dr Lionel Ponraj, head of the arthroscopic surgery ward, TN Government Multi Speciality Hospital, Omandurar. While private hospitals charge nearly ₹2.5 lakh for this minimally invasive surgery, it is conducted for free at Omandurar. With more referrals, however, the waiting list has gotten got longer. At any point, up to 80 athletes sportspersons, mostly from south and west TN, are in line for the surgery at Omandurar, official data revealed. A majority were injured while playing kabaddi, badminton and football, said Rajapandian, an orthopaedic surgeon at the arthroscopic surgery ward. Given the demand, the National Health Mission and Japan International Cooperation Agency decided to take this service to tier-II cities and smaller towns. Equipment worth Rs 50 lakh was procured for 14 government hospitals in places such as Trichy, Salem and Tirunelveli, as per official documents. A three-month fellowship programme is underway at Omandurar to train ortho doctors in arthroscopic surgery. Doctors are trained on identifying the nature of the injury, diagnosis, performing surgery and assisting the patient’s return to sports, said a senior health department official. So far, two doctors from Thiruvarur and Trichy have completed training and have begun performing surgeries at the local hospital. Doctors from Periyakulam and Salem are being trained at present. “At the end of the fellowship program in June 2021, injured sportspeople from faraway districts like Ramanathapuram or Erode need not travel all the way to Chennai for a surgery,” Dr Ponraj said. Once the fellowship programme is wrapped up, the next step is strengthening arthroscopic surgery units in Chennai medical college hospitals, the health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/doctors-head-to-field-to-keep-players-fighting-fit/articleshow/80475205.cms||Ram Sundaram
January 27, 2021||World||'Putin's palace': An opulent residence on the Black Sea coast||MOSCOW: Kremlin foe Alexei Navalny was jailed nearly two weeks ago when he returned to Russia from Germany after recovering from exposure to a nerve toxin. The day after he was put behind bars, his team released an investigative report accompanied by a two-hour YouTube video accusing Russian leader Vladimir Putin of being gifted a luxurious property on the Black Sea coast. Putin has strongly denied that he is its owner. Here's what you need to know: The 44-year-old anti-graft campaigner's report is not the first to suggest that Putin is the main resident of a coastal palace near the town of Gelendzhik in southern Russia. In 2010, businessman Sergei Kolesnikov blew the whistle on the luxury complex. He said he was asked by close associates of Putin to transfer via his company donations made by oligarchs into a fund that was intended for renovating hospitals but was instead used to finance the construction of the property. The businessman fled Russia before publishing a heap of documents on the palace accompanied by an open letter to then-president Dmitry Medvedev, urging him to investigate the case. The authorities rejected Kolesnikov's claims and his initiative failed to gain traction. Navalny's investigation describes the lavish property in detail using drone footage and 3D visualisations of the interior based on leaked architectural blueprints. The report alleges that the 17,700 square metre complex includes a church, vineyards, an underground hockey arena and a private casino. It says that boats are prohibited from approaching the property along the coast and there is a no-fly zone above it. Navalny, who accuses Putin of being "obsessed with wealth and luxury", estimates that the construction of the property cost more than $1.5 billion. Underscoring the grand price tag, the Kremlin critic noted in particular that it features Italian-made toilet brushes estimated at 700 euros ($851) apiece. The construction of the complex, according to Navalny's investigation, was financed by companies linked to Putin's inner circle. Navalny refers to the financing scheme as the "biggest bribe in the world". The Kremlin critic points to Igor Sechin, head of the oil giant Rosneft, and businessman Yuri Kovalchuk, who is under Western sanctions and is allegedly Putin's banker, as being involved. The funds for the property were allegedly obtained through questionable rental contracts involving state-owned companies, including the pipeline firm Transneft run by Nikolai Tokarev. Tokarev, according to the investigation, was a KGB officer stationed alongside Putin in East Germany. Following the release of Navalny's report that has garnered nearly 93 million views on YouTube and fuelled anti-Kremlin rallies over the weekend, Putin personally denied the allegations. "Nothing that is listed there as my property belongs to me or my close relatives, and never did," the Russian president said during a video call with students. He denounced the accusations as "brainwashing" of Russians using an edited photo montage and said there were no documents in the investigation providing proof of ownership. Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov on Tuesday said the Kremlin knows who the owners of the palace are but does not have the right to reveal their names.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/putins-palace-an-opulent-residence-on-the-black-sea-coast/articleshow/80475242.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu assembly elections: Activists want parties to address demands of disabled in manifesto||CHENNAI: Activists working with people with disabilities want political parties to ensure that their election manifestos to address their long-pending demands. They want parties to field the differently abled in the coming Assembly election, saying this will ensure their problems are tackled.  The December 3 Movement has been attending political meetings and pressing the cause of the differently abled. "We have been educating and empowering our members to be politically aware and active. There is always opportunity, but it is not accessible because of lack of understanding in the political framework ," said Prof Deepak Nathan of the December 3 Movement.  "There should be reservation for the differently abled in elections to rural local bodies, which are closer to the people," he said  "We strongly believe that our voices are heard only when we get an opportunity to be part of the elected representatives of parliament or the assembly. For that, the political parties should come forward to give opportunities to persons with disability from their respective parties to contest in the elections. The government should nominate people with disabilities to parliament," said Prof M Sagadevan of the National Federation of the Blind. The political parties should make their meetings and election campaigns barrier free for people with disabilities, said disability rights activist Smitha Sadasivan. "They should publish their manifesto sin accessible formats such as braille, audio, sign language and plain language to help people with disabilities understand what the promises of the political parties are," she said. Political parties should allot 3% to 5% seats to people with disabilities in the assembly polls and other elections, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-assembly-elections-activists-want-parties-to-address-demands-of-disabled-in-manifesto/articleshow/80475327.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
January 27, 2021||Cuttack||Govt plans 25,000 housing units for lower, middle-income groups in Cuttack, Bhubaneswar||BHUBANESWAR: The state government is planning to roll out housing projects with more than 25,000 dwelling units, mainly for the lower and middle-income groups in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack, soon. This would be one of the biggest housing stocks being built by the government at one go in recent years. Housing and urban development secretary G Mathi Vathanan said if things move as planned, the tenders for some projects totalling 20,000 housing units, may be floated as early as April. “We will take project-specific approval from the government,” he added. “As the city grows, one wants to buy space rather than land. Now our main focus will be on housing and capitalising on the vertical space. We have given top priority to vertical structures, especially in Cuttack and Bhubaneswar. In the next one year, more than 25,000 houses may be rolled out in the two cities,” Vathanan said. The bureaucrat further said the government intends to target the middle and lower-income groups (monthly income up to Rs 25,000) because this segment is not catered to by the private sector. The projects will be floated by the Bhubaneswar Development Authority (BDA), the Cuttack Development Authority (CDA), the Odisha State Housing Board (OSHB), among other agencies, he added. The government has identified around 200 acres of land in Cuttack and Bhubaneswar for the housing projects. “Part of the land will be monetized by involving private developers and money generated from that will be used in constructions. Since the constructions will come up on government land, the cost of housing units will be far less than the market price,” the housing and urban development secretary said. Private builders will be involved in completing the housing projects, in exchange of which they will get land to develop high-end properties and sell them at market price. However, the prices of the stocks in individual projects for the middle and lower-income groups will be decided by the executing agencies such as BDA, CDA and the housing board. Government sources said the houses for the economically weaker sections (monthly income below Rs 7,500) will automatically grow as every project with 2,000 square metre area has to compulsorily reserve 10% of the built-up space for the EWS category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/govt-plans-25000-housing-units-for-lower-middle-income-groups-in-cuttack-bhubaneswar/articleshow/80475427.cms||Ashok Pradhan
January 27, 2021||Bhubaneswar||Govt plans 25,000 housing units for lower, middle-income groups in Cuttack, Bhubaneswar||BHUBANESWAR: The state government is planning to roll out housing projects with more than 25,000 dwelling units, mainly for the lower and middle-income groups in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack, soon. This would be one of the biggest housing stocks being built by the government at one go in recent years. Housing and urban development secretary G Mathi Vathanan said if things move as planned, the tenders for some projects totalling 20,000 housing units, may be floated as early as April. “We will take project-specific approval from the government,” he added. “As the city grows, one wants to buy space rather than land. Now our main focus will be on housing and capitalising on the vertical space. We have given top priority to vertical structures, especially in Cuttack and Bhubaneswar. In the next one year, more than 25,000 houses may be rolled out in the two cities,” Vathanan said. The bureaucrat further said the government intends to target the middle and lower-income groups (monthly income up to Rs 25,000) because this segment is not catered to by the private sector. The projects will be floated by the Bhubaneswar Development Authority (BDA), the Cuttack Development Authority (CDA), the Odisha State Housing Board (OSHB), among other agencies, he added. The government has identified around 200 acres of land in Cuttack and Bhubaneswar for the housing projects. “Part of the land will be monetized by involving private developers and money generated from that will be used in constructions. Since the constructions will come up on government land, the cost of housing units will be far less than the market price,” the housing and urban development secretary said. Private builders will be involved in completing the housing projects, in exchange of which they will get land to develop high-end properties and sell them at market price. However, the prices of the stocks in individual projects for the middle and lower-income groups will be decided by the executing agencies such as BDA, CDA and the housing board. Government sources said the houses for the economically weaker sections (monthly income below Rs 7,500) will automatically grow as every project with 2,000 square metre area has to compulsorily reserve 10% of the built-up space for the EWS category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-plans-25000-housing-units-for-lower-middle-income-groups-in-cuttack-bhubaneswar/articleshow/80475425.cms||Ashok Pradhan
January 27, 2021||India||Sasikala released from prison after serving 4-year jail-term||BENGALURU: Expelled AIADMK leader VK Sasikala was formally released from prison on Wednesday after jail officials completed the formalities. The procedures for her release were done at the Victoria Hospital, where she is presently undergoing treatment for Covid-19 infection, which she had contracted a week ago, along with her sister-in-law J Ilavarasi. The close aide of former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa was in the Central Jail in Parappana Agrahara for four years since February 2017 in connection with the Rs 66 crore disproportionate assets case. A huge crowd of Sasikala supporters lined up outside the Victoria Hospital, raising slogans in her favour and distributed sweets in celebration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sasikala-released-from-prison-after-serving-4-year-jail-term/articleshow/80475494.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh horror: Mother was 'singing and dancing' near daughters' bodies||TIRUPATI: Madanapalli police on Tuesday arrested the couple, who killed their two daughters allegedly under the influence of tantriks. The couple was in a state of trance sitting near the bodies of their daughters when the police had reached their home on Sunday. While the father, Dr V Purushotham Naidu, has reportedly come out of the trance, his wife Padmaja continued to behave strangely. Read AlsoAndhra Pradesh couple arrested for killing 2 daughters during occult ritualsPolice on Tuesday arrested the superstitious couple who had allegedly murdered their two daughters on Sunday in Madanapalli town of Andhra Pradesh.She was singing and dancing and shouting that the novel coronavirus had not originated in China, but created by the gods to cleanse the “bad elements” in the Kali Yug. When police took Padmaja to a hospital for Covid-19 test, she refused to give her sample shouting that she herself was novel coronavirus in human form and there was no need for tests. The police have named Naidu as accused No 1 and Padmaja as accused No 2 in the case. The couple on Sunday brutally murdered their daughters, Alekhya (27) and Sai Divya (22), in what appeared to be part of occult practice. Speaking to TOI Madanapalli DSP A Ravi Manoharachari said police and doctors had a tough time completing the medical examination as Padmaja acted strangely claiming that she was a form of Lord Shiva. Both accused were produced before the local magistrate and were later admitted to the psychiatry ward at the SVRR government general hospital at Tirupati. Both were later admitted to the psychiatry ward at the SVRR govt hospital at Tirupati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/andhra-pradesh-couple-held-for-murdering-daughters/articleshow/80472519.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 27, 2021||Salem||Double murder accused ends life by jumping off Salem hospital second floor||SALEM: A 29-year-old man arrested in connection with the double murder of his mother and mother’s younger sister in July last year killed himself by jumping off the second floor of Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital (SGMKMCH) in the early hours of Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as S Muthuvel of Nagarasampettai in Krishnagiri district. The Pochampalli police arrested him on August 29, 2020 in connection with the double murder, a Salem Central Prison official said. The official said Muthuvel had been looking upset as none of his relatives had taken take steps to get him bail. On January 16, Muthuvel attempted suicide by jumping off the first floor of the prison. "He suffered injuries and was admitted to SGMKMCH,” the official said. Around 4.45am on Wednesday, Muthuvel approached the prison cops who were on duty in the ward, asking them to take him to restroom. They left him in the restroom and came out. "Muthuvel jumped down after moving the restroom sliding windowpane to one side," the official said. He died on the spot. The hospital outpost police registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/double-murder-accused-ends-life-by-jumping-off-salem-hospital-second-floor/articleshow/80475530.cms||V Senthil Kumaran
January 27, 2021||Mumbai||One dead, two injured in freak rail accident near Kalyan||MUMBAI: One labourer died while two others suffered injuries after a gantry of the track relaying train (TRT) machine fell on them between Ambernath-Badlapur on Wednesday morning. Because of the accident, the train movement between Ambernath and Badlapur section was suspended, a Central Railway (CR) officer said. One contractual labour died & two injured during restoration work of track relaying train machine that failed betwe… https://t.co/KCqlKLZe6q— TOI Mumbai (@TOIMumbai) 1611718858000"Three contractual labourers while working got trapped in the machine around 3.15am," he added. Few workers at the accident site"TRT track machine failed between Ambernath- Badlapur during maintenance block from 2.05am to 5.10am today. Restoration work is going on. The down traffic between Ambernath to Badlapur has been suspended," CR's chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar tweeted. TRT Track machine failed between Ambernath- Badlapur during maintenance block from 2.05 to 5.10am today. Restoratio… https://t.co/mucK0r9qnK— Shivaji M Sutar (@ShivajiIRTS) 1611706929000He also confirmed that one contractual labour succumbed to injuries on the spot and his body has been handed over to Gramin Hospital Badlapur. "Two contractual labourers were injured and have been shifted to Kalyan Hospital," he said. Watch Labourer killed, two injured in accident on rail track in Maharashtra||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-labourer-killed-two-injured-in-accident-on-rail-track/articleshow/80475288.cms||Manthan K Mehta
January 27, 2021||Business||IMF projects 11.5% GDP growth, experts say India to achieve $5 trillion economy||NEW DELHI: With International Monetary Fund (IMF) projecting that India will reclaim the status of world's fastest-growing economy and projected its growth at 11.5 per cent in 2021, experts on Wednesday said that India is rebounding to achieve the target of a $5 trillion economy. Commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal termed the IMF projections for India as "Bright star in the global economy." "Bright Star in Global Economy: India to continue its growth story at rapid pace under PM @NarendraModi ji, with @IMFNews projecting an impressive 11.5% growth rate for India in 2021. It makes India only major economy to register double-digit growth in 2021," Goyal tweeted. Charan Singh, CEO, EGROW Foundation and former RBI chair professor said, "As was expected, and I had been arguing that India's fundamentals are strong, IMF, in its latest release has projected India's growth at 11.5 per cent in 2021 and 6.8 per cent in 2022. This is the highest growth rate to be recorded by any country." Singh said that IMF observed that the substantial revision in India's growth projection is because of stronger than expected recovery after lockdown. "Hence, India has saved the lives of people in lockdown, and now galloping to recoup growth trajectory. This has been due to the well-calibrated, adequately sequenced policies of the Government. Thus, a V-shaped recovery is on the way, and India is rebounding, to achieve a $5 Trillion Economy, despite the Covid set-back," he added. DK Mishra, a market expert, said that Covid-19 pandemic has impacted worldwide economies in a big way but Indian economy has come out of initial hits due to measures taken by government and strong consumer demands. "The same is evident from strong GST collections and good agricultural growth. The projection for 11.50 per cent growth by IMF in GDP is yet another confirmation of the strong recovery of the economy. The future outlook with the Covid vaccine in the market will be good for our economy," he said. In its latest World Economic Outlook update released on Tuesday, the IMF predicted that India's gross domestic product (GDP) will grow at the pace of 11.5 per cent in 2021. IMF projections show that India's economy will grow much better than China which is predicted to grow at 8.1 per cent, followed by Spain (5.9 per cent), France (5.5 per cent) and United States (5.1 per cent).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/imf-projects-11-5-gdp-growth-experts-say-india-to-achieve-5-trillion-economy/articleshow/80475641.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Allahabad||Allahabad-based gymnast Mohd Rafey thrilled after winning PM Rashtriya Bal Puraskar 2021 award, interacting with PM Modi||PRAYAGRAJ: City-based artistic gymnast Mohammad Rafey, who has been awarded Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar-2021 for exceptional abilities and outstanding accomplishments in the fields of sports, was delighted and thrilled after a virtual interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently. Rafey (17) was one among the five children from Uttar Pradesh selected for the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar-2021. After the video-conferencing at district collectorate-based National Informatics Centre (NIC), Prayagraj, Rafey, who had won a medal in junior Asian Games held in Mangolia in 2019, said, “I feel honoured on being selected for the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar. It was a great moment for me when I interacted with PM. He is the biggest leader of the world.” “PM Modi is a great leader as he is doing a lot for youngsters and offering opportunities like Khelo India, youth games, Fit India movement, Beti Padhao-Beti Bachao and is promoting sports,” Rafey added. Many people in our country still don’t know about gymnastics at a time when Deepa Karmakar, Mohd Anas and Ashish Kumar have participated in international events like Olympics. I also want to represent my country in 2024 Paris Olympics and want to win gold, he further added. There is an urgent need to encourage budding gymnasts as they are hesitant thinking there is not much scope in gymnastics, said Rafey. “Prime Minister congratulated all awardees. Interaction with him has given me fresh energy to achieve my goals,” said Rafey who has won 50 medals at national level and is undergoing training in Pune. Rafey started learning gymnastics at the age of five and got the opportunity to represent the country in Junior Asian Games in 2019 and won a bronze medal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/allahabad-based-gymnast-mohd-rafey-thrilled-after-winning-pm-rashtriya-bal-puraskar-2021-award-interaction-with-pm/articleshow/80475569.cms||Kapil Dixit
January 27, 2021||World||Japan PM apologises after lawmakers' night club outings||TOKYO: Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga apologised on Wednesday after lawmakers from his ruling coalition visited night clubs despite his government's call for people to avoid unnecessary outings to curb the spread of Covid-19. The news is another headache for Suga whose approval rating has tumbled due to dissatisfaction with his handling of the pandemic, which critics have called too slow and inconsistent. "I'm terribly sorry that this happened when we are asking people not to eat out after 8pm and to avoid non-essential, non-urgent outings," Suga told parliament. "Each lawmaker should behave to gain the public's understanding." Japan this month issued a state of emergency in Tokyo and other areas to tame a sharp increase in COVID-19 cases. The measure includes a request for restaurants and bars to close by 8pm although there are currently no penalties for non-compliance. "My behaviour was careless at a time when we are asking people to be patient," Jun Matsumoto, a senior lawmaker from the ruling Liberal Democratic Party, told reporters. Matsumoto was speaking following a Daily Shincho magazine report that he had visited two night clubs in Tokyo's posh Ginza district after dining at an Italian restaurant last Monday. Kiyohiko Toyama, a lawmaker from the coalition's junior partner Komeito, also apologised after tabloid Shukan Bunshun reported he had visited a high-end night club in Ginza until late last Friday. Twitter users voiced their frustration. "It is just a matter of time before public anger explodes. I don't want a blanket cash-payout of 100,000 yen ($965), I want them to quit! " wrote one user. "They are really stupid. Don't they think about what they are doing and how the public sees them? If they don't, they are unqualified to represent the public," said another.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/japan-pm-apologises-after-lawmakers-night-club-outings/articleshow/80475737.cms||---
January 27, 2021||India||Two soldiers injured in Kashmir terror attack||SRINAGAR: Two soldiers were injured after terrorists attacked an army patrolling party in Kulgam district of south Kashmir on Wednesday, officials said. According to details the attack was carried out by terrorists in the Wanpoh area. The two injured soldiers were rushed to hospital. Additional forces have been brought in. The area has been cordoned off and a search operation was underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/two-soldiers-injured-in-kashmir-terror-attack/articleshow/80475314.cms||---
January 27, 2021||India||India pledges $150,000 for UN peace-building||UNITED NATIONS: India has announced a pledge of $150,000 to activities of the Peacebuilding Fund this year and said that 2021 provides the international community with an opportunity to look at peacebuilding in a more focused manner, especially in the context of the Covid pandemic. “While I would like to assure you all of our sincere commitment to remain engaged in peacebuilding, we extend our support to the activities of the Peacebuilding Fund and as a token of our engagement, India would like to announce today a pledge of $150,000 to the fund's activities and programme this year,” India's Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti said. In a virtual address to the High-Level Replenishment Conference for the United Nations Peacebuilding Fund Tuesday, he said India believes that 2021 provides the international community with an opportunity to look at peacebuilding in the broader context and in a more focused manner, especially in the context of the Covid pandemic, which is threatening to erode the gains made over the years. He added that the recently concluded 2020 review of the UN peacebuilding architecture provides a framework to strengthen peace building collectively. He voiced appreciation that as a part of its 2020-24 strategy, the Peacebuilding Fund has put forth a comprehensive scenario covering a horizon of five years. The Fund requires 1.5 billion dollars for 2020-2024. “There is no doubt that conflict prevention is essential to ensure that peacekeeping translates into something more durable for the benefit of the people,” he said, adding that for this determined support is needed from member states to strengthen the hands of the United Nations. He emphasised that strengthening security structures go hand in hand with strengthening civilian structures of good governance. “We need to consequently prioritise our focus on specific aspects of peacebuilding, which will have the highest impact in post-conflict situations, so that the funds are utilised to the optimum.” UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said at the conference that peacebuilding in fragile contexts requires political courage and leadership at national and local levels, but also the right support at the right time from the international community. “We need to take risks for peace and enable stakeholders with the resources and space to seize opportunities. We have a responsibility to bring down the institutional silos and bring together, in an agile and responsive manner, the full range of the UN system capacities,” he said. The UN chief pointed out that as the medium-term effects of the COVID19 pandemic become more apparent, it is more important than ever to ensure the fund is adequately and predictably resourced. In 2020, the Peacebuilding Fund mobilised over $180 million, which Guterres said is an important sign of the trust the fund has garnered over the years and its demonstrated ability to deliver in the most difficult contexts. "But its resources are now depleted. We must urgently replenish it. Doing so will save lives and serve as a clear demonstration of multilateral support.” Tirumurti highlighted India's constructive and significant role in the context of peacebuilding through its extensive development partnership in developing countries, particularly in Africa and Asia. India continues to assist countries bilaterally in post-conflict situations by providing substantial grants and soft loans, apart from focusing on infrastructure, especially housing, education and health, on connectivity, providing livelihood to those impacted by conflict, especially in agriculture and on projects at the grassroots level. He cited the example from Afghanistan, where India has undertaken projects in every province of the country. India has tried to enhance the security environment of these countries since peace, security and development have to go together. India is also fulfilling its commitment to make available its Covid-19 vaccines to other countries and has already supplied more than six million doses to nine countries in phase one as grant assistance. The Peacebuilding Fund is the UN's financial instrument of first resort to sustain peace in countries or situations at risk or affected by violent conflict. The Fund's 2020-2024 strategy is its most ambitious yet, responding to the Secretary-General's call for a quantum leap of support for peacebuilding and prevention. The Fund has invested over $1.2 billion to date in over 60 countries, with support from almost 60 member states. At the close of the conference, the co-chairs issued a Joint Communique stating that the General Assembly would convene a High-Level meeting on financing peace during its 76th session. "The Conference took place at a time of unprecedented challenges and as the world contends with the tragic immediate effects of the pandemic and its alarming medium to long-term impacts. The unprecedented economic shocks and inadequate response strategies are entrenching social and economic inequalities and increasing risks for crisis, eroding peace and development gains along the way," the Joint Communique said. Member states reiterated the importance of investing in peace. Including funds received for 2020, a total of 39 member states have contributed or pledged over $439 million for peacebuilding in support of the Fund's 2020-2024 Strategy which set a target of $1.5 billion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-pledges-150000-for-un-peace-building/articleshow/80475815.cms||---
January 27, 2021||World||China: Military flights a warning against interference in Taiwan||BEIJING: The Chinese government said Wednesday that actions like its warplanes flying near Taiwan last weekend are a warning against both foreign interference in Taiwan and any independence moves by the island. Asked about the flights, Zhu Fenglian, a spokesperson for China's Taiwan Affairs Office, said China's military drills are to show the nation's resolution to protect its national sovereignty and territorial integrity. "They are a stern warning against external interference and provocation from separatist forces advocating for Taiwan independence," she said at a regular briefing, giving the Chinese government's first official comment on the recent flights. China sent eight bombers and four fighter jets into Taiwan's air defense identification zone on Saturday, according to Taiwan's Defense Ministry. Taiwan scrambled fighters to monitor the activity. The US State Department later issued a statement urging China "to cease its military, diplomatic, and economic pressure against Taiwan" following China's sizeable show of force. China then sent 16 military aircraft into the same area on Sunday, Taiwan said. Taiwan is a self-governing island about 160 kilometers (100 miles) off China's east coast. The Chinese government regards it as a renegade province that should be united with mainland China. Zhu said that China would not renounce the use of force to guard against separatist moves and foreign interference. "We ... reserve the option to use all necessary measures," she said. "Our position has been consistent and will not change."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/china-military-flights-a-warning-against-interference-in-taiwan/articleshow/80475939.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Chennai||Robbers murder Sirkazhi jeweller’s wife and son; police gun down suspect||MAYIADUTHURAI: A four-member gang murdered the wife and the son of a jewellery store owner and looted 17 kg of gold ornaments from their house in Sirkazhi in Mayiladuthurai district of Tamil Nadu on Wednesday morning. Two others, including the jeweller, suffered injuries. Police shot dead one of the robbers and secured two others. They recovered the robbed jewellery, as well. The deceased have been identified as D Asha, 45, wife of the jeweller Dhanraj, 51, and their son D Akhil, 28. Dhanraj and Akhil’s wife Nikila, 23, suffered injuries. They have been admitted to Government Hospital in Sirkazhi. Dhanraj’s jewellery store is located near his home. The gang barged into Dhanraj’s house around 6am and attacked all the four with deadly weapons before escaping with 17 kg of gold. On being alerted, the Mayiladuthurai police rushed to the spot. Based on vital information, the police reached Erukkur village and secured three men identified as Manibal, R Manish, 23, and J Ramesh Prakash, 20. Another gang member, identified as Karnaram, was absconding, police said. All of them are from Rajasthan. . The police took the trio to a spot where they had hidden the robbed gold jewellery. Manibal tried to escape after attacking the police team. The police shot him dead. They recovered 17 kg of gold ornaments and two guns from the robbers. Further investigations were on, police sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/robbers-murder-sirkazhi-jewellers-wife-and-son-police-gun-down-suspect/articleshow/80475909.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
January 27, 2021||India||BJP government played decisive role in turning resentment of farmers into anger: Akhilesh Yadav||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday held the BJP-led central government responsible for turning farmers' "resentment into anger" and demanded immediate withdrawal of new agri laws. His remarks come after clashes broke out at multiple places during the farmers' tractor parade in Delhi on Tuesday. Tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. "The way the BJP government has continuously neglected, humiliated and accused the farmers, it played a decisive role in turning the resentment of the farmers into anger. Only the BJP is responsible for the present situation," Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. He said the government should immediately withdraw the farm laws considering it as its moral responsibility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-government-played-decisive-role-in-turning-resentment-of-farmers-into-anger-akhilesh-yadav/articleshow/80476215.cms||---
January 27, 2021||World||UK imams mobilise to counter Covid vaccine disinformation||LONDON: Imams across Britain are helping a drive to dispel coronavirus disinformation, using Friday sermons and their influential standing within Muslim communities to argue that Covid-19 vaccines are safe. Qari Asim, chairman of the Mosques and Imams National Advisory Board (MINAB) which is leading a campaign to reassure its faithful, is among those publically advocating that the inoculations are compatible with Islamic practices. "We are confident that the two vaccines that have been used in the UK, Oxford AstraZeneca and Pfizer, are permissible from an Islamic perspective," he told AFP. "The hesitancy, the anxiety (and) concern is driven by misinformation, conspiracy theories, fake news and rumours." Britain, the hardest-hit country in Europe by the virus after registering nearly 95,000 deaths, is relying on its biggest-ever vaccination effort to end repeated cycles of lockdowns and restrictions. However, a report from the scientific committee advising the government showed stronger mistrust of vaccines among ethnic minorities than the rest of the UK population. It highlighted that 72 percent of Black survey respondents were unlikely or very unlikely to get the vaccine. Among those from Pakistani or Bangladeshi backgrounds, the figure was 42 percent. Imams are pushing back in particular at fears among Britain's estimated 2.8 million Muslims that the vaccines contain pork gelatin or alcohol, which are banned by Islam. Asim said it was "legitimate" to question whether things were permissible under Islam but without paying attention to unfounded claims. Among the falsehoods spread about the vaccine are that it can modify DNA, make recipients sterile, or even involve inserting a microchip in the body. Misinformation around the coronavirus is all the more dangerous given several studies have shown that it can impact minorities disproportionately. "These are precisely the communities we should be trying to target," said Nighat Arif, a general practitioner based in Chesham, near London. When she received her vaccination, she posted a video in Urdu on social media aimed at the language's speakers living in Britain. "I'm hoping that because they see someone who looks like them, who is a practising Muslim, wears a hijab, someone who is Asian who speaks their language, that's more relatable than something that's coming through from the government," she added. Arif is still surprised by the refusal of certain patients to be inoculated, noting they will often get vaccinated to undertake the Hajj pilgrimage in Saudi Arabi, or to visit Pakistan or India. She blames conspiracy theories spread online, which contribute to the science behind the process "being lost". Samara Afzal, 34, a general practitioner at Netherton Health Centre in Dudley in the West Midlands, also shared a video in Urdu with her 35,000 Twitter followers to "debunk some myths". She said some people had asked her to send the video directly to them so they could forward it to sceptical loved ones via social tools like WhatsApp. At her medical centre, Afzal estimates that around 40 to 50 people out of 1,000 have refused to be vaccinated when she had expected only one or two. "It's still a fair amount of people that are saying no and obviously we haven't even addressed the younger ones, so this is just the elderly," she added. "So I'm sure when it comes down to the younger ones, there'll be a lot more that say no." Around five million people, almost entirely the elderly and caregivers, have already received a first dose of the vaccine in the UK, the highest rate in Europe. In a sign of officials' concerns about minority take-up of the jabs, the state-run health service is mobilising "influencers" in communities to convince the sceptics. "There's a big piece of work happening where we're translating information, we're making sure the look and feel of it reaches the populations that matter," Harpreet Sood, a doctor who is leading the anti-disinformation campaign, told the BBC. A vaccination centre has even been set up in a mosque in Birmingham, Britain's second biggest city, which has a large south Asian population. Imam Nuru Mohammed said the move sent "a big 'no to fake news'" message to his 2,000-strong religious community and beyond. He shared the video of his own vaccination on social media. For Asim, the MINAB chairman whose mosque is in Leeds, in northern England, their efforts also help counter far-right claims. "If there was a lower take-up of vaccines in Muslim communities in comparison to all other communities, then potentially, it could fan the flames of Islamophobia," he noted. "And in this pandemic, no one should be scapegoated."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-imams-mobilise-to-counter-covid-vaccine-disinformation/articleshow/80476271.cms||---
January 27, 2021||India||Farmers stir: Day after R-Day violence, cops examining CCTV footage to identify accused; top developments||NEW DELHI: The Delhi Police on Wednesday registered 22 FIRs in connection with the violence that took place during farmers' tractor rally on January 26. The protest caused violence in various parts of the national capital on Tuesday. The farmers broke barricades to enter Delhi and indulged in vandalism across several parts of the city during their parade. Several public and private properties were damaged by the rioting mob, while more than 300 policemen were injured in the incident, the police said. Farmers protest: Live updatesHere are the top developments- 1. Delhi Police registers FIRs; examining CCTV footage to identify accusedDelhi Police has registered 22 FIRs so far in connection with the violence, officials said. Multiple videos and CCTV footage are being scanned to identify farmers involved in the violence on Tuesday. Strict action will be taken against the culprits, official said. Read AlsoViolence a setback, but farm unions to take stir pan-IndiaViolence during the tractor rallies came as a setback for farm unions agitating for repeal of central farm laws. However, they expressed their determination to continue with their protests while seeking to dissociate themselves from Tuesday’s violence.2. Security tight at Red Fort after clashes with farmersHundreds of police guarded the historic Red Fort in the heart of the capital today following violent clashes between farmers and authorities in which one person was killed and more than 80 injured. Around 300 R-Day artists, including children rescued after being stranded at Red Fort: Delhi Police3. Traffic remains affected in Delhi, several roads closedTraffic continued to remain affected at ITO due to a protest called by retired Delhi Police personnel against the violence. The protesters are demanding proper action against the people who were involved in the incident. According to the Delhi Traffic Police, the road going towards Connaught Place from Minto Road is closed and the road leading towards India Gate from ITO has also been closed. Ghazipur market, NH-9 and NH-24 have been closed. Commuters going to Ghaziabad from Delhi are advised to take Shahdara and DND, it said. Traffic Alertगाज़ीपुर फूल मण्डी/फल मण्डी, NH-9 व NH-24 को बंद कर दिया है, जिसे दिल्ली से गाजियाबाद जाना है वह कड़… https://t.co/CmGn6j4mAh— Delhi Traffic Police (@dtptraffic) 16117173870004. Twitter suspends 300 accountsTwitter said it suspended more than 300 accounts engaged in spam and platform manipulation as the farmers' tractor rally went violent in Delhi yesterday. A Twitter spokesperson was quoted by IANS as saying that the company has taken strong enforcement action to protect the conversation on the service from attempts to incite violence, abuse and threats that could trigger the risk of offline harm by blocking certain terms that violate our rules for trends. The Delhi Police on Sunday had warned that 308 Twitter handles have been generated to create confusion over the tractor rally proposed by protesting farmers on Republic Day. 5. Delhi Police Commissioner holds security review meeting A meeting of the Delhi Commissioner of Police with senior police officers is currently underway to review the security situation in the aftermath of Tuesday's violence, informed Delhi Police on Wednesday. Additional DCP Central's operator was attacked with a sword at ITO on Tuesday during the violence, the police said. The Delhi Police is scheduled to hold a press briefing today over the incidents of violence in the national capital on Republic Day. Read AlsoRed Fort raider Deep Sidhu has been quoting Jarnail Singh BhindranwalePunjabi actor-singer-activist Deep Sidhu, who farmer unions allege was responsible for taking youths towards Red Fort on Tuesday, has been making news from the beginning of the agitation since September last year.6. Farm union calls meeting to discuss violenceThe Samkyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting unions, will meet around 3 pm today and discuss all aspects pertaining to violence that happened during the tractor parade in Delhi. Before the Morcha meeting, representatives of 32 Punjab unions will also meet at the Singhu border, a major protest site against the three new farm laws. 7. BKU distances itself from violence, Red Fort incidentBhartiya Kisan Union Rakesh spokesperson Rakesh Tikait distanced himself from the violence and Red Fort incident during farmers' tractor rally on the Republic Day. He stated that those who created violence and unfurled flags at the fort will have to pay for their deeds. ANI quoted Tikait alleging that "uneducated people" were driving tractors who did not know the paths of Delhi. Read AlsoTimeline: How farmers' R-Day tractor rally turned violentNEW DELHI: Chaotic scenes prevailed in Delhi-NCR on Tuesday after the farmers protesting against the three farm laws clashed with the police at several places and entered the iconic Red Fort and ITO in the heart of the city. The Delhi Police had given permission to the farmers to hold their tractor8. BJP mainly responsible for violence: Akhilesh YadavSamajwadi Party president and former Uttar Pradesh CM Akhilesh Yadav alleged that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is mainly responsible for the situation. "The way the BJP government has consistently neglected, humiliated and blamed the farmers, it has played a decisive role in turning the anger of the farmers into a rage. BJP is mainly responsible for the situation that has been created now. The BJP, assuming moral responsibility, should immediately repeal the agricultural laws," Yadav tweeted (translated from Hindi). भाजपा सरकार ने जिस प्रकार किसानों को निरंतर उपेक्षित, अपमानित व आरोपित किया है, उसने किसानों के रोष को आक्रोश में ब… https://t.co/NYsmEtil4b— Akhilesh Yadav (@yadavakhilesh) 16117174880009. Mayawati terms violence 'unfortunate'Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati termed "unfortunate" the incidents of violence during farmers' tractor parade in Delhi. She reiterated her appeal to the Centre to withdraw the three new farm laws immediately and end the long-running agitation of the farmers so that no such untoward incident can happen again. 10. UP BJP MLA announces resignation over farmer unrestBJP MLA from the Meerapur Assembly seat in Muzaffarnagar, Avtar Singh Bhadana, has announced his resignation from the party protesting against the Centre's stand on the three farm laws. Bhadana, a former MP from Meerut and Faridabad, has been sulking off late and had started visiting the protesting farmers in various parts of Uttar Pradesh. 1/25Tractor rally: Farmers march into Delhi protesting against farm laws Previous NextShow Captions<p>Protesting farmers hoist a flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort on 72nd Republic Day, in New Delhi on Tuesday. (ANI)</p><p>Protesting farmers hoist a flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort on 72nd Republic Day, in New Delhi on Tuesday. (ANI Photo)</p><p>Farmers try to move baricades during a tractor rally to protest against farm laws on the occasion of India's Republic Day at Tikri border near New Delhi, India. (Reuters)</p><p>Farmers participate in the 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' after breaking police barricades at Ghazipur border, during their protest against Centre's farm reform laws, on the occasion of 72nd Republic Day, near Red Fort in New Delhi. (PTI)</p><p>Farmers attempt to break a barricade near Ghazipur border as they participate in 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' in protest against Centre's farm reform laws, on the occasion of 72nd Republic Day, in New Delhi. (PTI)</p><p>New Delhi: Farmers attempt to break barricades as they try to march towards Red Fort during 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' amid the 72nd Republic Day celebrations, in New Delhi, Tuesday, Jan. 26, 2021. (PTI)</p><p>Delhi: Police officials sit on road in Nangloi to block the area where farmers holding tractor parade have reached. (ANI)</p><p>New Delhi: Farmers break a police barricade as they participate in the 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' during their protest against Centre's farm reform laws, on the occasion of 72nd Republic Day, near Red Fort in New Delhi. (PTI)</p><p>Farmers attempt to break barricades as they participate in the 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' as part of their protest against Centre's farm reform laws, on the occasion of 72nd Republic Day, near Akshardham in New Delhi, Tuesday. (PTI)</p><p>Farmers participate in the 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' after breaking police barricades at Singhu border, during their ongoing protest against Centre's farm reform laws, on the occasion of 72nd Republic Day, near Bhalswa landfill site in New Delhi, Tuesday. (PTI)</p><p>Tear gas used to disperse farmers attempting to break barricades for the 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' in protest against Centre's farm reform laws, on the occasion of 72nd Republic Day, near Akshardham in New Delhi. (PTI)</p><p>Police attempt to stop farmers during their 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' in protest against Centre's farm reform laws, on the occasion of 72nd Republic Day, near Akshardham in New Delhi, Tuesday. (PIT)</p><p>New Delhi: Police uses tear gas to disperse farmers attempting to break barricades at Ghazipur border during their 'Kisan Gantantra Parade', on the occasion of 72nd Republic Day, in New Delhi. (PTI)</p><p>Farmers attempt to break a barricade at Ghazipur border as they participate in 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' in protest against Centre's farm reform laws, on the occasion of 72nd Republic Day, in New Delhi. (PTI)</p><p>Farmers take part in a tractor rally as they ride through the smoke of tear gas fired by the police to stop them as farmers continue to protest against the central government's recent agricultural reforms in New Delhi on January 26, 2021. (Photo: AFP)</p><p>Kisan Gantantra Parade in Delhi. </p><p>Police use tear gas used to disperse farmers attempting to break barricades at Ghazipur border for the 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' in protest against Centre's farm reform laws, on the occasion of 72nd Republic Day. (PTI)</p><p>Farmers on their tractors move towards Delhi during their rally on Republic Day, at Singhu border in New Delhi, Tuesday. (PTI)</p><p>Farmers broke the police barricading at the Singhu-Tiki border points to entre the national capital on their tractors on Republic Day. (PTI)</p><p>Farmers on their tractors move towards Delhi after breaking the police barricades at Singhu border during their rally on Republic Day, in New Delhi, Tuesday. (PTI)</p><p>Farmers take part in a tractor rally to protest against farm laws on the occasion of India's Republic Day at Tikri border near New Delhi. (Reuters)</p><p>Farmers hoist the National Flag at Ghazipur border during the Republic Day celebration, ahead of their tractor rally, in New Delhi. (PTI)</p><p>Residents of an area are seen behind a police barricade as they see farmers taking part in a tractor rally to protest against farm laws on the occasion of India's Republic Day at Tikri border near New Delhi. (Reuters)</p><p>Security forces deployed at Gazipur</p><p>Haryana: Drones put to use amid high security arrangements at Faridabad-Palwal border as farmers carry out tractor parade. (ANI)</p>11. Important to respect peaceful protests, non-violence: UN chief's spokesmanIn the wake of violence, a spokesperson for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has said it is important to respect peaceful protests, freedom of assembly and non-violence. Secretary-General Guterres' spokesman Stephane Dujarric, in his response to a question on the violence in New Delhi during his daily press briefing on Tuesday, said: “As we say in many of these cases, I think it's important to respect peaceful protests, freedom of assembly and non-violence”. Read AlsoWhat is Nishan Sahib? It’s found flying atop every gurdwaraWas a Khalistani flag hoisted at Red Fort? No, it was a Sikh flag which is found in every gurdwara and people carry it almost invariably during religious processions. In gurdwaras, it is hoisted at a height with a ‘khanda’ (a doubleedged sword). The flag flies at the top of this and is called NishanThe tractor parade January 26 that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the city as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. The police said instead of going on the pre-decided route, they insisted upon going towards central Delhi and despite repeated requests, the farmers, led by Nihangs on their horses and equipped with swords, kirpans and fursas, had charged at the police and broke through several layers of barricades, which were erected between Mukarba Chowk and Transport Nagar. (With inputs from agencies)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-stir-day-after-r-day-violence-cops-examining-cctv-footage-to-identify-accused-top-developments/articleshow/80475829.cms||---
January 27, 2021||World||Pak govt decides to amend Constitution for Senate election||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan Cabinet has decided to table a bill in Parliament to amend the Constitution for holding the Senate elections through open vote. The decision was taken during the Cabinet meeting on Tuesday, presided over by Prime Minister Imran Khan. “The government wants the (Senate) polls to be held in a transparent manner and without horse-trading. This is why we want Senate polls to be held through an open ballot,” Information Minister Shibli Faraz told the media after the meeting. He said that in the past, money was used in Senate elections and votes were bought making the House election a mockery. He asked what was the use of an upper house in which people come through purchasing of votes. Faraz also said that people opposing the proposed move are forgetting that their own party had demanded open ballot in the past. “The government will present a constitutional amendment bill in the parliament so that Senate polls are held through open ballot,” he said. Already the government petitioned to the Supreme Court, seeking direction to hold the upcoming Senate elections through open ballot. The decision is pending. Meanwhile, Dawn newspaper quoted a Cabinet member as saying that Prime Minister Khan tasked his advisor parliamentary affairs Babar Awan to table a bill in the National Assembly for holding Senate elections through open ballot when the adviser was giving a briefing on the status of the government's reference in the Supreme Court. Awan said the government had already laid two bills — Constitution Amendment Bill and Electoral Reforms Bill — in Parliament on the basis of which desired legislation could be done for an open ballot. The Cabinet member said Awan had called a meeting of his ministry and its legislation branch to devise a roadmap on how to proceed with the matter in Parliament. It has been proposed that since Senate polls could not be held through show of hand because every voter has to show his preference in the ballot paper. Therefore, to ensure open identity of the voter, the voter should be required to mention his name on the back side of the ballot paper, according to Dawn newspaper. Senate elections will be held in the first half of next month and prime minister Khan's ruling Pakistan Tehreek-I-Insaf is wary that its own members may vote a gay party policy, according to Opposition parties that are against the move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pak-govt-decides-to-amend-constitution-for-senate-election/articleshow/80476374.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Police commissioner holds security review meeting after violence during tractor rally||NEW DELHI: A meeting of the Delhi commissioner of police with senior police officers is currently under way to review the security situation in the aftermath of Tuesday's violence that broke out amid farmers' tractor rally, informed Delhi Police on Wednesday. Additional DCP Central's operator was attacked with a sword at ITO on Tuesday during the violence, it added. Delhi: Visuals of vandalised ticket counter, metal detector gate, broken shards of glass and Police caps seen at th… https://t.co/yiuyzrO50D— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1611729673000The Delhi Police further informed on Wednesday that more than 300 police personnel have been injured after being attacked by agitating farmers on January 26. The Delhi Police is scheduled to hold a press briefing today over the incidents of violence in the national capital on Republic Day. Latest visuals from Red Fort in Delhi. A group of protestors climbed to the ramparts of the fort and unfurled fla… https://t.co/G5bd5Qgs25— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1611726976000As per sources, a special investigation team of the Delhi Police Crime Branch is likely to investigate the entire incident. According to the Delhi Police, with another FIR being registered at the IP Police Station in connection with the violence at ITO in the national capital, the total number of FIRs rose to 22 on Wednesday. Traffic and metro services continue to remain affected post farmers' tractor rally violence. Delhi Traffic Police on Wednesday issued an advisory after traffic was affected in several parts of the national capital. Security was also heightened near the Red Fort where a group of protestors entered the fort and unfurled their flags from its ramparts yesterday. Farmers broke barricades to enter Delhi and indulged in vandalism across several parts of the national capital during their Kisan tractor rally organised to protest against the Centre's three new farm laws on Tuesday. Several public and private properties being damaged in acts of vandalism by the rioting mob. Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-police-commissioner-holds-security-review-meeting-after-violence-during-tractor-rally/articleshow/80476291.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana govt raises retirement age from 58 to 60 years||HYDERABAD: Telangana government on Wednesday released its first pay revision committee report extending the retirement age from 58 years to 60 years. The committee, in 278 page-long report, recommended 7.5 per cent basic fitment to employees on basic pay. The government can take a view on implementation date. For working out the maximum pay, the annual increment will be around 2.33 per cent. The maximum pay scale would be Rs 1.63 lakh. For every one per cent increase in DA sanctioned by GoI, the DA to be sanctioned by the state to its employees would be 0.910 % for the DA. This will be implemented from a back date of January 1st, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-govt-raises-retirement-age-from-58-to-60-years/articleshow/80476281.cms||Sreebaala Vadlapatla
January 27, 2021||India||Twitter suspends 300 accounts after tractor rally went violent||NEW DELHI: Twitter on Wednesday said it suspended more than 300 accounts engaged in spam and platform manipulation as the farmers' tractor rally went violent in the national capital on the 72nd Republic Day. The farmers swarmed the Red Fort and waved farmer union flags from its ramparts. They even hoisted farmer union flags as well as a pennant with a Sikh religious symbol from a flagpole. A Twitter spokesperson told IANS that the company has taken strong enforcement action to protect the conversation on the service from attempts to incite violence, abuse and threats that could trigger the risk of offline harm by blocking certain terms that violate our rules for trends. "Using a combination of technology and human review, Twitter worked at scale and took action on hundreds of Tweets that have been in violation of the Twitter Rules and suspended more than 300 accounts engaged in spam and platform manipulation," the spokesperson informed. The Delhi Police on Sunday had warned that 308 Twitter handles have been generated to create confusion over the tractor rally proposed by protesting farmers on Republic Day. "Through intelligence and various other agencies, we have continuously been getting inputs regarding a threat to create disturbance in the tractor rally. Nearly 308 Twitter handles have been generated from Pakistan to create confusion," said Dependra Pathak, Special Commissioner Police, Intelligence, Delhi Police. The microblogging platform said they were monitoring the situation closely and remain vigilant, "and strongly encourage those on the service to report anything they believe is in violation of the rules." In all, 86 policemen were injured in the violence as farmers marched inside Delhi with their tractors ahead of the scheduled time agreed upon with the police authorities of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. A total of 22 FIRs have been filed by the Delhi Police so far in connection with the violence witnessed during the farmers' tractor rally, officials said on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/twitter-suspends-300-accounts-after-tractor-rally-went-violent/articleshow/80476483.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Agartala||Section 144 imposed in Agartala Municipal Corporation area||AGARTALA: Restrictions under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) have been imposed in the Agartala Municipal Corporation area due to ongoing agitation of the Joint Movement Committee of 10323 (a group of terminated teachers).  As per the prohibitory order issued on Tuesday by Dr Shailesh K Yadav, district magistrate and collector, the prohibition will remain in force for a period of 24 hours with effect from 6am of today.  Section 144 of CrPC prohibits the gathering of four or more people in an area.  There was a likelihood of violent activities and apprehension of danger to human life and public property, in the view of which this order has been passed ex-parte addressed to the public in general and agitators of Joint Movement Committee of 10323 in particular.  "I am satisfied that immediate prevention and speedy remedy is desirable and that there is sufficient ground for imposing restrictions on movement in Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC) area to prevent danger to human life, public property and tranquillity," said district magistrate.  However, this prohibitory order will not be applicable to the movement of the military, paramilitary force and state police personnel engaged in maintenance of law and order, movement of the members of public authorised by the SP (W) and SDM of Sadar sub-division, movement of government servants for discharging official duties and movement of patients requiring medical treatment.  Any person violating this order will be liable to be prosecuted under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agartala/section-144-imposed-in-agartala-municipal-corporation-area/articleshow/80476555.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Chennai||Jayalalithaa memorial opened in Chennai; CM tells AIADMK cadre how to show their gratitude to departed leader||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Wednesday declared former CM J Jayalalithaa’s memorial on Marina Beach in Chennai open. The phoenix-like structure has come up at a cost of Rs 80 crore with the support of experts from IIT-Madras. The inauguration that comes just ahead of the assembly election saw thousands of AIADMK members and functionaries thronging the Marina since morning. Chants of "Puratchi Thalaivi Vazhga" reverberated the air. "Her rule was a golden era of Tamil Nadu. She implemented several welfare schemes in various sectors. The memorial has been built for the future generations to know her," Palaniswami said, while declaring the renovated Bharat Ratna Puratchi Thalaivar Dr MGR and Puratchi Thalaivi Amma Selvi J Jayalalithaa memorial complex open. The marble petals of MGR memorial have been replaced. Palaniswami said that winning the assembly election in 2021 would be the gratitude for the departed leader and the AIADMK cadre should take a pledge. Deputy CM O Panneerselvam was present. Jayalalithaa's memorial has inscriptions of her popular slogans – “Makkalal Naan, Makkalaukkaga Naan” (By the people, for the people) and “Amaithi, Valam, Valarchi” (Peace, prosperity, progress) that steered the party and government) The 15metre high, 30metre long and 43metre wide structure with polyurethane coat of paint reflects the personality of the departed leader. The foundation has been strengthened by 500-tonne of steel and 1,068 cubic metre of concrete while the superstructure 300 tonne of steel and 800 cubic metre of concrete. The state government has set up a knowledge park and museum on either side of the memorial in an area of 8,555sq ft each, which will have mementos, statues and achievements of the leader. About 100 members could sit and watch in an audio-visual presentation. Greenery on 1 lakh sq ft with 15,000 saplings, and granite pathways on either side are the other attractions. There are 40 CCTV cameras, 20kW solar system and high-mast lights and ornamental lights. Watch Tamil Nadu CM Palaniswami declares Jayalalithaa memorial open in Chennai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/jayalalithaa-memorial-opened-in-chennai-cm-tells-aiadmk-cadre-how-to-show-their-gratitude-to-departed-leader/articleshow/80476541.cms||Julie Mariappan
January 27, 2021||Lucknow||20-year-old kidnapped in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: A 20-year-old youth was kidnapped from Sarojini Nagar area in Lucknow late Tuesday night. Police said that Abhinav Upadhyay, who hails from Amethi, was kidnapped from outside his rented house at Darogakheda in Sarojini Nagar. "Upadhyay's friends informed police around 11.30pm on Tuesday that six to seven people came in an SUV and called Upadhyay downstairs," said Sarojini Nagar SHO Mahendra Singh. "Upadhyay's friends overheard him saying 'I am coming paaji'. When he reached the gate of the house, he was bundled into an SUV. Also, his phone was switched off," said Singh. Singh said that the victim was an engineering dropout. The SHO added that Upadhyay used to practice cricket while staying in the rented house. "We are scanning the CCTV footages and have also informed Upadhyay's parents," said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/20-year-old-kidnapped-in-lucknow/articleshow/80476516.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
January 27, 2021||Business||Sensex dives 938 points amid selloff across all sectors; Nifty ends at 13,968||NEW DELHI: Equity indices fell on Wednesday with the benchmark BSE sensex falling over 900 points, dragged by banking and financial stocks. The 30-share BSE index plunged 938 points or 1.94 per cent to finish at 47,410; while the broader NSE Nifty settled 271 points or 1.91 per cent lower at 13,968. Axis Bank, Titan, IndusInd Bank, HDFC Bank Dr Reddy's, HDFC and Asian Paints were the top losers in the sensex pack falling up to 4.05 per cent. While Tech Mahindra, ITC, PowerGrid and Ultra Cemco were the top gainers rising up to 2.57 per cent. Shares of Reliance Industries slipped as much as 2.29% to an over one-month low of Rs 1,895 after US e-commerce giant Amazon sought to block Future Group's $3.4 billion retail asset sale to the conglomerate, making it the top drag on Nifty. Amazon requested an Indian court to enforce a Singapore arbitrator's order that Reliance's deal with the Future Group be put on hold, Reuters reported on Monday. Read AlsoAmazon moves Delhi HC to enforce Singapore order and block Reliance-Future dealAmazon has intensified its legal battle against Future Group and its promoter -Kishore Biyani-with a new case in the Delhi high court to enforce the Singapore arbitration ruling in India, which had stayed the Rs 24,731 crore Reliance-Future deal.Future Retail's shares fell 5% on the news, after Amazon.com also called for Future Group's chief executive officer to be detained. "There is some overhang in the markets due to negative global cues and some nervousness ahead of the budget because of which people are lightening their positions" Siddhartha Khemka, head of retail research at Motilal Oswal Securities in Mumbai, told news agency Reuters. Analysts also said that investors have preferred taking profits off the table ahead of the Union Budget and F&O expiry. Adding to the pressure, Asian shares also slipped as investors looked to the Federal Reserve's guidance on monetary policy. Shares of Kotak Mahindra Bank slipped 1.58%, after JP Morgan downgraded the stock as the lender reported quarterly results below expectations. Meanwhile, foreign investors sold equities worth Rs 765.30 crore on a net basis in the Indian capital market on Monday, exchange data showed. (With inputs from agencies)Watch Massive fall in stock markets; banking and metal stocks crack||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-slides-over-550-points-nifty-below-14100/articleshow/80476299.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Business||Barbs fly over satellite projects from Elon Musk, Jeff Bezos||SAN FRANCISCO: A spat erupted Tuesday between Jeff Bezos and Elon Musk as the tech titans' space firms exchanged barbs over their rival satellite internet projects being evaluated by regulators. Amazon, founded and led by Bezos, put out a statement claiming Musk's rival SpaceX project Starlink was seeking design changes that could "create a more dangerous environment for collisions in space" and also increase radio interference. "Despite what SpaceX posts on Twitter, it is SpaceX's proposed changes that would hamstring competition among satellite systems," Amazon said in a statement, outlining its objections to regulators. "It is clearly in SpaceX's interest to smother competition in the cradle if they can, but it is certainly not in the public's interest." Musk meanwhile fired off his own objection to Amazon's complaint, claiming that his plan is moving faster than his rival's. "It does not serve the public to hamstring Starlink today for an Amazon satellite system that is at best several years away from operation," Musk tweeted. @thesheetztweetz It does not serve the public to hamstring Starlink today for an Amazon satellite system that is at… https://t.co/sNiGKxdXFP— Elon Musk (@elonmusk) 1611658035000Musk, who is also the founder of Tesla and recently overtook Bezos as the world's richest person, is in a race against Amazon's $10 billion Project Kuiper space-based internet delivery system, which has won US regulatory approval to deploy more than 3,000 low-orbit satellites. SpaceX has been deploying small satellites to form a global broadband system and is lobbying regulators for permission to move them into lower orbits, which has prompted Amazon's concerns. SpaceX argued in a letter to the Federal Communications Commission that the orbit modifications being sought would not increase chances of interfering with rival satellites. It contended that any claims of such interference were "misleading," and that Amazon was trying to "stifle competition." SpaceX on Sunday launched its Falcon 9 rocket carrying a record number of satellites on board. Scientists have expressed concerns about the number of objects clogging the space around Earth. SpaceX say their satellites are designed to burn up in the atmosphere within a few years. Project Kuiper aims to deliver satellite-based broadband services in the United States, and eventually around the world, and may offer connectivity for wireless carriers and 5G networks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/barbs-fly-over-satellite-projects-from-elon-musk-jeff-bezos/articleshow/80476798.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Chennai||What is in the CORE?||CHENNAI: DakshinaChitra will conduct an exhibition of paintings by artist Pravin Kannanur at its Varija Gallery from February 3 to 18. Titled "CORE Nova," the exhibition brings together some of the earlier iconic paintings of the series, featuring Score Paintings (performative works that have emerged as a dialogue between graphic musical scores and bodies moving in relation to them). These playable scores are embedded in the paintings, said a release from DakshinaChitra. Pravin is an artist working in the fields of visual art, theatre and contemporary dance. He is a founding member of the theatre group Magic Lantern, the contemporary art collective Basement21 and is part of the theatre collective India Theatre Forum. Based in Chennai, Pravin is a multidisciplinary artist, working in the visual arts, theatre and contemporary dance. "In his work, the micro and macrocosm are represented through a dynamic interaction between the artist and his material and his environment. His explorations in the current series claim the expressionist gesture in transforming fields of colour," it said. "CORE is a universe of undefined boundaries and borders where every energy bleeds and merges and overlaps and is absorbed by the other. Margins emerge as new centres. Through the emerging relationship between undertones and overtones, the geometric and the fluid, the viscous and the dilute, mark making and erasure, the viewer is invited to dialogue with the elements of light, line, colour, texture and space and to enter into an embodied engagement through sight, memory and imagination," said the release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/what-is-in-the-core/articleshow/80476871.cms||---
January 27, 2021||World||Taiwanese man fined $35,000 for violating quarantine seven times||TAIPEI: A Taiwanese man has been fined 1 million New Taiwan Dollars ($ 35,000) for repeatedly breaking his home quarantine. CNN reported that the unnamed man, who lives in Taichung in central Taiwan, was under home quarantine in his apartment building after he returned from a business trip to China and violated it at least seven times, according to local media. The man left his apartment building seven times in just three days to go shopping, get his car fixed and more. He reportedly got into an altercation with one of his neighbours when they confronted him about leaving his home during quarantine, CNN citing TTV News reported. Taichung Mayor Lu Shiow-yen denounced it as "a serious offence" and added that the man "must be given severe punishment." Along with the heavy fine, he will have to pay 3,000 NTD ($ 107) per day for the cost of his quarantine. Last year, in December, a worker from the Philippines was fined $3,500 for violating his quarantine for a total of eight seconds. The man, who was placed under quarantine in a government-sanctioned hotel, briefly stepped into the hallway outside his room and was captured on CCTV, CNN reported further. Taiwan recorded just 889 coronavirus cases and seven deaths, according to data from Johns Hopkins University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/taiwanese-man-fined-35000-for-violating-quarantine-seven-times/articleshow/80476880.cms||---
January 27, 2021||World||Google says North Korea-backed hackers sought cyber research||SEOUL: Google says it believes hackers backed by the North Korean government have been posing as computer security bloggers and using fake accounts on social media while attempting to steal information from researchers in the field. Google didn't specify how successful the hackers were or what kind of information could have been compromised. Experts say the attacks reflect North Korean efforts to improve its cyber skills and be able to breach widely used computer products, such as Google's Chrome internet browser and Microsoft's Windows 10 operating system. While the country has denied involvement, North Korea has been linked to major cyberattacks, including a 2013 campaign that paralysed the servers of South Korean financial institutions, the 2014 hacking of Sony Pictures, and the WannaCry malware attack of 2017. The UN ecurity Council in 2019 estimated North Korea earned as much as USD 2 billion over several years through illicit cyber operations targeting cryptocurrency exchanges and other financial transactions, generating income that is harder to trace and offsets capital lost to US-led economic sanctions over its nuclear weapons programme. Adam Weidemann, a researcher from Google's Threat Analysis Group, said in the online report published late Monday that hackers supposedly backed by North Korea created a fake research blog and multiple Twitter profiles to build credibility and interact with the security researchers they targeted. After connecting with researchers, the hackers would ask them if they wanted to collaborate on cyber-vulnerability research and share a tool that contained a code designed to install malicious software on the targets' computers, which would then allow the hackers to control the device and steal information from it. Several targeted researchers were compromised after following a Twitter link to a blog set up by the hackers, Weidemann said. “At the time of these visits, the victim systems were running fully patched and up-to-date Windows 10 and Chrome browser versions,” Weidemann wrote. “At this time we're unable to confirm the mechanism of compromise, but we welcome any information others might have.” Google published a list of social media accounts and websites it said were controlled by the hackers, including 10 Twitter profiles and five LinkedIn profiles. Simon Choi, a senior analyst at NSHC, a South Korean computer security firm, said cyberattacks linked to North Korea over the past few years have demonstrated an improving ability in identifying and exploiting vulnerabilities in computer security systems. Before 2016, the North Koreans had mainly relied on methods used by Chinese or Russian hackers, he said. “It's notable that the computer security experts on Twitter who said they were approached by the hackers had been engaged in vulnerability research for Chrome and Windows 10,” Choi said. “It's that not easy to successfully penetrate these systems that are built with the latest security technologies. For the North Koreans, it makes more sense to steal the vulnerabilities already discovered by the researchers because developing their own ways to exploit these systems is harder.” In 2018, US federal prosecutors charged a computer programmer working for the North Korean government for his alleged involvement in the cyberattacks that hacked Sony Pictures and unleashed the WannaCry ransomware virus. Park Jin Hyok, who is believed to be in North Korea, conspired to conduct attacks that also stole $81 million from Bangladesh's central bank, according to the charges. The 2014 Sony hack led to the release of tens of thousands of confidential Sony emails and business files. The WannaCry cyberattack in 2017 scrambled data on hundreds of thousands of computers at government agencies, banks and other businesses across the globe and crippled parts of the British health care system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/google-says-north-korea-backed-hackers-sought-cyber-research/articleshow/80476968.cms||---
January 27, 2021||India||Supreme Court stays Bombay HC's skin-to-skin order under Pocso Act||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the acquittal order of the accused in the case where Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court had said that groping a minor's breast without "skin to skin contact" can't be termed as sexual assault. The case dates back to February 2020 when a 39-year-old man in Nagpur had been charged for pressing the breasts of a minor. A trial court in Nagpur had sentenced the accused to three years’ imprisonment under section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) and under section 354 IPC (assault or criminal force with intent to outrage a woman’s modesty). Read AlsoNot sex assault if there’s no skin-to-skin contact: Bombay HCWhen there is “no direct physical contact — skin to skin with sexual intent, without penetration,” it would not amount to ‘sexual assault’ under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, Bombay high court held while acquitting a 39-year-old man who had been sentenced to threeThe man had appealed his conviction following which the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court acquitted the man ruling that “no direct physical contact — skin to skin with sexual intent, without penetration" would not amount to ‘sexual assault’ under Pocso Act. Why did the Bombay High Court acquit the man?The HC said the issue before it was whether ‘pressing of the breast’ and ‘attempt to remove salwar’ would fall within the definition of ‘sexual assault’ as defined under Section 7 and punishable under Section 8 of the Pocso Act. While public prosecutor MJ Khan argued the offence fell within the definition of ‘sexual assault’, the HC held it was “not possible to accept’’ the prosecutor’s submission. The court said the “basic principle of criminal jurisprudence is that punishment shall be proportional to the seriousness of the crime”. Justice Pushpa Ganediwala of Nagpur bench had said “stricter proof and serious allegations are required’’ given the stringent punishment of three to five years’ imprisonment that ‘sexual assault’ under the Pocso Act entails. The HC convicted the man for a “minor offence” and sentenced him to one year in jail overruling trial court's three years of punishment. The man was on bail. The HC issued a non-bailable warrant against him and said all his other sentences shall run concurrently and he would be entitled for a set-off of term undergone in custody. Mother found daughter crying inside a bolted roomThe minor had testified that she was lured on a false pretext by the accused to his house. She said he had tried to remove her salwar and had pressed her breast. She tried to shout, but he covered her mouth and left the room after bolting the door from outside. Her mother went to his house while looking for her. She had seen the accused leave, and on reaching the first floor found the door bolted from outside and her daughter crying inside. She then went to the police station along with her daughter to lodge an FIR, noted the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nagpur-sexual-harassment-case-of-minor-supreme-court-stays-acquittal-order/articleshow/80477007.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Rajkot||Leopard mauls to death 75-year-old chained by family in Gujarat's Amreli||RAJKOT: A 75-year-old mentally ill man was mauled to death by a leopard in Amrutpur village of Amreli district in Gujarat on Tuesday night. Sources said that the victim, identified as Manu Savaliya, was tied with a chain when the incident took place. Anshuman Sharma, deputy conservator of forest (DCF), Gir (east) division, said, "Prima facie, it appears that the victim was mauled to death by a leopard. The big cat also ate some body parts. The body has been sent for postmortem and the cages have been set up to capture the wild animal." According to the villagers, the man was chained by his family members on a farm on the outskirts of the village. Amreli SP Nirlipt Rai said, "We have sent our team to verify the allegations that the victim was tied with a chain. We have registered a case of accidental death and if we get the evidence of wrongful confinement, we will register an offence after primary investigation."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/leopard-mauls-to-death-75-year-old-chained-by-family-in-gujarats-amreli/articleshow/80477161.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
January 27, 2021||Jaipur||Eight dead, four injured after truck hits bus in Rajasthan's Tonk||JAIPUR: Eight persons died and four others sustained injuries after the bus they were travelling in was hit by a heavily-loaded cement truck from behind on Tonk-Kota highway at 2.30am on Wednesday. The victims were travelling from Khatu Shyam Ji to their native city, Rajgarh in Madhya Pradesh. Eight dead, four injured after vehicle rams into truck in Rajasthan's Tonk. (ANI)#RajasthanRoadAccident https://t.co/3MeNpqdW6d— TOI Jaipur (@TOIJaipurNews) 1611721405000The injured were rushed to the Civil Hospital in Tonk. Tonk SP Om Prakash said that they prima facie it appears that the force traveller carrying 14 passengers tried to overtake on a bridge and applied brakes to see another vehicle coming the other end. Sad to know that eight people have lost lives in a road accident in Tonk, while returning from Khatushyam ji to the… https://t.co/EwgOtMNmfU— Ashok Gehlot (@ashokgehlot51) 1611721701000“The cement truck coming from behind severely hit the traveller bus killing eight persons on the spot, including two children aged seven and eight. The intensity of the accident was so huge that trolly went over the top of the bus leaving the bodies parts strewn in the vehicle,” said Prakash. The deceased included -- Radhey Shyam Joshi (48), Ram Babu Soni (37), Lalit Soni (24), Nayan Soni (15), Akshat Soni (7), Mamta Soni (28), Santosh Soni (28) and Akshita Soni (8). राजस्थान में हुई सड़क दुर्घटना में हमारे राजगढ़ के एक ही परिवार के कई भाई - बहनों के असामयिक निधन के समाचार से अत्य… https://t.co/BvMIbmnwjX— Shivraj Singh Chouhan (@ChouhanShivraj) 1611724531000Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has offered his condolence in a tweet. “Sad to know that eight people have lost lives in a road accident in Tonk, while returning from Khatushyam ji to their town in MP. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family members. May they remain strong in this difficult time & prayers for speedy recovery of those injured,” he tweeted. Madhya Pradesh CM saddened by loss of eight lives in accident in TonkMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on expressed grief over the death of eight people in an accident in Rajasthan's Tonk district. Chouhan wished a speedy recovery to those injured in the accident and prayed to God for the peace of the departed souls, a public relations department official said. (With inputs from PTI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/eight-dead-four-injured-after-truck-hits-vehicle-in-rajasthans-tonk/articleshow/80475029.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Rajkot||Rs 900 crore of Saurashtra exporters stuck under MEIS||RAJKOT: The MEIS (Merchandise Export from India Scheme) for exporters ended on December 31 but the exporters are still waiting to get the benefits under the scheme. Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry (RCCI) that represents the trade and industry of Saurashtra region wrote to the finance ministry demanding to release incentives outstanding since April 2020. RCCI in a letter claimed that approximately Rs 900 crore is stuck under this scheme. Parth Ganatra, vice-president of RCCI said, “In 2019 from April to December, the incentives of Rs 850 crore was paid to the 1,500 exporters of Saurashtra. This year, no incentive is paid since April 2020 and crores of rupees of exporters are stuck.” The scheme was launched in foreign trade policy (FTP) 2015-20 with the aim to provide incentives to exporters and strengthen them against cut throat competition in the international market. The exporters under this scheme used to get duty credit scripts that could be used against paying import duty, excise duty or service tax and it was transferable to other importers also. According to exporters, they exported at a lower rate to provide competitive rates in international market considering the benefits they were supposed to get under this scheme. The RCCI also asked government to clearly mention the benefits the exporters will get under newly launched scheme Remission of Duties and Taxes on exported Products (RoDTEP) replacing MEIS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rs-900-crore-of-saurashtra-exporters-stuck-under-meis/articleshow/80477642.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
January 27, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 200 detained in connection with farmers' tractor rally violence||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police have detained 200 people in connection with the violence that broke out in various parts of the national capital during the farmers' tractor rally in the city on Tuesday. In a statement, the Delhi Police on Wednesday said that the "detained persons will be arrested soon." A total of 22 FIRs have been registered regarding the violence in which over 300 police personnel were injured. A day after vandalism in the Red Fort premises by the agitating farmers during the tractor rally, Union Tourism Minister Prahlad Patel along with police and other officials visited the incident spot where broken shards of glass, scattered pieces of paper, vandalised ticket counter, metal detector gate, and Police caps could be seen. Meanwhile, Delhi Police in a statement said that it has registered an FIR under IPC Sec 395 (dacoity), 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt), 120 b (punishment of criminal conspiracy) and other sections, regarding yesterday's violence at Red Fort. "The matter will be investigated by Crime Branch," it added. PC Yadav, one of the Delhi Police personnel, who was deployed at Red Fort and was injured said that police did not use force and showed restraint. "I was on duty at the Red Fort on Republic Day. A group of people entered the Red Fort premises. We tried to move them out but they attacked us. They had sticks in their hands. I was taking a policeman to the hospital as he was injured. I too was injured. We used restraint. We did not use force as it could have lead to more people being hurt," Yadav said. Delhi Police said that additional DCP Central's operator was also attacked with a sword at ITO on Tuesday during the violence. A meeting of the Delhi Commissioner of Police with senior police officers is currently underway to review the security situation in the aftermath of the violence. The Delhi Police is scheduled to hold a press briefing today. Farmers broke barricades to enter Delhi and indulged in vandalism across several parts of the national capital during their Kisan tractor rally organised to protest against the Centre's three new farm laws. Several public and private properties were damaged in acts of vandalism by the rioting mob. Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-200-detained-in-connection-with-farmers-tractor-rally-violence/articleshow/80477649.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Business||TikTok owner ByteDance cuts India workforce, unsure of comeback after app ban||NEW DELHI: China's ByteDance is cutting the size of its 2,000-plus India team and is unsure when it will make a comeback, the company told employees in an internal memo on Wednesday, months after its popular TikTok video app was banned. The move came after India this month decided to retain its ban on TikTok and 58 other Chinese apps following responses from the companies on issues such as compliance and privacy. Read AlsoTikTok, WeChat, Baidu and UC Browser among 59 Chinese apps permanently banned in IndiaIn a sweeping move that may lead to legal challenges and further acrimony between India and China in the digital space, the government has permanently banned 59 Chinese apps, and these are believed to include top ones such as ByteDance’s TikTok, Baidu, WeChat, Alibaba’s UC Browser, shopping app ClubThe ban dates from last year when political tension between the neighbours rose over their disputed border. "We initially hoped that this situation would be short-lived ... we find that has not been the case," ByteDance wrote in the memo which was seen by Reuters. "We simply cannot responsibly stay fully staffed while our apps remain un-operational ... we don't know when we will make a comeback in India" In a statement, the company said it was disappointing that despite its efforts it had not received a clear direction on how and when its apps could be reinstated. It did not specify how many employees would lose their jobs. Before the ban, India had been one of TikTok's largest markets and ByteDance in 2019 had laid out plans to invest $1 billion in India. At the time of last year's ban, the Indian government described the apps as prejudicial to the "sovereignty and integrity of India". The move followed a skirmish with Chinese troops. In the United States, the previous Trump administration ordered ByteDance to divest TikTok citing national security concerns, and sought to impose restrictions that would have effectively barred its use. TikTok has also come under scrutiny in Australia for any risks it may pose to users from around potential foreign interference and data privacy issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tiktok-owner-bytedance-cuts-india-workforce-unsure-of-comeback-after-app-ban/articleshow/80477709.cms||---
January 27, 2021||Bengaluru||VK Sasikala released from prison; may stay in hospital for 3 days||BENGALURU: Former AIADMK general secretary VK Sasikala was released from Central Jail, Parappana Agrahara, on Wednesday. However, doctors treating the 66-year-old for Covid-19 at Victoria Hospital have advised against discharging her for the next two-three days. Sasikala was sentenced to four-year imprisonment in 2017 in a disproportionate assets case. Referring to the feedback received from doctors, the official said: “She is not fit for discharge as of Wednesday. She is being given intermittent oxygen supply and is stable. She will have to stay in the hospital for another three days.” Medical superintendent Dr Ramesh Krishna K said her oxygen saturation level was 98% with two litres of oxygen, blood pressure 126/70 mmHg and blood sugar level 196 mg/dl. She was consuming food orally and was walking with support. A health department official on Tuesday had said: “Her family is yet to decide on getting her discharged. If they insist on moving her out of the hospital on Wednesday, it will be recorded as “discharged against medical advice”. We might do another RT-PCR test as a formality.” Watch Bengaluru: Sasikala released from prison; may stay in hospital for few days||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-vk-sasikala-released-from-prison-may-stay-in-hospital-for-3-days/articleshow/80470593.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
